                               2 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            February 2, 2009 Monday

Economic health care

BYLINE: ERIK HOGSTROM TH staff writer/ehogstrom@wcinet.com

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 607 words


Rail headline The annual economic impact of Dubuque's hospitals: MERCY MEDICAL
CENTER-DUBUQUE Payroll - $50 million (plus $2.5 million from Mercy-Dyersville)
Economic impact - $86 million Retail sales - $32.6 million Sales tax revenue -
$2 million THE FINLEY HOSPITAL Payroll - $36.3 million Economic impact - $59.1
million Retail sales - $22.4 million Sales tax revenue - $1.34 million - Source:
Iowa Hospital Association News You can use Russell Knight witnesses the economic
importance of his hospital at the movie theater, the grocery store and elsewhere
in Dubuque. "I am very conscious of the economic impact of Mercy because I see
Mercy peo-ple literally everywhere I go," said Knight, president and chief
executive officer at Mercy Medical Center-Dubuque. "I often think what the
picture would look like if all of those people were removed." Iowa's community
hospitals generate 149,096 jobs that add more than $5.8 billion annually to the
state's economy, according to the Iowa Hospital Association's latest Iowa
hospital economic impact report.

"It's a daily economic impact - big time," said Mike Blouin, president of the
Greater Dubuque Development Corp. "They are very much an asset." Iowa hospital
employees by themselves spend nearly $1.9 billion annually on retail sales and
contribute more than $112 million in state sales-tax revenue. "Even in these
difficult economic times, Iowa hospitals remain major employers and business
partners throughout the state," said Kirk Norris, the association's president
and chief executive officer. "In addition to providing essential health care and
community services, hospitals are at the foundation of Iowa's economic
infrastructure." The association study examined the jobs, income, retail sales
and sales tax produced by hospitals and the rest of the state's health-care
sector. The Finley Hospital provides an economic impact of more than $59
million, based on its $36.3 million payroll. "Finley should and does have a very
prominent place in Dubuque's economy," said Chad Wolbers, Finley's chief
operating officer. "As one of the top five employers in town, we pour tens of
millions of dollars into this economy by way of our payroll and through the
purchase of local and regional goods and services. This is also the case in
nearly all of the remaining 98 counties in Iowa. Somewhere within each of these
counties, there is a medical enterprise to thank for providing a strong helping
hand to the local economy." The Iowa study was compiled from hospital-submitted
data on the American Hospital Association's Annual Survey of Hospitals and with
software that other industries have used to determine their economic impact.
"These economic impact studies work by starting with payroll and applying a
multiplier," Knight said. Mercy employs nearly 1,400 people, with a payroll of
about $50 million. The study found that Iowa hospitals directly employ 72,220
people and create another 76,876 jobs outside the hospital sector. As an income
source, hospitals provide $3.3 billion in salaries and benefits and generate
almost another $2.4 billion through other jobs that depend on hospitals. In all,
Iowa's health care sector, which includes employed clinicians, long-term care
services and assisted-living centers, pharmacies and other medical and health
services, directly and indirectly provides 366,072 Iowa jobs, or more than
one-fifth of the state's total employment. "Conventional wisdom is that
hospitals are more recession-proof, but I am not so sure they are entirely
recession-proof," Knight said. "The demand for services may increase, but the
ability for people to pay may not."

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


