                               3 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                           November 6, 2013 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

HOSPITALS CRUCIAL TO STATE ECONOMY

BYLINE:  Earl V. Rogers  President, Georgia Hospital Association

SECTION: NEWS TIMES; Pg. 004

LENGTH: 624 words


When most people think of economic development, they think of the large
industrial plant moving to town or the Fortune 500 company bringing a few
hundred new jobs to the area. But in many communities throughout Georgia, the
biggest and most reliable source of economic development and stability is the
place that many take for granted: your community hospital.

Georgia hospitals generated more than $38.6 billion to their local and state
economies in 2011 and accounted for almost 7 percent of the state's entire Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) in 2010. Additionally, more than 124,000 people are
directly employed by a Georgia hospital or health system, and these institutions
also indirectly generate another 283,000 jobs in Georgia as hospitals purchase a
wide array of goods and services from other businesses as they provide optimal
care for patients.

To put that into perspective, Georgia's hospitals employ more people in our
state alone than Coca-Cola Enterprises does in all of North America (roughly
75,000 people) and more than Delta Air Lines has worldwide (80,000 people).
These important, mission-driven hospital jobs impact all areas of the state,
including the large urban centers from Atlanta to Savannah and Columbus to
Augusta and the many rural towns from Bainbridge to Royston and Cedartown to
Waycross.

In short, Georgia hospitals not only save lives and serve the health care needs
of their communities, but also put food on the table and a roof over the heads
of hundreds of thousands of Georgia families.

Yet the future of the industry and its continued economic viability is not
necessarily secure. Earlier this year, three of Georgia's hospitals were forced
to close because of severe financial difficulties: Calhoun Memorial Hospital in
Arlington, Ga., (worth $12.4 million per year to its local and state economy);
Stewart Webster Hospital in Richland, Ga. (with an annual economic impact of
$11.2 million); and Charlton Memorial Hospital in Folkston, Ga. (worth $18.4
million to its local and state economy in 2010). How do these small communities,
which also lost a combined 305 jobs, recover from such a loss? How do they
attract new business to those areas when there is no nearby place to deliver a
baby or receive life-saving care during a medical emergency?

Unfortunately, these aren't the only Georgia communities facing uncertainty when
it comes to access to health care, as well as critical economic growth.
According to the most recent Georgia Department of Community Health Hospital
Financial Survey, 38 percent of all hospitals in the state had a negative
operating margin in 2011. Among Georgia's rural hospitals, 55 percent lost
money.

When it comes to advocacy initiatives like opposing payment cuts to hospitals
that treat Medicaid recipients or attempts to weaken the state's Certificate of
Need (CON) program, the Georgia Hospital Association is fighting not only to
preserve access to vital health care services, but also to protect thousands of
jobs in communities throughout the state. We know that your hospital, like your
local school and the public utility system, is an indispensable part of your
community infrastructure.

At GHA, we take hospital closures personally and focus on your hospital's
well-being. Our annual hospital economic impact study serves as a reminder of
the importance of your hospital to the community, which stretches far beyond
providing health care services. After more than five long years, it appears that
Georgia is finally on the path to economic recovery. But if we're to experience
true prosperity again, we must ensure that your hospitals are strong and able to
serve not only as the guardians of health, but also as one of your area's most
important economic engines.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


