                               4 of 994 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright (c) 2009 Board of Trustees of the University of
                                    Arkansas
                University of Arkansas at Little Rock Law Review

                                  Spring, 2009

                University of Arkansas at Little Rock Law Review

                       31 U. Ark. Little Rock L. Rev. 505

LENGTH: 3852 words

ARTICLE: PLACING PROFITS ABOVE HIPPOCRATES: THE HYPOCRISY OF GENERAL SERVICE
HOSPITALS

NAME: Robert Steinbuch*

BIO:


* Associate Professor of Law, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, William H.
Bowen School of Law. J.D. from, and John M. Olin Law & Economics Fellow at,
Columbia Law School. B.A. and M.A. from the University of Pennsylvania.
Commissioner on the Arkansas Commission for Newborn Umbilical Cord Blood Bank
Initiative. Professor Steinbuch's research focuses on the intersection of health
and corporate law. The author wishes to thank Professors Pearl Steinbuch,
Frances S. Fendler, J. Thomas Sullivan, Richard J. Peltz, and Diane S. Mackey,
as well as Ben Pape, for their guidance, input, and/or contributions. The author
also wishes to thank Matthew Runge for his outstanding insights and
assistance-without whom this piece would not have become a reality.

 TEXT:
 [*505]

    I.Introduction

    Specialty hospitals focus on a specific medical field-often high dollar
fields, such as orthopedics or cardiology. n1 These hospitals are often
physician owned. n2 "The GAO (Government Accountability Office) classified
hospitals that met these criteria into five types of specialty hospitals:
cardiac, orthopedic, surgical, women's, and other." n3 General service hospitals
(GSHs), in contrast, are full service entities and are generally non-profit
institutions. n4 For GSHs, "cases requiring cardiac, orthopedic, or general
surgical services are among their most profitable." n5 As a consequence of their
desire to hold onto their most profitable cases, GSHs-through "the American
Hospital Association (AHA) and the Federation of American Hospitals (FAH)[-]
[*506]  have begun an aggressive political effort to thwart the development of
more specialty hospitals" through the use of "economic credentialing" and
loyalty oaths. n6 GSHs typically critique specialty hospitals by arguing that
(1) the specialty hospitals threaten the viability of GSHs by skimming off
revenue-generating cases that finance unprofitable basic services such as
emergency room services and (2) specialty hospitals create conflicts of interest
when physicians refer patients to their own hospitals for financial reasons. n7
This article considers these arguments and concludes that the anti-competitive
tactics utilized by GSHs are against societal interests and medical regulations.

    II.The Efforts to Thwart the Growth of Specialty Hospitals

    In Little Rock, Arkansas, there are several GSHs; the three most notable are
University of Arkansas for Medical Science Hospital, Saint Vincent Health
System, and Baptist Medical Center. There are also two outstanding specialty
hospitals-the Arkansas Heart Hospital and the Arkansas Surgical Hospital. n8
These specialty hospitals actively compete on the basis that they generally
provide better care than that provided at GSHs. n9

    One method that GSHs have adopted to combat the encroachment of specialty
hospitals is the concept of "economic credentialing."  [*507]  Although there is
no single definition for economic credentialing, n10 the American Medical
Association (AMA) has defined it as "the use of economic criteria unrelated to
quality of care or professional competence in determining a physician's
qualifications for initial or continuing hospital medical staff membership or
privileges." n11 The method for credentialing doctors employed by hospitals has
evolved over time. "Historically, hospital credentialing decisions have been
based almost exclusively on qualitative criteria and a physician's clinical
competence." n12 Thereafter, the concept of "economic credentialing" evolved. "
Economic credentialing meant that hospitals would assess the insurance coverage
of a physician's panel of patients before granting admitting privileges, to
limit privileges to physicians caring predominantly for well-insured patients."
n13 Recently, economic credentialing has developed further, such that GSHs have
denied privileges to doctors who are owners of competing specialty hospitals or
who do not agree to refer all patients to the GSH. n14

    GSHs argue that in order to be able to offer essential but unprofitable
services, such as an emergency room, obstetrics, pediatrics, and critical care,
they need to "protect" their market in highly lucrative practice areas, such as
orthopedics and cardiology. n15 As such, GSHs have been known to:

    refuse to grant initial or continuing staff privileges to physicians who own
or have other financial interests in competing healthcare entities, refer
patients to competing entities, have staff privileges at any other area
hospitals, or fail to admit some specified percentage

     [*508]

    of their patients to the hospital. Alternatively, the hospital might require
a physician seeking privileges to sign a loyalty oath or pledge to perform a
certain percentage of medical services at the hospital. n16


    Given that GSHs complain that specialty hospitals foster conflicts of
interest when physicians refer patients to their own hospitals for financial
reasons, n17 these loyalty oaths are particularly insincere as they result in
the very same outcome about which GSHs complain. The difference, however, is
that this hypocrisy inures to their benefit.

    The AMA has stated its opposition to the use of economic criteria unrelated
to patient care to grant privileges: n18

    The AMA believes that the practice of conditioning a physician's medical
staff privileges on an agreement to refer patients only to that hospital is a
violation of the anti-kickback law . . . . Whether called loyalty oaths or
conflict of interest policies, the effect is the same. These practices . . .
negatively impact a physician's prerogative regarding patient care as well as
patient choice. n19


    Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's n20 challenged this policy of economic
credentialing in South Dakota. n21 In that case, a hospital refused to
credential doctors because they apparently had a competing financial interest.
n22 The doctors sued the hospital. n23 The South Dakota Supreme Court ruled that
the hospital could base its decision to grant or  [*509]  deny credentials for
economic reasons rather than quality of care. n24 "The court . . . recognized
that the hospital relied on 'the profitable neurosurgical services' in order to
be able to continue offering 'other unprofitable services' in the . . . area.
The court's decision seemed informed by the unique economics of hospital
financing that require cost-spreading to fund[] treatment for uninsured and
underinsured patients." n25

    In Little Rock, the situation of Janet Cathey, a gynecologist, presents a
conspicuous example of economic credentialing. n26 For twenty years her medical
practice was centered at Baptist Medical Center, Little Rock's largest hospital.
n27 Baptist is the largest healthcare system in Arkansas and is the preferred
provider for Arkansas Blue Cross and Blue Shield, the state's biggest health
insurer. n28 Indeed, Baptist is Blue Cross's only acute care hospital in Little
Rock. n29 Cathey's husband joined a group of Baptist doctors who were opening
Arkansas Surgical Hospital. n30 In anticipation of competition from the new
Arkansas Surgical Hospital, Baptist established an economic credentialing
policy. n31 The policy prohibits doctors "with a direct or indirect financial
interest in a competing hospital" from having privileges at Baptist's hospitals.
n32 Indeed, "the policy applies not only to physician investors in such
facilities, but also to their immediate family members-with no right to a
hearing or appellate review." n33

    Cathey was informed by Baptist that under the terms of the new
conflict-of-interest policy, once Arkansas Surgical Hospital opened, her
appointment and clinical privileges at Baptist would be terminated. n34 Thus, as
a result of her husband's involvement in Arkansas Surgical Hospital, Cathey was
no longer entitled to admit patients or perform procedures at Baptist. n35
Because most of her patients were  [*510]  insured by Arkansas Blue Cross and
Blue Shield, Cathey's loss of privileges at Baptist would destroy her practice
and deny her patients the choice of care they once had. n36 Similarly, Baptist
stripped privileges from six cardiologists who are part-owners of Little Rock's
Arkansas Heart Hospital. n37 Cathey and the cardiologists sued separately. n38
The cardiologists were granted an injunction, but, on appeal, the Arkansas
Supreme Court remanded the case back to circuit court. n39 On remand the circuit
court granted an injunction on behalf of the cardiologists, which was appealed.
The Arkansas Supreme Court affirmed the injunction. n40

    Although it is distasteful, the concept of economic credentialing is often
found to be financially legitimate and legally permissible in a competitive
market as long as hospitals comply with the laws on safety and competition.
Hospitals are business entities that can seek to maximize their profits. Much
has been written on whether economic credentialing is anti-competitive. n41
Assuming that it is not so in all circumstances, which seems to be a conclusion
often employed by courts, n42 and assuming that hospitals are not compromising
the safety  [*511]  of their patients-which is best left open for another
discussion-hospitals will continue to employ this tool. Businesses will usually
not hire employees who are at the same time actively competing with them, and
GSHs have successfully argued that the same should be true for hospitals. n43
GSHs have relied upon these laissez-faire arguments to support their economic
-credentialing policies. n44

    The difficulty is that GSHs also employ wholly non-competitive arguments in
opposing specialty hospitals. As discussed previously, GSHs critique specialty
hospitals arguing that (1) the specialty hospitals threaten the viability of
GSHs by skimming off revenue-generating cases that finance unprofitable basic
services and (2) the specialty hospitals create conflicts of interest when
physicians refer patients to their own hospitals for financial reasons. n45
Neither of these arguments seeks to allow the marketplace to solve their
concerns-the supposed rationale for allowing economic-credentialing policies.
The first argument supports subsidizing unprofitable areas within the hospital
through reduced consumer choice-a definitely non-market-based concern. The
second basis is an ethical concern that, by implication, seeks to impose
non-market-based (i.e., ethical) restrictions on the actions of doctors with
financial stakes in specialty hospitals.

    Even with economic-credentialing policies, GSHs success in thwarting the
growth of specialty hospitals through competition will be impossible. As long as
GSHs maintain unprofitable centers, they will lose out against specialty
hospitals on a strictly competitive basis. As a consequence, GSHs have resorted
to governmental intervention by actively lobbying Congress to extend a ban on
the creation of new specialty hospitals. n46 There is no doubt that society
needs both the profitable and currently unprofitable groups within GSHs. The
question is how to ensure GSHs continued viability. GSHs attempt to do so by
running specialty hospitals out of business through competitive and
non-competitive devices. The cost of such a proposal is that the generally
better care provided at specialty hospitals-for the areas that they cover-will
be lost in an effort to subsidize the unprofitable centers at GSHs. That seems
wrong.   [*512]

    III.Conclusion

    We should not saddle the owners of specialty hospitals with the
responsibility of ensuring that both the profitable and currently unprofitable
groups within GSHs survive-particularly as a mere coincidence of the fact they
compete with GSHs. The alternatives are to develop a means to make the
unprofitable centers profitable and/or to supplement the unprofitable but
medically-necessary functions of GSHs. If we choose government intervention to
prop up GSHs, society is better served by providing for subsidization rather
than squelching healthy competition.

    Moreover, as long as GSHs seek extra-competitive, governmental resolution to
their concerns, they are profoundly subject to an equal attack. Supporters of
specialty hospitals might well suggest that governmental entities and/or private
regulating bodies such as the AMA regulate GSHs use of economic credentialing.

    Such logic would not be without basis. For example, the AMA "adopted an
opinion of the Judicial Council that declared that noncompetition agreements
were not 'in the public interest.'" n47 The AMA Council on Ethical and Medical
Affairs, Code of Medical Ethics states:

    9.02 Restrictive Covenants and the Practice of Medicine: Covenants not to
compete restrict competition, disrupt continuity of care, and potentially
deprive the public of medical services. The Council on Ethical and Judicial
Affairs discourages any agreement which restricts the right of a physician to
practice medicine for a specified period of time or in a specified area upon
termination of an employment, partnership or corporate agreement. Restrictive
covenants are unethical if they are excessive in geographic scope or duration in
the circumstances presented, or if they fail to make reasonable accommodation of
patients' choice of physician. n48


    Even had, as discussed above, the AMA not explicitly opposed the use of
economic credentialing, the logic of Section 9.02 would equally speak to the
AMA's disapproval of economic credentialing. Thus, before GSHs seek to continue
to attack specialty hospitals with their new-found interest in unchecked
business practices, they should  [*513]  keep in mind that they may die by the
very sword they have previously employed-non-market regulatory forces.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Contracts LawTypes of ContractsCovenantsHealthcare LawAntitrust
ActionsFacilitiesHealthcare LawAntitrust ActionsPhysicians

FOOTNOTES:




n1  Battle Lines Drawn over Specialty Hospitals, AAMC REPORTER, May 2006,
available at http://www.aamc.org/newsroom/reporter/may06/specialty.htm
[hereinafter AAMC Reporter].




n2  Id.




n3  John K. Iglehart, The Emergence of Physician-Owned Specialty Hospitals, 352
NEW ENG. J. MED. 78, 78 (2005), available at
http://content.nejm.org/cgi/content/full/352/1/78 [hereinafter Iglehart,
Hospitals].




n4  Id. at 79.

    The GAO also reported that more than ninety percent of the specialty
hospitals that have opened since 1990 are for-profit entities, as compared with
twenty percent of all general hospitals. Specialty hospitals are much less
likely than general hospitals to have emergency departments (forty-five percent
vs. ninety-two percent) or to treat Medicaid or uninsured patients. In 2001,
specialty hospitals accounted for an estimated $ 871 million, or one percent, of
Medicare's spending on inpatient services, nearly two-thirds of which went to
facilities that treat patients with cardiac disorders

    Id..




n5  Id. at 78.




n6  Id. at 83.




n7  AAMC REPORTER, supra note 1. ("'The AAMC is concerned that specialty
hospitals treat disproportionately low shares of very sick and uninsured and
under-insured patients, create conflicts of interest, and negatively impact the
revenue centers of teaching hospitals,' said Richard Knapp, executive vice
president of the AAMC and head of the office of government relations."); Sujit
Choudhry, Niteesh K. Choudhry & Troyen A. Brennan, Specialty Versus Community
Hospitals: What Role For The Law?: A paradox exists in the mixed
market/regulatory posture of U.S. health care, HEALTH AFFAIRS: THE POLICY
JOURNAL OF THE HEALTH SPHERE, Aug. 9, 2005, available at
http://content.healthaffairs.org/cgi/content/full/hlthaff.w5.361/DC1
[hereinafter Choudhry, Specialty Versus Community Hospitals]. "General hospitals
warn that specialty hospitals threaten their financial viability and quality of
care by reducing the volume of procedures performed in full-service settings."
Id.




n8  I have no affiliation with these hospitals. I have served as a Board of
Trustees Member on the Society of Chest Pain Centers, which accredited both
Saint Vincent's Chest Pain Center and the Arkansas Heart Hospital. If I thought
that I was having a heart attack or if I needed orthopedic surgery, I would
prefer to go to the Arkansas Heart Hospital or the Arkansas Surgical Hospital,
respectively.




n9  See, e.g., AAMC REPORTER, supra note 1. (Officials at Houston's Texas
Orthopedic Hospital said specialty hospitals can perform routine orthopedic
procedures three times faster than the average general hospital, with an
infection rate of less than one percent and high patient satisfaction.)




n10  See James W. Marks and Jayme R. Matchinski, Conflicts Credentialing:
Hospitals and the Use of Financial Considerations to Make Medical Staffing
Decisions, 31 WM. MITCHELL L. REV. 1009, 1015 (2005). See also Beverly Cohen, An
Examination of the Right of Hospitals to Engage in Economic Credentialing, 77
TEMP. L. REV. 705, 729 (2004); Judith E. Orie, Economic Credentialing:
Bottom-Line Medical Care, 36 DUQ. L. REV. 437, 441 (1998).




n11  AMA: American Medical Association, 2003 Legal Issues: Economic
Credentialing-Issues and Answers (2003),
http://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/physician-resources/legal-topics/current-legal-t
opics/2003.shtml (last visited Nov. 30, 2008). [hereinafter AMA, Economic
Credentialing].




n12  John W. Jones, Legal implications of economic credentialing, PHYSICIAN'S
NEWS DIGEST (April 2006), available at
http://www.physiciansnews.com/law/406jones.html.




n13  Choudhry, Specialty Versus Community Hospitals, supra note 7.




n14  See Jones, supra note 12.




n15  Elizabeth A. Weeks, The New Economic Credentialing: Protecting Hospitals
from Competition by Medical Staff, 36 J. HEALTH L. 247, 248 (2003), available at
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstractid=959196#.




n16  Id.




n17  AAMC Reporter, supra note 1; Choudhry, Specialty Versus Community
Hospitals, supra note 7.




n18  AMA, Economic Credentialing, supra note 11.




n19  Id.




n20  621 N.W.2d 150 (S.D. 2001).




n21  Id.; Choudhry, Specialty Versus Community Hospitals, supra note 7. But see
Jones, supra note 12:

    In its 2005 Supplemental Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals, OIG
provides: "Certain medical staff credentialing practices may implicate the
anti-kickback statute. For example, conditioning privileges on a particular
number of referrals or requiring the performance of a particular number of
procedures, beyond volumes necessary to ensure clinical proficiency, potentially
raise substantial risks under the statute. On the other hand, a credentialing
policy that categorically refuses privileges to physicians with significant
conflicts of interest would not appear to implicate the statute in most
situations. Whether a particular credentialing policy runs afoul of the
anti-kickback statute would depend on the specific facts and circumstances,
including the intent of the parties."






n22  Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150, 153 (S.D. 2001).




n23  Id.; Choudhry, Specialty Versus Community Hospitals, supra note 7.




n24  Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150 (S.D. 2001); Choudhry, Specialty
Versus Community Hospitals, supra note 7.




n25  Weeks, supra note 15, at 251-52.




n26  Berkeley Rice, Economic credentialing: When hospitals play hardball,
MEDICAL ECONOMICS, Sept. 15, 2006, available at
http://medicaleconomics.modernmedicine.com/memag/article/articleDetail.jsp?id=37
038.




n27  Id.




n28  Id.




n29  Id.




n30  Id.




n31  Id.




n32  Rice, supra note 26.




n33  Rice, supra note 26.




n34  Rice, supra note 26.




n35  Rice, supra note 26.




n36  Rice, supra note 26.




n37  Rice, supra note 26.




n38  Cathey obtained an injunction against Baptist and settled shortly
thereafter. Cathey v. Baptist, No. CV-2005-5701 (Cir. Ct. Ark. Apr. 18, 2005).




n39  Baptist Health v. Murphy, 362 Ark. 506, 511, 209 S.W.3d 360, 364 (2005).




n40  Baptist Health v. Murphy, 365 Ark. 115, 132, 226 S.W.3d 800, 813 (2006).




n41  See Anne S. Kimbol, The Debate Over Specialty Hospitals: How Physician-
Hospital Relationships Have Reached a New Fault Line Over These "Focused
Factories," 38 J. HEALTH L. 633 (2005) (arguing that specialty hospitals are
helpful entities and that there should be limits on economic credentialing);
Tracy A. Powell, The Permissibility of Conflicts Credentialing (A/K/A Economic
Credentialing) by Traditional Hospitals as a Response to the Growth of Specialty
Hospitals, 20 No.  1 HEALTH LAWYER 17 (2007) (concluding that laws governing
economic credentialing are not settled but that economic credentialing may be
legal in some cases); Weeks, supra note 15 (concluding that many of the new
forms of economic credentialing violate state and federal antitrust statutes).
See generally William E. Berlin, Antitrust Implications Between Physician-Owned
Facilities and General Hospitals: Competition or Exclusion, 20 No.  5 HEALTH
LAWYER 1 (2008) (detailing recent developments in case law, antitrust
legislation, and potential defenses to litigation against economic
credentialing); Beverly Cohen, An Examination of the Right of Hospitals to
Engage in Economic Credentialing, 77 TEMP. L. REV. 705 (2004) (surveying case
law, state law, and federal law and concluding that there are few instances in
which economic credentialing is foreclosed).




n42  See, e.g.  Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 160 (citing Imperial v. Suburban Hosp.
Ass'n, Inc., 862 F. Supp. 1390, 1401 (DMd 1993); Hutton v. Memorial Hosp., 824
P.2d 61, 63 (ColoApp 1991); Sarin v. Samaritan Health Center, 176 Mich. App.
790, 440 N.W.2d 80, 82 (MichApp 1989); Lewin v. St. Joseph Hosp., 82 Cal. App.
3d 368, 146 Cal. Rptr. 892, 906-07 (CalCtApp 1978).,




n43  Cohen, supra note 10, at 729 (citing Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Mem'l Reg'l
Med. Ctr., No. 91-589, slip. op. at 3 (Cir. Ct. Fla. June 18, 1992)).




n44  See, e.g., Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 156.




n45  AAMC Reporter, supra note 1; see supra note 7.




n46  Iglehart, Hospitals, supra note 3, at 83.




n47  Paula Berg, Judicial Enforcement of Covenants not to Compete between
Physicians: Protecting Doctors' Interests at Patients' Expense, 45 RUTGERS L.
REV. 1, 9 (1992).




n48  Available at http://www.heart-intl.net/HEART/030106/AMAcode.htm.


