                               5 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                            November 10, 2013 Sunday
                                  ALL EDITION

HOSPITALS, CRUCIAL TO OUR STATE'S ECONOMY, FACE UNCERTAINTIES

BYLINE:  Earl V. Rogers  Guest Columnist

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. G3

LENGTH: 770 words


When most people think of economic development, they think of the large
industrial plant moving to town or the Fortune 500 company bringing a few
hundred new jobs to the area. But in many communities throughout Georgia, the
biggest and most reliable source of economic development and stability is the
place that many take for granted: your community hospital.

GEORGIA HOSPITALS generated more than $38.6 billion to their local and state
economies in 2011 and accounted for almost 7 percent of the state's entire gross
domestic product in 2010. Additionally, more than 124,000 people are directly
employed by a Georgia hospital or health system, and these institutions also
indirectly generate another 283,000 jobs in Georgia as hospitals purchase goods
and services from other businesses as they provide optimal care for patients.

To put that into perspective, Georgia's hospitals employ more people in our
state alone than Coca-Cola Enterprises does in all of North America (about
75,000 people) and more than Delta Air Lines has worldwide (80,000 people).
These important, mission-driven hospital jobs impact all areas of the state,
including the large urban centers from Atlanta to Savannah and Columbus to
Augusta, and the many rural towns from Bainbridge to Royston and Cedartown to
Waycross.

Georgia hospitals not only save lives and serve the health care needs of their
communities, but also put food on the tables and roofs over the heads of
hundreds of thousands of Georgia families.

Yet the future of the industry and its continued economic viability is not
necessarily secure. Earlier this year, three of Georgia's hospitals were forced
to close because of severe financial difficulties: Calhoun Memorial Hospital in
Arlington (worth $12.4 million per year to its local and state economy); Stewart
Webster Hospital in Richland (with an annual economic impact of $11.2 million);
and Charlton Memorial Hospital in Folkston (worth $18.4 million to its local and
state economy in 2010). How do these small communities, which also lost a
combined 305 jobs, recover from such a loss? How do they attract new business to
those areas when there is no nearby place to deliver a baby or receive
life-saving care during a medical emergency?

UNFORTUNATELY, THESE aren't the only Georgia communities facing uncertainty when
it comes to access to health care, as well as critical economic growth.
According to the most recent Georgia Department of Community Health Hospital
Financial Survey, 38 percent of all hospitals in the state had a negative
operating margin in 2011. Among Georgia's rural hospitals, 55 percent lost
money.

The presumption is that, because people will always need medical care, hospitals
and other health care providers are recession-proof. That couldn't be further
from the truth. Since the nation's economy plummeted in 2008, the number of
uninsured/underinsured people that Georgia hospitals treat has skyrocketed
(nearly 20 percent of Georgians are currently uninsured). At the same time,
budget-crunched state and federal governments have cut Medicare/Medicaid
payments to hospitals.

In 2011, Georgia provided $1.57 billion in uncompensated care, a massive
increase of approximately $270 million in only four years. Add that to the $4.5
billion in Medicare cuts that Georgia hospitals will absorb over a 10-year
period under national health care reform, and you have many communities in
Georgia fearful that their hospitals will be next on the endangered list.

When it comes to advocacy initiatives such as opposing payment cuts to hospitals
that treat Medicaid recipients, or attempts to weaken the state's Certificate of
Need program, the Georgia Hospital Association is fighting not only to preserve
access to vital health care services, but also to protect thousands of jobs in
communities throughout the state. We know that your hospitals, like your local
school and the public utility system, are an indispensable part of your
community infrastructure.

AT THE GHA, we take hospital closures personally and focus on your hospitals'
well-being. Our annual hospital economic impact study serves as a reminder of
the importance of your hospitals to the community, which stretches far beyond
providing health care services. After more than five long years, it appears that
Georgia is finally on the path to economic recovery.

But if we're to experience true prosperity again, we must ensure that your
hospitals are strong and able to serve not only as the guardians of health, but
also as some of your area's most important economic engines.

(The writer is president of the Georgia Hospital Association.)

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


