                               6 of 994 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1993, American Health Lawyers Association,
                              Journal of Health Law

                                  March, 1993

                         Vol. 26, No. 3, HOSPLW Pg. 65

LENGTH: 6447 words

TITLE: Evaluation of Medical Staff Using Fiscal Factors: Economic Credentialing

AUTHOR: John D. Blum, Professor of Law & Director, Loyola University Chicago,
Institute for Health Law. B.A., 1970, Canisius College; J.D., 1973, Notre Dame;
M.H.S., 1974, Harvard School of Public Health.

TEXT:

   INTRODUCTION

   Medical staff credentialing is a focal point from which many of the current
changes and pressures in hospital operations can be observed. [n1] Until
recently, credentialing stood at a point where medical quality, managerial
innovation and legal pressures met.  In the current climate of hospital
competition, the credentialing axis now involves economic realities that are
having profound effects on physician evaluation processes.  This Article
considers the most overt influence of economics on hospital medical staff
evaluation: economic credentialing. [n2] The Article focuses on background
developments affecting economic analysis of medical practice, definitional
issues and a review of legal issues, including relevant cases and those dealing
with related developments in the area of exclusive contracting.

   BACKGROUND DEVELOPMENTS

   The roots of economic credentialing lie in developments affecting health care
economics and medical quality assurance.  Economic evaluation of physician
practices is hardly a new phenomenon, as any student of health care
reimbursement or management knows.  In the current climate of acute care
medicine, the realization of a medical staff's importance to the "bottom line"
of profitability is clearly understood. [n3] The economic fate of hospitals may
be affected by management, but physician practice patterns within the
institution clearly control the hospital's fiscal viability.

   Acute care institutions compete to attract and retain physicians on staff
whose practices are both high quality and cost-effective.  In essence, what is
occurring within hospitals is a more recent extension of developments in health
maintenance organization (HMOs) and other forms of managed care where physician
medical practices are routinely subjected to financial scrutiny.  In fact,
continued membership in managed care plans will likely be open only to providers
whose practice profiles demonstrate cost effectiveness. [n4]

   Hospital based quality assurance is undergoing significant change as a result
of a national movement to develop clinical practice parameters. [n5] Created in
1989, the United States Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR) has
been charged with developing clinical practice guidelines and outcome measures
to address the problems of widespread variability in medical practice. [n6] The
efforts of AHCPR are complimented by ongoing programs of organized medicine to
identify parameters and benchmarks of appropriate medical care. [n7] The Joint
Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), in turn, has
revised its accreditation standards in the quality area, replacing the focus on
outlier problems with an orientation toward improving the processes of hospital
based care. [n8] Outliers are specific hospitals or physicians who exhibit
practice patterns that significantly deviate from the mean or median pattern for
a particular diagnosis. [n9] The ongoing revolution in quality of care
evaluation is underpinned by expanding data capabilities, which allow for
clinical and financial analysis of physicians on an individual and collective
basis. [n10]

   Of particular relevance to economic credentialing is the development of
physician profiling methods. [n11] A physician profile is a set of aggregate
data that statistically depicts clinical and/or economic factors of a particular
physician's practice over a given period of time.  Individual profiles can be
compared with larger aggregate medical practice data sets to determine whether a
given physician's practice patterns fall within an acceptable range of
performance.  Individual institutions may use the wide variety of new physician
data in constructing profiles to meet the needs of a given facility. [n12]
Clearly in the area of economics, profiles can be constructed which paint
compelling portraits of a physician's financial performance that can be easily
incorporated into credentialing processes.

   To date, profiling in hospitals has been viewed as a tool of quality
assurance, system assessment, and utilization review, but these are all
evaluative processes that impact directly on credentialing. [n13] For profiling
to achieve maximum use there are many data system problems that need to be
addressed.  However, advances in this area are rapid, and collection of
financial information poses fewer problems than the case on the clinical side.

   DEFINITIONAL ISSUES

   In view of the developments in quality assurance and data technology, it
seems reasonable to conclude that the ability to track and analyze medical
practice from an economic perspective may become the practice of health care
providers.  Whether a hospital chooses to use financial data to evaluate
physicians for appointment or reappointment is clearly a question that
transcends technical feasibility.  From an analytical standpoint, the debate
over engaging in economic credentialing is colored partly by how the concept is
characterized.  The very term "economic credentialing" has become somewhat of a
lightening rod for organized medicine. [n14] The process has been represented as
a crass application of baseline financial measures to medical practice, with
financial considerations divorced from the quality of medical care. [n15]

   The California Medical Association (CMA) has taken the lead in developing a
definition of economic credentialing as a process of evaluation that is
concerned only with questions of the "bottom line." [n16] In its report on the
subject, CMA listed a series of practices that it felt should not be used in
credentialing.  These criterion included concurrent DRG review, physician profit
by reimbursement, payor mix, commercial payor profiles, market share, charge
comparisons. [n17] Also included in the CMA list were indicators such as lengths
of stay, ICU days, and excessive testing.  Each of which has clear financial
implications, but could also be considered in a quality of practice evaluation.
[n18] The CMA's position on economic credentialing has been endorsed by American
Medical Association (AMA) and seems to be widely shared in the ranks of
organized medicine. [n19] The Florida Medical Association (FMA) views economic
credentialing as a practice that denies access to hospitals and is violative of
an acute care institution's public health mission. [n20]

   There is, however, an alternative view of economic credentialing.  One can
argue financial analysis is merely a focus of evaluation that can be joined with
more traditional clinical practice evaluations.  In fact, within ongoing quality
assurance (QA) processes, particularly utilization review (UR), fiscal
ramifications stemming from a given physician's behavior are highly relevant.
It has been suggested that new clinical practice guidelines used in QA and UR
incorporate cost benefit considerations into decisions about which medical
treatments should be pursued. [n21]

   Results of QA/UR processes have traditionally been channeled into medical
staff credentialing.  Thus, when economics enters such analyses, financial
factors will ultimately impact on medical staff appointments.  In practice, it
may be difficult to separate out quality of care and pure economics, because
quality and finances tend to be tightly related, particularly in the larger
context of continuous quality improvement.  Moreover, the JCAHO has endorsed
continuous quality improvement as a replacement to the outlier centered quality
assurance reviews that focus on specific hospitals and physicians whose practice
patterns for a particular diagnoses deviate significantly from the mean. [n22]

   While the hospital community has been rather cautious in its approach to
economic credentialing, it seems likely that hospitals will view economic
credentialing as an extension of current physician evaluations.  The American
Health Lawyers Association (AHA) does not use the term economic credentialing,
but rather refers to the analysis of practitioner resource utilization data that
flows out of existing analytical processes. [n23] While most hospitals factor
physician resource utilization into credentialing in varying ways, few have
launched formal programs in economic credentialing. [n24] It seems more likely
that hospitals will back into economic analysis of medical staff members by
developing physician profiling programs for use first as an educational tool.

   Another tentacle of the economic credentialing area arises from the
increasingly common practice of hospitals entering into exclusive contracts with
physician groups.  Under the terms of exclusive arrangements, only physicians
who belong to the group are allowed to practice in a particular hospital.  Such
arrangements are common for hospital based practitioners like anesthesiologists,
radiologists, pathologists, as well as for surgical specialists.  The incentives
for exclusive contracts are both managerial and economic.  Exclusive contracts
guarantee the provision of necessary services and the institution benefits from
the services of cost effective and profitable practitioners.  Medical staffs
often view exclusive contracts as vehicles circumventing credentialing, and it
has been suggested that these arrangements ought to be subjected to medical
staff approval. [n25] Recent focus on exclusive arrangements by the Office of
Inspector General has shown the potential for abuse when hospitals extract
unusually high payments from groups as a contractual quid pro quo. [n26]

   ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING MEETS THE LAW

   Corporate Duty to Credential

   By virtue of tradition, state law, [n27] and JCAHO accreditation standards,
[n28] credentialing has been a process delegated by the hospital corporation to
the medical staff.  Through its bylaws, a medical staff establishes the
processes of appointment and reappointment and privilege delineation. [n29]
While the hospital board has final authority over appointments, this authority
is rarely exercised in ways which conflict with staff recommendations.  Economic
credentialing challenges the hands-off approach to credentialing followed by
most boards because it is a process conducted or mandated by the hospital board.
Use of economic credentialing raises questions about whether it is a legally
appropriate exercise of board power, a necessary board function, an abuse of
board power, an infringement on the self governing medical staff and a possible
violation of antitrust law.

   Any review of hospital law reveals the fact that the hospital corporation has
a legal duty to monitor the quality of medical care. [n30] Inherent in this duty
is a corporate responsibility to appoint only qualified physicians to a medical
staff and to continue to monitor the performance of staff members to insure the
maintenance of an acceptable level of practice. [n31] This duty is universal to
public and private acute care facilities; and, although it may have been created
by different areas of law, it represents a fundamental obligation.  From the
1965 decision of Darling v. Charleston Community Hospital [n32] to more recent
decisions in Florida [n33] and Pennsylvania, [n34] the courts have charged
institutions with a corporate duty in credentialing. [n35] In turn, regulation
has adopted the quality mandate and made it a hospital obligation. [n36]

   While it is difficult to dispute a hospital's duty in credentialing, the
question is whether economic credentialing falls within the ambit of the quality
mandate.  In determining whether fiscal analysis of physician practice
transcends the boundaries of the quality obligation the definition of economic
credentialing becomes a central issue.  If economic credentialing is viewed as
an extension of traditional quality of care analyses, then it would appear to be
a process that logically fits within the broader quality duty.  Questions
flowing from economic credentialing as quality analysis center around whether a
board is required to delegate such review to the medical staff or perform this
type of analysis independently.

   If one follows the definition posited by organized medicine, economic
analysis is only focused on the bottom line of profitability.  However, it could
be argued that economic credentialing is separate from quality review and is not
encompassed by this duty.  Thus, the hospital that engages in economic
credentialing is entering into a physician evaluation process which exceeds the
current legal mandates for appointment and reappointment.  However, even if
economic credentialing does not flow from the quality mandate, it does not
necessarily make it an illegal exercise of corporate power.

   State Law and Hospital Credentialing

   In turning to the law for guidance, one finds most states adopted the medical
staff self governing model. [n37] For example, under Illinois laws hospitals are
required to have organized medical staffs with written bylaws, rules and
regulations. [n38] Illinois requires medical staffs to have written policies
regarding credentialing; clearly the implication of the state law is that the
process of appointment, reappointment, and privilege delineation is one that
falls within the scope of the medical staff. [n39] Other state laws may be even
more explicit than that of Illinois in requiring medical staff responsibility
for credentialing. [n40] Indeed, the JCAHO accreditation manual requires that
hospitals have self governing medical staff responsible for credentialing
matters. [n41]

   The fact that the medical staff is typically delegated the task of
credentialing does not, however, answer the question of whether or not a board
can intervene in this process.  Quite clearly, the hospital board has the final
authority for credentialing decisions, and, as such, it is reasonable for a
board to have formal input, either during or at the end of the process.  State
laws provide hospital boards with broad authority for approving medical staff
operations, beyond credentialing issues. [n42]

   Conceivably, a hospital board could mandate a medical staff to adopt certain
criteria in its appointment and reappointment evaluations.  Using Illinois law
as an example, there is no language in current regulations limiting the
credentialing process to a quality review evaluation. [n43] Under the standards
of JCAHO, a stronger argument may be offered that the board should not directly
interfere with credentialing.  But such a conclusion places the governing entity
in the position of having final authority and liability for a process it does
not control. [n44] As fiduciaries, one could argue that boards have an
obligation to protect the institution's fiscal viability and should take
corrective action against physicians whose practices are adversely impacting the
hospital's financial position. [n45]

   Case Law and Economic Credentialing

   In looking at case law on economic credentialing, the breadth of the
concept's definition will determine the volume of case law that can be
identified.  Predictably, the broader the concept is defined, the more abundant
the case law will be.  When economic credentialing is viewed in a more limited
way, there is a paucity of case law on which to draw.

   Viewing economic credentialing broadly, there are numerous hospital medical
staff physician disputes that have been litigated which combine both quality and
cost considerations. [n46] Case law demonstrates many instances in which
physicians' credentials are adversely affected solely as a result of clinical
quality considerations. [n47] But often in credentialing cases centering on
issues of quality assurance, there are underlying economic factors. [n48] The
fact is, poor quality has a direct impact on hospital financial concerns: from
obvious problems of malpractice and patient endangerment; to denial of payment
and loss of patient volume; to an ultimate reduction in competitiveness.
Certainly, a credible argument can be made that economic issues are inherent in
medical utilization problems.

   A good example of a case about quality with strong economic ramifications is
Knapp v. Palos Community Hospital. [n49] In Knapp, a group of physicians
challenged the curtailment of their medical staff privileges on multiple legal
grounds.  The hospital based its action against the physicians on quality
assurance reviews which revealed serious utilization problems.  Specifically,
medical reviews uncovered a pattern of both inappropriate utilization and over
utilization of lung scans and medications, excessive use of certain diagnoses,
and improper testing and treatment. [n50] While the areas noted raised major
quality problems, the hospital was also concerned because the plaintiff
physicians' costs were thirty-one percent higher than those of other staff
members. [n51] The cost problems clearly mirrored quality of care difficulties,
however, if poor practices did not affect costs, the hospital would not have
been as motivated to take action.

   In a federal antitrust action, Friedman v. Delaware County Memorial Hospital,
[n52] the plaintiff physician was excluded from the staff for over-utilizing
bronchoscopes and for refusing to adhere to the recommendations of the
hospital's utilization review committee.  In an exhaustive discussion of the
facts, the federal district court never directly mentioned the cost implications
of the plaintiff's behavior.  The hospital formed a special medical staff
endoscopy committee for the purpose of reviewing the plaintiff.  In so doing,
the institution was responding, in part, to audit deficiencies raised by Blue
Cross of Greater Philadelphia. [n53] Blue Cross had concluded the physician was
performing an unnecessarily high number of unjustified bronchoscopes.  Clearly
the conclusions of Blue Cross have direct economic implications in that third
parties will not reimburse for unnecessary procedures.  Unquestionably, the
physician's quality problems with bronchoscopes had very direct financial
ramifications for the hospital.

   Economic Credentialing and Exclusive Contracting

   The narrower definition of economic credentialing as a "bottom line" only
process uncovers few cases directly on point, but a number of cases in the
exclusive contract area can be reviewed that have been pulled into the economic
credentialing orbit.  In the 1982 New Jersey case of Edelman v. JFK Hospital,
[n54] a lower court dealt with a physician's challenge to his denial of
reappointment.  The physician's privileges at JFK Hospital were terminated
because of a pattern of extensive and uncorrectable over-utilization that
resulted in significant payment denials.  The court, in validating the action of
the hospital board, did not reject the notion that a physician may be excluded
from a medical staff for financial reasons. [n55] The physician's quality
problems, while inherent in the case, were never discussed by the court.
Although, this opinion has been labeled an economic credentialing decision, the
fact is that it was a fairly typical medical staff-hospital dispute, based on a
procedural due process challenge.  The issue of the physician's qualifications
flows from utilization problems that were uncovered by medical staff committee
reviews.  The concept of economic credentialing was not known in 1982 as a
distinct basis for decision making about reappointments.  This case represents
another situation where cost and quality are mixed together, but unlike the
other cases previously noted, the cost issues became the primary focal point of
adjudication.

   The first reporting of a pure economic credentialing decision in which the
concept was explicitly discussed by a court occurred in 1992. [n56] In the
Florida case of Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center, [n57]
the plaintiff challenged the hospital's decision not to grant him cardiac
surgical privileges.  The plaintiff, a cardiac surgeon, was under contract as
the director of an open heart surgical program at a proprietary hospital in
competition with Tallahassee Memorial (TMRMC).  The board of TMRMC denied his
application for cardiac privileges, although it did grant him general surgical
privileges.  The basis for the denial rested on a perceived economic conflict of
interest and not on quality grounds.

   The court's analysis rested on two key points. [n58] First, the court
emphasized the importance that the physician was an applicant for privileges and
not a member of the medical staff.  Had the plaintiff belonged to the medical
staff, the court felt a contractual right would have been created based on staff
bylaws, and, as such, reduction of privileges would need to occur under the
dictates of those bylaws.  While the court did not discuss the rather illusive
concept of property rights in the context of staff privileges, property rights
claims have been invoked in the medical staff context as a limitation on
arbitrary actions against individual staff members.

   The second point of analysis for the Rosenblum court focused on Florida
statutory law. [n59] Section 395.011(5) specifies criteria for eligibility for
medical staff membership to be used by the governing board. [n60] After listing
standard criteria the Florida law includes the statement, "and by such other
elements as may be determined by the governing board." [n61] It was the court's
opinion that other elements legitimately included the concept of economic
credentialing.  The court reasoned that costs, independent of quality, were
valid issues for a governing board to take into consideration in making
privilege determinations. [n62]

   The Rosenblum opinion was tempered by discussion because of the need to
examine economic factors without caprice or arbitrariness.  The court felt that
trying to determine how the plaintiff would behave as a member of the TMRHC
staff was purely speculative, and not a valid reason for denial of cardiac
privileges. [n63] The fact, however, that he had contractual responsibilities to
run a competing heart program was determined to be a legitimate consideration,
particularly in view of the competitive nature of the hospital business.

   While Rosenblum is the best example of an economic credentialing case, it
should be cautiously interpreted.  The decision was a lower court opinion [n64]
resting on a statute [n65] granting hospital boards wide authority, but which
was likely drafted without consideration of economic credentialing.  The case
was appealed by the plaintiff but settled when the hospital acquiesced and
granted him cardiac surgical privileges once the proprietary hospital contract
lapsed. [n66] Still the case has received widespread attention because it is, to
date, the only opinion directly discussing economic credentialing.  Rosenblum
may not have precedential value, but it does provide some guidance as to how
other courts might interpret a board's role under wide grants of statutory
authority.

   Challenges to Institutions Economic Motive

   Recently, a New York federal court jury in the case of Purgess v. Sharrock
[n67] awarded an anesthesiologist $ 9.2 million in damages for loss of hospital
privileges and defamation.  The plaintiff's contract and privileges were
terminated without a hearing because he only had provisional privileges and the
hospital by-laws did not provide for a hearing in such a case.  The bulk of the
plaintiff's case was based on antitrust challenges which were dismissed, but
other allegations including breach of contract and defamation went to trial.
The hospital argued that its actions were taken for quality reasons.  The
plaintiff, on the other hand, presented evidence that his clinical outcomes were
superior to his colleagues, and that the underlying motivation for exclusion was
his challenge of the hospital's billing and case assignment practices.  Evidence
at trial demonstrated that the hospital had submitted incorrect reports on the
plaintiff to the state of New York.

   The plaintiff won a jury verdict of $ 700,000 for breach of contract, $ 4.6
million in punitive damages and $ 3.5 million for defamation. [n68] The jury
felt that the plaintiff should have had a medical staff hearing even if the
bylaws did not clearly require it at the time.  While the case is likely to be
appealed, it raises another aspect of economic credentialing: where economic
credentialing is viewed as inappropriate it may be used as an affirmative
allegation by a plaintiff physician to demonstrate impropriety in hospital
procedure.  The plaintiff in this case was not excluded for reasons based on a
systematic economic practice analysis, but instead for questioning hospital
business arrangements.  The case demonstrated the difficulty in making staffing
decisions on nonquality grounds.  In future cases involving economic
credentialing, physicians will likely argue they were not removed from a medical
staff for quality reasons, but rather inappropriate economic factors.  Hospitals
that choose to use economic analyses will need to incorporate that policy into
medical staff and corporate bylaw provisions, and delineate what specific
economic measures will be used.  A failure to be explicit about economic
credentialing will result in allegations that such analysis is an inappropriate
basis for exclusion. [n69]

   Organized medical groups characterize economic credentialing in a way that
also includes exclusive contractual arrangements and decisions to close medical
staffs or particular departments. [n70] The underlying notion in such
characterizations is that economic credentialing entails any hospital practice
which excludes physicians from the medical staff for business reasons and is
made outside of medical staff procedures.  Clearly hospitals close medical staff
departments and enter into exclusive arrangements with physician groups for a
variety of reasons, but it is fair to conclude that business considerations are
primary ones in such decisions.

   A number of legal challenges have been brought by physicians who have lost
exclusive contracts, or have been locked out of a particular hospital as a
result of an exclusive arrangement. [n71] In addition, cases exist in which a
hospital decision to close membership of the medical staff in general or in a
particular department, has been the subject of litigation. [n72] However, courts
rarely second guess decisions of hospital boards, and have upheld exclusive
contracts and closure decisions as legitimate exercises of board power. [n73]
Most state [n74] laws are broad enough to allow the governing entity to make
responsible business decisions, and, provided such decisions are not arbitrary
or discriminatory, they will be upheld. [n75]

   Problems With Exclusive Contracts

   Problems occur in the exclusive contracting area when the existence of an
exclusive contract is not linked to a physician's medical staff privileges.
[n76] Two recent cases, Lewisburg Community Hospital v. Alfredson [n77] and
Bilek v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Hospital Center, [n78] demonstrate
difficulties hospitals may encounter when exclusive contracts and privileges are
not tied together.  In Alfredson, the Tennessee Supreme Court ruled that
termination of an exclusive contract for radiological services did not result in
automatic loss of medical staff privileges, but the medical staff bylaw fair
hearing procedures had to be invoked. [n79] The contract did not link medical
staff privileges to the hospital's continued existence.  The court rejected the
hospital argument that the plaintiff was not harmed because he still retained
medical staff membership; because without radiological privileges, staff
membership was meaningless.

   In Bilek, the plaintiff physician was barred from exercising his clinical
privileges in therapeutic radiology as a result of the hospital entering into an
exclusive contract for this service with another physician. [n80] The contract
was structured to allow the contracting physician total control over radiation
therapy services including hiring other physicians.  The plaintiff's request for
a hearing on his loss of privileges was denied by the hospital, which took the
position that such a process would be meaningless in view of the institution's
commitment to the exclusive arrangement.

   The Bilek court held that the hospital's exclusive contract for radiological
services constituted a constructive revocation of the plaintiff's privileges.
According to the court, privileges constitute a property interest that cannot be
denied without due process. [n81] Further, the court ruled that the medical
staff bylaws constitute a contract with the plaintiff; and, as such, the
dictates of the bylaws must be followed in removal of privileges.  By revoking
the physician's privileges through an exclusive agreement, the hospital was in
breach of contract with the plaintiff.  According to the court, Florida law
requires staff privileges to be handled with requisite fairness and due process;
and staff privileges are not to be denied summarily through contracting
practices. [n82]

   It is important to note that in Bilek the court did not find exclusive
contracts invalid per se; nor did the court find invalid the specific agreement
the hospital entered into with another radiologist.  The problem was the
hospital's use of a contract as an end run around the medical staff bylaws.  The
situation would have been different had the plaintiff been under contract with
the hospital to provide therapeutic radiological services, and such a contract
linked continuation of the contract to continuation of clinical privileges.
Short of such express linkages, hospitals must follow the fair hearing
procedures in their medical staff bylaws.  What will prove interesting will be
any future case in which a hospital attempts to justify terminating the clinical
privileges of an exclusive contracting physician based upon failure to live up
to the business expectations of a given contract.

   Fraud and Abuse Issues

   It has also been suggested that economic credentialing is violative of the
Medicare Fraud and Abuse provisions. [n83] If fraud and abuse prohibitions are
really as broad as some have argued the very notion of utilization review, which
deals in part with cost effectiveness, may not be used as a factor in
credentialing decisions.  The argument is made that certain economic criteria,
specifically those involving minimum utilization requirements, are in fact a
form of requesting referrals or payment in exchange for privileges, and, as
such, violate the fraud and abuse law. [n84] Such an argument is based on a very
narrow construct of economic credentialing as a type of quota system, and fails
to recognize the scope of possible economic evaluation measures and processes
that will be available to assess medical practice.  More than likely economic
credentialing will be incorporated into a broader physician evaluation program
if action is taken based on economic analysis, it will be in conjunction with
adverse findings in clinical practice as well.  Institutions that are interested
in economic credentialing should be able to develop programs using a wide range
of economic measures that do not violate fraud and abuse statutes.

   Antitrust Issues

   In a very broad sense, medical staff antitrust cases [n85] are highly germane
when considering the subject of economic credentialing.  Concerted attempts to
block access to medical staff membership have strong economic motivations
underlying them.  At the heart of the medical staff antitrust challenge is an
allegation that the plaintiff physician is deliberately being excluded to
enhance the economic position of competing physicians. [n86]

   While medical staff antitrust cases could be classified as a form of economic
credentialing, the process of applying economic criteria to medical staff
appointments and reappointments is not necessarily violative of antitrust laws.
In the abstract, a scenario could be constructed in which a medical staff or
hospital used economic criteria as a way to inappropriately exclude a physician
from staff membership for competitive reasons.  Inappropriate use of economic
criteria could rise to the level of an illegal restraint of trade, a conspiracy,
a group boycott, or monopoly, and, as such, may constitute a violation of
sections 1 or 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act. [n87]

   Constructing an antitrust case in the medical staff context is not easily
done.  Section 1 violations are either classified as a per se [n88] or rule of
reason violation, [n89] and in the medical staff arena the requisite elements
for the more serious per se violation are generally not present. [n90] The legal
trend in the courts demonstrates a growing reluctance to find a per se
violation, particularly where the alleged anticompetitive behavior can be
justified on a quality of care basis. [n91]

   Under the more typically used rule of reason analysis, several factors must
be demonstrated. [n92] These include the existence of a conspiracy, [n93] the
impacts of the conspiracy on the relevant market, [n94] and the lack of an
appropriate rationale for discriminating against the physician in question.
[n95] The issue of conspiracy is complicated by the uncertainty of whether a
court will recognize a hospital and its medical staff as economically distinct
entities. [n96] In some situations, courts have recognized the medical staff as
a combination of individuals with disparate interests, [n97] and, thus, capable
of conspiring among itself.  However, the latter view is not firmly established.
[n98]

   If an economic credentialing challenge is evaluated under a rule of reason
analysis, defendants would more than likely argue that use of such criteria is
justified by operational efficiency requirements.  Legitimate business reasons
are valid grounds for defense of practices that may result in economic injury to
certain individuals. [n99] Institutions that adopt economic criteria for
assessment of physicians at the appointment and reappointment stages could make
convincing arguments that they did so for legitimate business interests.  But if
economic guidelines used in credentialing do not meet legitimate institutional
objectives, they may be viewed as suspect, and as a possible subterfuge for
anticompetitive behavior.

   If a hospital uses economic criteria that can be classified as arbitrary,
potential antitrust problems may arise.  In Friedman v. Delaware County Memorial
Hospital, [n100] a federal court was confronted with an antitrust challenge that
called into question the scientific merits of certain medical criteria.  While
the Friedman court found the criteria valid, an opposite conclusion would have
raised questions about appropriate use, which would clearly diminish a defense
that the criteria in question were legitimate and that the economic injury it
caused could be tolerated.  Proof that a particular economic standard lacked
validity and was arbitrarily or inappropriately applied could raise legitimate
concerns about improper motives and could lead to an antitrust challenge.
Problems with criteria do not, however, in and of themselves, result in
antitrust violations, for clearly the requisite elements of a rule of reason
violation must be established.

   CONCLUSION

   The battle over economic credentialing is being waged outside the courts in
the political arena by organized medicine.  The CMA, an original opponent of
economic credentialing, entered into a joint agreement with the California
Hospital Association (CHA) opposing the practice. [n101] The joint CMA/CHA
resolution rejects the use of economic criteria in appointment or reappointment
unrelated to clinical qualifications and quality.  Medical societies in New
York, Florida and South Carolina have all gone on record opposing economic
credentialing, along with the AMA. [n102]

   Whether organized medicine can prevent the adoption of economic credentialing
programs is unclear because the concept is broad and illusive, and, in many
respects, is part of a larger trend toward ensuring economic efficiency in
health care.  To date, only one national study has been conducted on the use of
physician economic factors in credentialing. [n103] The study surveyed close to
two thousand hospital medical chiefs of staff and found that sixty percent of
hospitals use economic data such as patient charges per admission and average
lengths of stay for appointment and reappointment evaluations. [n104] The
results of the survey indicate that economic analysis is being used in various
physician evaluation processes within hospitals, and some of these evaluations
are being channeled into credentialing. [n105]

   Economic analysis of physician practices occurs widely in managed care and in
various ambulatory settings.  What makes economic credentialing in hospitals
volatile is not so much legal concerns as the political ones.  If a medical
staff voluntarily initiates an economic review within credentialing, it is
unlikely to generate as much controversy as a similar initiative coming from
trustees or administration.  The fact that exclusive contracts and decisions to
close staff or departmental membership have been pulled into the economic
credentialing debate reinforces the overriding issue of control over medical
staffing within the hospital. [n106]

   Credentialing and other medical staff issues have until recently been the
sole purview of physicians, but competition among hospitals has made staff
composition an important strategic tool in the management of hospitals.
Business realities have motivated decisions about who provides medical services
and to a certain extent economic credentialing is representative of ongoing
fiscal strategies.  Even if the overt practice of economic credentialing is
stymied, the notion that physicians will be judged solely on the basis of
clinical quality is unrealistic in the current climate of health care.  The
challenge for health care management and medical practitioners is to devise
economic criteria for analyzing medical practice that are verifiable, accurate
and equitable, and do not compromise patient care.  Hospital administrators,
trustees and medical staffs will need to reach consensus about the appropriate
uses of economic evaluation of medical practices.  However, until such consensus
is achieved, the issue will likely be the subject of ongoing debates.

REFERENCE: [n1.] See John D. Blum, Hospital-Medical Staff Relations in the Face
of Shifting Institutional Business Strategies: A Legal Analysis, 14 PUGET SOUND
L. REV. 561 (1991).

   [n2.] Id. at 583-89.

   [n3.] Stephen M. Shortell et al., Economic Regulation and Hospital Behavior:
The Effects on Medical Staff Organization and Hospital-Physician Relationships,
20 Health Services Res. No. 6 (Dec. 1985).

   [n4.] Physician Manager, DC Blues to Use Provider Profiling to Cut MDs, 3
PHYSICIAN MANAGER 12 (1992).

   [n5.] Pamela Taulbee, Outcomes Management: Buying Values and Cutting Costs,
BUS. & HEALTH, Mar. 1991, at 28; Charles Havighurst, Practice Guidelines for
Medical Care: The Policy Rationale, 34 ST. LOUIS U. L.J. 777 (1990).

   [n6.] 42 U.S.C. § 299 (Supp. III 1991).

   [n7.] John T. Kelly, M.D. & James Swartwout, Development of Practice
Parameters by Physician Organizations, 16 QUALITY REV. BULLETIN 54 (1990).

   [n8.] Dennis O'Leary, M.D., CQI - A Step Beyond QA, 17 QUALITY REV. BULLETIN
4 (1991).

   [n9.] AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, MEASURING MEDICAL PRACTICE at 36 (1987).

   [n10.] Dennis L. Bush, Quality Measurement Through Statistics, Vol. 13, No. 5
J. OF QUALITY ASSURANCE 40 (Sept./Oct 1991).

   [n11.] See Roz Diane Lasker, et al., Realizing the Potential of Profiling,
Paper presented at the Physician Payment Review Commission's Conference on
Profiling (Jan. 15, 1992) (on file with the Health Law Institute).

   [n12.] Id.

   [n13.] John D. Blum, Hospitals, New Medical Practice Guidelines, CQI and
Potential Liability Outcomes, 36 ST. LOUIS U. L.J. 913, 930 (1992).

   [n14.] Brian McCormick, Is Economic Credentialing Really Thriving, AM. MED.
NEWS, Dec. 14, 1992, at 9-10.

   [n15.] Denise Andresen, Economic Credentialing: Profitability Versus Quality,
FMA TODAY (Sept./Oct. 1992).

   [n16.] John Rotenberg, M.D., Task Force on Exclusive Contracting and Economic
Credentialing's Report to the Council, (1990) (on file with the Health Law
Institute).

   [n17.] Id.

   [n18.] Id.

   [n19.] See McCormick, supra note 14, at 9-10.

   [n20.] Letter from Jeffrey L. Cohen, Associate General Counsel Florida
Medical Association, to Wanda Carter, Florida House of Representatives (Sept. 8,
1992) (on file with the Health Law Institute) [hereinafter Cohen Letter].

   [n21.] Report on Medical Guidelines and Outcomes Research, Eddy: Cost Must be
Considered in Guidelines Development, 2 RMGs OR (Feb. 15, 1991).

   [n22.] See O'Leary, supra note 8.

   [n23.] AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION, PROPOSED AD HOC COMMITTEE ON
APPROPRIATE USE OF PRACTITIONER RESOURCE UTILIZATION DATA, (1992).

   [n24.] Christina Kent, Case Study: De Graf Memorial Hospital: A Case Study on
Credentialing, Vol. 2, No. 3 REPORT ON MEDICAL GUIDELINES AND CLINICAL OUTCOMES
RESEARCH 10 (1991).

   [n25.] See Cohen Letter, supra note 20; Mary J. Koska, Review Exclusive
Contracts in Light of Recent Challenges, 66 HOSPS., Apr. 20, 1992, at 38.

   [n26.] Linda Perry, Overpriced Billing Services May Break Anti-Kickback Laws,
Vol. 20, No. 30 MOD. HEALTHCARE 3, July 30, 1990.

   [n27.] See, e.g., N.C. GEN. STAT. § 131E-76 (1992).

   [n28.] JCAHO, ACCREDITATION MANUAL FOR HOSPITALS § MS. 3 (1993).

   [n29.] See, e.g., Id. § MS. 4.1.

   [n30.] See Horty, Springer & Mattern, Ltd. HOSPITAL LAW:
NEGLIGENCE-LIABILITY, ch. 1 & 2 (1985).

   [n31.] See, e.g., Shelton v. Morehead Memorial Hosp., 347 S.E.2d 824 (N.C.
1986).

   [n32.] 211 N.E.2d 253 (Ill. 1965).

   [n33.] Insinga v. LaBelle, 543 So. 2d 209 (Fla. 1989).

   [n34.] Thompson v. Waso Hosp., 535 A.2d 1177 (Pa. Super. Ct. 1988).

   [n34.] 211 N.E.2d 253 (Ill. 1965); 535 A.2d 1177 (Pa. Super. Ct. 1988); 543
So. 2d 209 (Fla. 1989).

   [n35.] See, e.g., ALA. CODE § 22-21-8 (1992).

   [n36.] See, e.g., CAL. HEALTH & SAFETY CODE § 32128 (Deering 1993).

   [n37.] 77 ILL. ADMIN. CODE, tit. 1, § 250.310 (1992).

   [n38.] Id.

   [n39.] See, e.g., MICH. STAT. ANN. § 330.1245 (Callaghan 1991).

   [n40.] JCAHO, ACCREDITATION MANUAL FOR HOSPITALS, § MS. 4.1.2 (1993).

   [n41.] 77 ILL. ADMIN. CODE, tit. 1, § 250.210 (1992).

   [n42.] See supra notes 38 and 42 and accompanying text.

   [n43.] John D. Blum, Economic Credentialing: A New Twist in Hospital
Appraisal Processes, 12 J. LEGAL MED. 427, 463-466 (1991).

   [n44.] Id.

   [n45.] See infra notes 47-53 and accompanying text.

   [n46.] See Fahey v. Holy Family Hosp., 336 N.E.2d 309 (Ill. App. 1975).

   [n47.] Knapp v. Palos Community Hosp., 465 N.E.2d 554 (Ill. 1984).

   [n48.] Id.

   [n49.] Id. at 560.

   [n50.] Id.

   [n51.] 672 F. Supp. 171 (E.D. Pa. 1987).

   [n52.] Id. at 183.

   [n53.] No. C-2104-08 (N.J. Super. 1982) cert. denied, 475 A.2d 585 (N.J. Sup.
Ct. 1984).

   [n54.] Id.

   [n55.] Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Ctr., No. 91-589
(Fla. Cir. 1992) (on file with author) [hereinafter Rosenblum].

   [n56.] Id.

   [n57.] Id.

   [n58.] Id.

   [n59.] FLA. STAT. ANN. § 395.011(5) (1993).

   [n60.] Id.

   [n61.] Rosenblum, supra note 56.

   [n62.] Id.

   [n63.] Id.

   [n64.] FLA. STAT. ANN. § 395.011(5).

   [n65.] Tallahassee Physicians Caught in Battle Over Economic Credentialing,
FMA TODAY, Sept. 10, 1992.

   [n66.] Purgess v. Sharrock, 806 F. Supp. 1102 (S.D.N.Y. 1992).

   [n67.] See McCormick, supra note 14, at 9.

   [n68.] Id.

   [n69.] See Cohen Letter, supra note 20.

   [n70.] See, e.g., Johnson v. Greater Southeast Community Hosp. Corp., 943
F.2d 561 (D.C. Cir. 1991).

   [n71.] See, e.g., Kramer v. Kent Gen. Hosp., 1992 WL 91130 (Del. Super. Feb.
28, 1992).

   [n72.] Id. at *6.

   [n73.] See, e.g., Dattilo v. Tucson Gen. Hosp., 533 P.2d 700, 703 (Ark.
1975).

   [n74.] See Blum, supra note 44.

   [n75.] See Id.

   [n76.] 805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991).

   [n77.] No. 9L973 (Fla. Cir. Ct.) (on file with the author).

   [n78.] 805 S.W.2d 761.

   [n79.] No. 9L973 (Fla. Cir. Ct.) (on file with the author).

   [n80.] Id.

   [n81.] Id.

   [n82.] Katherine Benesche, Economic Credentialing and the Fraud and Abuse
Caveat, 6 MEDICAL STAFF COUNSELOR 27 (Fall 1992); 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-76 (1988)
amended by Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, Pub. L. No. 101-508, §
4161(a)(4), 104 Stat. 1388, 1389-94 (1990).

   [n83.] Id.

   [n84.] See, e.g., Diane Ruder, Antitrust and the Credentialing and
Decredentialing of Physician, 19 N. KY L. REV. 351 (1992) (examines the Supreme
Court's application of the antitrust doctrine to the peer review process and the
credentialing and decredentialing of physicians).

   [n85.] See, e.g., Summit Health, Ltd. v. Pinhas, 111 S. Ct. 1842, 1844
(1991).

   [n86.] 15 U.S.C. §§ 1, 2 (1991).

   [n87.] See, e.g., Arizona v. Maricopa Cty. Medical Soc'y, 457 U.S. 332, 355
(1982).

   [n88.] See, e.g., Belmar v. Cipolla, 475 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984).

   [n89.] James F. Blumstein & Frank A. Sloan, Antitrust and Hospital Peer
Review, LAW & CONTEMP. PROBS., Spring 1988, 7.

   [n90.] Id. at 53-56.

   [n91.] Id. at 54.

   [n92.] Id. at 53.

   [n93.] Id. at 54-56.

   [n94.] Id. at 29-30.

   [n95.] Id. at 39-53.

   [n96.] Id. at 43 (citing Arizona v. Maricopa Cty. Medical Soc'y, 457 U.S. 332
(1982)).

   [n97.] Id. at 50 (citing Weiss v. York Hosp., 745 F.2d 786 (3rd. Cir. 1989)).

   [n98.] See Hassan v. Independent Practice Associates, 698 F. Supp. 679 (E.D.
Mich. 1988).

   [n99.] 672 F. Supp. 171 (E.D. Pa. 1987), aff'd 849 F.2d 600 (3rd. Cir. 1988).

   [n100.] California Medical Association, California Association of Hospitals
and Health Systems, Joint Statement on Economic Credentialing and Exclusive
Contracting (on file with the Author).

   [n101.] See Andersen, supra note 15.

   [n102.] Loyola University Chicago, Institute for Health Law, Hospital-Medical
Staff Survey 1992, (on file with Loyola University-Chicago).

   [n103.] Id.

   [n104.] Id.

   [n105.] For a recent example of how hospital and medical staffs are locked in
battles over control see BNA HEALTH REPORTER, AMA Pledges to Fight Hospitals'
Attempt to Force Physicians to Become Employees (St. Luke's Radiologists v.
Metro Health St. Luke's Medical Center) 1 HEALTH REP. No. 14, at 430 (Dec. 31,
1992). #LS930830SP# #LS930902LEufishmx#  #LS931105SP# #LS931105LEuhollsj#


