                               7 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Albany Herald (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             April 24, 2017 Monday

Phoebe Putney Health System generates $1.2 billion economic impact in 2015

BYLINE: Jennifer Parks, The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1009 words


April 24--ALBANY -- Phoebe Putney Health System generated more than $1.2 billion
in revenue for the economy in 2015, a recent report by the Georgia Hospital
Association, the state's largest hospital trade association, says.

The report also found that, during the same period, the health system provided
more than $56 million in community benefit while supporting more than 8,000
full-time jobs throughout Southwest Georgia and across the state.

"Our top priority at Phoebe is, and always will be, to offer the best possible
health care to everyone in Southwest Georgia who needs treatment, regardless of
their ability to pay," Phoebe President and CEO Joel Wernick said. "As we
continue to provide world class care that keeps patients right here at home for
specialized treatment, we are proud that Phoebe is our region's largest employer
and remains a major economic engine for our part of the state."

The report revealed that PPHS had direct expenditures of over $545 million in
2015. When combined with the economic multiplier developed by the U.S.
Department of Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis, the total economic impact
of those expenditures was more than $1.2 billion.

"These are challenging and uncertain times in health care, but we believe our
history of wise fiscal management and our strategic planning for the future will
help us ensure people throughout our region will have access to the highest
quality health care," Wernick said.

Phoebe has partnered with other entities, such as Grady EMS, in providing
critical care and non-emergent transport between Phoebe's facilities and others.

The PPHS hospitals included in the report are Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital,
Phoebe Sumter Medical Center, Phoebe Worth Medical Center and Southwest Georgia
Regional Medical Center. Below is the economic impact each of the hospitals
generated in 2015 as reported by GHA:

-- Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital, located in Albany, generated a total
economic impact of more than $1 billion on $472 million in direct expenditures.
The hospital supported 6,802 full-time jobs while also providing $45 million in
community benefits, including charity and uncompensated care.

-- Phoebe Sumter Medical Center in Americus generated a total economic impact of
more than $137 million on $59.9 million in direct expenditures. The hospital
supported 905 full-time jobs while also providing over $8.2 million in community
benefits, including charity and uncompensated care.

-- Phoebe Worth Medical Center in Sylvester generated a total economic impact of
$18 million on $7.8 million in direct expenditures. The hospital supported 323
full-time jobs while also providing more than $2 million in community benefits,
including charity and uncompensated care.

-- Southwest Georgia Regional Medical Center, located in Cuthbert and managed by
Phoebe, generated a total economic impact of over $13 million on $5.6 million in
direct expenditures. The hospital supported 342 full-time jobs while also
providing approximately $1.1 million in community benefits.

While Georgia hospitals are known for taking care of the state's more than 10
million residents, they also play a role in bolstering Georgia's economic health
by pumping nearly $47.8 billion into the state's economy in 2015, the GHA report
said.

The report also revealed that hospitals supplied more than 141,000 full-time
jobs and indirectly created nearly 344,000 jobs in Georgia.

"Georgia hospitals are making a positive difference in people's lives, both at
the bedside and in their communities economically," said GHA President and CEO
Earl Rogers. "In communities throughout the state, hospitals are among the
largest employers and are a key component of the infrastructure necessary to
attract business to those areas."

Many Georgia hospitals continue to face a wide array of financial challenges
that have resulted in reduced services and employee cutbacks. Since the
beginning of 2013, six Georgia hospitals have closed, many of them in rural
areas.

The GHA study said Georgia hospitals absorbed more than $1.74 billion in costs
for care that was delivered but not paid for in 2015.

"Throughout Georgia, hospitals are the only source of medical care for most
uninsured residents," Rogers said. "Add to that a growing number of residents
who actually have insurance but cannot pay their high insurance deductibles, and
hospitals end up absorbing even more losses. These dynamics are not sustainable
long term."

A recent study by the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured said that
Georgia had the second highest percentage of uninsured residents in the country
at 14 percent in 2015. Officials said Medicaid pays Georgia hospitals, on
average, about 87 percent of actual costs, meaning hospitals lose 13 cents on
every dollar spent treating a Medicaid recipient.

"The financial pressure that Georgia hospitals face is greater than ever,"
Rogers said. "Hospitals have a commitment to be there for the their communities
24 hours a day, seven days a week, but for many, just remaining financially
viable is a challenge. When hospitals suffer financially, access to care and
services for all Georgians is at risk."

The output multiplier considers the ripple effect of direct hospital
expenditures on other sectors of the economy, such as medical supplies, durable
medical equipment and pharmaceuticals. Economic multipliers are used to model
the resulting impact of a change in one industry on the "circular flow" of
spending within an economy as a whole.

Stay Informed

Success! An email has been sent with a link to confirm list signup.

Error! There was an error processing your request.

Breaking News Alerts

Get Breaking News alerts from the Albany Herald delivered to your email.

Local Newsletter

Get the Local News headlines from the Albany Herald delivered daily to your
email.

Sports Newsletter

Get the Sports headlines from the Albany Herald delivered daily to your email.

Manage your lists

___ (c)2017 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170424-1AH-Phoebe-Putney-Health-System-generates-1.2-billion-economic
-impact-in-2015-0424-20170424

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                        Copyright 2017 The Albany Herald


