                               8 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            November 2, 2012 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

BYLINE: Jim Ware | Jim.Ware@StarNewsOnline.com

SECTION: Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 718 words


he economic impact of New Hanover Regional Medical Center reaches far beyond New
Hanover and its adjoining counties, Brunswick and Pender, according to a study
conducted by UNCW for the hospital.

The study shows the hospital will support $1.34 billion in economic activity
this year, when the impacts of construction, operations and patient visitor
spending are combined. That amounts to 11.1 percent of the estimated total
economic activity for the three-county statistical area.

The impact on the seven-county region that additionally includes Bladen,
Columbus, Duplin, and Onslow counties is $1.95 billion, or 7.4 percent of the
total economic activity in the region, according to the study.

"I think we're the best investment in town because, for zero taxpayer dollars,
they're getting $2 billion worth of economic benefit," said John Gizdic,
executive vice president of strategic planning for the hospital. "And that
doesn't even take into account the high-qualty health care that they're being
provided."

Gizdic said the study, which cost $26,821, was requested to help hospital
leadership and trustees understand NHRMC's role in economic development and its
benefit to the community.

"When you think about economic development, when you think about economic
impact, I think very few people probably think about the hospital and think
about health care," Gizdic said Wednesday. "As you look through this study and
the results, at the end of the day this to me says NHRMC is one of the - if not
the - top economic drivers in this region."

He said since the hospital initiated its master facilities plan in 2006, NHRMC
has invested more than $400 million in facilities, technology and new services
such as a pediatric intensive care unit, a health and diagnostic services
medical complex in Brunswick Forest, and an electronic medical records system.

"I don't know of anybody else who has invested $400 million in the past six
years in this community," Gizdic said.

He also pointed to nearly $100 million in annual additional benefits to the
community not included in the impacts the study analyzes. Among those are $15.7
million for charity care in 2011 and more than $4 million a year to operate New
Hanover County's emergency medical system.

"That was a $4 million tax burden that we took off of the taxpayers," Gizdic
said. "Not a single penny of tax dollars goes to that or anything else here."

In fact, though the not-for-profit hospital pays no property or sales taxes, its
ripple effect from taxes paid by vendors and employees in the three-county area
results in about $26 million in taxes paid.

During the last three years, the hospital has added more than 400 jobs, bringing
total employment to a little more than 5,000 people, Gizdic said.

Its annual budget is about $800 million.

The study says 2.43 jobs are created in the three-county area for each job
created at the hospital, and 3.67 jobs are created in the seven-county region
for each NHRMC job.

New Hanover Regional Medical Center is the region's largest employer, said Woody
Hall, professor of economics at the University of North Carolina Wilmington and
senior economist with the university's Swain Center for Business and Economic
Services.

The hospital contracted with the center to conduct the study.

Hall said the center hasn't done other studies that would allow it to rank the
hospital's economic impact with other entities, though he estimated UNCW's
impact at $600 million to $700 million less than the hospital's impact.

"What the hospital buys is so doggone expensive," Hall said. "It's also not
inexpensive to run the hospital." People who work in the hospital also make
above-average salaries, he said.

Gizdic said the hospital trustees and its leadership team have been proactive
over the past several years to keep NHRMC "in a very strong position, both
financially and, certainly, from a patient care and quality standpoint."

"What that's translated into is a strong medical center which has translated
into a very strong impact in the economy," he said. "Continuing to be proactive
in these uncertain times, with changes in health care reform and reimbursement,
is going to be imperative, not only to continue to provide those quality medical
services, but it's going to be critical to our economy."

Jim Ware: 343-2387

On Twitter: @jimware

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


