                               9 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           February 23, 2010 Tuesday

Hospitals power economy;
Hospital association study: Health facilities a bigger driving force for the
area than WPAFB.

BYLINE: By Ben Sutherly Staff Writer

SECTION: DAILY B2B; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 333 words


DAYTON - The Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association in a new report says its
member hospitals had a greater economic impact on the region in 2008 than that
of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.

The hospital association put the sector's overall local economic impact - the
amount of dollars flowing through the community annually due to hospitals - at
$6.77 billion, compared to $4.44 billion at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.

The report shows hospitals in 11 local counties provide not only quality health
care, but also are key employment and economic forces in the region, said Bryan
Bucklew, GDAHA's president and CEO.

Bucklew noted the base is a widely recognized economic engine in the region. The
comparison made between the impact of the hospitals and the base wasn't meant to
detract from the base's economic significance to the region, Bucklew said.

Instead, he said, it's aimed at underscoring for lawmakers how key hospitals
also are to the local economy.

"I think it should come to mind when we're trying to change public policy,"
Bucklew said.

Base spokesman Derek Kaufman declined comment on GDAHA's comparison.

"I've found people in the Miami Valley have varying degrees of understanding
about Wright-Patt's varied missions, but virtually everyone recognizes the base
is a huge economic engine for southwest Ohio," Kaufman wrote in an e-mail.

The hospitals' economic impact was up 19 percent from $5.68 billion in 2005,
GDAHA reported.

GDAHA also said hospitals directly employ 31,297 people in hospitals, nursing
and personal care facilities, and medical and health services facilities. The
base had more than 25,700 employees in fiscal 2008, according to its most recent
economic impact analysis.

Bucklew acknowledged GDAHA has not tried to calculate the value of tax breaks
received by its members, most of which are nonprofits.

Report data were prepared by the University of Cincinnati's Economics Center for
Education & Research. GDAHA paid $15,000 to $20,000 for the study, Bucklew said.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


