                              87 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                          February 25, 2009 Wednesday
                        1 - First with the news Edition

TALKING POINT

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1636  words


'Do the conservatives propose that the solution to the economic crisis will come
from slashing funding to public services?'

Scott Coombs, of Graceville, comments on the Liberal National Party promise to
scrap the Queensland Children's Hospital project

'One can only hope that Pauline Hanson's cheer squad has tired of her and she
fails spectacularly'

D.J. Fraser, of Mudgeeraba, says Hanson, who will be a candidate in the state
election, has made a business out of running for office

Keep ahead of bad news

PREMIER Anna Bligh says she needs a mandate to tackle the economic crisis. She
already had a mandate. You can't get a much bigger mandate than a 31-seat
majority to implement policies.

The economic outlook is so bad that when all the facts about unemployment and
the deficit are on the table, no one would re-elect the Government. Bligh is
hoping to get the election over before the worst of that news hits the fan.

Why is Queensland so poorly equipped to face an economic downturn? After so many
years of bountiful mineral royalties, why aren't we comfortably bunkered down
behind solid surpluses with major infrastructure projects fully funded? This is
going to be a difficult election for Labor to win.

Trevor Cooper, Stanthorpe

HOW can a Government that has presided over unprecedented economic growth leave
the state's finances in tatters, then turn to the electorate and ask for a
mandate to preside over a period of grave economic uncertainty. Surely any
alternative is better than what Labor has been serving up.

Peter Batzloff, Bucasia

TRADITIONAL political wisdom says that, generally, oppositions do not win
elections but governments lose elections.

The Government is a long way from losing the election through its own efforts
and the Liberal National Party is not in sufficiently good shape to become a
serious threat. Unity is more than just changing the label on the product. The
conservative parties found this in the past. They attempted a combined party in
1925 which lasted only a few years.

Disunity is political death. The smouldering dissension among the Queensland
conservatives has not gone away. The consequences will soon become apparent.

Neville Lines, Clontarf

PREMIER Anna Bligh told us last week that she was going full term (another six
months). Then, over the weekend, she decided (in our best interest) to go to the
Governor on Monday morning to issue a writ for the election.

With six months still to go, Bligh had her election website done, complete with
YouTube video, and her professionally made TV commercials were ready. Wow, that
is preparation -- six months ahead of time. She was also lucky enough to get her
TV ads run many times on the same day she announced the election.

Gee, it was lucky those prime-time slots were available.

She insults our intelligence.

Don Parry, Palmwoods

Slashing services

LIBERAL National Party leader Lawrence Springborg says he would scrap the
Queensland Children's Hospital on Brisbane's southside. In the federal sphere,
Opposition Leader Malcolm Turnbull opposed the stimulus package of the Rudd
Government.

Is this a sign of things to come? Do the conservatives propose that the solution
to the economic crisis will come from slashing funding to public services?
Queensland needs a premier, not a chief executive officer.

Scott Coombs, Graceville

Fund existing operations

WHY do we have to have new hospitals? If the State Government spent the money on
staff for existing hospitals, waiting lists would be cut. The wonderful Royal
Children's Hospital at Herston has served the community well for 44 years.

Sharryn Gilshenan, Zillmere

I HAVE three children and I have used the fantastic facilities at the Royal
Children's Hospital for the past eight years. I do not understand why the Bligh
Government wants to close it. The community does not support such a move.

Gemma Osborne, Highvale

Public system works well

SO often we hear only negative reports about Queensland Health and public
hospitals. Most people are quick to write to complain but seldom write when
satisfied.

My husband and I have had experience with public hospitals and cannot fault the
service and treatment received. Many family members and friends have voiced the
same opinion.

With the demand on public hospitals, everyone cannot be treated immediately. The
most urgent cases take precedence. It would be great to hear positive remarks
about public hospitals. They are not perfect but are doing a good job for so
many people.

Sylvia Meldrum, Holland Park West

Ditch hi-tech swimsuits

CONGRATULATIONS to Jim Wilson for his article on FINA dithering about making a
decision on the racing suits being used by swimmers (Sport, Feb 24).

Congrats also to swimming legend Murray Rose, who tells it like it is, and has
provided a part solution to the matter.

Rose says world records, set by athletes wearing the suits, cannot be scrapped
but an asterisk should be placed beside the times.

I refused to watch the swimming events at last year's Beijing Olympics as I
thought it was like watching a sailboat race in which the boats used motors.

The same logic applies to the aerodynamic suits worn by track athletes.

The suits are ``not cricket'' and the results obtained by competitors wearing
them are not real.

People who say that swimming should keep up with technology and use the suits
would probably advocate a spring-loaded shot put or pneumatic jumping shoes.

David Kendall, Stafford Heights

Repeat driving tests

AS a qualified driving instructor, I urge the public, especially parents with
teenagers, to press the Government to change the rule applying to provisional
licences.

I have spoken to many parents and learner drivers to gauge their reaction to
having P-plate drivers retested by the Transport Department in order to upgrade
to P2 and open licences at the completion of the provisional period.

A large number of P-plate drivers become complacent. Once they have that licence
in their hands, it appears that, no matter what the authorities try to do to
make them realise the danger associated with being on the road, it is to no
avail.

The number of young drivers being fined, losing their licences or being involved
in fatal accidents has been well publicised. Retesting P-plate drivers would do
one important thing. Once the driver realised he would be retested to upgrade to
the next level, he would have to try hard to maintain a good standard in order
to pass his future tests.

A P1 driver who failed the test should remain as such for a further six months,
and a P2 for a further 12 months before being eligible to sit for the next test.

The psychological effect would be that not too many of these drivers would want
to remain on P1 and P2 forever.

Thus, making a special effort for the following three years while on probation
would result in better drivers in the long term, as well as lowering the road
toll.

Repetition is the key to good learning.

Louis Bocquee, Forestdale

It's sad for those who care

A FEW of us near Altandi railway station (on the Beenleigh line) play our part
in keeping the area clean and tidy and look after the plants and trees.

Sometimes the trees are pulled out or damaged. The carers prop them up again;
they do the same with plants that have been pulled out and left to die.

Since Sunday night, some plants and trees -- a small poinciana tree, in
particular -- have just disappeared.

Rubbish and pieces of broken bottles are picked up and graffiti has been
scrubbed away, only for more to reappear.

Most of us in the community do not damage property or steal but a minority
thinks the world belongs to them and they can rubbish it if they wish -- or
steal if they wish.

If we were all like them, we would soon find ourselves living in a dump. If this
happened, maybe the ``penny would drop'' and this minority might consider living
by a different drum beat. I don't hold out much hope.

H. Bray, Sunnybank

Selfish society

THE article ``Lust for fame and fortune'' by Paul Williams was superb
(Viewpoint, Feb 24).

I hope that the people to whom he refers read this article about the selfish,
me-only culture, but I suspect they would not identify with the subject.

More and more, our culture is directed towards lust for the dollar and people
seek to be one-up on their neighbour. Do they have a conscience and a respect
for fellow Australians, particularly the battlers and the needy? The public rose
to the occasion with a magnificent response to the Victorian bushfire appeal.
Maybe the coverage and publicity by the media prompted them to do so (including
me). If the plight of the suffering by many in our society received the same
publicity, would a similar response be forthcoming? Sadly, I think not.

Bill Gates, Keppera

How hard can it be?

AIRTRAIN and TransLink are ingenious (C-M, Feb 24). Commuters are paying more
for travelling directly from suburban stations to the airport because the
companies can't agree on a single fare structure. What better response to an
issue raised in the media than a simple ``We can't do anything about it''. This
isn't about global warming or the recession. We're talking about train fares.
Fix them.

Matt Teale, Riverhills

Letters

CONTACT US

Mail: The Courier-Mail

GPO Box 130 Brisbane 4001.

Fax: 3666 8625

Email: letters@couriermail.com.au

Online: couriermail.com.au/letters

Letters and email must be dated, carry the full address of the writer and a
daytime telephone number for verification. Letters should be concise and
topical. Writers may choose to have their email address published rather than
suburb or town. Letters are submitted on condition that Queensland Newspapers as
publisher of The Courier-Mail may edit and has the right to and license third
parties to reproduce in electronic form and communicate these letters.

The winner of Letter of the Month wins a zippered A4 leather compendium, valued
at $80, courtesy of The Courier-Mail.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


