                              10 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                            February 16, 2009 Monday

Thai Nakarin to build new outpatient wing

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 944 words


Thai Nakarin Hospital will spend Bt1 billion to construct a new building
adjacent to its existing hospital to serve outpatients, whose numbers are
expected to increase once the BTS Skytrain's Onnuj-Baring extension is up and
running early next year.

While other large hospitals have deferred major investments until the economy
recovers, Thai Nakarin is forging ahead.

Thai Nakarin expects the population of eastern Bangkok and Samut Prakan to grow
with the completion of the BTS extension, founder and board chairman Jatuporn
Sihanatkathakul said last week. Residential and condominium projects are
mushrooming in this area, and the hospital expects a parallel increase in
patient numbers.

The new building will serve outpatients, whose numbers have grown by 10 to 15
per cent a year, compared to 5-per-cent growth for inpatients, Jatuporn said.
Some specialist clinics will be moved to the new building, which will also house
a new neurology clinic. "We will start construction by the end of this year. I
expect the outpatient building to start operations in 2011," Jatuporn said.

Jatuporn said the new facility was on schedule, unlike a plan drawn up two years
ago to expand Thai Nakarin Hospital on Bang Na-Trat Road and to build sites in
new locations, particularly prime areas of the capital. These projects have been
delayed indefinitely, mainly due to the poor economic situation.

The delayed plan calls for new hospitals on Sukhumvit Soi 42, Charoen Krung Road
and Soi Onnuj. Land has already been secured on Sukhumvit 42, and the firm is
still looking for good sites on Charoen Krung and Onnuj. These hospitals will be
smaller than Thai Nakarin Hospital on Bang Na-Trat Road.

"We can't expand to new locations if the economic situation does not improve.
But we still need to expand our hospital headquarters on Bang Na-Trat Road
because I believe the population in the area is certain to increase," Jatuporn
said.

Thai Nakarin Hospital has felt the effects of the economic crisis, as patients
have opted to seek treatment at state hospitals or less-expensive private
hospitals. And while some high-income patients who used to go to high-end
private hospitals have moved to less costly hospitals like Thai Nakarin, these
new patients have not offset the loss of less wealthy clients.

Jatuporn, who is also the owner of the Landmark hotel, said the hospital
business has weathered the economic crisis better than the hotel industry.
However, he cautioned investors looking to enter the hospital business to
rethink their plan, as the field has become very crowded.

"I forecast Thai Nakarin Hospital's revenue will grow 10 per cent this year -
well below our average growth of 20 per cent a year," Jatuporn said.

Thai Nakarin Hospital plans to invest Bt1 billion to construct new building
adjacent to the existing hospital in order to serve outpatient which it expects
to increase after BTS sky train Onnut-Bearing extension is operated in the early
of next year.

The hospital confidences to do major investment amid the economic crisis, while
other large-sized hospitals have deferred their investments until economic
recover.

Founder and chairman of the board Jatuporn Sihanatkathakul said last week that
Thai Nakarin expects the number of population in the eastern Bangkok as well as
Samutprakarn would increase after BTS extension is completed in 2010. Many
residential and condominium projects are mushrooming in this area. So, the
hospital believes that its patient will also increase.

He said the new building would serve outpatients which have grown by 10-15 per
cent per year, higher than inpatients which have risen only 5 per cent per
annum. Some specialised clinics will be moved to the new building. The hospital
will also set up Neuro clinic as its new specialised clinic after the building
construction is completed. "We will start the construction by the end of this
year. I expect the outpatient building to start the operation in 2011," he said.

Jatuporn said this business expansion was on schedule. He planned two years ago
to expand Thai Nakarin Hospital on Bangna-Trad Road and also to new locations,
particularly prime areas. But the new hospital projects are indefinitely delayed
mainly due to economic situation.

He earlier planned to build new hospitals at Sukhumvit 42, Charoen Krung Road
and Onnut. The hospital has already had land bank at Sukhumvit 42. It is seeking
for good land band on Chareon Krung Road and Onnut. Most hospitals in the three
locations will have smaller sized than Thai Nakarin Hospital on Bangna-Trad
Road.

"We can't expand to new locations if economic situation does not improve. But we
still have to expand our hospital headquarter on Bangna-Trad Road because I
believe that the number of population will absolutely increase thanks to city
expansion," he said.

He said Thai Nakarin Hospital had been also affected from economic crisis as
some patients that could not afford its medical treatment prices have moved to
state hospitals or other private hospitals that offer lower medical treatment
prices. However, some large-income patients who used to go to hi-end private
hospitals have moved to the lower prices like Thai Nakarin, as well. But new
patients could not offset existing clients.

Jatuporn, who is also the owner of Landmark hotel, added that hospital business
had lower impact than hotel one. However, some businesspersons that are planning
to enter hospital business should revise their decisions because this business
is facing over supply similar to hotels.

"I forecasts Thai Nakarin Hospital's revenue this year to grow by 10 per cent,
lower than the average growth rate at 20 per cent per year," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


