                              91 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                           September 29, 2015 Tuesday
                               Australian Edition

GIVE THE AMA A BYPASS AND PRIVATISE PUBLIC HOSPITALS

BYLINE: Jeremy Sammut

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 889  words


Higher taxes to underwrite inefficient public services are not economic reform

The Australian Medical Association's pre-emptive political strike on the
Medicare services review shows that some members of the medical profession
believe only the doctor's union should make health policy in this country.

Given the evident sense of entitlement, and the self-serving belief that no
savings can be made from the health system, it beggars belief some are
suggesting taxes should be raised principally to feed the beast that is
Medicare.

Many budget experts are calling for a range of tax increases to close the fiscal
gap between government revenue and expenditure. But before allowing the nation
to be dragged over the cliff of higher tax and spend policies, we should stop,
think and understand how acting on this advice would be the antithesis of true
economic reform.

The major tax proposals on the table are a 50 per cent GST hike or a
proportionate rise in income tax to pay for the rising cost of state health
systems.

The problem in health is reckless spending, not a revenue shortfall. This is
clearly demonstrated by the ever-increasing amount of taxpayer money absorbed by
public hospitals. In 2003-04, combined federal, state and territory funding for
public hospitals totalled $22 billion. By 2012-13, this had increased to almost
$40bn, with real expenditure having grown at a rate much higher than inflation
and economic growth.

Demand for hospital services is increasing in an ageing society, but there is
little evidence that productivity improvements have enabled the community to
receive more hospital care in return for additional funding. The 2013 Queensland
Commission of Audit found that while expenditure on public hospitals in the
state had increased by 43 per cent across the previous five years, activity had
increased by less than half - just 17 per cent.

This is hardly surprising: public hospitals remain one of the few government
utilities that have been untouched by the market-based reform agenda initiated
under the Hawke-Keating government in the 1980s.

Like all cosseted public sector industries, public hospitals are inherently
inefficient because they are insulated against private sector forces of
competition and financial accountability that drives innovation and reduces
costs in other sectors of the economy. Analysis by the Productivity Commission
has suggested there is a 20 per cent cost difference between the least efficient
and more efficient public hospitals, which represents a waste of many billions
of dollars across the sector.

Yet this doesn't mean better performing hospitals are truly -efficient. The
sweetheart industrial deals struck between state governments and public sector
health unions account for the high costs and inefficiency across the entire
system. The centralised industrial agreements negotiated by state health
departments fix rigid, statewide employment terms and conditions for doctors,
nurses and allied health professionals, and include expensive and outdated work
practices that prevent the delivery of services more cost-effectively.

Health consumes one-quarter of total state government expenditure, and public
hospitals account for about two-thirds of state health spending. The cost of
clinical ser-vices represents about 70 per cent of total hospital budgets.

Higher taxes to underwrite inefficient public services is not economic reform.
Tax rises to fund state health systems are also a stopgap because, if present
growth in the cost of public hospital care continues, health will consume the
entire budgets of the states and territories in coming decades.

What state governments should be doing is addressing the structural problems in
their health systems by outsourcing the provision of public hospital care to
more efficient private providers. For example, the West Australian government
has outsourced the operation of the new Midlands public hospital to a private
operator, which will save $1.3bn across the life of the $5bn contract compared
with the estimated cost of the state running the hospital.

Public hospital reform needs to become a national policy priority just as reform
of the energy sector, the telecommunications industry, and ports were in earlier
times. Privatisation maybe a dirty word in health, but the alternative is
bankrupt state governments.

The best thing the Turnbull government can do is to use the review of federalism
and mooted changes to federal financial relations to drive health reform.

Ending all specific purpose payments for health, and instead giving the states
one pot of money to fund all responsibilities, would encourage state governments
to make more rational decisions about how best to use scarce public resources
amid competing priorities - including the operation of public hospitals.

A federalism reform package of this kind would prepare the way for return of
income tax powers to the states. State governments that fail to reform their
health systems should be made accountable to the voters who are forced to hand
over a higher proportion of their incomes to prop up inefficient public
hospitals.Jeremy Sammut is a research fellow at the Centre for Independent
Studies. He is the co-author with David Gadiel of the research report How the
NSW Coalition Should Govern Health: Strategies for Micro-Economic Reform.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


