                              90 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                January 11, 2010

Hospitals see some economic recovery

BYLINE: By Victoria Stagg Elliott, amednews staff. Posted Jan. 11, 2010.

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 880 words



HIGHLIGHT: Financial numbers are looking better, but experts are concerned the
industry has not yet seen the full force of the recession.


Recent stock market gains, along with various steps taken to control costs, have
strengthened hospital bottom lines, and several recent reports have painted a
positive economic picture for the industry.

Many institutions, however, continue to have financial problems. And, experts
say, health care finances are usually slow to dip in a downturn, so the full
effect of the recession may not yet be realized.

"Investment income has come back, but we have so many patients who are uninsured
or covered through government programs." said Bruce Rueben, president of the
Florida Hospital Assn. "We're using investment income to subsidize operations."

One suggestion that recovery has arrived is offered by a research paper issued
by Thomson Reuters' Center for Healthcare Improvement Nov. 9, 2009. It found
that the median profit margin for a broad base of more than 400 hospitals had
increased from 0.37% in the third quarter of 2008 to 8.4% in the second quarter
of 2009. A greater number were in the black, and days of cash-on-hand increased.
No significant differences were found based on institution size.

"U.S. hospitals are on track to come out of the recession in better financial
shape than they were in when the downturn began," said Gary Pickens, PhD, chief
research officer at Thomson Reuters and one of the study's authors.

The improved financial status was primarily achieved by restraints on money
spent on staff, combined with improvements in hospital investment portfolios.
Many institutions also improved their efficiency: Length of stays got shorter,
with more money earned per patient discharge.

"Managing costs is extremely important, and hospitals have been successful in
managing their labor expenses through this downturn," said Pickens.

Also, several recently issued papers have found that hospitals' borrowing
ability is improving. An American Hospital Assn. survey of 768 hospital chief
executive officers found that a larger number of hospital CEOs said access to
capital was getting easier. Another issued by Moody's Investors Service Inc.
found the bond ratings of 20 nonprofit hospitals and health systems had been
upgraded in 2009. Standard & Poor's also identified health care as one of three
sectors that most likely will see credit ratings go up in 2010.

High credit ratings are important because they make capital easier to access, at
a lower interest rate.

There are many signs, however, that not all institutions are experiencing
recovery, and that future financial health remains uncertain.

"A lot remains to be seen," said Matt Fenwick, American Hospital Assn.
spokesman. "We know hospitals were deeply affected by the economic slowdown.
Nationally some economists are pointing to signs of recovery, but many still
believe that improvement will be slow, with some setbacks along the way. With
high unemployment and states facing budget deficits, hospitals will continue to
face tough financial pressures and difficulties meeting the needs of their
communities."

The report from Thomson Reuters found 20% of hospitals were financially in the
red, although this is comparable with the numbers before the recession began in
December 2007 and a vast improvement over the 50% in the red in the third
quarter of 2008. Also, while Moody's increased the ratings of 20 institutions,
the hospital industry as a whole is expected to have more downgrades than
upgrades, something that has been true for 16 of the past 20 years.

"Twenty upgrades is not a lot," said Lisa Goldstein, senior vice president and
team leader for health care ratings at Moody's. "Credit is improving for some
hospitals, but hospitals are complex and a little bit different from other
businesses. People show up at a hospital without being able to pay. Nobody shows
up at an airport not being able to buy a ticket."

In addition, hospitals may not yet have felt the worst of the economic downturn
because health care is traditionally an economic indicator that trails behind
others, experts said. It is unclear what kind of impact health system reform
will have, and several state hospital associations are sounding the alarm about
the strain caused by cuts to state health programs.

Higher rates of unemployment and large numbers of people running out of COBRA
coverage mean more use of public health services, but reimbursements are being
slashed by strapped state governments.

For instance, the Healthcare Assn. of New York State released results of a
survey of more than 100 hospitals in that state that documented the impact of
$3.87 billion cut from health care in the various state budgets running from
January 2008 until December 2010. The cut, combined with a reduction in demand
for elective procedures, meant that 17% of hospitals were eliminating or
reducing services. Also, 63% had frozen hiring or wages, and 10% had problems
meeting payroll.

"There are certainly some bright spots out there, but the majority of our
members are worried about how they are going to meet community demands," said
Bill Van Slyke, spokesman for the organization.

Weblink

"Compound Fractures: The Patient Services and Employment Impact of Repeated
State and Federal Budget Cuts," Healthcare Assn. of New York State, September
2009 (www.hanys.org/finance/budget/reports/2009-09-15_compound_fractures.pdf)

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

