                              89 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                  Korea Times

                           November 3, 2005, Thursday

APEC Medical Team Ready to Cover Emergencies

LENGTH: 567 words


   A medical team with state-of-the-art equipment is ready to cover medical
emergencies during the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) summit slated
for Nov. 12-19 in the southeastern port city of Pusan (Busan).

About 250 medical people in Pusan will join the team that will be launched on
Nov. 10.

They are from four university hospitals, 21 general hospitals, the Pusan Medical
Association, the Busan Pharmaceutical Association, and Green Doctors, an
international medical volunteer organization.

They will set up 13 emergency rooms from Nov. 11 to 19 at the hospitals, BEXCO,
Nurimaru APEC House, and six hotels where the heads of the participating states
will stay.

The university hospital doctors will work for 24 hours in two shifts, and 40
doctors, including surgeons and physicians will prepare for emergencies at the
Seomyeon Medical Center, the headquarters of the team.

Interpreters will be available at the hospitals for foreign guests.

The emergency rooms will also have a telemedicine system developed by Green
Doctors. Doctors at any of the 13 rooms will be able to check a patient's
condition through the monitors connected to one another through the Internet,
and discuss the best treatment through a video meeting.

If a patient needs surgery, he or she will be transferred from the conference
venue to the hospitals by helicopter. Doctors and nurses will also board the
helicopters for first aid, and the patient will undergo the necessary treatment
within two minutes after arriving. The hospitals have prepared their VIP rooms
for the APEC guests.

The medical team conducted a drill at BEXCO yesterday covering the whole
procedure of emergency treatment from first aid and telemedicine to transfer of
patients by helicopter and treatment at hospitals.

''We will also work with the 119 emergency squad and the military hospital if
there are a large number of casualties from terrorist attacks,'' a member of the
medical team said.

The National Police Agency said that it has made a list of 998 foreigners
belonging to about 20 international civic groups who will be prevented from
entering the country as they may hold anti-globalization demonstrations.

The agency has also made a list of 400 additional foreigners it will monitor if
they visit South Korea.

It has distributed the list to immigration offices.

Police will also distribute notices to warn potential anti-globalization
demonstrators that they may face criminal charges or deportation if they stage
or participate in rallies in Pusan, which will be banned during the summit
period.

Police are on high alert as members of local civic groups plan to hold mass
anti-globalization demonstrations in Pusan in cooperation with international
groups.

The National Intelligence Service (NIS)'s protection and security headquarters
set up the APEC International Security Liaison Office at the Arpina youth hostel
on Tuesday.

Some 20 anti-terror experts from eight countries including the U.S., Japan,
China and Russia will hold meetings to exchange information and discuss
anti-terror measures.

The office will also collect information about possible terrorist attacks as
well as support the security measures of the nations participating in the APEC.

The summit meeting's communication operator KT also conducted a drill recovering
communications facilities after a network interruption.

LOAD-DATE: November 03, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2005 The Korea Times


