                              86 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                       May 2, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Americanization continuing

SECTION: LETTER; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 260 words


The Americanization of Alberta, spearheaded by Ralph Klein, moves onward. Its
ideological roots stretch back to the Reagan-Bush political philosophy of the
1980s.

That flawed trickle-down economic philosophy paved the way to today's recession.

Ralph's Team is bent on restructuring our educational system in a way that
already is raising the anxiety of teachers and students. So, too, is our health
care system being revamped and our hospital network reshaped.

Take the latest trial balloon -- relocate the Alberta Children's Hospital. What
would Klein do with the empty hospital building? Or an empty Holy Cross hospital
building as well? Both seem ideal for sale to those entrepreneurial doctors who
hope to establish a for-profit parallel hospital system in the province. The
hospital closures are being proposed even before efforts at streamlining and
cost efficiencies can be undertaken by them. At least give them and the
community a chance.

And what about Klein's arrogant beachhead against the public and Catholic school
systems in Alberta? Is this an opening for charter schools? There's a good bet
it will lead to a deterioration in the existing systems.

Klein has been telling investors about the so-called Alberta Advantage, with low
taxation levels as its centerpiece. Well perhaps he should look at neighboring
British Columbia where, without duplicating this province's madcap attack on
expenditures, economic activity is the highest in Canada.

Do we really want to be like Americans, Ralph?

RICHARD ANCO,

Calgary.



LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1994 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


