                              93 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                           November 5, 2009 Thursday

Commentary: Arkansas ruling may impact economic credentialing

BYLINE: Barry Rosen

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 680  words


Earlier this year, in Murphy v. Baptist Health, a case hailed as a victory for
the preservation of the patient-physician relationship, the Arkansas Circuit
Court of Pulaski County permanently enjoined Arkansas's largest hospital system
from enforcing its economic credentialing policy.

The Litigation

The underlying facts date back to 2003, when Baptist Health adopted an economic
credentialing policy under which any practitioner who held an ownership or
financial interest in a competing hospital was not eligible to apply for staff
appointments or clinical privileges at any Baptist Health hospital.
Cardiologists who owned an interest in a private specialty hospital sued Baptist
Health because the cardiologists were denied privileges at a Baptist Health
hospital.

The doctors alleged that their denial of privileges tortiously interfered with
their relationships with patients and referring physicians. Additionally, the
doctors alleged that the economic credentialing policy was an unconscionable
business and trade practice that violated the Arkansas Deceptive Trade Practices
Act.

This year, the Arkansas court agreed and enjoined Baptist Health from denying
professional staff appointments and clinical privileges on the basis of its
economic credentialing policy.

The Law

Under Arkansas law, tortious interference occurs when a person, with knowledge
of another's contractual or business relationship, induces or causes a breach in
that relationship intentionally and "improperly. "

The Arkansas court first focused on the cardiologists' relationship with their
patients.   After noting that continuity of care is vitally important, the court
found that preserving the patient-physician relationship creates a legitimate
business expectancy with reasonable economic expectations.

Further, noting that referrals are often the lifeblood of specialists, the court
found that the cardiologists also had a legitimate business relationship and
resulting business expectancy with referring general physicians.

Not only did the court find that Baptist Health's economic credentialing policy
interfered with the doctors' patient and referral relationships, but the court
also found that the interference was "improper" because it conflicted with
Arkansas public policy. More particularly, the court noted that Arkansas public
policy gives patients the right to choose their physicians and favors both
competition and the establishment of specialty hospitals.

The court dismissed Baptist Health's argument that its economic credentialing
policy protected patients from "selective referrals" by physicians who have an
ownership interest in a hospital. The court reasoned that, even if the
credentialing policy afforded patients some protection in that regard, that
protection was overshadowed by other aspects of Arkansas public policy.

In addition, the court found that Baptist Health's economic credentialing policy
was overbroad by applying the restriction to family members of physicians who
have an interest in a competing hospital, by defining a "competing hospital" as
any hospital in Arkansas, and by not allowing physicians to rebut the
presumption that they engaged in unethical referrals.

The court also held that the policy violated the Arkansas Deceptive Trade
Practices Act, which prohibits "unconscionable" acts or practices in business,
commerce or trade. The court reasoned that Baptist Health's economic
credentialing policy was unconscionable because it impinged on the important
public policies mentioned above without adequate countervailing justifications.

Conclusion

Although the decision in Murphy v. Baptist Health is not binding in Maryland or
other states, it may prompt hospitals with economic credentialing policies to
re-evaluate those policies.

Barry F. Rosen is the chairman and CEO of the law firm of Gordon, Feinblatt,
Rothman, Hoffberger & Hollander, LLC, and can be reached at 410-576-4224 or
brosen@gfrlaw.com David B. Gibber is an associate in Gordon, Feinblatt's
Business and Health Care Practice Groups, and can be reached at 410-576-1625 or
dgibber@gfrlaw.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

