                              92 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                            Crain's Detroit Business

                           November 15, 2004, Monday

Week in Review

SECTION: Pg. 34

LENGTH: 993 words


Mt. Clemens General bond rating reduced by Fitch

Fitch Ratings Inc. last week downgraded Mt. Clemens General Hospital's bond
rating to BB, or junk status, from BBB- because of operating losses. Fitch kept
the bonds on rating watch negative because the hospital has delayed the release
of its audit.

The downgrade affects about $83 million in revenue bonds issued through the
County of Macomb Hospital Finance Authority.

Fitch said the downgrade is due to the hospital's continued operating losses,
which were exacerbated by low debt-service coverage and a 35-day nurses strike
that ended Sept. 11.

Fitch said it expects the hospital's profitability to improve based on such
favorable indicators as a 27 percent market share in its primary service area
and financial management improvements the hospital made before the strike.

Local economic indicators fall off in October

Comerica Bank's index for predicting the state's economy dropped slightly in
November.

The bank's Advance Economic Barometer measured 3.4 points in October, down 0.3
points from September and below the 5.0 recorded a year earlier, said David
Littmann, the Detroit-based bank's chief economist.

The barometer suggests Michigan's gross state product will rise through the end
of the year but at a slower pace, Littmann said.

Briefly

* Troy-based Delphi Corp. said it would delay filing its third-quarter report
while it completes internal and federal investigations into how it recorded some
vendor transactions.

* The ''Oprah Winfrey Show'' has been renewed on WXYZ-Channel 7 for three years,
said Marla Drutz, programming director.

* Detroit's three casinos reported revenue of nearly $95.9 million in October,
almost $1.4 million ahead of the same month last year. That pushed gross
receipts for the year at the three gambling houses past $1 billion, 6 percent
ahead of last year at the same time.

* Troy-based Presidion Solutions has received $25 million in financing from Las
Vegas-based Mirabilis Ventures Inc.

* Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick has realigned duties with the return of chief
of staff, Christine Beatty, from medical leave. Beatty will continue to oversee
operations in the mayor's office, along with human resources, labor relations,
neighborhood city halls and the senior citizens office. Kilpatrick will assume
direct oversight of the police, fire and law departments.

* Kmart Holding Corp. has launched a credit card called Kmart Rewards to be
managed by HSBC-North America. The card offers $10 off the first purchase of $50
or more and a $10 reward for every $250 in purchases thereafter. Customers also
will be offered 90 days, same-as-cash financing purchases over $100 during the
2004 holiday season.

* State revenue from major taxes dropped 3.2 percent in October compared with a
year ago, the Senate Fiscal Agency said in its monthly revenue report.

* Flint Ink Corp., the Ann Arbor-based maker of printing ink, said its growth in
the near future will come in Asia. The company has formed joint ventures with
four of the largest newspapers in Beijing.

* Oakland University worked to recover from a Nov. 6 cyber-attack to several of
its servers, said Theresa Rowe, assistant vice president of university
technology services. The intruder gained control of about 50 servers and
desktops and deleted system files and other data, she said. Core systems
containing data such as student records and financial systems remained
protected, as did online learning and e-mail systems, Rowe said.

* Masco Corp. is a target in a European Union investigation into price fixing of
bathroom fittings, Bloomberg News reported. In a statement, Taylor-based Masco
said it doesn't expect to ''incur any material liability.''

* DTE Energy Co.'s Fermi 2 nuclear plant is expected to return to service in
about a month after having shut down Nov. 7 for refueling, the company said.

* Detroit-based Catuity Inc. will trade on the Nasdaq system under CTTYD instead
of its normal CTTY for 20 days starting today. Adding the ''D'' is required
under Nasdaq rules whenever a company executes a reverse stock split.

* Gov. Jennifer Granholm has renamed the Michigan Family Independence Agency,
creating the Michigan Department of Human Services.

People

* Don Sommer, who created the Meadow Brook Concours d'Elegance in the late
1970s, has been elected chairman of the show's board of directors. William
Parfet was named vice chairman and Terence Adderley, Keith Crain and David
Fischer Sr. rejoined the board.

* Shirley Peterson, former president of Hood College in Frederick, Md., has been
named to the Champion Enterprise Inc. board.

* Andrew Schindler, chairman of Reynolds American Inc., and Steven Rothmeier,
CEO of Great Northern Capital, have been elected to the board of ArvinMeritor
Inc.

* James Buford, former commander of the Wayne County Sheriff's Department, has
been appointed director of Homeland Security and Emergency Management for the
county. Wayne County Executive Robert Ficano also named Mark Hammond, an
employee with the Emergency Management Department, as deputy director. Both
appointments need County Commission approval.

Other news

* The Whaling Wall mural on the side of Detroit's Broderick Tower soon could be
covered by a billboard with a General Motors Corp. ad, the Detroit Free Press
reported. Robert Wyland's 108-foot mural was painted in 1997. The Detroit Board
of Zoning Appeals voted Tuesday to allow two billboards, one of which would
cover the mural.

* Former Lt. Gov. Richard Posthumus is recovering from successful prostate
cancer surgery, The Associated Press reported.

Obituaries

* Richard Headlee, anti-tax crusader, gubernatorial candidate and former
chairman, president and CEO of Farmington Hills-based Alexander Hamilton Life
Insurance Co., died Nov. 9. He was 74.

* Hallison Young, co-founder of law firm Patmon, Young & Kirk, died of cancer
Nov. 8. He was 66.


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Headlee

                   Copyright 2004 Crain Communications, Inc.


