                              97 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                    February 26, 2003 Wednesday Home Edition

OUR OPINIONS: Steer tobacco settlement toward rural hospitals ...

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Editorial; Pg. 16A

LENGTH: 528 words


Gov. Sonny Perdue's 2004 budget proposes to cut $120 million from Georgia's
Medicaid program. That's shortsighted.

The Medicaid cuts would devastate rural hospitals, many of which are the only
economic engines left in poverty-stricken counties where textile plants, paper
mills and tobacco warehouses have shut down.

Indeed, for every state Medicaid dollar, the federal government puts in $1.50.
And because every dollar put into health care generates an estimated $3.37 in
business activity, the $120 million cut will remove close to $400 million from
the state's economy.

It would make much more sense to divert $70 million from the state's tobacco
lawsuit settlement currently dedicated to OneGeorgia --- an economic development
agency put in place to address the decline in the tobacco industry --- to
replace some of the Medicaid funds. A Senate subcommittee took an initial step
in that direction this week by proposing to reallocate $10 million from
OneGeorgia to help close the funding gap in Medicaid.

Putting the money into Medicaid would actually produce more economic benefit for
rural areas than the OneGeorgia program. The state's 89 rural hospitals have a
total economic impact of more than $6.8 billion and sustain 68,348 full-time
jobs, according to the Georgia Hospital Association. In most cases, the hospital
is an area's largest employer.

In most of those hospitals, Medicaid patients make up 15 to 30 percent of the
population. Medicare patients make up another 50 percent, and uninsured people
with no ability to pay are 15 percent. The remaining few pay full freight with
private insurance.

Medicaid --- the state and federally funded health insurance program that covers
1.3 million low-income Georgians --- already pays hospitals and doctors less
than 90 percent of the cost of care, and the governor's proposed state budget
would cut those payments by another 10 percent. Two-thirds of the state's
hospitals are already operating in the red, according to hospital association
chairman Ken Beverly. As many as 20 are close to shutting their doors, which
would throw hundreds of people out of work.

When a rural medical center closes, it's not just a matter of forcing people to
drive to another county to see a doctor, though that can be fatal for emergency
patients. Doctors and other health care workers may leave the area and new
industry will be less willing to locate in that county, as will retirees and
other wealthier residents fearful of living too far from a hospital.

In the past couple of years, OneGeorgia, which receives about a third of
Georgia's money from the tobacco settlement, has funded infrastructure
improvements, rural water and sewer projects, assistance to tobacco farmers and
some successful projects to attract industry. Those grants are credited with
creating and retaining several thousand jobs. But those accomplishments seem
scant when compared with the impact of the health care industry in rural areas.

If the Legislature believes that rural economic development is a good use of
tobacco settlement money, then Medicaid is the best place to put it.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphic: GEORGIA'S RURAL HOSPITALS
Hospitals....................... 89
Full-time jobs................68,348
Total spending..........$2.2 billion
Economic impact....... $6.8 billion
Free or indigent care.. $212 million
Source: Georgia Hospital Association

                Copyright 2003 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


