                              94 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           December 29, 2015 Tuesday

Winfield to receive $900,000 annually from Central DuPage Hospital

BYLINE: By Robert Sanchez bsanchez@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 337 words


Winfield to receive $900,000 annually from Central DuPage Hospital

Winfield will receive a $900,000 annual grant over each of the next five years
from Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital as part of an agreement
finalized Monday, officials said.

"The purpose of the grant is to promote economic development, improve the
efficiency of village services, and improve the village's financial position,"
Village President Erik Spande said in an email to the Daily Herald.

The village board approved the grant agreement on Dec. 23, but the "final
wording changes" weren't completed until Monday.

"We recognize the unique economic challenges facing Winfield," CDH President
Brian Lemon said in a statement released Monday afternoon. The hospital, he
said, "is committed to working with the village to ensure Winfield remains a
great place to live, raise families and receive high-quality health care. Our
collaboration with the village of Winfield is designed to encourage economic
development while stimulating the village's economy."

"I am pleased to reinforce the partnership between the hospital and the village
and look forward to further collaborative efforts between our organizations,"
Spande said in his own statement.

CDH made the new offer after Winfield trustees rejected the hospital's first
proposal to give the village an annual $500,000 grant. The board was seeking
roughly $1.4 million a year from CDH to help pay for the services Winfield
provides to the hospital.

For months, village officials argued that CDH, which is in downtown Winfield,
hasn't fully reimbursed the municipality for police, road maintenance and other
services for the hospital.

Winfield trustees even voted to put an advisory question on the March 15 primary
election ballot that would ask voters if the village board should begin taxing
CDH's operations. The village clerk would have submitted that ballot question to
DuPage County election officials had an agreement not been finalized Monday, but
officials said it's no longer necessary.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Central DuPage Hospital on Winfield Road offers world-class medical
care and is now part of Northwestern Medicine. Daily Herald file photo
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a
$500,000 annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help
the village improve its economic health. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000
grant, but the village is seeking a larger amount. Paul
Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage hospital offers world class
medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a $500,000
annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help the village
improve its economic health. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has
offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the village is seeking a
larger amount. Daily Herald file photo On Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are
scheduled to consider a "motion to approve a multiyear donation agreement" with
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital. Paul
Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage hospital offers world class
medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a $500,000
annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help the village
improve its economic health. On Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are scheduled
to consider a "motion to approve a multiyear donation agreement" with
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital. Northwestern Medicine Central
DuPage Hospital has offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the
village is seeking a larger amount. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000 grant over each
of the next five years to help pay for police, road maintenance and other
services. Paul Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage Hospital offers
world class medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000
grant over each of the next five years to help pay for police, road maintenance
and other services. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to
provide Winfield a $500,000 annual grant to support projects that benefit the
community and help the village improve its economic health. Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000 annual grant over
each of the next five years, Village President Erik Spande said, to help
reimburse the village for police protection, road maintenance and other
services. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has offered to give
Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the village is seeking a larger amount. On
Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are scheduled to consider a "motion to
approve a multiyear donation agreement" with Northwestern Medicine Central
DuPage Hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.


