                              98 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                August 25, 2001

Private hospitals 'barely surviving'; Government criticised for not tackling
core problems while heavily subsidising public sector

BYLINE: Mary Ann Benitez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 431 words


Hong Kong's private hospitals are struggling to survive as they are battered by
the economic downturn and wait for the Government to complete its health
reforms, it was claimed yesterday.

The president of the Private Hospitals' Association, Dr Walton Li Wai-tat, made
the comments as he called on the Government to involve the private sector more
in its reform plans.

"Occupancy is still a big problem, but stable this year, I think. Some wards are
open and some are not," he said, adding that he hoped the situation would not be
worse than during the 1998-99 economic crisis. "Private hospitals are not
flourishing. They are barely surviving."

His concerns were echoed by legislator Dr Lo Wing-lok, president of the Hong
Kong Medical Association, who said private practitioners were expecting to be in
worse shape this year than last, when the economic recovery brought some relief.

Both men said the Government had not addressed the health system's core problem
of lack of resources.

It has been estimated that the Hospital Authority accounts for about 92 per cent
of medical care. A consultation paper on health-care reform released last year
called for more interaction between the private and public sectors.

But Dr Li and Dr Lo said there had been little action to achieve this.

The Secretary for Health and Welfare, Dr Yeoh Eng-kiong, has said he will set up
two working groups to look into the issue. The first will involve private
hospitals developing joint health-care services and products with the Hospital
Authority. The second will comprise doctors from both sectors exploring closer
collaboration.

"We expect the two working groups to come up with concrete proposals in six
months' time, after their first meeting," Dr Yeoh said in a report to the Legco
health services panel in July.

Dr Li said private hospitals were more than willing to co-operate with the
Hospital Authority.

"It's very simple. You have a fixed budget. Everybody knows that no country in
the world with a low taxation system can really give unlimited medical service
to everybody. It just doesn't work."

He said the problem was that the Government had been promising more services at
public hospitals, rather than trying to achieve "product differentiation" so
that people who can afford to pay could be encouraged to seek private care.

Dr Lo said it was "a miracle" private hospitals had survived for so many years
without government incentives - the public sector had been heavily subsidised,
which had allowed it to improve facilities and services.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr Walton Li: lack of resources

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2001 South China Morning Post Ltd.


