                              101 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Brunswick News (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             April 24, 2017 Monday

Hospital makes significant impact on economy

BYLINE: Lindsey Adkison, The Brunswick News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 575 words


April 24--Southeast Georgia Health System has long been known as a significant
economic generator for Glynn and Camden counties. Each year, the Georgia
Hospital Association takes a look at just how much an impact it truly has.

The trade association discovered that, for 2015, the most recent data available,
the health system's hospitals in Glynn and Camden counties generated more than
$5.9 million in revenue for the local and state economy.

Michael Scherneck, president and chief executive officer of the health system,
feels the report validates the positive impact the facilities have on the area.

"We are very appreciative of our communities for their unwavering support of our
health system and will continue to work hard to ensure that the residents of our
communities have access to the best and safest health care services available,"
Scherneck said in a release.

The report also found that the Southeast Georgia Health System hospitals
sustained 1,697 full-time jobs, excluding workers at the facility's two senior
care and three immediate care centers as well as dozens of physician's
practices.

The health system also provides $26.8 million in uncompensated care, which
Scherneck said, does prove challenging. The health system's leadership has
voiced concerns including a fast-growing uninsured population and inadequate
payments from government insurance programs Medicare and Medicaid. Presently, 42
percent of all hospitals in Georgia are operating with negative margins.

"We're extremely concerned about the current operating environment for our
health system hospitals," says Scherneck. "We've made a commitment to every
citizen of our communities to be there for them 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
However, our ability to do so is being compromised when so many of our patients
are either uninsured or severely underinsured."

Even with the struggle, the hospital continues to make a powerful impact on the
Glynn, Camden and the surrounding counties, the report said. It shows the health
system had direct expenditures of more than $257.1 million in 2015. When
combined with an economic multiplier developed by the United States Department
of Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis, the total economic impact was more
than $591.5 million.

The output multiplier takes into account the ripple effect the health system's
expenditures bring to other sectors of the economy, such as medical supplies and
pharmaceuticals. The report indicates that other affiliated entities accounted
for expenditures in excess of $80 million, which results in a further economic
impact of more than $175 million.

Don Mathews, professor of economics at the College of Coastal Georgia, said the
figures illustrate just how critical the health system is to the area.

"The health system is a local economic engine, to be sure. It employs a lot of
people of many different skill levels, and it has generated many associated
businesses that employ a lot of people, too," he said.

"But the most important part about it, to me, is the part that doesn't show up
in economic impact studies. Our area is fairly isolated and in many ways
neglected. What would people here do if the health system were not here? The
health system extends and enhances lives. To me, that makes even $592 million
seem pretty small."

___ (c)2017 The Brunswick News (Brunswick, Ga.) Visit The Brunswick News
(Brunswick, Ga.) at www.thebrunswicknews.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170424-GE-Hospital-makes-significant-impact-on-economy-0424-20170424

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GE


                       Copyright 2017 The Brunswick News


