                              95 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                        Chester Progressive (California)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                  July 7, 2010

Study examines PDHs economic impact to community

BYLINE: Linda Satchwell

LENGTH: 551  words


Plumas District Hospital recently released an economic impact study it
commissioned, at a cost of $5,000, through the Center for Economic Development
at California State University-Chico.

The study analyzes the economic impact of the district on the local economy and
tries to estimate the economic effects of a hospital closure. It does not,
however, look at what might lead to closure or whether passage of Measure B
would or could lead to closure.

In its introduction, the CED study describes PDH as "a district hospital that
relies on patient care reimbursement and payments provided through a hospital
property tax assessment district."

The objective of the study "is to reveal possible consequences of losing this
hospital and how that would impact the community's levels of population, income,
and business revenues."

The CED reported, "Many of the negative effects on the local community, perhaps
including some of the most important ones, are difficult to quantify ... while
these potential impacts are impossible to quantify, it is quite possible that
they are substantial."

Among the possible or potential adverse factors that are not quantified in the
report are: quality of life issues and adverse impact to businesses, which in
turn might "have additional consequences for property values and local tax
revenues," leading to a downward spiral.

The CED then turned to those things it could quantify: "The gross economic
impact of Plumas District Hospital, the impact of all operations, is nearly $30
million in revenue to businesses and organizations, $14.4 million in labor
income (income to employees and business owners), and 288 (direct and indirect)
jobs.

"This includes the direct impact of the hospital, itself, and a secondary impact
(often referred to as a multiplier effect) of over $8 million in revenue to
businesses and organizations, nearly $2.4 million in labor income, and 70 jobs."

Having determined the economic benefits of PDH operations, the study then
assessed its costs. PDH receives regular property tax payments ($349,460 in
fiscal year 2008 -09) and Measure A assessments (anticipated at $554,000 in FY
09 - 10) for a total of $903,460 in property tax payments.

The study points to $21.67 million in hospital expenditures that, if the
$903,460 in property tax payments is subtracted, still shows a substantial
positive impact to area households.

The study does not, however, address the question: Can the argument be made that
PDH would not exist without the Measure A assessment?

The study considered "net migration to and from the district by age," especially
in populations that need care the most -- the young and the elderly.

It also looked at how many physicians the hospital could have supported in the
year 2000, and then detailed "hospital health care alternatives available to
county residents."

One item of interest is the population migration by age, which points to a large
influx of people 60 years of age and older, and a concomitant decrease in every
age group except, inexplicably, those in the 30 - to 34-year-old age range.

"Older adults are an especially important demographic group for PDH," according
to the study, and the hospital can "expect its potential market to grow in the
near future."

To see the full study, go to pdh.org and look under News and Events.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

