                              11 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                        The Banner (Bernice, Louisiana)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                               September 29, 2011

Louisiana Hospitals Are Major Economic Force, State Healthcare Budget Cuts Lead
to Significant Loss in Federal Funding;
Report Shows the Economic Importance of Hospitals and the Negative Impact on
Communities When Hospitals Face Severe Cuts and Other Financial Pressures

BYLINE: The Banner staff

LENGTH: 898  words


Baton Rouge-Louisiana hospitals are economic leaders, generating more than $27.1
billion annually in economic activity and directly employing more than 99,350
people in communities throughout the state, according to a new study, "Hospitals
and the Louisiana Economy, 2011," released today by the Louisiana Hospital
Association.

The LHA retained Dr. James A. Richardson, Alumn Professor of Economics at
Louisiana State University, to provide an analysis of the economic impact of the
hospital industry on the Louisiana economy, metropolitan areas within the state,
and various districts of the state.

According to the report, the healthcare sector in Louisiana employs more than
269,184 people, about 16.2 percent of the state's total workforce and
approximately 15 per-.cent of the state's total private payroll. Hospitals
account for over 99,350 of these employees, with a payroll of approximately $4.4
billion per year.

Furthermore, overall hospital expenditures are estimated to be $13.9 billion,
and overall business transactions as measured by business sales, including the
direct hospital expenditures, are $27.1 billion. Personal earnings associated
with these business transactions amount to $9.5 billion, with 240,691 direct and
indirect jobs supported by these hospital expenditures.

"People often do not realize that hospitals are huge contributors to our
economy, even during an economic recession," said John Matessino, LHA president
& CEO. "Hospitals across the state provide their communities with thousands of
well-paid, highly-skilled jobs. This has a positive economic ripple effect in
every corner of the state. Every dollar spent by a hospital supports 95 cents of
additional business activity, and each hospital job supports approximately 1.4
additional jobs."

Dr. Richardson explains in the report that "the direct employment by hospitals
and the associated payrolls offered by the hospitals represent just one step in
an economic process that affects persons throughout the economy." From 2009 to
2010, Louisiana hospitals averaged about $903.7 million in building
construc-tion, leading to the creation of more than 15,717 new jobs yearly in
sectors other than healthcare. The overall economic activity that is supported
by hospital expenditures, including payroll, supplies and other services, leads
to $690 million in state tax collections and $567 million in local tax
collections.

Cuts Negatively Impact Hospitals and the Community

Medicaid and Medicare account for 71 percent of the hospital services delivered
in the state and are the primary funding sources for hospitals in Louisiana.
Therefore, when these programs are cut, the ripple effect negatively impacts
hospitals, businesses and patients. For every 35 cents the state spends on the
Medicaid program, Louisiana receives approximately 65 cents from the federal
government. Because of this federal match, the impact of the state reducing its
direct expenditures for Medicaid by $150 million would be a loss of an
additional $430 million of federal dollars, reducing overall funding by $580
million. It would also result in a loss of approximately 6,764 jobs statewide; a
decrease in personal earnings of $258 million; and a reduction in overall
business transactions of $800 million.

"Each legislative session, the hospital industry is faced with the same budget
battle. The state needs to change the way it addresses its budget shortfall by
creating more flexibility in the budget process," said Paul Salles, president
and CEO of the Metropolitan Hospital Council of New Orleans. "Cuts to hospitals
have a serious and long-term effect on our communities. Although hospitals
continually make strategic decisions to deal with these cuts so that they have
the least impact on patient care, eventually there will be nothing left to trim
or reduce except direct services and jobs."

The executive summary of the report also includes a series of responses from the
2011 LHA Annual Hospital Survey about the effects of the current market
conditions on hospitals. Of the hospitals surveyed: 70% have seen a decrease in
patient account collections; 41% have seen a decrease in elective surgeries; and
54% have seen an increase in emergency room visits for uninsured patients.

Hospitals have made or are considering the following changes in order to cut
costs because of current market conditions: 46% froze or reduced capital
purchases because of current market conditions, and 25% are considering freezing
or reducing capital purchases; 23% halted construction, equipment purchases and
other projects, and 19% are considering it; 51% eliminated vacant positions, and
34% are considering it; 19% reduced services, and 24% are considering reducing
services; and 15% have reduced community benefit programs, and another 14% are
considering reducing community benefits.

"Hospitals are the heart of their communities, from urban to rural Louisiana,"
said Milton Bourgeois, Jr., Chair of the LHA Board of Trustees and CEO of
Ochsner-St. Anne General Hospital. "Our hospitals continue to find innovative
ways to improve care for patients. We are investing in new technology and
implementing best practices so that we can continue to provide critically-needed
healthcare services. Our business is taking care of patients, and the fact that
we are an. enormous economic driver is just one more benefit we provide to our
communities."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

