                              107 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                             March 29, 2010 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Rudd to outline vision of future via hospitals

BYLINE: Chris Johnson

SECTION: A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 293  words


Prime Minister Kevin Rudd will deliver a major economic address today in which
he will attempt to link hospitals reform to Australia's future economic health.

In a move expected to place further pressure on Opposition Leader Tony Abbott to
issue his health policy, Mr Rudd will clearly position his hospitals agenda as
an economic issue over which this year's election will be fought.

The Prime Minister will also be hoping to persuade state premiers to agree to
his controversial plan for the Commonwealth to take over 60 per cent of all
hospital funding by using one-third of the states' GST allocations.

Speaking in Melbourne at leadership forum the Australian Davos Connection, Mr
Rudd will focus on the importance of maintaining macroeconomic stability while
returning to a position of fiscal strength following the global economic
downturn.

He will lay out a case that hospitals will be key to securing that stability.

The Prime Minister will highlight what he says is the importance of health
reform in maximising future workforce participation to respond to the ageing
population.

He will argue that tackling chronic disease through an integrated national
health and hospitals network will be critical to ensuring as many people as
possible are able to contribute to the economy.

Efforts to reduce chronic disease could result in as many as 175,000 extra
people in the workforce by 2030, Mr Rudd will say.

He insists that if the states agree to his plan for a national hospital network,
they will have an additional $15 billion to invest in economic infrastructure
over the remainder of this decade.

His justification for that prediction is that it will be made possible because
the Commonwealth will take on more funding responsibility for the hospital
system.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2010 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


