                              103 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                January 5, 2009

Economic downturn adds new uncertainties to IT planning

BYLINE: By Pamela Lewis Dolan, AMNews staff. Jan. 5, 2009

SECTION: BUSINESS; Technically Speaking; Pg. 13 Vol. 52 No. 2

LENGTH: 810 words



HIGHLIGHT: American Medical News: views and opinions on issues in medical
practice


The U.S. recession is making for an immediately murky future for the adoption of
health information technology.

Experts say if you have the money, now is an especially good time to implement
IT because of the efficiencies you will gain that will pay off once the economy
turns around. However, they acknowledge that physicians aren't flush with cash
for IT, and that hospital partners and some vendors are struggling as well.

Hospitals in good financial standing are planning to move ahead with health IT
plans, despite their inability to get credit, by scaling down projects or
postponing them. But for underfunded hospitals and small physician practices
that have no places to cut or extra capital, the future of HIT adoption is less
clear.

The American Hospital Assn. released its "Report on the Economic Crisis: Initial
Impact on Hospitals" in November 2008. It found 39% of hospitals were
reconsidering or postponing planned health IT projects. A separate survey by the
National Alliance for Health Information Technology, the College of Healthcare
Information Management Executives and AHA Solutions found that 94% of hospitals
have cut IT budgets by extending implementation time or reducing the scale of
new projects.

Jane Horowitz, NAHIT's chief operating officer, said the findings were
encouraging because they showed hospitals are proceeding cautiously, as opposed
to walking away from entire projects. Horowitz said that not only are they not
abandoning the projects, but in many cases they are prioritizing them. "When
they are being asked to be more efficient, HIT is the way to go," she said.

Dan McMurray is managing director of Focus Management Group, a national
consultancy group based in Tampa, Fla., that works with hospitals and practices
facing financial crises. He said the highest-performing hospitals that have well
thought-out business plans could not only make it through the financial crisis
unscathed but could become stronger. But the bad news, McMurray said, is that
such hospitals make up a small percentage of the total. "Sixty percent to 80% of
hospitals are in trouble. Many are in deep trouble."

The economy will force underperforming hospital programs to shut down, providing
money for other areas. It could also help eliminate some of the competition or
present opportunities for mergers and acquisitions.

The hospitals' troubles may be trickling down to physicians.

"We have a liquidity crisis not just on an economy basis but on an individual
facility or practice basis," said Bobby Guy, an attorney with the Nashville,
Tenn., law firm of Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis. "I'm not sure what the result
will be on that. But it will be harder to get money from physicians on this.
Physicians aren't feeling flush."

Guy said since Stark law exceptions and anti-kickback safe harbors went into
effect in 2007, practices have been looking to hospitals to help with IT
purchases, but "hospitals won't have the money to help anymore."

Horowitz said the recent survey did not cover the question of hospitals helping
physician practices, but it's one she hopes future surveys will address.

McMurray said it's possible high-performing hospitals will still be able to make
a business case for helping physicians out with health IT purchases. But Robert
James Cimasi, president of St. Louis-based Health Capital Consultants, said
despite the financial crunch, physicians are still skeptical of accepting help
from hospitals.

There are unanswered questions about implications of donated health IT on
practices, he said. Many physicians are concerned with ownership of data among
other things, he said.

Robert Tennant, senior policy adviser for health IT for the Medical Group
Management Assn., said practices must also be aware that the financial crunch is
affecting their vendors, as well. Tennant is particularly concerned that some
practices might get in trouble by opting out of an electronic medical record
system to adopt a much cheaper e-prescribing system.

He said while e-prescribing is a smart first step into full EMR adoption, the
final requirements for stand-alone e-prescribing systems have not been released.

In order to be eligible for Medicare e-prescribing bonuses that started Jan. 1,
use of a system certified by the Certification Commission for Health Information
Technology is required. But Tennant said vendors may not have money to invest to
make their systems CCHIT-compliant.

He advised practices to negotiate that the vendor will pursue CCHIT
certification. When the rules come out if updates are needed, the vendor will
provide them at no cost.

"If they say they have no plans to be CCHIT certified, then you probably don't
want to go with them," Tennant said. "Any bonuses down the road will be
contingent on that certification."

The print version of this content appeared in the Jan. 12, 2009 issue of
American Medical News.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

