                              106 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 31, 2008 Friday

Zimbabwe: Major hospital closes theater over drug, equipment shortage

LENGTH: 465 words


Text of report by South Africa-based ZimOnline website on 31 October

[Report by Lizwe Sebatha: "State hospital forced to close theatre unit"]

Bulawayo - One of the two biggest public hospitals in Zimbabwe's second largest
city of Bulawayo has closed its theatre unit after running out of critical drugs
necessary for all life-saving operations.

Sources told ZimOnline on Thursday that the United Bulawayo Hospitals (UBH) -
which is one of the two main public referral hospitals in the south of the
country - suspended surgical operations last week after running out of
anesthetics and other essential tools, in yet another sign of collapse of the
public health sector.

"We suspended all surgical operations last week after the last stocks of
anesthetics and surgical thread ran out. The critical theatre medical unit has
since been closed," a doctor at the institution speaking on condition of
anonymity said.

ZimOnline reporters who visited the UBH on Thursday found the theatre unit at
the hospital closed with staff saying they were referring patients to expensive
private hospitals such as the Catholic-run Mater Dei hospital for surgery.

Another state-run hospital in the city Mpilo General was not taking extra
patients from UBH apparently because it was also running low on anesthetics.

"Mpilo also faces shortages of anesthetic drugs. The situation is very critical
as it means hospitals in Bulawayo, which are supposed to cater for four
provinces, are not equipped to deal with disasters such as road accidents,"
another doctor added.

Deputy Health Minister Edwin Muguti blamed sanctions for the suspension of
surgical operations at Bulawayo's state hospitals.

"These are the effects of the illegal western sanctions against Zimbabwe," said
Muguti in a telephone interview on Thursday. "We have a serious challenge as far
as the shortages of consumables and critical drugs for surgery are concerned.
UBH has suspended surgical operations as a result."

Last week the Zimbabwe Association of Doctors for Human Rights (ZADHR) blamed an
outbreak of cholera in Zimbabwe on broken down public infrastructure, the result
of years of an unprecedented economic decline and political turmoil in the
country.

Zimbabwe's recession marked by the world's highest inflation of 231 million per
cent, has hastened the deterioration of key infrastructure needed for economic
activity and public health such as adequate power and water supplies.

The public health sector - once one of the best in Africa - has been hardest hit
by the economic crisis with the government short of cash to import essential
medicines and equipment, while the country has suffered the worst brain drain of
doctors, nurses and other professionals seeking better opportunities abroad.

Source: ZimOnline, Johannesburg, in English 31 Oct 08

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2008 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


