                              104 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            July 27, 1988 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

REGULAR SHORTS

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Letters; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 400 words


BLEWETT DEFIES ECONOMICS

SIR, Dr Blewett's criticism of your editorial (AFR, July 19) casts more light
upon his ignorance of basic economics than upon any errors you may have made.

Such assertions as "the oversupply of private hospital beds has led to increased
costs to the public" defy all economic logic. As any student of economics knows,
an oversupply of a good or service must result in a decrease in price to the
consumer, all other things being equal. An increase in the price for already
oversupplied beds in such a situation would only lead to a worsening of the
problem and make private hospitals even less viable.

In his critique, Dr Blewett does not mention the shortage of public hospital
beds which the waiting lists all over the country attest to. Any student of
economics could again tell Dr Blewett that reducing the price of a good or
service to zero, will cause an explosion in demand and since the Government has
now realised it does not have a bottomless pit of money to draw from to provide
the necessary resources, it cannot meet that demand.

Furthermore, as Dr Blewett has actively encouraged the population to forgo
private health insurance, private hospital care has now been priced out of the
average person's budget, resulting in an oversupply of private hospital beds.

By his deliberate actions Dr Blewett has created an acute shortage in the public
hospital system and a short term surplus in the private hospital system through
the introduction of Medicare. I say "short term" as economic reality will force
the closure or disappearance of those surplus beds. A bizarre situation of
inaccessible plenty in the face of a Blewett-induced shortage -an astonishingly
perverse result but also entirely predictable.

As the position continues to deteriorate, beneficiaries of Medicare will still
continue to be covered for essential medical and hospital treatment with the
definition of "essential" being continually redefined by Dr Blewett.

The economic results of Dr Blewett's meddling should have been obvious from the
start. He might boast about how cheap his system is but when consumers can find
only queues for that price, it becomes in reality very expensive indeed.

You, sir, do not need a lecture in economics from Dr Blewett. He, however,
should seek the services of a good ophthalmologist as he still appears blind to
the destruction he is causing.

MICHAEL MURPHY,

Brisbane.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 1988 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


