                              114 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                October 11, 2010

News in brief - Oct. 11, 2010

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 529 words



HIGHLIGHT: 'Illinois hospitals generate $75 billion in spending' and other items


Illinois hospitals generate $75 billion in spending

Illinois hospitals directly or indirectly supported 426,700 jobs in 2009,
according to a report issued Sept. 24 by the Illinois Hospital Assn. These
institutions generated $75.1 billion in spending by purchasing supplies or
paying staffers who in turn spent their paychecks on goods and services.

"By providing jobs for a wide range of health care workers and spurring more
economic activity through their spending on goods, services and capital
improvements, hospitals are a key cornerstone of the local and state economy,"
said IHA President Maryjane A. Wurth.

Researchers used the Regional Input-Output Modeling System II developed by the
U.S. Dept. of Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis. Each job at a hospital
lead to an additional 1.1 jobs in other industries. One dollar spent by a
hospital led to an additional $1.40 in spending elsewhere in the economy.

Reports issued by other hospital and medical associations, which are used to
argue against cuts to public insurance programs or support other items on the
legislative agenda, also have documented the significant economic impact of the
health care sector. The IHA report is available online
(www.ihatoday.org/economicreport.pdf).

Back to top

Consumer confidence about affording health care rises

Patients were feeling more certain in August about their ability to cover future
medical care costs and were less likely to have delayed or canceled treatment in
the past three months, according to the Consumer Healthcare Sentiment Index
issued Sept. 28 by Thomson Reuters.

Researchers analyzed surveys completed by a demographically representative
sample of 3,000 households. The overall composite Consumer Healthcare Sentiment
Index was 99 in August. One hundred is the baseline, but it fell to 95 in July,
a low point for 2010, so August was an improvement.

"This notable increase in confidence may signal growing optimism heading into
the final quarter of the year," said Gary Pickens, PhD, chief research officer
at the Thomson Reuters Center for Healthcare Analytics. "However, we will need
to see similar results over the next several months before we can confirm a
meaningful rise in consumer health care sentiment."

The August Consumer Healthcare Sentiment Index report is available online
(healthcarescience.thomsonreuters.com/indexes/assets/aug2010index_chsi.pdf).

Back to top

Judge to consider Michigan Blues' request for rate increase

An administrative law judge will hear from Michigan's attorney general later
this year to consider whether Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan should be
allowed to raise rates for 195,000 customers.

Michigan Attorney General Mike Cox filed a motion to intervene and challenge the
proposed rate increases Sept. 20. In a news release announcing his objection,
Cox cited the Blues' surplus of nearly $3 billion.

A statement from the Michigan Blues said it expects to lose between $40 million
and $60 million on the individual and group conversion lines of business in
2011, even with the requested rate increases of as much as 15%.

The state insurance commissioner will make the final decision on whether to
grant the rate increases.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

