                              117 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                                 August 3, 1998

More using government hospitals and clinics

BYLINE: By Chong Chee Seong

SECTION: National; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: Muar


MUAR, Sun. - The Health Ministry has embarked on several new approaches to
cater to the increasing number of patients seeking medical treatment at
government hospitals and clinics.

Its Minister Datuk Chua Jui Meng said the Government would continue to
allocate more funds to boost medical care and attention for all patients.

He said the number of patients seeking specialists' treatment at
government hospitals had gone up by between 10 and 30 per cent since the
onset of the economic slowdown.

He noted that there had also been a marked increase in the number of
patients calling at outpatient centres at hospitals and clinics
nationwide.

"We are facing a shortage of wards in certain major hospitals to
accommodate patients."

Chua was speaking to reporters after opening the RM1.2 million three-
storey buildings of the Kwangtung Association here today.

Chua, who is also the Member of Parliament for Bakri, said government
hospitals and clinics could manage the "rush" as the brain drain of
specialists from government hospitals had slowed down.

He said: "We can now retain about 50 per cent of our specialists and
doctors from leaving the Government hospitals and clinics.

"In view of the presence of a large pool of specialists and highly
trained doctors, more patients are seeking medical assistance in our
hospitals and clinics."

Chua said the "rush" could be attributed to the exorbitant medical
charges of private hospitals, with many patients unable to foot the bills
under the current depressed economic climate.

He said: "Malaysians are aware that our hospitals and clinics have
achieved a high standard of excellence in medical and healthcare in the
Asean region".

Chua said the ministry would continue to upgrade services at the
hospitals and clinics to enable people of all walks of life to receive the
best medical treatment and care.


LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture - Chua ... can cope with rush'.

            Copyright 1998 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


