                              118 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Moultrie Observer (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday

Report: CRMC has $151.6 million economic impact

BYLINE: The Moultrie Observer, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 536 words


March 30--MOULTRIE -- In 2009, Colquitt Regional Medical Center generated
$151,568,879 in revenue for the local economy according to a recent report by
the Georgia Hospital Association, the state's largest hospital trade
association. The report also found that, during the same time period, Colquitt
Regional provided approximately $6,952,206 in uncompensated care while
sustaining approximately 800 jobs.

The report revealed that Colquitt Regional had direct expenditures of
$61,296,914 in 2009, which is the latest data currently available from the
Department of Community Health. When combined with an economic multiplier
developed by the United States Department of Commerce's Bureau of Economic
Analysis, the total economic impact of those expenditures was more than $151
million. This output multiplier considers the "ripple" effect of direct hospital
expenditures on other sectors of the economy, such as medical supplies, durable
medical equipment and pharmaceuticals. Economic multipliers are used to model
the resulting impact of a change in one industry on the "circular flow" of
spending within an economy as a whole.

"This new report shows that, even in these difficult economic times, Colquitt
Regional has an enormous positive impact on our local economy," said Jim Lowry,
president and CEO of Colquitt Regional.

While Colquitt Regional remains a major component of the area's economic engine,
the hospital's leadership, like the rest of the Georgia hospital community, is
concerned about a wide array of economic challenges that have made it
increasingly difficult to meet the community's health care needs including
continued cuts in Medicare and Medicaid payments and a fast-growing uninsured
population. Presently, more than a third of all hospitals in Georgia are
operating with negative margins.

"We're extremely concerned with the current operating environment for hospitals,
" Lowry said. "We've made a commitment to every citizen of this community to be
on call for them 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. But our ability to do so is
being compromised when, in many cases, we're seeing an increasing number of
uninsured patients while the state is paying us far less than what it actually
costs to treat Medicaid patients."

According to Lowry, state lawmakers must work to protect the state's health care
system with the same fervor that they do other initiatives like education and
public utilities.

"Our local health care system is indispensable," Lowry said. "It is the primary
guardian of health in our community and is the key building block for everything
else in our community including education and economic vitality. It is our hope
that, even in these challenging economic times, that our elected lawmakers will
do what is necessary to protect our local health care system and preserve access
to health care for every resident of this community."

To see more of The Moultrie Observer or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.moultrieobserver.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The Moultrie Observer, Ga.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110330-GJ-Report-CRMC-has-151.6-million-economic-impact-0330-20110330

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GJ


                      Copyright 2011 The Moultrie Observer


