                              116 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                   Bluefield Daily Telegraph (West Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 24, 2010 Friday

Tazewell Community Hospital addressing challenges

BYLINE: Kate Coil, Bluefield Daily Telegraph, W.Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 528 words


Sept. 24--TAZEWELL, Va.  -- Faced with challenges as a result of the recession,
officials have launched a study to determine the sustainability of Tazewell
Community Hospital.

Despite financial issues, Eric Earnhart, director of media relations for
Carilion Clinic, said Tazewell Community Hospital will not be closing any time
soon.

"We are not planning to close the facility, though it's important to understand
we must change how we provide health care," Earnhart said. "The model of the
hospital may look very different in the future because of that.

Earnhart said Tazewell Community Hospital is dealing with the same issues of all
community hospitals in Virginia and nationwide. He said all community hospitals
under the Carilion Clinic umbrella are undergoing "internal evaluations" to
better meet community needs.

"All community hospitals, especially in rural areas all over Virginia, are all
dealing with financial situations because of the recession," Earnhart said.
"Charity care is up, insurance coverage is down, and people are not choosing to
take elective surgeries. We are trying to figure out how to best serve the needs
of the people and address the financial challenges we face by reviewing all of
our community hospitals."

According to Earnhart, these evaluations will hopefully determine how the
hospitals can balance community needs with financial realities.

"We are looking at what needs to be done to provide services to the community in
a stable way," he said. "Given the economic realities of the recession and
health care reform, there is no precedent for what is happening to community
hospitals. We need to look at the hospital's needs, the community needs, and the
financial needs. These needs may be different for different communities.
Tazewell is certainly not alone in this."

Earnhart said sustainability has become the overall goal for all community
hospitals, given the nationwide economic situation.

"We need to meet community needs in a way that's sustainable, for the long
term," he said. "We've got to find a way to balance needs with the current
economic situation."

Representatives of the hospital announced the hospital would be undergoing a
study to determine the sustainability of the hospital at a Tazewell County Board
of Supervisors meeting on Sept. 7.

Tazewell Community Hospital is one of several Carilion hospitals undergoing a
study to determine how they can become more sustainable. Earnhart did not know
how long the study would last.

Tazewell Community Hospital joined the Carilion Clinic in June of 2008, but
received management services from Carilion for more than 27 years prior to being
acquired by the Carilion Clinic.

--Contact Kate Coil at kcoil@bdtonline.com

To see more of Bluefield Daily Telegraph, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.bdtonline.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, Bluefield Daily Telegraph,
W.Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100924-WF-Tazewell-Community-Hospital
-addressing-challenges-0924-20100924

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WF


                    Copyright 2010 Bluefield Daily Telegraph


