                              12 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                           Agency Tunis Afrique Press

                           November 17, 2016 Thursday

Advocacy workshop focuses on Tunisian-Spanish twinning project on new medical-
economic information system

LENGTH: 365 words


1/1

(TAP) - Health Minister Samira Merai Friaa said, Thursday, the consolidation of
the new medical-economic information system and its implementation in all public
hospitals from 2012 to 2017 is a key programme that will streamline funding of
hospital institutions and strengthen public health governance capacity.

Speaking at an advocacy workshop held in Tunis as part of the Tunisian-Spanish
twinning project on the new medico-economic information system and its
implementation in all public hospitals, she said this programme, funded by the
European Union, was launched initially in six hospitals with a [#x20ac]1.3
million budget.

This project, she added, is being implemented in ten other facilities (from 2015
to 2017).

Health facilities involved in the first phase are:

Tunis Maternity Centre, Habib Thamer Hospital, Fattouma Bourguiba Hospital in
Monastir, Nutrition Institute, Bizerte's regional hospital and the Ras Jebel
hospital.

The other ten institutions are:

Charles Nicolle Hospital, Rabta Hospital, Abderrahmane Mami Hospital in Ariana,
Bechir Hamza Children hospital, Aziza Othmana Hospital, Saleh Azaiez Institute,
Mongi Slim Hospital in Marsa, Farhat Hached Hospital in Sousse, Taher Sfar
Hospital in Mahdia and Beja's regional hospital.

The Health Minister added that this programme will help the ministry determine
the cost of disease and each patient in hospitals be t hey university, regional
or local and the medical-economic activity in regions.

Spain's Health Minister Jesus Fernandez Sanz, who participated in this meeting
as an expert, said the meeting helped present the first results of health
activities and its costs in Tunisia.

The consolidation of the new medical-economic information system and its
implementation in all public hospitals aims at strengthening public health
governance capacity (effective allocation of available resources and evaluation
of performance), improving the quality of health institutions' services and
contributing to achieving national health goals.

It also aims at establishing a national scale of optimal cost by pathology and
used as a base for billing care provided by health facilities.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/142/392/64/147942235559.JPG



LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 392


                               Copyright 2016 Tap
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


