                              115 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            January 21, 2011 Friday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

Construction of health care facilities could help county

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 611 words


WHAT if I told you that there is an economic development strategy that could add
an additional 200,000 much-needed construction jobs to our state's economy and
be instituted almost immediately without complex legislation or ballot measures,
without increasing government-led infrastructure spending or instituting a
federal-like stimulus program and without issuing billions of dollars worth of
new infrastructure bonds or awarding government incentives?

Drum roll please ...

It would be for the California Office of Statewide Health Planning and
Development - essentially the building department for hospitals and other
health-related facilities - to expedite plan reviews and approvals for hospital
and health facility construction. I know it's not very sexy. But it is
substantive.

Right now, too many California hospitals seeking to perform capital improvement
projects, employing many thousands of construction workers, have been met by
unremitting postponements and holdups in their plan review and approval process.
Some projects have required an approval process of two or more years before
construction can even begin. In all, OSHPD - which, by the way, has as one of
its articulated core service values "the efficient processing of approvals for
health facility construction" - is holding up approximately $23 billion in
hospital and health-related construction work in California.

From an economic development perspective, this multibillion-dollar backlog is
unacceptable. The $23billion in construction activity would sustain direct,
indirect, and induced impacts, including 232,000 jobs with $15.1 billion in
wages and generate approximately $1.7 billion in state and local tax revenue.

Here in L.A. County, health industries play a vital and leading role in our
economy. They account for almost 12 percent of the county's total economic
output and support approximately 352,000 direct and indirect jobs, with $15.6
billion in wages.

According to a 2006 report done by the LAEDC, the sector contributes more than 1
billion dollars in tax revenues to the state's coffers, close to $70 million to
the county and more than $40 million in sales tax revenues to cities in the
county. Even more, the sector has been one of the few bright spots during these
bad economic times, and its expansion is almost certain to accelerate as our
population continues to age and swell from about 10.4 million residents to 11.2
million by 2020.

Even so, this vital economic sector is in a "lifeblood" struggle for survival
against threats that include deep budget cuts, new MediCal restrictions,
unfunded seismic retrofit mandates, an emergency room network under siege and
laboring on the fringe of unprofitability, and a rapid increase in the number of
the uninsured. Here in Los Angeles, we have already lost 17 hospitals and
emergency departments during the last decade, and with two out of every five
hospitals losing money, we are in grave danger of losing another four hospitals
very quickly.

Throughout Southern California there are numerous examples of an OSHPD
entitlement approval process that has gone off track. This has been further
exacerbated by furloughs and personnel reductions in general.

Hospitals and health care facilities play a critical role in economic
development and the quality of life of our communities. Consequently, we must
discharge the backlog of $23 billion worth of stalled hospital construction
projects, reverse this worsening trend of project entitlement delays and
interruptions, and reduce the time it takes for a project to navigate OSHPD's
plan review and permitting process.

This is an economic development strategy we can all get behind.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Bill Allen is the chief executive of the Los Angeles County Economic
Development Corporation.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


