                              113 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           February 21, 1993, Sunday

CLINTON'S AGENDA: HEALTH CARE What will system of future look like? More gain
than pain, say voices of change

BYLINE: By Andy Miller STAFF WRITERbill/clinton; policy; economy; reform;
health; care; budgets; forecasts; costs

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 7

LENGTH: 414 words


Managed competition. Global budgets.

So what would this ominous-sounding jargon mean to you and me?

Probably some big changes in how health care is provided - and how much it
costs. And likely, too, some harsh medicine for doctors, hospitals and insurers.

If global budgeting - essentially, limits on total medical spending - and
managed competition are proposed and escape Washington crossfire to become law,
proponents say there could be:

Increased efficiency and quality of care.

Better information about the outcomes of medical procedures.

A standardized benefits package and uniform rates.

Less paperwork.

Malpractice reform.

The last two would please many doctors.

But "all these reforms are going to lead to a lessening of [specialists']
income," says Dr. Bill Winkenwerder of Prudential Health Care System.

Many think there would have to be choices linked to prioritizing services, such
as: Would we, as a society, want to pay for a 90-year- old's heart transplant?

Insurers could face cost pressures, too. Employers - and employees - would be
looking for the most attractively priced plans. And limits on premium increases
might be set.

"If you control rates that providers can be paid and don't control rates
insurers can charge, you may not necessarily be saving," says Peter Wilson, an
American Hospital Association vice president.

For hospitals, it could wind up as "the survival of the most efficient," says
Lew Yeouze of the consulting firm William M. Mercer.

What's more, a crucial ingredient in any reform plan - extending coverage to 36
million uninsured Americans - could cost up to $ 30 billion to $ 90 billion
annually, officials say.

One way to cover that cost - a proposal known as "play or pay" - would require
all employers to provide their workers a standard package of benefits or enroll
them in a public pool and pay a payroll tax toward the cost. That would surely
raise the hackles of small businesses.

According to a White House memo, other funding proposals that have surfaced
recently include:

Taxing premiums collected by insurance companies.

Taxing health-care benefits above a certain level.

Raising taxes on things such as tobacco, alcohol, guns and pollutants.

So universal coverage is likely to cause some initial financial pain for
companies or individuals or both. But it also would guarantee care to everyone -
and end the current climate of fear over coverage.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH930610232

GRAPHIC: Line graph: The deficit and health care In his address to the nation
last week, President Clinton said that unless the government acts, health-care
costs could consume up to 20 percent of total economic output by the end of the
decade. Graph shows deficit reduction if Clinton plan is adopted with no cost
controls on health care; and if cost controls are implemented (numbers in
billions) from 1993 through 2003 Source: Council of Economic Advisers / staff

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


