                              124 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                THE KOREA HERALD

                          November 16, 2005, Wednesday

Free economic zones take off in Korea

BYLINE: By Kim Min-hee

LENGTH: 1113 words



Taking off in earnest, Korea's free economic zones are at the forefront of the
country's aspirations to blossom into a financial and logistics hub of Northeast
Asia. Set in the scenic coastal cities of Incheon, Busan-Jinhae and Gwangyang,
the zones form an axle of investment for multinational companies seeking entry
in Asia's fourth-largest economy. In recent developments, Incheon Free Economic
Zone said it selected a New York-based hospital as the preferred bidder to
jointly run Korea's first international hospital.

The hospital, along with a top-notch international school run by U.S.-based
International Schools Services, is scheduled to open in 2008.

"The government's resolve to turn the FEZ plan into a success is very firm, Cho
Sung-ik, deputy minister of MOFE's Free Ecomonic Zone planning office.

The former Hermit Kingdom has been actively seeking foreign investors to the
free economic zones it designated in 2003 - Incheon, Busan-Jinhae and Gwangyang
- to spur economic growth and ultimately transform the country into a financial
and logistics hub of Northeast Asia.

The global competition for developing FEZs, however, has lately intensified,
with Korea pitted against strong neighboring contenders like Singapore, Hong
Kong and Shanghai.

Despite the challenges, the government believes Korea has many advantages,
including the geographical location, abundance of well-skilled human resources
and a strong IT infrastructure. "The Free Economic Zone Planning Office will
provide a systematic support to enable the world's leading corporations to
operate their businesses in the best environment. The zone will simplify
procedures for permits and will provide a one-stop service, the best
infrastructure, and living conditions well-suited to the service-oriented public
administration," Cho said.

The Korean government has allocated 1.9 trillion won this year to support
activities of the three FEZs, up 47 percent from last year. Next year, the
subsidy will be raised to 2.4 trillion won.

"One of our priorities (for this year) will be post-negotiations with foreign
companies which already have indicated interest in investment so it is made into
reality," Cho said. "The FEZ authorities will also actively carry out IR
(investor relations) activities jointly with the central government and other
related organizations." Further, Cho said special efforts will be made to remove
any hurdles to foreign investment, with special emphasis on creating a
competitive living environment.

"World-class schools and hospitals in FEZs will actually benefit local people as
well and lead to raising the competitiveness of domestic industries," Cho said.

The government said in July that a consortium of U.S. hospitals, including the
Hospital of the University of Philadelphia, plans to establish a foreign-run
hospital in Songdo International City in the Incheon Free Economic Zone by 2008.

Under the revised FEZ Law, foreign hospitals will be allowed to treat local
patients. The government believes foreign hospitals will push domestic medical
service to improve as well as help attract international biotech companies to
the country.

In May, the National Assembly passed a bill allowing foreign schools to open in
the nation's free economic zones.

The Korean government believes developing FEZs will advance the nation's
position as the business and logistics hub of Northeast Asia.

With a population of 1.5 billion and accounting for nearly 20 percent of global
gross domestic production, the region is emerging as one of three major trade
blocks that fuel global economic growth.

Fast progress In March, ground broke to start building an international business
district in New Songdo City, a next-generation city being built from scratch on
mounds of reclaimed land in Incheon. In June, developers of the international
business district raised $1.7 billion in syndicated loans from 26 firms,
including ABN Amro, Kookmin Bank and Woori Bank, attesting to the high potential
of the project's success. The project to develop New Songdo City, envisaged as
an alternative for Seoul for multinational companies, is the largest privately
financed real estate development in Korea to date. Plans for New Songdo City
were launched in 2002 based on a joint venture between Gale International, a New
York-based real estate company, and POSCO E&C, a domestic builder affiliated
with Korean steel giant POSCO. Along with the business district, Finance
Ministry officials say a "knowledge industry complex" will be completed in New
Songdo City by the year's end. The complex is expected to house up to 35 venture
companies. In addition, it will become home to the country's first U.N.
affiliate, UN ESCAP ICT.

The Ministry of Information and Technology meanwhile unveiled plans to build a
Radio Frequency Identification cluster within the industrial complex.

Cheongna, also in the Incheon FEZ, is being developed into a leisure hub
targeting visitors from Southeast Asian countries. The region will house a theme
park and an "Asian Village," among other attractions. The Finance Ministry
recently also said an upscale Chinatown is to be established there to help draw
investors from Asian neighbors, namely China, Singapore and Hong Kong.

Incheon International Airport has established an around-the-clock customs system
as part of its resolve to become the world's leading airport. Construction is
under way to build a third runway and periphery facilities, to be completed in
2008. A new bridge will also be completed, cutting travel time between the
airport and Songdo New City to 15 minutes. Officials also say that by next year,
the new Busan Port and Gwangyang Port will have infrastructure to compete with
Chinese ports. Busan and Gwangyang are situated along the world's main trunk
routes, which allow both locations a significant geographical advantage to
develop into prominent global harbors.

Busan and Gwangyang are advantageously located when compared to Shanghai and
Hong Kong in terms of North China cargo processing competitiveness. Recently
North Chinese and Japanese cargo has significantly increased the cargo
processing volume of both harbors. This, in turn, proves that it is very likely
that both harbors hold a strong possibility of becoming the central harbors of
North East Asia. Busan and Jinhae also are upbeat about transforming into a
machine-automotive parts cluster after receiving inquiries from many companies.
Hwayang, within the Gwangyang FEZ, will be developed into a global marine and
leisure complex also in relation to Yeosu city's bid to host the International
Exhibition in 2012.

(mhkim@heraldm.com) ;SN07

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2005 The Korea Herald


