                              120 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 March 16, 2009

Organized medicine-backed lawsuit knocks down hospital's attempt at economic
credentialing

BYLINE: By Amy Lynn Sorrel, AMNews staff. Mar. 16, 2009

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1532 words



HIGHLIGHT: A trial judge in Arkansas found that a hospital system denying
privileges to some physicians was motivated by unfounded financial concerns.


An Arkansas hospital system's economic credentialing rule intrudes on the
patient-physician relationship and violates public policy, a state trial court
ruled on Feb. 27.

Baptist Health's credentialing policy precluded staff doctors with interests in
competing hospitals from having privileges. The judge found that Baptist's
policy was intended to suppress competition from physician-owned specialty
hospitals, rather than further patient care.

"The heart of this case is the patient-physician relationship. The relationship
is entitled to exceptional protection," Judge Collins Kilgore wrote. "Arkansas
protects the patient's right to the physician of their choice. An act such as
Baptist Health's economic credentialing policy that interferes with that choice,
and that by extension interferes with the patient-physician relationship, is
contrary to public policy."

Little Rock-based Baptist Health, Arkansas' largest hospital system, instituted
what it calls an economic conflict-of-interest policy in 2003. Twelve staff
cardiologists who owned a specialty facility, Arkansas Heart Hospital, lost
their privileges and sued. The Arkansas Supreme Court in 2006 stopped Baptist
from ending the doctors' privileges while the case headed to trial.

The Pulaski County trial court ruling permanently bars Baptist from enforcing
its policy. Baptist did not indicate whether it plans to appeal but said it
would study the opinion.

Physicians said the decision in the closely watched case demonstrates that
economic credentialing policies do nothing to protect patient care and serve
only to restrict it.

"What's important is the court's recognition of the sanctity of the
patient-physician relationship, the importance of continuity of care in that
relationship and patients' ability to have a choice in where they receive their
care," said Rebecca J. Patchin, MD, chair-elect of the American Medical
Association Board of Trustees.

The AMA, along with the Arkansas Medical Society, joined the case as plaintiffs.
The Litigation Center of the American Medical Association and State Medical
Societies also contributed to the physician plaintiffs' legal expenses.

The awarding of clinical privileges should be based on physicians' skills and
expertise, not financial considerations, Dr. Patchin said.

"If you don't have that patient and doctor working together, the patient is not
going to get the best care," said AMS President David C. Jacks, MD. "It doesn't
matter where they go. A hospital is just a building."

The decision is among a few that directly address economic credentialing and
could have a nationwide effect as other hospitals and courts turn to the opinion
for guidance, said Emily Sneddon, an attorney for the AMA and AMS. At least 13
states have laws that restrict or prohibit economic credentialing, according to
AMA research. Arkansas is not one of them.

Because the court found Baptist's credentialing rule a violation of public
policy, the hospital system likely cannot enforce it against any physician in
the state, including the plaintiffs involved, Sneddon said.

Baptist said in a statement that its policy was aimed at protecting "the
community's long-term access to a broad range of services" and protecting
patients from "an inherent conflict of interest" when physicians refer to their
own facilities. Such referrals hurt the hospital's financial health by steering
away higher-paying patients and leaving it with unprofitable charity care,
Baptist maintained in court documents.

No evidence Baptist was harmed

The trial court recognized that hospitals have an interest in protecting their
economic viability and ensuring access. But Kilgore found no evidence that
Baptist had been harmed by competition from Arkansas Heart Hospital.

Baptist adopted the credentialing policy six years after the heart hospital
opened in 1997, without analyzing its effect on Baptist's profitability, the
court noted. Nor was there any evidence that the heart hospital's physician
owners had acted unethically.

Instead, Kilgore found that Baptist had instituted the policy despite a shortage
of cardiac beds in the region and "acted in a way directly adverse to its goal
of providing services to the community."

The court dismissed the policy as "overbroad" in that it applied to
non-referring doctors, such as radiologists; physician family members with
indirect outside interests; and geographic regions outside Baptist's treatment
area.

Kilgore said Baptist's policy was meant to discourage competition, ruling it an
unconscionable trade practice that "affronts the sense of justice, decency, and
reasonableness because it impinges on fundamentally important public policies
without adequate countervailing justification."

Lawyers who represent hospitals said the decision, while significant, evolved
from unique circumstances and does not prevent hospitals' ability from using
economic credentialing.

"Clearly, there are a lot of lessons learned from this decision, and hospitals
need to be mindful and do their homework when pursuing such a policy," said
Michael R. Callahan, a hospital attorney and partner with Chicago-based Katten
Muchin Rosenman LLP. "But it will play differently in different circumstances."

For example, Baptist is the only dominant hospital system in a largely rural
region, he noted. But in larger markets, physicians likely would have privileges
at multiple hospitals. There they could continue to treat patients without
disruption, despite losing privileges at one facility.

The Arkansas court emphasized that Baptist applied its policy retroactively to
existing medical staff without any hearing rights, Callahan said. Some states
also permit hospitals to consider economic factors in the initial credentialing
process.

Callahan said the ruling still "preserves certain fundamental principles" that
hospitals have a right to protect their financial well-being. "But a court is
not going to accept [such principles] carte blanche without looking at the
evidence."

Bruce E. Murphy, MD, lead plaintiff in the case and medical director of Arkansas
Heart Hospital, said he hoped the decision would embolden other physicians who
feel pressured by large hospital and insurance entities.

The doctors, partners at Little Rock Cardiology Clinic PA, sued Baptist in a
separate antitrust case alleging that the hospital system had conspired with a
dominant health insurer to keep the doctors and their heart hospital out of the
network. A federal judge dismissed those claims in August 2008. An appeal by the
doctors is pending in the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

For now, the state trial court ruling allows the physicians to return their
attention to improving patient care -- their initial motivation for investing in
the specialty hospital, said Dr. Murphy, an interventional cardiologist.

"Our patients are no longer at the mercy of hospitals and insurance companies
telling them where to go," he said. "I would hope this [decision] would signal
to hospitals that the foundation of medicine should not be tampered with."

This content was published online only.

A different view

In a decision striking down an Arkansas hospital system's credentialing rule as
being contrary to public policy, Pulaski County Circuit Court Judge Collins
Kilgore distinguished his opinion in Murphy v. Baptist from some prior rulings
on the matter.

     ·     In Walborn v. UHHS/CSAHS-Cuyahoga Inc., an Ohio trial court in 2003
          held that a hospital demonstrated that its economic credentialing
          policy was "a reasonable means" of protecting the hospital's
          viability. But Kilgore said the "facts in [the Murphy] case do not
          support such a finding." He also noted that self-referral issues
          played a significant part in the Ohio dispute, whereas in the Arkansas
          case, "there is no evidence that the [physician-owned hospital]
          requires or encourages the plaintiff physicians to steer their
          patients" to their hospital.
     ·     In Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, the South Dakota Supreme Court in 2001
          upheld a hospital's decision to close its medical staff to new
          orthopedic surgeons after a group of doctors built a competing surgery
          center. No doctors in the group lost privileges, and the court agreed
          that the hospital's move was in patients' best interests. Kilgore
          differentiated that the South Dakota case stemmed from a breach of
          contract claim because the medical staff had not approved the hospital

          policy.
     ·     A 1993 decision in Williamson v. Sacred Heart Hospital of Pensacola
          in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Florida was
          based on antitrust claims that Kilgore said were not at issue in
          Murphy v. Baptist. The court sided with the hospital.
     ·     A 1992 Florida trial court ruling validated a hospital's decision to
          deny staff privileges to a heart surgeon who had interests in a
          competing hospital. The ruling in Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Memorial
          Regional Medical Center hinged on a Florida statute authorizing the
          use of economic criteria in hospital credentialing, as long as such
          factors are not "arbitrary." Kilgore said the case "did not aid the
          court" in the Murphy decision because Arkansas has no such law.


Source: Murphy v. Baptist, Pulaski County Circuit Court, Arkansas, Feb. 27
ruling

Retrieve Attachment

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

