                              122 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            January 3, 2013 Thursday
                                 ONLINE EDITION

Missouri's hospitals will benefit from expanded health care

BYLINE: by Rep. Chris Kelly

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 1034 words


The most important issue facing the next Missouri General Assembly is whether to
expand health care coverage for uninsured Missourians who have incomes below 138
percent of the federal poverty level. (Poverty level equals an income of $23,050
for a family of four.)

The costs and benefits of expansion have been analyzed in three studies: one by
the Missouri Office of Budget and Planning, one by the Kaiser Foundation, and
one by the University of Missouri Medical School in cooperation with Dobson,
DaVanzo & Associates. The MU study is the most conservative, so I will rely upon
it. The projected economic benefits and the number of Missourians covered by the
expansion are substantially higher in the other two studies.

The federal Affordable Care Act (ACA, also known as Obamacare) allows states to
expand their medical coverage to 138 percent of the federal poverty level. The
federal government will pay 100 percent of the cost through 2016. That
percentage will phase down to 90 percent in 2020. About 161,000 additional
Missourians would receive medical coverage under the expansion. Absent
expansion, those Missourians will continue to live without health insurance.
When they experience health problems, they show up at hospitals and are treated
- but the cost of that care is not completely compensated. We all pay the cost
of their treatment. It is redistributed through increases in our health care
premiums or absorbed by the hospitals as uncompensated care.

There is a provision in law whereby hospitals receive money to offset the cost
of uncompensated care (called disproportionate share hospital allotments). This
provision will be substantially reduced. It has been replaced by the option for
states to expand coverage. That means that Missouri hospitals will lose DSH
payments and, if there is no expansion of Medicaid coverage, they will also
absorb the cost of treating people with no insurance - a huge financial burden.

Statewide, the cost of decreased DSH payments will be roughly $500 million.
Losses to hospitals resulting from other changes in law will be about $2.6
billion. On the other hand, if Missouri expands coverage, the state will receive
an additional $8.2 billion from the federal government in the years between 2014
and 2020. The state will be required to pay about $333 million, all occurring
after 2017. The economic expansion would include an additional 24,000 new jobs
with a payroll of nearly $7 billion and a total impact on Missouri's economy of
more than $16 billion. Tax revenues to the state would increase by more than
$850 million. The tax revenue from the increased jobs and economic activity will
generate more than double the cost of expansion.

Viewing the loss of DSH payments at a local level, Christian Hospital in St.
Louis County will lose about $30 million. The combined losses to Boone Hospital
and the University of Missouri in Columbia will be about $28 million.
Proportional losses will occur to hospitals in Springfield, Kansas City, St.
Joseph, Cape Girardeau and Joplin. The pattern is the same for all larger
hospitals. They will be seriously harmed, but will survive.

Having grown up in a rural community with a small hospital, I wondered what was
likely to happen in rural Missouri. I studied the probable result of expansion
of Medicaid versus nonexpansion in West Plains as an example.

Ozarks Medical Center is a 114-bed hospital serving 11 counties and about
160,000 people. The closest large hospital is in Springfield, 100 miles away.
OMC will lose about $2,225,000 as a result of the reduction of the DSH
provision. The medical center will still be required to treat all who appear at
its door. In the event that those patients do not have insurance, the medical
center will not be fully compensated for that care. The hospital estimates that
cost next year to be approximately $6 million to $8 million.

On the other hand, if the state were to expand Medicaid coverage, more than
9,000 additional people would have medical insurance in the West Plains service
area. In addition to the benefits of medical insurance for those patients, the
entire south central region will experience an economic benefit. The federal
contribution in the region is estimated to be $463 million. More than a thousand
jobs would be created. The total economic benefit to the region would be almost
$800 million. Much of this expansion would occur in Howell County. More patients
mean more pharmacists, more nurses, more physical therapists, etc.

OMC is larger and stronger than some other rural hospitals. As one looks east
toward the Bootheel, the situation becomes more troubling. The hospitals are
smaller and their patient populations are poorer. If Missouri does not expand
coverage, Missouri could lose more than a dozen rural hospitals - perhaps as
many as 25 - a tragedy for rural Missouri.

I recently heard a story that illustrates the importance of these institutions
to their communities. In 2007 a devastating tornado destroyed the town of
Greensburg, Kan. The people had to decide whether to rebuild. Many said, if the
hospital rebuilds, we will too. Rural hospitals are often the economic nuclei of
their communities. Their loss would in some cases means that their communities
would lose the critical mass necessary to stay economically viable.

There is only one rational conclusion: Missouri will gain far more than it loses
from the expansion of health care coverage.

Opponents of expansion say, "We cannot afford it," but these claims are simply
an expression of opposition to the concept of "Obamacare" without analysis of
the actual economic costs and benefits. Whether one supports or opposes the
underlying philosophy of Obamacare, it is the law of the land. Missouri should
not undermine the solvency of its own hospitals and decimate the economic
lifeblood of many rural communities just for the sake of demonstrating political
purity. The Legislature has an obligation to examine what is economically best
for the state of Missouri. We should work together to find a solution we can all
live with.

Rep. Chris Kelly, D-Columbia, is the newly elected state representative in the
45th District and a member of the House Budget Committee.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

