                              123 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 4, 2008 Monday

OMHS a healthy part of economy: New hospital will deliver even more growth,
economist says

BYLINE: Dariush Shafa, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 922 words


Feb. 4--Owensboro Medical Health System has a substantial economic impact on
Owensboro, and construction of a new hospital would only further economic growth
for the city, a University of Louisville economics professor says.

Last year, Dr. Paul Coomes and his department were commissioned by the Kentucky
Hospital Association to study the local economic impact of every hospital in
Kentucky. The study updates previous findings that were done by the association
five years ago.

"The importance of hospitals economically is something that can't be
overstressed," said Frank Butler, chairman of the association's board.

Jeff Barber, CEO and president of OMHS, said in addition to buying power, OMHS
pays taxes on both the local and state level that go back into the community.

"I think we play a huge role for the local community. We're the largest
employer, and we pay our fair share of taxes, and we're not imposing on the
taxpayers since we're a not-for-profit hospital, which is a good thing," Barber
said. "I think we have about 1,800 employees that live in Daviess County, plus
part-time employees. They recycle their wages into our local community, and I
think that's an important part of our economy."

As a whole, OMHS employs about 3,100 people throughout the 11-county region it
serves. The KHA study does not take this into account, focusing only on the
1,781 who work at the acute care hospital on East Parrish Avenue.

Those employees earn $83.2 million in wages yearly -- about 6.1 percent of all
the wages and salaries in the county. According to the study, those employees
spend $32.5 million locally in addition to the $46.4 million the hospital spends
locally.

OMHS also pays $1.1 million in city government occupational taxes and an
estimated $6.1 million for the Kentucky hospital provider tax, and $7.6 million
goes to the state in the form of income taxes or sales taxes linked to employee
wages and salaries.

Barber said he is happy that OMHS is a part of the survey because it allows word
to get out about what the hospital gives to the community in addition to health
care.

"I think it's good for the community to understand what kind of impact that we
have and what we do buy locally," Barber said. "Our employees live here locally,
recycle their dollars into businesses locally, contribute to the schools."

The construction of a new hospital would only add to the economy, Coomes said.
The facility, which is expected to cost between $375 million to $450 million,
would be built on Daniels Lane. Coomes said a new hospital would be a good thing
for the city's economy.

"It definitely has a ripple effect on the economy. Owensboro has had pretty
sluggish economic performance over the last 20 years," Coomes said. "This is a
good thing in that it helps mitigate the loss of goods-producing industry."

Barber said he definitely sees the new hospital as a boon to the city.

"I think we can help some by our growth. Certainly we'll help the construction
industry when we get into building the new hospital and I think by being a
regional medical center that provides quality care, that'll attract more
businesses to the area," Barber said. "People that are moving their businesses
want to come to a place like Owensboro, in my opinion. We provide good health
care, which is a good attracting force."

Barber said the hospital will use local labor for the new hospital, both during
the construction and after it's built.

"Part of our stipulations for our general contractors, architects and electrical
and plumbing folks is that they use as much of the local talent as possible,"
Barber said. "Secondly, we want them to train our local craftsmen in how to
operate the systems that we'll be installing in the new hospital so that when
they leave they'll be leaving behind a work force that can maintain our new
hospital."

OMHS also hopes to grow its employee population by another 500 people by 2012
and add 50 more physicians with their staffs. Coomes said that, too, would
contribute more money to the community, both through dollars spent here and
payroll, sales and income taxes. Barber said it can also encourage
medical-related industries to relocate here or start up.

"If we recruit physicians in the town, they in turn have to have their employed
staff so that will help the economy grow," Barber said. "There will be other
industries that come to town to support us, so that will help the town grow."

The ultimate goal, Barber said, is for OMHS to do here what people might go
elsewhere for.

"The 11 counties that we serve, several of those counties don't have hospitals,
so we want to become the provider of choice for those people who don't have a
hospital and become a provider to the people that do have one," Barber said. "I
think we can work over time to provide more specialty services, to provide more
primary care services, to provide better access to health care."

Coomes said the ultimate thing to keep in mind is that whatever is done, it
should be done with the good of the community in mind.

"If it improves the quality of care," Coomes said, "It improves the quality of
life."

To see more of the Messenger-Inquirer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.messenger-inquirer.com. Copyright (c) 2008, Messenger-Inquirer,
Owensboro, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080204-OW-OMHS-a-healthy-part-of-economy-0204

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2008 Messenger-Inquirer


