                              125 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                           February 19, 2009 Thursday
                                 CITY-D Edition

Survey: New Jersey hospitals are hurting

BYLINE: By Stacey Burling; Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; P-com Biz; Pg. C02

LENGTH: 343 words


With all the talk of budget cuts in New Jersey, the state's hospitals are making
their case that they're suffering in the economic downturn just like other
businesses. To bolster their argument, the New Jersey Hospital Association
released results of a new survey yesterday that revealed multiple signs of
financial strain.

The American Hospital Association and the Hospital and Healthsystem Association
of Pennsylvania already have used similar surveys to argue for robust government
funding, even though health care seems to be one of the economy's stronger
sectors.

Not only are hospitals crucial for health care, but they are also often the
biggest employers in their communities, said Sean Hopkins, senior vice president
of health economics at the New Jersey Hospital Association. "Now is not the time
to forsake some of your largest employers that also happen to be the fabric of
the health-care safety net in the state," he said.

Thirty-seven of the state's 74 hospitals responded to the survey. The results
were presented in aggregate and were short on details.

The hospitals said their total margins fell from 3.7 percent in 2007 to minus
4.5 percent last year. Forty-five percent said they had laid off from six to 140
people in 2008. Twenty-one percent expect layoffs this year, ranging from 10 to
120 employees.

More than three-quarters said they had more charity care and emergency room
patients. In 60 percent of hospitals, elective procedures were down 2 percent to
20 percent.

Hopkins said eight hospitals had closed in the last year. That, coupled with
people who had lost employer-sponsored insurance along with their jobs, could
explain why ER visits and charity care are up. Hospitals were not asked whether
they had seen an increase in elective procedures, so it is not known whether
some might be benefiting from the closures.

Seventy-two percent of the hospitals said charitable contributions were down.
Hopkins said declines of 10 percent to 25 percent were common.

Contact staff writer Stacey Burling at 215-854-4944 or sburling@phillynews.com.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


