                              121 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             April 9, 2009 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

HEALTH-CARE INDUSTRY FEELS EFFECTS;
IMPACT OF RECESSION

BYLINE: George Hesselberg

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 242 words


The economic recession will reach, but not seriously infect, the health care
industry, a university expert on the economic health of hospitals in Wisconsin
said Wednesday.

Professor Andy Lewis, of UW-Extension's Center for Community-Economic
Development, pointed to a recent study of the state's hospitals, which added
35,000 new jobs between 1990 and 2007 and are expected to add 20,950 jobs
between 2006 and 2016.

"When we looked at local economic impact of hospitals, the general knowledge is
that hospitals are pretty much recession-proof, though not completely
impervious," Lewis said.

"There are some differences in this recession, though," he said, noting that
clinics, which are the entities affected by the Dean Health System layoffs, were
not included in the study but fall in the same economic impact category.

"Even hospitals are feeling the pinch, though overall they are going to fare a
lot better than any other industry sector during a recession. They are certainly
seeing an increased number of charitable cases and few discretionary surgeries,
which tend to be profit centers," he said.

Also, health care layoffs and the recession will affect the hospital supply
industries, including medical equipment companies, he said.

Another effect will be that hospital administrations, along with the managers in
other industries, may turn conservative in their hiring even when the recession
recedes, which Lewis suspects may begin, slightly, in 2010.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


