                              13 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      February 20, 2012 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Illinois Hospitals Generate $78.7 Billion Annual Impact on State's Economy

LENGTH: 790  words


New Delhi, Feb. 20 -- Illinois' 200 hospitals and health systems generate a
total annual impact of $78.7 billion on the state's economy, according to a new
report released today by the Illinois Hospital Association (IHA). Illinois
Hospitals and Health Systems $78.7 Billion State Economic Impact examines the
statewide economic impact of Illinois hospitals.

"In addition to providing vital medical and health care services to Illinoisans,
Illinois hospitals are absolutely essential for the state's economy as a steady,
recession-proof source of excellent, well-paying jobs, providing stability and
even growth during difficult economic times," said Illinois Hospital Association
President & CEO Maryjane A. Wurth. "Illinois hospitals employ more than a
quarter of a million people, resulting in more than 422,500 direct and indirect
jobs."

Illinois hospitals are among the top three employers in nearly half of the
state's counties. Hospitals provide excellent jobs and substantial benefits for
a wide range of workers and spur additional economic activity through their
spending on goods, services and capital improvements. They are a key cornerstone
of the local and state economy.

Among the report's key findings:

* Jobs: Illinois hospitals employ more than a quarter of a million people and
expend $15.4 billion a year on wages and benefits, resulting in a total of
422,575 direct and indirect jobs and an economic impact from hospital payrolls
alone of $37.0 billion;

* Illinois hospitals generate a total economic impact to the state of $78.7
billion;

* Illinois hospitals spend $14 billion on goods and services, resulting in $19.5
billion in other spending in the state economy, for a combined impact of $33.5
billion;

* Illinois hospitals also invest in capital improvements, spending $3.4 billion
on buildings and equipment, which generated an additional $4.8 billion for a
total of $8.2 billion.

* Each Illinois hospital job generates an additional 1.1 Illinois jobs;

* Every dollar spent by Illinois hospitals on goods, services and payroll
generates an additional $1.40 in spending throughout the local and state
economy;

* In challenging economic times, Illinois' health care sector added 39,400 jobs,
a 7% growth between January 2008 and November 2011-while Illinois lost 126,300
jobs.

* The state's economy grew by 52,600 jobs between December 2010 and December
2011. Nearly one-third of this growth - 16,700 jobs - was created in the health
care and education sector.

* The Illinois Health Care/Social Assistance sector is projected to add 149,755
jobs by 2018 - more than any other sector in the state economy.

* During the recent economic downturn, Illinois GDP grew by only 2.8% - with
some sectors dropping by up to 20% - while the GDP of health care/social
assistance grew by 11.4%. This vast economic activity generated by the health
care/social assistance sector makes it the sixth highest contributor to
Illinois' GDP, or more than 7% of the gross state product.

The IHA report notes that Illinois hospitals provide enormous benefits to their
communities with their charity care and uncompensated care; subsidization of
money-losing services such as emergency and trauma care; medical research;
education and training of physicians, nurses and other highly-skilled health
care professionals; and underpayments for services to Medicare and Medicaid
patients that they absorb.

Overall community benefits provided by the more than 100 Illinois hospitals that
file annual community benefit reports is now more than $4.6 billion annually,
including nearly $561 million in charity care, an increase in charity care of
124% since 2005.

"Hospitals sustain communities through jobs, community program and medical
services to those in need, especially the underserved, regardless of ability to
pay," said Wurth. "Imposing Medicaid cuts and property taxes on hospitals would
harm one of the few sectors that has been creating jobs and damage the health
care system as well. Hospitals would have to consider hiring freezes and layoffs
and service reductions or elimination. In dire cases, hospitals will be forced
to close, creating 'health care deserts' around the state."

Estimates of the economic impact of Illinois hospitals are based on the Regional
Input-Output Modeling System II (RIMS-II) developed by the U.S. Dept. of
Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA). The final demand multipliers,
obtained from BEA RIMS-II, were applied to the latest available Medicare cost
report data of hospital jobs and spending (2010/2011 cost report data) as
validated and updated by hospitals.

The IHA report also includes a detailed breakdown on the economic impact of
Illinois hospitals by state senate districts and Illinois Congressional
districts.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


