                              14 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 18, 2009 Friday

Study: New hospital will create 800 jobs

BYLINE: Steve Vied, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 700 words


Sep. 18--A new hospital in Daviess County will create 500 permanent health care
jobs within five years of its opening and ultimately bring a total of 800 new
jobs to the region, raising total earnings by more than $24 million a year,
according to a new study.

The Greater Owensboro Economic Development Corp. compiled the study, replicating
a data analysis method used by the University of New Orleans to evaluate the
overall economic impact of hospitals as base industries in metropolitan areas.

"Little attention is paid hospitals from an economic development perspective,
and this is unfortunate," said EDC President Nick Brake. "The lack of attention
is, in part, because of the perception that health care is only a locally
serving activity that has little impact on driving a metropolitan area's
economic prosperity. Evidence from around the country is showing us otherwise.
Hospitals are significant contributors to the economic base of regions. This
analysis indicates that is the case here in Owensboro."

Owensboro Medical Health System is moving ahead with a plan to build a $385
million, 442-bed hospital east of Owensboro between Daniels Lane and Pleasant
Valley Road. According to the EDC study, expanding the local health care
industry with the construction of a new hospital will have a significant
economic impact on the Owensboro region.

The study said that hospitals contribute to local and regional economies through
the purchase of goods and services and by providing jobs for large numbers of
workers. The EDC used data from the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis and the
Bureau of Labor Statistics to show that health care is a base industry in the
Owensboro metropolitan statistical area, rather than just a locally serving
industry. Each dollar in earnings and jobs for employment in such an industry
creates additional earnings and jobs in the region. In Owensboro's case, for
every 10 new health care jobs created, six additional jobs will be created.

OMHS' current annual payroll is $163 million, according to the EDC, based on
3,147 employees. OMHS, the region's single largest employer, has seen employment
rise by 1,000 workers since 1995.

The jobs and earnings projections in the EDC analysis do not count the
construction phase of the hospital project, or the jobs created by physicians
being recruited to the region as a result of the new hospital. During the
construction phase, using the same multipliers, more than 4,000 jobs will be
created, resulting in earnings of $139 million for the region.

The University of New Orleans study found that hospitals in small metropolitan
regions, such as Owensboro, have the potential to evolve as a significant
"export industry" because they provide basic care in the surrounding area. The
new OMHS facility will serve 11-county region, making it an industry that will
add to the region's overall economic growth.

The new hospital will also affect the local and regional economy because OMHS
receives about $75 million annually in Medicare payments from patients outside
the Owensboro metropolitan statistical area.

The Owensboro region has more health care jobs than similar regions, according
to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, and they are relatively much higher-paying
jobs. The average salary for health practitioner occupations in the Greater
Owensboro region is more than $52,000 per year, greater than double the median
income of the region.

"It is reasonable to conclude that the health care industry in Greater Owensboro
is an export-oriented industry central to the region's economic base," Brake
said. "Expansion in the health care industry would positively impact the export
base and provide a long-term economic benefit to the region."

Steve Vied, 691-7297, svied@messenger-inquirer.com

To see more of the Messenger-Inquirer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.messenger-inquirer.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Messenger-Inquirer,
Owensboro, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090918-OW-Study-New-hospital-will-create-800-jobs-0918

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2009 Messenger-Inquirer


