                              133 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                  May 30, 2002

Hospital appeals finding that it discriminated against doctor

BYLINE: By EITHNE DONNELLAN

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 432 words


One of the State's larger hospitals - St James's in Dublin - yesterday went to
the Labour Court to appeal against a landmark decision that it discriminated
against a Malaysian junior doctor on race grounds.

The hospital was found by the Office of the Director of Equality Investigations
(ODEI) to have discriminated against Dr Bennett Eng (26) by hiring him as an
unpaid intern in 2000, while giving salaried positions to his Irish intern
colleagues. It was the first racial discrimination claim to be successfully
taken by an employee in the State under the Employment Equality Act 1998.

Ms Michelle Ni Longain, solicitor for the hospital, told the court a limited
number of paid intern positions were available at the hospital each year. The
hospital was affiliated to Trinity College and if the number of medical
graduates from the college exceeded the number of paid intern positions
available, the hospital offered those graduates who had not been given paid
posts unpaid ones to enable them to complete their training and obtain Medical
Council registration.

She said paid posts were allocated on the basis of exam results but the hospital
was also obliged to act in accordance with Department of Enterprise, Trade and
Employment rules on the issuing of work permits. "Its policy states that only if
an Irish/EEA (European Economic Area) candidate cannot be recruited for a
position should a non-EEA national be employed," she said.

Ms Ni Longain submitted that there may be a conflict between the requirements
which an em- ployer is obliged to observe when obtaining a work permit and its
obligation under the Employment Equality Act 1998 not to discriminate on the
grounds of race. She said the hospital sought the court's guidance in respect of
its obligations under the work permit rules.

Ms Ni Longain said there were only 77 paid intern posts available to graduates
in 1999/2000, the year Dr Eng qualified, and 10 per cent of them went to non-EEA
nationals. She said Dr Eng finished 81st out of a total of 85 graduates in his
year and therefore was not entitled to a paid intern post.

Dr Eng submitted, however, that an Irish graduate who finished 82nd got a paid
post and that this was unlawful under the Employment Equality Act. The hospital
said this was because Irish or EEA persons had to be recruited first if they
were available.

Dr Eng appealed to the Labour Court to uphold the ODEI decision in which he was
awarded about  EUR 38,000 in back pay and allowances which had been withheld
pending the appeal. The Labour Court reserved its decision.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2002 The Irish Times


