                              132 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                       July 8, 2004 Thursday Home Edition

Clayton/Henry Business: BRIEFS

BYLINE: LINDA LICKTEIG

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Clayton / Henry; Pg. 3JI

LENGTH: 292 words


Hospital system gets out of Aetna

Southern Regional Health System has withdrawn from Aetna Healthcare insurance
network effective July 1, according to officials at the medical center.

"Recently, we reached new network agreements with every other major health
insurance company, but Aetna's demands are simply unreasonable," says Ed Bonn,
president and chief executive officer of Southern Regional.

After July 1, all Southern Regional facilities, including Southern Regional
Medical Center, are considered "out-of-network" for Aetna members. Aetna members
may still receive treatment at the Southern Regional facilities, but they will
be considered "self-pay" patients in most nonemergency cases. Emergency patients
still could be covered under their "out-of-network" provision.

Affected Aetna customers should speak to their employers or insurance
representatives regarding alternate insurance coverage options.

Hospital impact calculated

A recent study commissioned by the Georgia Hospital Association reported that
Henry Medical Center's economic impact on the region exceeded $249 million in
2002, the most recent year for which data is available.

The report, titled "Georgia Hospitals Economic Impact on the Local and State
Economy," is based on a formula developed by economist Donald Ratajczak and the
U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Economic Analysis.

The report calculates that Henry Medical Center created more than 2,500
full-time jobs and $63 million in household income for people employed in
supporting industries, in addition to the 862 full-time jobs and $36 million in
payroll for Medical Center employees in 2002. More than 65 percent of Henry
Medical Center's employees live in Henry County.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Briefs

                Copyright 2004 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


