                              126 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                             March 20, 2009 Friday

Hospital pulls belt&nbsp; tighter, cuts more jobs

BYLINE: By CHRIS SHOLLY Staff Writer Lebanon Daily News

SECTION: LETTERS TO EDITOR; Local

LENGTH: 465 words


Good Samaritan Health System announced yesterday that it has eliminated 50
positions because of the struggling economy.

"We had hoped that we could make it through this economic downturn without
having to eliminate a single job," Robert Longo, GSH president and CEO, said in
a news release.  "Although we had initiated several cost-cutting initiatives,
revenues have simply not kept pace with expenses."

William Mulligan, the hospital's vice president of strategic planning and
marketing, said none of the eliminated positions directly affect the delivery of
patient care.

Mulligan said the positions eliminated are "behind-the-scenes functions," such
as in the departments of finance and planning and marketing.

"The public is not going to notice any change. We made every effort to maintain
patient-care positions so we can continue to provide a high level of care for
our patients," he said.

 About five of the 50 positions were already vacant, he said. Earlier this year,
the hospital did some belt-tightening by eliminating a number of vacant
positions, holding merit pay increases for salaried employees for one year,
postponing capital expenditures and eliminating the use of temporary staff.

He said the hospital has experienced a decline in inpatient admissions, which
may be explained by a milder than expected flu season and by patients postponing
elective procedures.

In the first eight months of the fiscal year, inpatient admissions are down by
more than 200 from what was projected, Mulligan said. The hospital's fiscal year
runs from July 1 through June 30.

While outpatient services have increased significantly, he said, the added
revenues in this area have not been sufficient to offset dramatic increases in
patient bad debts and free care, which reflects the overall economic conditions.
Last year, the hospital recorded $16.6 million in bad debt and free care. This
year, he said, that number is $1.5 million more than it was at the same time
last year.

In addition, he said, the hospital has seen an increase in pension expenses,
which he attributed to the decline in the stock market. As a result, the
hospital expects to add $600,000 to its pension expenses this year, Mulligan
said.

Other hospitals throughout the region, state and nation are experiencing the
same economic woes, he said.

"It's a myth that hospitals are recession-proof. Like everyone else, we are
suffering from the economic downturn," he said.

Mulligan said he does not anticipate further reductions at this time.

"This is what we believe we needed to do," he said. "It's unfortunate we had to
take these steps."

 GSH notified employees of the cuts yesterday. The hospital will provide
severance packages and out-placement assistance to all employees affected by the
changes, Mulligan said.

ChrisSholly@LDNews.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved


