                              141 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                  Feather River Bulletin (Quincy, California)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                October 13, 2010

Plumas County Economic Recovery Committee concerned by lack of support;
Where 1 Stand

BYLINE: Feather River Bulletin staff

LENGTH: 595  words


Honorable Senator Diane Feinstein'

Honorable Congressman Wally Herger Honorable Congressman Tom McClintock
Assemblyman Dan Logue

The Plumas County Economic Recovery Committee (PCERC) wishes to express a
critical need and concern to you. The specific issue is our small rural
hospitals and the ever-increasing rate of closure of these critical facilities.

In Plumas County our existing hospitals were built with federal Hill-Burton
funds in the 1950s. These facilities have met the medical needs of our
communities for over 50 years but now are in dire need of modernization.

As you are all aware, California has also placed an additional burden on our
hospitals with the earthquake standards (S.B. 1953) that have been adopted.

The current issue for Plumas County, as well as most other small rural counties
across the nation, is that the federal government and state have abandoned our
hospitals as far as assistance to upgrade these outdated facilities.

Because of this loss of support, our communities are struggling to keep this
vital medical infrastructure open and updated. Plumas County has seen the
closure of one of our four rural hospitals in the last five years.

Recently in Quincy, our largest community, voters rejected a bond measure that
would have provided funding to allow for the modernization necessary to provide
the modern technology, emergency services, operating room updates as well as
infection free inpatient rooms that are so badly needed.,

The current economic downturn that has affected so much of our country is having
a larger impact on our small rural counties in the ability to provide local
support in such critical community needs. This rejection, by property owners,
was related to the high cost of the tax necessary to build a hospital in a small
population hospital district.

Without adequate support, it is highly likely Plumas County could lose a second
rural hospital. If this occurs, businesses will slowly close, property values
will decline further, families will move away and we will be confronted with
another dying community.

The Plumas District Hospital (PDH) in Quincy is the only facility in Plumas
County that provides 24-hour emergency and obstetric service. It is also
designated as a critical access hospital.

With the closure of the Indian Valley Hospital in Greenville, PDH is also the
only local medical facility that is reasonably close to meet the needs of that
community as. well as Quincy and the surrounding communities of Meadow Valley,
Twain, Cromberg and Bucks Lake.

With continued aging of our facility in Quincy, more and more patients must
travel to Reno, Nev., or Chico for their medical needs and that means a trip of
80 miles.

During the winter months, this is 80 miles over icy or snowy roads or down the
Feather River Canyon with the additional hazard of rockslides and a closed road.
In addition, it is becoming ever more difficult to maintain or attract doctors
and specialists, such as orthopedists, that will practice in PDH.

This leads to continued loss of revenue that is vital to keep PDH open.

Given the situation we have outlined, we invite you or your representatives to
tour PDH to personally see and discuss this critical issue, as well as learn
about rural health care.

PCERC and all of Plumas County are requesting your assistance in this critical
funding issue and can only hope that there are federal assistance funds and
support available.

If we can provide more specific information or meet with your office, we would
welcome the opportunity to do so -- the future of our community depends on it.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

