                              137 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                January 11, 2002

Malaysian doctor wins pay case against Dublin hospital

BYLINE: By NUALA HAUGHEY, Social and Racial Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 413 words


A Malaysian doctor who claimed he was discriminated against on the grounds of
race while working at one of the biggest hospitals in the State has won an
employment equality case.

St James's Hospital in Dublin has been ordered to pay Dr Bennet Eng (26) about
EUR38,000 in back pay and allowances by the Office of the Director of Equality
Investigations, which ruled in the case.

In the first racial discrimination case to be successfully taken by an employee,
an equality officer ruled that it was unlawful for Dr Eng to work as an intern
without a basic salary when Irish intern colleagues doing like work were in
salaried positions.

Dr Eng, a graduate of Trinity College Dublin, worked for nine months in 2000 and
2001 as an unpaid intern in St James's.

A specific number of funded intern posts are available to medical graduates
every year in the State's main hospitals. If the number of graduates exceeds the
number of posts offered, the remainder are allocated unpaid intern positions.

However, if an Irish doctor or one from the European Economic Area - the 12 EU
states and Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein - does not have sufficient exam
qualifications for a funded post, non-EEA graduates can be displaced from paid
posts to make way for EEA graduates.

In Dr Eng's case, an EU graduate who was ranked lower than him on merit was
allocated a paid internship post.

The hospital contended that this system was justified, as it was obliged to
offer paid intern jobs to EEA nationals who did not require work permits before
offering them to non-EEA nationals who did.

The hospital also maintained that this system was necessary to meet the
requirements of the Treaty of Rome, which provides for equal treatment for
workers within the EEA.

The equality officer ruled that the treaty did not, by corrollary, oblige
employers to discriminate against non-EU nationals and that national law
governed the rights and entitlements of third-country nationals resident here.

The hospital had not submitted "any valid ground other than nationality for the
non-payment of basic salary" to Dr Eng, the ruling states.

A spokesperson for St James's Hospital said it had a long track record as an
equal opportunity employer. "We have proactively recruited people on ability
from many different parts of the world and the evidence is there from the
multi-ethnic workforce within the hospital."

The hospital had not ruled out appealing the judgment, he added.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2002 The Irish Times


