                              135 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Star-News (Wilmington, NC)

                            November 5, 2012 Monday
                                  1ST Edition

SECTION: Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 444 words


Who knew, back in the 1960s, that little old New Hanover Memorial Hospital would
grow up to have such a huge economic impact on the Cape Fear region? At the
time, supporters of building a new hospital were most concerned about having a
place where residents could get quality health care.

But a recently completed economic study has estimated the value of the hospital
to the region at $1.34 billion in just one year. That's more than one-tenth of
the total economic activity of the region, according to the study by UNCW's
Swain Center for Business and Economic Services.

Not bad for such humble beginnings.

New Hanover Regional Medical Center began as New Hanover Memorial Hospital,
built with money from a taxpayer-backed bond issue. Back then, the dream was to
merge two aging, segregated hospitals in a brand-new building. It opened in
1967.

As the population grew, so did the hospital, which for years competed with the
smaller, private Cape Fear Memorial Hospital - now a part of New Hanover
Regional. A small psychiatric hospital was added, a rehabilitation hospital, a
cancer center, and a women's and children's hospital. Outpatient services and
clinics also grew.

Now the hospital has 5,000 employees, a significant percentage of them in
good-paying, high-demand health care fields. An operation that size has a
natural impact on the local economy. In addition to the full- and part-time
hospital employees, the study estimates that the hospital also is responsible
for the existence of several thousand other jobs, and $481 million annually in
salaries.

It's like its own small economy in a single network, if you will.

Most residents of the region, however, value New Hanover Regional as a medical
care provider, and have an interest in keeping a high quality of service. It
isn't cheap, as we all know every time we get a bill from the doctor or
hospital.

But unlike many hospitals that have been absorbed by larger networks, New
Hanover Regional is still owned by the residents of New Hanover County and
operated by a board of trustees appointed by the county commissioners. Residents
here value that public ownership.

Efforts to privatize it in the past have failed, and at least one suitor that
sought to buy the hospital was turned down flat.

Last year the commissioners nixed a proposal to allow Carolinas HealthCare
System in Charlotte to manage the local hospital because New Hanover County
residents were not convinced the move would be good for the community.

Residents here have always known the value of their hospital to the region's
quality of life. The new study merely quantifies its impact in terms of dollars
and cents - a lot of dollars and cents.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Star-News, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


