                              15 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 15, 2013 Saturday

Hospitals an economic engine

BYLINE: Guy Kovner, The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 883 words


June 15--With construction of the North Coast's first new hospital in more than
two decades under way along Highway 101, a report released Friday by a hospital
trade group shows the enormous impact the fast-growing medical sector has across
five North Bay counties.

Hospitals generate spending of nearly $5 billion a year and more than 35,000
jobs in Sonoma, Marin, Mendocino, Lake and Napa counties, according to data from
the Hospital Council of Northern and Central California.

Those jobs pay above-average wages and are more resistant to cuts during
recessions, the report said. Plus, the sector is expected to grow faster than
the rest of the economy, on average, the report said.

The economic impact report cites $2.8 billion in direct spending by 24
hospitals, including $1.6 billion in wages and benefits and $1.2 billion on
supplies, research, education and capital improvements.

An additional $767 million comes from spending by companies that supply hospital
goods and services, and an additional $1.3 billion is attributed to spending by
employees of the hospitals and their suppliers on housing, food, transportation
and other expenses.

The $4.9 billion total and 35,480 employees represent the hospitals' overall
economic impact.

In Sonoma County, seven acute care hospitals spend $882.7 million on wages and
benefits, plus purchases of supplies, research and education, the report said.

A Sonoma County Economic Development Board report prepared by Moody's last year
said the health and wellness sector accounted for $1.83 billion, or 8 percent of
Sonoma County's $23.3 billion in annual economic activity. That puts it on par
with the $1.9 million generated by the agriculture, food and wine sector.

Kaiser Permanente, St. Joseph Health and Sutter Medical Center are the three
largest private sector employers in the county with a combined workforce of
nearly 6,600 last year, according to the Moody's report.

Only one other business, Agilent Technologies, had more than 1,000 employees.

Health care salaries in Sonoma County average $71,839 a year, 44 percent higher
than the overall average salary of $50,024, according to Friday's report.

In Mendocino and Lake counties, health care salaries are 49 percent higher than
the average, compared with just 20 percent higher in the Bay Area, including
Marin County.

Hospitals employ highly trained people, including nurses, pharmacists and
imaging technicians, and operate "high-end technology" to treat patients, said
Todd Salnas, president of St. Joseph Health, Sonoma County, which includes Santa
Rosa Memorial and Petaluma Valley hospitals.

By law, California hospitals may not directly employ physicians, and they are
not included in the data released Friday, Salnas said.

It is unclear how many of the new Sutter hospital's 1,000 workers will be new
hires, but Friday's report said the $284 million building accounts for more than
half of the $523 million in North Bay hospital construction costs over the next
five years. Howard Memorial Hospital in Willits is building a new $62 million
facility, and Marin General Hospital in Greenbrae has plans for new $445 million
structure, but the economic impact report includes just $165.6 million over the
five-year period.

Santa Rosa Memorial Hospital's $15 million emergency room expansion is not
included in the report.

Memorial's trauma center, which receives patients from the Golden Gate Bridge to
the Oregon border and beyond, requires a high level of investment to treat the
"sickest of the sick," Salnas said.

Memorial's annual spending of $327 million is the highest among the 24 hospitals
included in the report.

Hospitals are naturally an economic mainstay, said Robert Eyler, director of the
Center for Regional Economic Analysis at Sonoma State University.

"It's an expensive service and there's no end to demand," he said.

Economists use the term "inelasticity of demand" to describe services or
products, such as health care, that people will pay for no matter the cost.

Tough times impact hospitals as people put off elective surgery and more
uninsured patients come to the emergency room, Salnas said.

But for the most part, he said, "when people need health care they're going to
get it."

The 17 acute care hospitals in the economic impact report provided more than
$374 million in charity and non-reimbursed care in 2010, the economic impact
report said.

Throughout the North Bay, health care jobs are growing faster than the average
for all occupations, the report said.

In Sonoma County, health care jobs are expected to increase by 17.7 percent from
2008-2018, compared with 9 percent overall job growth, according to California
Employment Development Department forecasts.

In Mendocino and Lake counties, health care jobs will expand by 12.1 percent,
twice the overall rate.

The nation's aging population will "drive higher health care utilization, Salnas
said.

The St. Joseph system expects to focus its expansion in services outside
hospitals, with increased emphasis on wellness, outpatient and ambulatory care
aimed at reducing costs, he said.

You can reach Staff Writer Guy Kovner at 521-5457 or
guy.kovner@pressdemocrat.com

___ (c)2013 The Press Democrat (Santa Rosa, Calif.) Visit The Press Democrat
(Santa Rosa, Calif.) at www.pressdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130615-UR-Hospitals-an-economic-engine-0615-20130615

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UR


                                 Copyright 2013


