                              134 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                Daily News Egypt

                             July 18, 2013 Thursday

Economic crisis affects charitable organisations

BYLINE: Sara Aggour

LENGTH: 554 words


The Egyptian children's cancer hospital (57357), whose budget derives solely
from donations, has also been affected by the economic slowdown in the country.

Charitable organisations in Egypt have not been immune from the economic
difficulties facing the nation; many struggle with gathering donations to
maintain their operations. The Daily News Egypt spoke to a number of
organisations to investigate the problems they face.

The Wataneya Society for the Development of Orphanages, established in 2008,
aims to develop and implement a unified and integrated mechanism for Egyptian
orphanages.  Yasmeen Hegry, the external relations manager, said they have
witnessed a major drop after the 2011 revolution, from both corporations and the
individual donors: "Both donations dropped by 60%."

Hegry added that the decrease continued in 2013: "we can still feel the
consistency of the drop. The crisis has definitely taken its toll on us."

The Egyptian children's cancer hospital (57357), whose budget derives solely
from donations, has also been affected by the economic slowdown in the country.

"The economic crisis has affected the amounts of donations the hospital
receives... however, it's visible that Egyptians are trying to participate with
all their resources and zakat (alms-giving) in the organisation," said Hanaa
Farid, manager of the financial resources.

Farid added that the visiting rate has also changed during the past years: "We
used to receive visitors all the time. People liked to pass by and check on the
kids and see the development of the hospital that they helped build."

"But the lack of clear vision and security during the current circumstances led
the number of visits to decrease," she said.

Farid stated that the hospital maintains a financial sustainability plan that
permits it to function in lean times: "we put a clear running cost plan to
rationalise the hospital costs. This strategic plan, which includes making bank
endowments, allows us to continue offering the medical assistance the children
need."

Mostafa Zamzam, the spokesman for Dar El-Orman, a charity that supports the
hospital, said that the number of visitors only decreased in the Cairo and
Alexandria branches. "The remaining branches for the orphanages and the projects
in south Egypt still receive the same number of visitors," he said.

Zamzam  added that the financial situation actually improved in 2013. "The
amounts donated exceeded all expectations and increased by 30% compared to
2012."

"It seems that the harder the situation gets for Egyptians, the more they give
away", he said.

He explained that this increase was encouraged by ability for contributors to
donate online to Dar El-Orman.

"We also send our employees to receive any payments and this offers the donor an
alternative to coming in," he added.

Another organisation that seems to be suffering is the Resala foundation, which
has been  rumoured to be affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood, whose donations
have suffered.

Resala denied any association to the Brotherhood adding "we did not, do not and
we will not affiliate with any organisation that has religious direction," to
their television advertisements.

Related posts:

Foreign reserves on the threshold of stabilisation

Cairo University conference discusses economic challenges

Egypt ranked 108th in terms of innovation

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 11


         Copyright 2013 Daily News Egypt - Egyptian Media Services Ltd.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


