                              140 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                            Crain's Detroit Business

                               February 13, 2012
                              Correction Appended

McLaren's Plan B if CON is rejected: Legislators;
Battle lines: Too many hospitals vs. economic jolt

BYLINE: JAY GREENE; jgreene@crain.com

SECTION: Pg. 1 Vol. 28

LENGTH: 1223  words


Stymied in its effort to change state regulations that control hospital growth,
McLaren Health Care may turn to the Michigan Legislature to get a long hoped-for
hospital in Independence Township approved as an economic development project.

On Feb. 1, Flint-based McLaren filed two certificate-of-need applications to
build a hospital in the township and transfer 200 unused beds from
McLaren-Oakland, the former POH Regional Medical Center, in Pontiac.

McLaren CEO Phil Incarnati said that if the CONs are denied in July, when they
are scheduled to be heard, McLaren will go forward with plans to seek special
legislation that would allow construction on 80 acres that is part of the
McLaren Health Care Village of Clarkston.

Current CON regulations prevent hospitals in metropolitan areas from
transferring beds farther than two miles. McLaren's proposed site is 9.4 miles
from McLaren-Oakland.

Incarnati said McLaren prefers to go through the CON process, but "the CON
commission needs to recognize that changes need to be made with the geographic
limitation (two miles) for a new hospital."

The filing came after McLaren had unsuccessfully attempted in December to change
CON regulations to permit replacement hospitals more than five miles away from
an existing hospital, according to Bret Jackson, president of the Economic
Alliance of Michigan, a Novi-based business-labor coalition. That rule change
would allow for construction of the proposed hospital.

The Economic Alliance in a statement to Crain's said the rule change would have
resulted "in hundreds of millions if not billions of dollars of unneeded capital
investment in Michigan's health care infrastructure. This would have a
devastating impact on the cost of health care benefits and the loss of thousands
of jobs for Michigan's residents."

Jackson said there is no need for the proposed McLaren hospital because the six
hospitals within a 22-minute drive of Independence Township operate at a 53
percent occupancy rate based on 989 licensed beds.

"Putting a new hospital in Clarkston is just trying to steal market share away
from other hospitals," Jackson said. "Patients are being taken care of now" by
the area's hospitals.

McLaren's case for the hospital rests on the argument that northern Oakland
County is growing and can financially support a $308 million hospital with
25,000 annual patient discharges, and that the distance to other hospitals can
be problematic.

The closest hospital to the proposed hospital after McLaren-Oakland is St.
Joseph Mercy Oakland in Pontiac, at 11.2 miles; followed by Huron Valley Sinai
and Crittenton Hospital Medical Center, at about 16 miles; and Henry Ford West
Bloomfield, at 18.3 miles.

Incarnati also disputes that the hospital will drive up health care costs,
saying that McLaren is the lowest-cost provider with the highest case mix of any
hospital organization in Michigan.

Those arguments have won the support of Oakland County Executive L. Brooks
Patterson, who says the project will create 2,000 to 3,000 jobs and provide an
economic development jolt to businesses.

"I live in that area," Patterson said. "It is one of the fastest-growing sectors
we have, and McLaren is willing to make a $300 million investment to create up
to 3,000 jobs. We need a hospital because people have to drive 20 minutes to the
nearest one."

The legislative route has precedent.

Two other Detroit-based health systems accomplished the same CON bypass maneuver
in 2002.

During a legislative lame duck session, Henry Ford Health System and St. John
Providence Health System won special legislative approval to transfer beds from
existing hospitals to new hospitals in Oakland County.

In 2008, 200-bed St. John's Providence Park Hospital in Novi opened, followed by
300-bed Henry Ford West Bloomfield Hospital in 2009.

"McLaren is going to use the same pathway as St. John's and Henry Ford," said
Jack Weiner, CEO of St. Joseph Mercy Oakland.

Weiner said McLaren's specific route would be through the Senate Economic
Development Committee, not through the Health Policy Committee.

"They are working with Sen. (Mike) Kowall (R-White Lake), to get a bill through
on a trumped-up economic development reason," Weiner said.

Weiner said McLaren wants to be ready to get enabling legislation for its
hospital this fall if the Certificate of Need Commission rejects its request
this summer.

Kowall, who is chairman of the Senate economic development committee, said he's
considering introducing a bill and hopes it will be assigned to his committee.

Incarnati said McLaren has spoken with Kowall and other legislative leaders, but
no firm strategy has been put in place.

"There is a lot of support for the concept despite the constant barrage from
competitors to stop it," Incarnati said. "No one has addressed the patient care
needs. People want to protect their own monopolies."

Amber McCann, press secretary for Senate Majority Leader Randy Richardville,
R-Monroe, said there are no bills in the works on behalf of McLaren.

"The majority leader has heard talk about McLaren's plans, but he hasn't had any
conversations on the topic and doesn't have a position," McCann said.

Rob Casalou, CEO of St. Joseph Mercy Ann Arbor, said McLaren's effort to build a
new hospital is reminiscent of his efforts to build Providence Park, where he
was CEO before joining St. Joseph's.

"I supported new hospitals in 2002," Casalou said. "I am on the opposing side
now because the dynamics in health care have changed dramatically. Admissions
are going down or flat."

Casalou, who also is chairman of the CON commission's Hospital Bed Standard
Advisory Committee, said McLaren was initially supportive of a rule change that
would require hospitals to remove licensed beds if they have less than 40
percent occupancy and seek CONs for beds.

"We met for six months and in the last 10 minutes of the last meeting McLaren
made (the) proposal that would have dismantled the CON program for hospital
beds," Casalou said. "We felt it was a disingenuous effort."

The CON commission is expected to consider the committee's recommended changes -
which do not include the McLaren proposal - at its meeting next month.

Casalou said McLaren doesn't believe it will win a CON for the new hospital but
wants to go through the regulatory motions before recruiting a legislator to
submit a bill.

"They are aligned with Oakland County and convinced them this will be an
economic engine, a bonanza, and are trying to sell that story across the state,"
Casalou said. "This is not unlike what we did in 2002."

Citing a recent study by Michigan State University, Casalou said there are 6,700
surplus beds in Michigan - and 10 percent are located in northern Oakland
County.

"There is a lot of risk (rising costs and negative impact to neighboring
hospitals) to go forward with a new hospital. The only entity that doesn't have
a risk is McLaren. They are assured of a good return," Casalou said.

Weiner said if McLaren gets a new hospital through legislative means as did
Henry Ford and St. John, "CON will be dead. If you spend enough money, you can
build a new hospital, dialysis center or MRI. There are no rules."

Weiner said St. Joseph provides care to nearly half of the people who need
health care services in Independence Township. "It will have a significant
financial impact to us," he said.

Twitter: @jaybgreene

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 5, 2012



CORRECTION: A story on Page 1 in the Feb. 13 issue, "McLaren's Plan B if CON is
rejected: Legislators," should have said that Doctors' Hospital of Michigan in
Pontiac is the closest to a proposed McLaren Health Care hospital in
Independence Township at 9.2 miles away.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CD


                      Copyright 2012 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


