                              136 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     January 9, 2004, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Health care spending's rapid growth 'threatens affordability'

BYLINE: Julie Appleby

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 427 words

Fueled by rising hospital costs and health insurance premiums, U.S. employers,
consumers and the government spent 9.3% more on health care in 2002 than they
did in 2001.

The rate outpaced U.S. economic growth for the second year in a row. The nation
spent $ 1.6 trillion -- or 14.9% of the gross domestic product -- on health care
for insured and uninsured Americans, an amount equal to $ 5,440 per person,
according to data released Thursday from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services.


Government researchers who analyzed the data warned that continued rapid growth
in health care spending in the absence of strong economic growth "threatens the
affordability and generosity of sponsored health care benefits." In other words,
as health spending rises, business profits are squeezed, often resulting in
health benefit cuts, increased cost to workers, or both.

The study, published in the journal Health Affairs, pointed to rapidly rising
hospital spending -- up 9.5% over a year earlier -- as a main factor in the
overall increase.

More people used hospitals in 2002, and hospitals paid more for labor and
supplies. But the biggest part of the hospital increase -- 5% of the total --
was the success of hospitals in raising prices. While hospital costs were the
largest chunk of the health care spending pie, prescription drug spending was
the fastest rising, at 15.3%.

Health insurance premiums also rose sharply, and some employers passed those
costs to workers.

The study noted that enrollment in health plans offered by employers fell for
the second year in a row by about 1%. Researchers blamed that drop on
unemployment, a shift by workers to smaller companies that are less likely to
offer coverage and to higher employee costs, which led some workers to drop
coverage.

There is some good news: Growth in spending appeared to be slowing in the first
half of 2003, according to many economists.

"There was a very striking decline in prescription drug spending," says
economist Paul Ginsburg of the Center for Studying Health System Change, a
Washington think tank.

He attributes the decline to an increase in the number of generic drugs
available and to higher co-payments required by many health plans, which caused
patients to switch to cheaper generics or not fill prescriptions at all.

The center in December published its own report. It found that overall health
care spending growth for privately insured Americans slowed to 8.5% in the first
half of 2003, down from 10% in the second half of 2002.

LOAD-DATE: January 09, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, Color, Julie Snider, USA TODAY, Source: Health Affairs (BAR
GRAPH)

                      Copyright 2004 Gannett Company, Inc.


