                              142 of 994 DOCUMENTS

              St. Charles County Business Record (St. Charles, MO)

                             April 8, 2004 Thursday

New hospital will help market county

BYLINE: Mike Trask

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 613 words


Attracting new development to O'Fallon has not been a problem during the past
decade.

The city has been the favorite spot of homebuilders during most of this time,
with retailers following close behind. The decisions by MasterCard International
and CitiMortgage to locate major operations centers there, in turn, spurred
additional home building and commercial development.

BJC HealthCare's decision to build a hospital near the intersection of Highways
40 and K is almost certain to continue this trend. BJC plans to start
construction of the $75 million, 72-bed hospital early this summer, and the
facility is scheduled tentatively to open in early 2006.

Last month, BJC released the findings of a study the health care provider
commissioned that claimed the new hospital would have an economic impact of $616
million on the county. Of that amount, some $353 million in economic impact
would result from "ripple effects" such as additional retail and housing growth,
the study said.

In time, doctor offices, pharmacies, gift shops and related businesses probably
will appear near the hospital site, said Libbey Simpson, director of economic
development for O'Fallon. But the news that the hospital will be built has not,
as yet, prompted developers to some forward with development proposals for that
area. "I think it's a little too soon probably for that to happen," Simpson
said.

Still, the new hospital will be another tool the city can use to help market the
community to corporate decision-makers looking at sites for their relocations
and expansions. Economic development specialists for local municipalities and
the county often tout in their marketing materials BJC's and SSM Health Care's
significant presence in the county, as well as other health care providers such
as Crossroads Regional Hospital in Wentzville.

"I think definitely in 2005 [the hospital] will be a key component of our
marketing effort," Simpson said. "I think, overall, it will help the
marketability of the town." Simpson said the city's marketing plan for this year
was completed before the Missouri Health Facilities Review Committee voted
unanimously late last month to approve BJC's proposal. Before any major health
care facility can be built in Missouri, the state panel must decide there is a
need for it.

The Economic Development Center of St. Charles County was careful to stay out of
the argument about whether BJC HealthCare should build a hospital in O'Fallon.
But now that the decision has been made, the EDC will use that fact to help
market the county to businesses that may be considering locating or expanding
their operations here.

"We're going to definitely promote our strong health care system in the county,"
said David A. Leezer, the EDC's business development director.

At the same time, Leezer said it is difficult to measure how important health
care is to employers. "They all tell you it's important," he said. But the
definition of quality health care could mean one thing to some business owners
or CEOs, and another thing to their counterparts, he added. "It varies with
different people."

Health care is just one part of the mix that communities use to market
themselves. Companies look at schools, tax rates, land prices, the education and
training levels of the local work force, housing and amenities in deciding where
to move, Leezer said.

Still, the activities of health care providers in a given area are important
economic indicators. "If a health facility was to close its doors, that would
say a lot about the economic health of a community," just as the rapid expansion
of health care in a community does, he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: General news

                      Copyright 2004 Dolan Media Newswires


