                              147 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                            January 14, 2008 Monday

Jackson County hospital makes big impact

BYLINE: The Telegraph Herald

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 274 words


MAQUOKETA, Iowa - Jackson County Regional Health Center pumps more than $10
million into Jackson County's economy, according to the latest study by the Iowa
Hospital Association.

The health center employs nearly 200 employees directly, generating 355 total
jobs in the county and providing a $10.2 million in direct economic impact, the
study stated.

In addition, hospital employees by themselves spend nearly $2 million on retail
sales annually and contribute almost $100,000 in state sales tax revenue.

"This study underscores how important a hospital is for your community, not just
for quality of life, but for the economic development of Jackson County," said
Curt Coleman, Jackson County Regional Health Center's chief executive officer.

The IHA study examined the jobs, income, retail sales and sales tax produced by
hospitals and the rest of the state's health care sector. The study was compiled
from hospital-submitted data on the American Hospital Association Annual Survey
of Hospitals and with software that other industries have used to determine
their economic impact.

The study found that Iowa hospitals directly employ 71,446 people and create
another 83,082 jobs outside the hospital care sector. As an income source,
hospitals provide $3.2 billion in salaries and benefits and generate another
$2.5 billion through other jobs that depend on hospitals.

In all, Iowa's health care sector, which includes employed clinicians, long-term
care services and assisted living centers, pharmacies and other medical and
health services, directly and indirectly provides 375,470 Iowa jobs, or more
than one-fifth of the state's total employment.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


