                              146 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                      DECEMBER 19, 1997 Friday SF EDITION
                              Correction Appended

ECONOMIC FORCES RESHAPE AND SHRINK AREA HEALTH CARE / THE RESULT HAS BEEN
HOSPITAL CLOSINGS AND BIG LAYOFFS. GOVERNMENT BAILOUTS ARE VIEWED WITH
RESERVATIONS.

BYLINE: Josh Goldstein, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 992 words


Increased competition, lower government reimbursements, and the growth of
managed care present huge financial challenges to cash-strapped hospitals here
and around the country.

In Philadelphia there is the added problem of excess hospital capacity - too
many hospitals with too many empty beds. On any given night, approximately four
of every 10 beds are unused. That means payers - employers, insurers and the
government - have even more leverage to dictate lower prices.

These turbulent economic forces reshaping health care have already claimed
several victims. The Allegheny Health network recently shut down its Mount Sinai
unit in South Philadelphia and cut another 1,200 local hospital jobs. Last week,
the federal government announced it would bail out the North Philadelphia Health
System, which had lost $31 million and stopped payments on its bonds, by backing
$24 million in new tax-exempt bonds.

Those, however, were ad hoc decisions addressing specific crises. As such, they
did not deal with the broader economic and social issues confronting hospitals,
patients, communities and taxpayers.

Who decides when a failing hospital should close - its board, the community,
politicians? - and how is that decision balanced against the cost of lost jobs?

Do the jobs and economic stability provided by the hospitals justify huge
taxpayer subsidies? How many hospitals does a region such as Philadelphia really
need? Should market forces alone be left to determine which hospitals survive
and which fail?

The answers aren't academic. Hospitals play a crucial social and economic role
in the region, and tens of thousands of jobs are at stake. Hospitals are also a
source of community pride, and often serve as a proxy for neighborhood doctors
and other medical providers in areas where none exist.

Experts say those justifications must be balanced against competing concerns,
principal among them soaring medical costs that have gobbled up an
ever-increasing share of resources.

"The cost of keeping all these hospitals open is very great, and there is not a
bottomless pit of money to bail them out all the time," said Robert Helms,
director of health policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute in
Washington. "It seems to me that the market has to reduce capacity and
politicians have to step back and let the market do that."

Even some hospital officials say privately that the overall hospital system
would run more efficiently and reduce costs by allowing failing institutions to
go out of business. The remaining hospitals would have more business. That could
improve their bottom lines and, for some sophisticated services, improve care.

"It's awful hard for hospitals to come back from the dead unless there is some
change in their fundamentals," said Wharton School health economist Mark Pauly.
"The hospitals that go out of business are the weakest financially, not
necessarily the ones that provide the least-needed care."

For the moment, at least, market forces alone are not permitted to determine
which hospitals live or die. Issues such as medical need, economic development
and employment also play important roles in the decisions. But those forces can
produce divergent results: In one case, state and federal officials have
committed nearly $70 million to prop up North Philadelphia, while in another,
Allegheny officials were driven by economics to shut down Mount Sinai and lay
off 1,200.

The North Philadelphia Health System was created by the merger of St. Joseph's
Hospital and the Girard Medical Center in 1990. The system serves a poor, urban
neighborhood, employs 1,300 people, and is an institutional anchor for the area,
which has received $79 million from the Clinton administration as a federal
empowerment zone.

Medicare and Medicaid account for 90 percent of patient-care revenues. The
hospitals also provide substantial amounts of free services to the poor and
uninsured.

But the system has struggled financially from day one. Without $44.5 million in
special subsidies from the Pennsylvania Department of Public Welfare and the
federal government's $24 million loan guarantee, the hospitals - according to
their own analysis - would be forced to close. And there are a half-dozen
hospitals within three miles of the two facilities.

"What you have to do is look at all the hospitals in the community and ask what
is the right array of resources needed to serve the area, not single one out,"
said Jerry Katz a health-care consultant based in Plymouth Meeting. "No one is
out there doing that."

Hospital advocates say they also are frustrated by the lack of a forum to
discuss critical issues facing their networks.

"I don't think that anyone would dispute that there is excess hospital capacity,
but the problem that exists for all of us in this region is that there isn't a
public policy framework to guide the transformation of this delivery system,"
said Andrew Wigglesworth, president of the Delaware Valley Healthcare Council,
which represents area hospitals.

"We need to work to develop a framework for making the judgment as to when a
facility should be preserved in its current form or should be assisted to
convert to some other use," Wigglesworth said, adding that the decision should
be left to "the dictates of the market."

Health economists don't dispute the need to protect the essential health-care
needs of the public, but note that issues such as economic development and jobs
could be used to justify government bailouts of any failing company or industry.

"A local restaurant or a local shoe store may provide jobs, but if they are
going out of business we don't expect the government to step in and subsidize
them," said Michael Tanner, who directs health and welfare studies at the Cato
Institute in Washington.

He said, "We should let hospitals fail because you want to - as much as you can
- let markets speak."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1997 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


