                              148 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               September 16, 2002

Group May Be Set Up To Help Make Hospital Site More Attractive To Buyers

BYLINE: John Thomson

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 517 words


A new group may be set up to examine ways of persuading potential developers to
take on a North-east hospital site.  Ladysbridge Hospital near Banff is due to
close next year and the health authorities are expected to put the site on the
market.

Grampian Primary Care NHS Trust is in the process of choosing a firm to market
and value the site and advise if it should be sold in lots or as one package.

The suggestion that a new group could be established to look at ways in which
public agencies could work to make re-developing the site more attractive has
come from Aberdeenshire Council.

It is contained in a report drawn up by the council's economic development
service on future prospects for the site.

The report reveals that the remaining 73 residents at Ladysbridge will be
transferred to community care projects over the next few months.

This will be the culmination of a run-down over the last 15 years which has seen
patient numbers fall from 560 and staff numbers dwindle from 600 to the current
180.

As some of the community accommodation will not be ready by the end of this
year, when the trust plans to leave the hospital, projects will be run initially
from Ladysbridge.

Council official Morna Harper said: "The trust expects that all the projects
will have moved out by June to August next year and the hospital will then be
closed." She said the trust had not expected to look at future security of the
site until nearer the time the hospital closed but it was willing to reappraise
that decision.

Banff area councillors have already expressed concern about security plans for
the hospital and grounds.

Ms Harper said that in 1998, after the closure announcement was made, a report
was commissioned on the likely economic impact in the Banff area.

It concluded that around 90 people would be looking for jobs, assuming staff
were given help with re-training and finding other jobs.

Ms Harper said: "The present situation as to how many employees will be made
redundant is not clear. The management at the hospital have agreed to try and
estimate the numbers." She said some staff would be bussed daily to work in
kitchens at Aberdeen while other were leaving to work in community care.

She said: "Within the current economic climate, even a small number of
unemployed is a problem for the Whitehills, Banff and Macduff areas to absorb.

"The greatest potential for new jobs in the area is actually on the site itself.

"It is suggested a group be set up to look at how public agencies can work
together to make developing the site more attractive to potential developers.

"This group would also keep a watching brief on the redundancy situation." She
suggested the council, the health trust, Scottish Enterprise Grampian, the
employment service and Banff councillors John Cox and Jeanette McKee should be
represented on the group.

Banff and Buchan area councillors will consider the report tomorrow at a meeting
in Banff.

They will be asked to authorise council officials to set up a meeting with a
view to setting up the group.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal


