                              145 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                   Niagara Gazette (Niagara Falls, New York)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 2, 2017 Wednesday

$1M earmarked infrastructure projects at local hospitals

BYLINE: Rick Pfeiffer, Niagara Gazette, Niagara Falls, N.Y.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 592 words


Aug. 02--State Sen. Robert Ortt (R-North Tonawanda) and State Assemblyman Angelo
Morinello (R-Niagara Falls) came to town Tuesday morning bearing gifts for area
hospitals.

Ortt announced he has $1 million in state funding for infrastructure projects at
Niagara Falls Memorial Medical Center, DeGraff Memorial Hospital in North
Tonawanda, and Mount St. Mary's Hospital in Lewiston.

The senator called the cash "a catalyst for economic growth and job creation."

"They are not just providing health care to underserved communities. Ortt said
of the trio of hospitals. "They are economic drivers in this region."

The funding will help the local hospitals expand and upgrade facilities and
operations. Both Ortt and Morinello said the expansions and upgrades will lead
to the creation of new jobs.

"This is the life blood of the community," Morinello said. "I'm pleased that we
were able to fight for this in the (state) budget. This money will be put to
good use."

The Falls Memorial Medical Center was awarded $400,000 for its new inpatient
Cardiac and Stroke Center. The 12,950-square-foot facility will replace the
hospital's 40-year-old telemetry unit.

The center will feature 25 private rooms equipped with state-of-the-art
technology. The state money will complete a $4.3 million project that also will
includes a family and patient resource room and medical teaching facilities.

The project features a new inpatient rehabilitation center that will make it
more convenient for patients to begin physical therapy and occupational therapy
while still in the hospital. Since construction started in October, the project
has created 15 construction jobs.

"The health care sector is the largest economic sector in Western New York,"
Niagara Falls Memorial Medical Center President & CEO Joseph A. Ruffolo said.
"(This) is all about economic development."

DeGraff Memorial Hospital will use a $300,000 grant for a portion of the cost of
renovation and expansion to transform its emergency department. The project will
accommodate patient needs that saw 12,505 emergency room visits in 2015,
management at DeGraff's parent, Kalieda Health said. The ER will be moved to the
hospital's east side, facing the Twin Cities Highway.

"The ER is doubling in size," said DeGraff and Millard Fillmore Suburban
Hospital President Darcy Craven. "We're creating a state-of-the-art facility for
the people of the Twin Cities."

The new 10,264-square-foot facility will include 17 treatment bays with
high-tech equipment and energy efficiencies, trauma, bariatric and airborne
isolation rooms, as well as a decontamination area for infectious threats. An
additional 3,075-square-foot-space will include a new main lobby and patient
registration area.

The state funding cements the $7.8 million project,

Mount St. Mary's Hospital will use a grant of $300,000 to upgrade its electrical
distribution system in the main building that was originally constructed in
1965. Replacing the antiquated system will improve safeguards on the campus and
better protect both patients and visitors.

"We will invest nearly $5 million overall in the project because of its
importance in enhancing patient care and safety," Mount St. Mary's President and
Chief Executive Officer Gary Tucker said.

Upgrades will include new transformers, main breakers, a generator housing
structure, and seven new transfer switches with monitoring systems.

___ (c)2017 the Niagara Gazette (Niagara Falls, N.Y.) Visit the Niagara Gazette
(Niagara Falls, N.Y.) at www.niagara-gazette.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170802-NF-1M-earmarked-infrastructure-projects-at-local-hospitals
-0802-20170802

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NF


                         Copyright 2017 Niagara Gazette


