                              149 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            January 30, 2009 Friday
                                  1 - Edition

New hospital hopes fade Treasurer far from optimistic

BYLINE: SUE NEALES

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 436  words


THE State Government's unbridled enthusiasm for building a new $1 billion
hospital on the Hobart waterfront appears to be on the wane.

Treasurer Michael Aird expressed extreme caution yesterday about the prospect of
a state-of-the-art replacement Royal Hobart Hospital ever being built, when
commenting on the current state of the Government's finances.

Mr Aird admitted the global economic crisis and the straitened fiscal conditions
affecting the budget made it less likely the massive spending project would
proceed.

``I would have to say there is a greater doubt [about building a new Royal
Hobart Hospital now] than there has been in the past,'' Mr Aird conceded.

The treasurer's comments follow concerns expressed on Tuesday by former deputy
premier and Labor backbencher, Steve Kons, about the wisdom of proceeding with
such a massive capital expenditure project in Hobart during a global recession.

Mr Kons broke ranks with his Labor Government colleagues when he called for the
decision to build a new hospital serving all of Tasmania on the Hobart
waterfront to be reviewed.

He expressed grave reservations about the move, querying if spending $1
billion-plus on a single piece of hospital infrastructure based in Hobart might
not deprive Tasmania's North-West -- Mr Kons' home electorate -- of vital daily
health services.

``It's a massive investment during a difficult economic time that certainly
needs a re-look at,''' the outspoken Mr Kons said, to the anger of many of his
Labor colleagues.

``There's plenty of scope to do new things with the old [existing] hospital
site.''

The Government is considering a business case prepared by independent experts
detailing if it is better to build a greenfield new hospital on the former
railyards site or redevelop the existing city hospital in stages.

Mr Aird said Cabinet would make its decision on whether to go ahead with a new
waterfront hospital to be completed by 2016 in late February or early March.

The original proposal to build a new hospital was unexpectedly proposed by
former premier Paul Lennon in September 2006. It came at the height of bad
Government publicity over the Tasmanian Compliance Corporation building scandal
and the arrest and charging of former deputy premier Bryan Green.

Liberal leader Will Hodgman accused the Government yesterday of taking its eye
off the struggling local economy, letting the prospect of a new hospital slip
from its grasp.

Mr Hodgman said the admission by Mr Aird that there is doubt over the new
waterfront hospital for Hobart showed just how way off the pace the Government
is in dealing with the economic downturn.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MER


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


