                              17 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright (c) 1998 Duquesne University
                              Duquesne Law Review

                                  Winter, 1998

                              36 Duq. L. Rev. 437

LENGTH: 8457 words

COMMENT: Economic Credentialing: Bottom-Line Medical Care

NAME:  Judith E. Orie, M.D.

TEXT:
 [*437]

    Introduction

    Norman Rockwell's paintings of the benevolent and trusted doctor offering
his patients gentle ministrations defined the popular image of the
physician-patient relationship of the 1940's and 1950's. In contrast, if Mr.
Rockwell had had the opportunity to depict the physician-patient relationship of
the 1990's, he probably would have shown the physician holding a stopwatch while
he rushes one wary patient out of the office as he quickly ushers in the next.
Perhaps, in his 1990's painting, Mr. Rockwell also would have included an
insurance company representative whispering in the doctor's ear about the
appropriateness of the procedure the physician had just performed on the exiting
patient.

    Recent advancements in information technology allow hospitals to measure
precisely a physician's past economic and financial performance with respect to
patient care, enabling them to create financial and economic profiles of
physicians that are ultimately used by hospitals in credentialing,  n1
contracting, or making staff appointments and/or reappointments.  n2 The new
focus of hospitals on economic and financial factors relating to patient care
has significant future implications for the quality of medical care.
Increasingly, physicians are evaluated on criteria such as: number of patients
treated, time allotted to each patient, amount of  [*438]  insurance
reimbursement received, number of referrals and consultations, medication costs,
liability claims, patient satisfaction surveys, and other similar economic
factors.  n3 The terms "economic efficiency" and "cost containment," frequently
touted by hospitals, are merely euphemisms for economic credentialing. This new
emphasis on financial and economic factors necessarily reduces the stature of
traditional credentialing criteria, including: clinical skills, medical
competence, experience in treating patients, and patient care results. As
hospitals consolidate, they are forced to focus even more on financial
considerations, rather than on patient outcome. Ultimately, financial interests
of hospitals and insurance companies will take precedence over the more
important societal interest of high-quality medical care.

    Background

    Traditionally, physicians and hospitals provided services and were paid by
the patient.  n4 Direct payment limited the amount of money expended on health
care, but it also limited the performance of unnecessary services.  n5 Blue
Cross developed what we now think of as the conventional health insurance system
during the "Great Depression" of the 1930's.  n6 Later, the federal government
entered the health care field, through Congressional enactment of the Medicare
and Medicaid programs under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act of 1965.  n7
Health care costs  [*439]  increased significantly due to implementation of
these programs, because government funding increased the number of persons
eligible for care. The government's entry into the field of health care finance
caused the cost of medical services to rise dramatically during the 1970's.

    Institutional medicine has rapidly evolved in the twentieth century,
experiencing both an organizational and a financial transformation.  n8 This
process was perhaps best described by Eli Ginzberg, who dubbed it, "the
monetarization of medical care."  n9 This emphasis on "the bottom line" has
diminished medicine's reputation because society now perceives it as merely
another expensive commodity in the stream of ordinary commerce.  n10 The doctor
of the early twentieth century entered practice after completing a lengthy
apprenticeship and treated most patients with only the contents of his black
bag.  n11 Medical economics drastically changed as training grew more rigorous,
hospitals became plentiful, and medical technology exploded. The cost of
providing medical care burgeoned until it exceeded $ 400 billion per year in the
late 1990's. According to estimates, by the year 2000, the health care industry
will generate $ 2,000,000,000,000 annually; this figure represents 15% of the
gross national product of the United States.  n12

    From the 1930's through the 1950's, employment-based voluntary health
insurance became widely available from third-party private insurers such as Blue
Cross, Blue Shield, and others. These companies paid physicians for health
services delivered to insured patients. In 1965, the federal government
supplemented this private insurance network by creating Medicare and Medicaid,
programs designed to fund medical care of the aged and indigent.  n13 Medical
privatization and the public insurance provided by Medicare and Medicaid allowed
many patients to receive premium medical care for the first time. This care was
the best in the world, but cost  [*440]  more than a middle-income wage earner
could earn in a lifetime.  n14

    Beginning in the 1970's, the consequences of the third-party payment system
began to surface as the cost of medical care soared. Physicians worried little
about budget constraints. Patients, similarly, had no incentive to monitor the
cost of their medical care.  n15 As a result, in the 1990's, managed care has
become the dominant force in American health care. Managed care embraced the
concept of the Health Maintenance Organization ("HMO"), which was designed to
control spiraling costs. HMOs combine the risk assumption inherent in insurance
with provider responsibility for cost control. By establishing HMOs, third-party
insurers could provide physician and hospital services to all enrolled members
at a reduced cost.  n16 In addition, many traditional indemnity insurers could
now offer managed care products.

    "Health maintenance strategies," promulgated by HMOs, were designed to give
participants comprehensive care in return for a fixed premium. HMOs rendered
services through their own doctors and hospitals or "selected" doctors and
hospitals. In an HMO, the insurer, hospital, and physician belong to a
"network," bound by financial ties. These networks limit physician discretion as
to the type of care delivered to the patient.  n17

    The number of independent sole practitioners and practice group partnerships
is rapidly declining, replaced by joint ventures formed between physicians and
HMOs. Hospitals and HMOs are increasingly enrolling physicians in their networks
or creating other arrangements that link physicians' financial well-being to the
network. In return, the network asserts the right to control and review the
clinical decisions made by physicians by rewarding those who utilize network
facilities and economize in their use of network resources.  n18 The more frugal
a physician is, the more the system financially rewards him or her.  n19

    To ensure the reduction of medical care costs, both the federal government
and insurance carriers have targeted physicians as the principal point for cost
containment.  n20 Increasingly, hospitals face  [*441]  compelling financial
pressures, but because fees and reimbursements are fixed, they must continually
search for alternate means of reducing costs.  n21 For hospitals and HMOs, the
primary methods for securing cost savings have been: reducing the number of
patient visits, limiting or controlling the length of hospital stays,
streamlining physician practices, and rationing of expensive treatment.  n22 The
only effective leverage that hospitals and HMOs can exercise over physicians is
using economic credentialing to eliminate those physicians whose practices are
not cost effective.

    In the past, the credentialing procedure a physician underwent to obtain
staff privileges in a health care organization was reviewed by the hospital or
HMO medical staff credentialing committee. The committee investigated the
physician's background, including his education, competence, ability,
experience, and judgment. In addition, for staff reappointments, the committee
subjected physicians with existing privileges to the same level of review to
ensure that all physicians were competent and providing high quality care.
Although the board of directors of a health care organization had the final word
in any credentialing decision, it usually deferred to the decision of the
medical staff credentialing committee.  n23

    Economic Credentialing

    The evolution of managed care led directly to the proliferation of economic
credentialing. No universal definition of "economic credentialing" exists, but
it is commonly defined as the practice of applying economic data and efficiency
criteria to hospital medical staff appointment and reappointment decisions.  n24
The American Medical Association has adopted a somewhat more detailed
definition. It defines "economic credentialing" as "the use of economic criteria
unrelated to quality of care or professional competency in determining [a
physician's] qualifications for initial or continuing hospital medical staff
membership or privileges."  n25  [*442]  Hospitals employing economic
credentialing typically apply the following criteria in evaluating physicians:


    Length of stay by the diagnosis-related group ("DRG"),  n26

    Charges by the DRG,

    Charges or length of stay adjusted for severity of illness,

    Utilization review denials,  n27

    Bad debt expenses,

    Timeliness of medical record completion, and

    Incident reports.  n28


    The AMA and other medical organizations are vehemently opposed to economic
credentialing. For these groups, the rationale is obvious -- credentialing of
physicians should directly relate to professional competence -- ensuring quality
of care for patients. A physician's peers who are members of the organization's
medical staff should conduct credentialing.  n29 The real issue is whether
economic credentialing is an appropriate tool for measuring a physician's
entitlement to hospital privileges or participation in an HMO when the physician
regularly meets objective medical quality standards, but because of factors
wholly unrelated to the quality of medical care provided, causes an adverse
economic drain on the hospital or HMO.  n30

    Typically, these economic factors relate to cost per covered life  [*443]
of the patient.  n31 Costs of medical care are easily quantifiable and provide
easy comparisons for measuring medical services. The proponents of economic
credentialing conveniently overlook the fact that such factors do not readily
risk-adjust for other than average patients.  n32

    The question is: who is an average patient? No patient can be accurately
classified as "average." Innumerable factors may reflect on patient care, as
each individual patient is unique. A physician can scrupulously follow clinical
practice guidelines. Nevertheless, patients may still develop unforeseen side
effects from the therapy, fail to respond, or develop unpredictable
complications. None of these occurrences relate to physician malpractice.

    A physician's case mix or types of cases based on the severity of each
patient's illness and "risk profile" may affect the physician's performance. As
the number of diseases or the severity of a given patient's illness increases,
the physician's care becomes more complicated. In all fairness, these factors
should be considered in evaluating that physician.  n33 In addition, each
physician's medical practice will also exhibit age and sex differences in its
patient population.  n34 These factors should also be considered as relevant in
computing the cost per covered life.  n35

    Both the California and New York State Medical Societies are ahead of other
states in developing economic criteria relevant to the quality of patient care.
These criteria are used as additional secondary evaluation factors, after
medical quality criteria, to credential or recredential a physician for
privileges in health care organizations.  n36 The California and New York models
include: clinically unnecessary treatment, inappropriate/excessive testing of
patients, and improper or improvident use of hospital resources that might have
an adverse economic impact on the hospital.  n37 These states reject irrelevant
criteria that do not relate to quality of care, such as: revenue per physician,
payor mix, and DRG profiling (comparing profitable DRG categories to
non-profitable DRG categories).  n38  [*444]

    Hospitals and HMOs also utilize physician profiling in such areas as patient
outcome and length of stay, comparing their findings to a norm. Further, they
try to compare physician behavior with other practices.  n39 The problem is that
no universally accepted norms for care or physician behavior have been
developed. Moreover, "quality of patient care" remains undefined.  n40

    Many health care institutions have developed standard practice guidelines
based on controlled clinical studies supplemented by data derived from patient
outcomes.  n41 Some institutions rely on these guidelines to regulate clinical
decision-making and to produce cost savings.  n42 At the very minimum,
physicians who do not follow the "cookbook style" of medicine (those who fail to
follow the practice guidelines) are required to justify any deviations from the
practice guidelines. Failure to provide justification may result in denial of
payments or sanctions.  n43 Large-scale studies have never validated these
practice guidelines because varied guidelines exist against which a particular
medical intervention is judged. Serious doubts have been expressed as to whether
these guidelines can properly identify the correct and appropriate medical
intervention. As a result, many diagnostic tests that would normally be
indicated are excluded because managed care deems them inappropriate.  n44

    Medical practice and patient care is indeed a science, but the fact remains
that the practice of medicine is an art, combining scientific knowledge with the
clinical experience of the physician. Most of the practice guidelines, however,
rely on a panel of experts  [*445]  who merely extrapolate data from studies
appearing in the medical literature. Typically, however, these experts are far
removed from the actual physician-patient encounter.  n45 Managed care
organizations should not coerce physicians into using economic guidelines to
decide medical issues. Rather, the guidelines should be voluntarily consulted to
inform medical decision making.  n46 To date, no proof exists that these
guidelines improve quality of care. Furthermore, large variations in medical
practice may cause physician error if he or she is forced to use these practice
guidelines.  n47 It is also doubtful that the full implementation of practice
guidelines would produce cost savings.  n48

    Because the data compiled by profiling patient outcomes and physician
behavior has been inadequate to assess the quality of care, health care
institutions, such as HMOs and third-party payors, have continued to focus on
the economics of patient care. Reliance on economic credentialing forces
physicians to implement guidelines designed to save money, without considering
the impact on the quality of health care provided.  n49 Economic credentialing
has troublesome implications for physicians who are treating patients with acute
or chronic illnesses that do not fit neatly within the parameters or guidelines
attendant to the economic credentialing model.  n50

    A study completed in 1987 conclusively demonstrates that financial
incentives do influence the behavior of physicians toward their patients.  n51
The study generally found that the use of financial incentives makes a
statistically significant difference in the length of patient stays,
illustrating a definite correlation between financial incentives and the number
of patient visits; namely, the greater the financial risk to the physician, the
fewer the visits by patients.  n52 Studies have observed that the use of
capitation  n53 or salaries for  [*446]  HMO physicians (compared to physicians
paid on a fee-for-service basis) resulted in physicians hospitalizing patients
less often in for-profit networks.  n54 Placing individual physicians at
personal financial risk, combined with the imposition of penalties for deficits
in HMO or hospital revenue, has resulted in significantly fewer outpatient
visits ordered by physicians.  n55 This reduced number of outpatient visits was
associated with a lower rate of hospitalization, because more frequent visits
lead to discovery of reasons to hospitalize the patient. Finally, it was found
that for-profit HMOs had lower rates of hospitalization than non-profit HMOs.
n56 Is it not evident that reliance on economic credentialing will undermine the
quality of medical care?

    Analysis

    Hospital Privileges

    A physician may not admit a patient to a hospital unless the hospital grants
the physician privileges.  n57 A special peer review committee within the
hospital reviews a physician's request for privileges. The committee reviews the
individual physician's credentials, including medical education, residency
training, board certification, and practical skills (i.e., the number of
procedures the physician has performed), and determines whether the physician
should be granted staff privileges. The extent of privileges granted to the
physician depends on his level of training, expertise, and staff speciality. For
instance, a physician trained in internal medicine would not be granted
privileges in cardiovascular surgery because an internist does not generally
possess this skill. The hospital would grant the internist privileges to
practice medicine within the hospital only to the level of his training and
expertise. The process by which the hospital determines which particular
physicians may receive hospital privileges is commonly known as credentialing or
peer review.  n58  [*447]

    Traditionally, the credentialing process focused on a number of criteria
relating to a physician's medical and clinical competency.  n59 Hospital
credentialing decisions have commonly been based on such criteria as the
physician's experience, ability, judgment and other related factors designed to
ensure quality medical care for the hospital patient.  n60 Prior to the recent
emergence of economic credentialing criteria, all physicians seeking hospital
privileges for the first time and those physicians seeking to maintain existing
privileges were subject to the same examination by a peer review committee to
ensure that physicians were competent and providing quality medical care.  n61

    In recent years, the health care market has undergone a significant
transformation, particularly due to increasing consolidation of hospitals and
health care systems and the emerging importance of managed care.  n62 The role
of managed care providers, such as HMOs, and governmental payors in modern
medical care, is pervasive. HMOs, insurance companies, and government medical
programs have the tremendous power to deprive prospective users of the
hospital's medical services.  n63 Government advocates see the HMO as an
attractive model because of its implicit incentive to maintain a low rate of
hospital admissions. Third-party payors view medical services as a commodity and
search for hospitals charging the lowest prices.  n64 Due to the overwhelming
leverage possessed by managed care corporations and government medical programs,
hospitals are subject to strict pricing rules and, therefore, cannot bargain or
negotiate the prices of medical services.  n65 Accordingly, the strictures
imposed by governmental HMOs and insurance company payors effectively transfer
the financial burdens, risks of loss, and other economic risks to hospitals and
physicians.  n66 The hospitals respond by developing practices, programs, and
incentives designed to alleviate the financial burden, ultimately shifting the
cost to the patient by decreasing the care received. Physicians, and ultimately
their patients, are thus penalized for increased utilization of  [*448]  medical
services and hospitalization.

    The financial pressures faced by hospitals have compelled them to evaluate
medical service providers on a cost-benefit basis. Increasingly, hospitals are
looking to economic credentialing to mitigate the financial pressures imposed by
governmental and insurance company payors. For example, hospitals are using
physician credentialing based on such factors as patient length of stay,
hospital reimbursement, referrals, consultations, number of tests ordered,
number of hospital admissions vis-a-vis outpatient services utilizations,
excessive testing, DRG, and other bottom line considerations.  n67

    Managed care corporations, such as HMOs and government payors, will soon
displace the traditional fee-for-service practice with capitation as the primary
method of reimbursement for medical services.  n68 The capitation reimbursement
system is generally the process of providing a fixed payment per patient per
month.  n69 Pursuant to the capitation system and other similar reimbursement
schemes, hospitals assume the financial risk from insurance company and
government payors.  n70 In turn, hospitals are compelled to impose financial and
economic pressure on doctors and other health care providers.  n71 The most
effective leverage available to the hospital is the physician credentialing
process. By imposing economic criteria on the physician credentialing process,
hospitals can create incentives for doctors to engage in more restrained and
conservative medical care practices.  n72

    Ethical and Legal Implications of Economic Credentialing

    Economic credentialing by hospitals poses severe ethical and legal
consequences that jeopardize the physician-patient relationship. Because a
physician must be aware of the financial and economic consideration associated
with a particular medical test, treatment, or care, it necessarily follows that
the patient's welfare may not always be the physician's primary concern.
Economic credentialing by hospitals creates inherent conflicting  [*449]
loyalties for the physician in that he or she must make a choice between the
patient's well being and the cost of diagnostic procedures and treatment options
that will be reflected in his or her peer review. Such conflict poses
significant ethical and legal ramifications for physicians and serious
consequences for the patients in their care. By reducing expenditures, promoting
efficiency, and decreasing hospitalization, managed care may, in some instances,
provide better treatment for some patients. It will likely decrease the quality
of life of other patients, however, because medical judgments will be based on
the economic consequences of the service required.  n73

    Ethical Issues

    The basis of the physician-patient relationship is the patient's belief that
a physician is wholly committed to serving his or her needs.  n74 The
Hippocratic oath states that physicians will do everything in their power to
help their patients.  n75 Society expects doctors to furnish a wide range of
services, appropriate diagnostic testing, and the best treatment necessary to
improve a patient's medical condition and quality of life.  n76 Economic
credentialing, however, creates two conflicting loyalties for the physician.

    First, physicians must balance the interests of their patients with the
interests of other patients.  n77 Under the fiscal realities of economic
credentialing, physicians have an obligation to keep expenses to a minimum by
limiting the use of medical services, increasing efficiency, shortening the time
spent with the patient, and using specialities very sparingly.  n78 Therefore,
the physician must decide whether to order a diagnostic test or procedure for a
patient, reserve such tests or procedures for another patient, or choose not to
order the test at all to comply with the fiscal profile established by the
hospital.  n79

    Second, the cost constraints inherent in economic credentialing compel
physicians to choose between the best interests of their  [*450]  patients and
their own economic survival.  n80 An unfortunate by-product of such conflict is
a likely reduction in the quality of care. This is true because it is likely
that doctors will increasingly limit the services and procedures they provide or
fail in their role as a patient advocate by excluding or rationing care for
acute patients.  n81 Economic credentialing pushes physicians into excruciating
quandaries as they deceive themselves into thinking that what they are doing is
best for the patient when, in fact, they are deciding not to treat the patient
based on their own economic survival.  n82

    Legal Issues

    Presently, no state or federal appellate decisions have specifically
addressed the issue of economic credentialing. Accordingly, this Comment focuses
on potential legal issues arising from economic credentialing. In Rosenblum v.
Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center,  n83 a Florida trial court
affirmed a hospital's decision to deny staff privileges to a reputable and
skillful surgeon whose medical qualifications were beyond reproach, strictly
because of economic factors.  n84 In Rosenblum, the hospital denied the
physician privileges in its cardiac department solely because he had a
relationship with a competing hospital. The hospital did not base the denial on
the physician's quality of care, but rather on the economic consequences of his
professional behavior. The state court judge determined that economic
credentialing was a valid basis for denying hospital privileges under Florida
law.

    Another potentially negative legal implication related to economic
credentialing involves situations in which a class of patients or a medical
specialty is a money-loser for the hospital and, therefore, does not meet the
hospital's fiscal criteria. The hospital may consider discontinuing or limiting
certain medical services, thereby reducing the utility of certain physicians'
hospital privileges. Under these circumstances, however, the hospital may be
vulnerable to allegations of antitrust or restraint of trade.  n85 The Health
Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986  n86 provides limited  [*451]  antitrust
immunity for participants in medical staff peer reviews. This immunity, however,
does not extend to a credentialing decision based solely upon economic
considerations.  n87

    Economic credentialing may implicate a new form of informed consent. Under
the doctrine of medical malpractice, physicians may be held liable for
inadequate disclosure in obtaining consent for medical procedure. Likewise,
under economic credentialing, physicians also face potential liability for
failing to disclose to the patient any direct or indirect financial or economic
incentives they may have for limiting testing and treatment.  n88 Such a
scenario would raise an interesting conundrum for physicians: should they inform
their patients of available diagnostic tests, alternative treatments, and
clinical options to allow patients to elect the best course of medical action;
or should they disclose the economic and financial constraints that managed care
imposes upon them?  n89 Failure to make either disclosure may expose the
physician to liability.  n90

    A legitimate objective of health care policy is to promote the improvement
of the quality of patient care.  n91 Because economic credentialing defines a
physician's qualifications based on economic criteria unrelated to competency,
it is an illegitimate public policy objective.  n92 With economic credentialing,
hospitals and HMOs place the interests of health care corporations before the
interests of the public.  n93

    Conclusion

    In recent years, the rising cost of health care has resulted in a complete
overhaul of the practice of medicine. Due to the increasing financial burden
transferred by the government, HMOs, and insurance company payors, hospitals are
seeking ways to impose financial discipline on physicians to further contain
costs. Hospitals have already found effective means of controlling physician
behavior through the traditional peer review process.   [*452]

    Hospitals and HMOs are expanding the peer review process beyond traditional
quality of care criteria such as competence, experience, and skill to include
financial and economic factors. Under an economic credentialing policy, a
physician may be excluded for treating too many poor people, having too many
acutely ill patients, or simply for providing thorough and effective medical
care.

    Significantly, economic credentialing raises a host of potential ethical and
legal issues. The failure of hospitals to recognize the potential legal and
ethical consequences of economic credentialing may ultimately pose the greatest
risk to patients. Although hospitals must continue to be cognizant of the
inherent tension between quality medical care and bottom line business
considerations, a meaningful effort must be made to prevent economic criteria
from serving as the exclusive mechanism for defining medical care.

    The AMA opposes economic credentialing. Nearly all physicians agree that
economic credentialing is unprofessional and unethical. These physicians would
like to use medical competence as the only standard for credentialing a
physician.  n94 California hospitals and physicians have drafted a mutual
agreement on economic credentialing as an alternative to legislative changes.
Their statement reads: "Termination or granting of medical staff privileges
based solely on economic criteria unrelated to clinical qualifications,
professional responsibilities or quality of care is inappropriate."  n95 Because
economic credentialing is still in its infancy, many states have not addressed
this issue.

    California was the first state to embrace managed care, and HMOs have been
in business in California for many years. California Representative, Fortney
Stark, Jr., is frustrated by the obstacles he had to overcome before his
grandson could see a pediatrician. His solution, the "Managed Care Consumer
Protection Act of 1997," H.R. 337, addresses the financial constraints placed on
physicians by managed care.  n96 Under his bill, no denial of medical services
would be upheld unless it was issued by a physician reviewer who is clinically
qualified within the same specialty as the recommending physician.  n97  [*453]

    In 1996, thirty-five states enacted legislation to protect health care
consumers and physicians, aimed at tightening the reins of managed care
corporations, such as HMOs. Economic credentialing of physicians should be added
to the list of issues included in any list of necessary legislative reforms. The
issues now under review include: gag clauses that prevent physicians from
informing patients of more costly beneficial treatment options, deselection of
physicians by HMOs without just cause, and reimbursement for emergency room
visits if a lay person believes the visit is justified.  n98 Physicians need to
meet with legislators and lobby for their profession and patients. Most
physicians believe that the goals of health care reform should include universal
access and reasonable cost control. Policy makers, however, should not interfere
with the integrity of the physician-patient relationship and turn this
relationship into a market arrangement.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewHealthcare LawManaged
HealthcareHealth Maintenance OrganizationsInsurance LawClaims &
ContractsPremiumsRefunds

FOOTNOTES:




n1  Vergil N. Slee, M.D., Health Care Terms 34 (1st ed. 1986). "Credentialing"
describes the process of granting physicians hospital privileges in accordance
with their medical credentials. Id. These credentials include: medical diplomas,
state licenses, and specialty certifications. Supplemental credentials examined
include: academic preparation, training, and performance at other hospitals. Id.
Granting of privileges or an "appointment" to a hospital is the responsibility
of the hospital's governing body. This group normally follows the recommendation
of the medical staff organization that appoints the physician after the
hospital's credentials committee has verified and investigated the physician's
credentials. Id.




n2  The American Medical Association ("AMA") defines "economic credentialing" as
the "use of economic criteria unrelated to quality of care or professional
competency in determining an individual's qualifications for initial or
continuing medical staff membership or privileges." See AMA, Economic
Credentialing, Report of the Hospital Medical Staff Section Governing Council
Report Q (1993).




n3  John D. Blum, Economic Credentialing Moves from the Hospital to Managed
Care, 22 J. Health Care Fin. 65 (1995).




n4  Robert G. Shouldice & Katherine H. Shouldice, Medical Group Practice 1-11
(1978).




n5  Marc A. Rodwin, J.D., Ph.D., Medicine, Money and Morals 13 (1993).




n6  Jeff C. Goldsmith, Ph.D., Managed Care Comes of Age, Healthcare Forum J.
14-16 (Sep./Oct. 1995). See also Shouldice, supra note 4, at 4-12.




n7  Pub. L. No. 89-97, 79 Stat. 290 (1965). Title XVIII established a two-part
program of health insurance for the aged known as Medicare. Patients are
eligible to participate in Medicare, Part A (the hospital insurance program), if
they: (1) are 65 or older and are receiving retirement benefits under Title II
of the Social Security Act or the Railroad Retirement Act, (2) qualify under a
special program for persons with end-stage kidney disease, or (3) qualify under
the special transitional program. Persons not qualifying, but who are over 65,
may participate by paying premiums. Anyone aged 65 or older, who is a United
States citizen or has been a permanent resident alien for 5 years may elect to
enroll in Medicare, Part B (a supplementary medical insurance). Id.

    Medicare covers services provided by a physician to a beneficiary. Claims
must be presented to trigger reimbursement under Part A; reimbursement is a
prospectively determined amount per discharge according to the patient's
diagnosis and the facilities location. See Pub. L. No. 98-21, 97 Stat. 65 (1983)
as amended by Pub. L. No. 98-369, 98 Stat. 1073 (1984); 42 C.F.R. Sections
405.470-405.477 (1988). Medicaid is a joint federal state program designed to
provide medical assistance to individuals unable to afford health care. Id.

    States are not required to have Medicaid programs (Title XIX of the Social
Security Act).

    Medicaid is different from Medicare in that it provides medical assistance
to persons in financial need, whereas Medicare only has an age limit of 65 or
older without regard to financial need. See Sandy Sanbar, M.D., Ph.D., J.D., et
al., Legal Med. 663-71 (3rd ed. 1995).




n8  Rodwin, supra note 5, at 11.




n9  Id.




n10  Id.




n11  Id.




n12  National Center for Health Statistics, Health-United States, DHHS Pub. No.
(PHS) 84-1232, U.S. G.P.O. (Dec. 1983).




n13  Rodwin, supra note 5, at 13.




n14  Id. at 13-14.




n15  Id.




n16  David O. Weber, Second Thoughts: Can Managed Care Be Ethical? 40 Healthcare
Forum J. 17-24 (1997).




n17  Rodwin, supra note 5, at 14.




n18  Id.




n19  Id. at 17.




n20  Goldsmith, supra note 6, at 16-19.




n21  Id. at 18-20.




n22  Id. at 18-23.




n23  Brad Dallet, Economic Credentialing: Your Money or Your Life!, 4 Health

    Matrix 330 (1994).




n24  Nathan Hershey, L.L.B., Economic Credentialing: A Poor Title for a
Legitimate

    Assessment Concept, 9 American College of Med. Quality 3 (1994).




n25  Deborah S. Kolb, Randall L. Hughes, & C. Edward Young, Economic
Credentialing, 19 Top Healthcare Fin. 59 (1993).




n26  Peter R. Kongstveldt, M.D., The Managed Health Care Handbook 563 (1996). A
"DRG" is a statistical system of classifying by diagnosis any inpatient stay in
an institution, such as a hospital, for purposes of payment. This form of
reimbursement is used by the Health Care Financing Agency to pay hospitals for
care of Medicare recipients. The DRG system has also been applied by a few
states to all insurance payors. Id. It is also used by many private health plans
(usually non-HMOs) for contracting purposes. Id.




n27  Donald Snook, Jr. & Kathryn M. Ruck, A Guide to Hospital Words, Terms &
Phrases 46-47 (1988). A "utilization review committee" is comprised of
physicians, nurses, and administrators. It reviews the medical records of
current and discharged patients in order to determine the medical necessity for
their treatment and hospital stay. "Utilization review denial" is defined as a
denial of continued hospitalization and/or admission to the hospital based on
the interdisciplinary review committee's determination that the patient's
hospital admission, the services provided, the length of stay or the hospital's
discharge practices created unnecessary costs. Utilization review is required by
the Joint Commission for Accreditation of Hospital Organizations ("JCAHO"),
Medicare, Medicaid, and other third-party payors and agencies. Id.




n28  Slee, supra note 1, at 66. An "incident" is an event occurring in the
hospital in which a patient is injured, due to the alleged negligence of the
hospital. Sometimes this event is called an "adverse patient occurrence," a
broader term that includes unexpected results of a patient's treatment as well
as accidents. Id.




n29  Hershey, supra note 24, at 4.




n30  Howard L. Lang, M.D., Economic Credentialing - Why It Must Be Stopped, 5
The Med. Staff Counselor 19-20 (1991). See also Kolb, et al., supra note 25, at
59-61.




n31  Id.




n32  David Palmer, Clinical Practice Guidelines, 99 Pediatrics 101-06 (1997).




n33  Kongstveldt, supra note 26, at 440-49.




n34  Id.




n35  Id. at 448.




n36  Id.




n37  Id.




n38  Konigsveldt, supra note 26, at 448. See also supra note 26. "DRG" is a
prospective payment system for reimbursing hospitals that is based on a system
of "Diagnostic Related Groups." Id. Under DRG, the hospital is reimbursed a
fixed fee for each patient admitted. Id. Reimbursement is based on one
diagnosis, even if the patient has multiple active medical problems requiring
hospitalization. Id. Regardless of the expense of treatment or the length of
stay, the hospital receives only a single DRG payment based on one diagnosis.
Id. "DRG profiling" refers to choosing the proper diagnosis, thereby allowing
the hospital to request reimbursement from Medicare. Id. "Profitable DRGs" are
simple medical problems that are easily diagnosed, resulting in a short hospital
stay for the patient. Id.

    When the diagnosis is in doubt, the physician desires to perform procedures
or tests to aid in proper diagnosis and treatment of the patient. This process
is clearly opposed to the hospital's desire to keep expenses down by using
minimal resources to diagnose and treat the patient. Hospitals and HMOs,
therefore, have resorted to economic credentialing of individual physicians to
lower the expense of health care and increase their profit margins. Id.




n39  Id.




n40  Jerome P. Kassirer, M.D., The Quality of Care and the Quality of Measuring
It, 329 New Eng. J. Med. 1263-64 (1993).




n41  Id. at 1263.




n42  Id.




n43  Id.




n44  Id.




n45  Kassirer, supra note 40, at 1263.




n46  Id. at 1263-64.




n47  Id. at 1264.




n48  Id.




n49  Palmer, supra note 32, at 108-109.




n50  Id. See also Lang, supra note 30, at 22-24.




n51  Alan L. Hillman, M.D., Mark V. Pauly, Ph.D., & Joseph J. Kerstein, How Do
Financial Incentives Affect Physicians' Clinical Decisions and the Financial
Performance of Health Maintenance Organizations? 321 New Eng. J. Med. 86 (1989).




n52  Id. at 89-91.




n53  Kongstveldt, supra note 26, at 989. "Capitation" refers to a set amount of
money received or paid out based on membership in a managed care or insurance
plan, not on the professional services rendered. It also refers to a fixed low
monthly plan payment (usually ranging between $ 7 and $ 10 per patient) received
by the physician whether or not the patient received services. This fee covers
all of the patient's health care services. If a patient's care exceeds the
capitation payment set by the managed health care plan, the physician becomes
personally liable to the plan for the excess patient expenses.




n54  Id.




n55  Id.




n56  Id.




n57  Dallet, supra note 23, at 329.




n58  Id. at 329-30. See also Joint Comm'n on Accreditation of Healthcare Orgs.,
The Accreditation Manual for Hospitals 53 (1993).




n59  See generally Elizabeth A. Snelson, J.D., The Price of Profitability -
Economic Credentialing Can Threaten Health Care Quality, 76 Minn. Med. 37-39
(1993).




n60  Dallet, supra note 23, at 330.




n61  Id. at 330-31.




n62  Hershey, supra note 24, at 4-5.




n63  Id. at 4. See also Rodwin, supra note 5, at 4.




n64  Id at 4-5.




n65  Id. at 5.




n66  Id.




n67  Blum, supra note 3. See also Snelson, supra note 59, at 37-38.




n68  John D. Blum, The Evolution of Physician Credentialing into Managed Care
Contracting, 22 Am. J. Law and Med. 174-77 (1996).




n69  Id. at 175.




n70  Blum, supra note 3, at 66-67.




n71  Id. at 66-68.




n72  Blum, supra note 3, at 66-67.




n73  Marc A. Rodwin, Conflicts in Managed Care, 332 New Eng. J. Med. 604-05
(1995).




n74  Council Report of the AMA Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs, Ethical
Issues in Managed Care, 273 JAMA 331 (1995).




n75  Id.




n76  Jerome P. Kassirer, Managed Care and the Morality of the Market Place, 333
New Eng. J. Med. 50-51 (1995).




n77  Council Report, supra note 74, at 331-32.




n78  Kassirer, supra note 76, at 50.




N79  Council Report, supra note 74, at 331.




n80  Kassirer, supra note 76, at 50-51.




n81  Id. See also Council Report, supra note 74, at 331-333.




n82  Kassirer, supra note 76, at 50-52.




n83  No. 91-589 (Cir. Ct. Leon County, Fla., filed June 22, 1992) (unpublished
decision).




n84  Rosenblum, No. 91-589 (Cir. Ct. Leon County, Fla., filed June 22, 1992).




n85  Kolb, et al., supra note 25, at 62-64; See also Dallet, supra note 23, at
353-62.




n86  Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, Sec. 402, 42 U.S.C. § 11101-52
(1988).




n87  Dallet, supra note 23, at 360-61.




n88  Rodwin, supra note 73, at 605-06.




n89  Id.




n90  Marc A. Rodwin, Physicians' Conflicts of Interest: The Limitations of
Disclosure, 321 New Eng. J. Med. (1989); See also generally Marcia Angell, The
Doctor as Double Agent, 3 Kennedy Inst. of Ethics J. 279-286 (1993).




n91  See generally Dallet, supra note 23, at 325-63.




n92  Id. at 347.




n93  Id.




n94  Daniel B. Moskowitz, First, Do No Harm. Second, Turn A Profit, 4 J. Am.
Health Care 33 (1994).




n95  Id.




n96  See generally Weber, supra note 16.




n97  Id.




n98  Id.


