                              151 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                          February 16, 2005 Wednesday

In the State

SECTION: REGION

LENGTH: 746 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Task force to stimulate economic growth

State Treasurer Timothy Cahill has announced the creation of a task force to
help stimulate job growth in the state.

Members of the task force include representatives from Bank of America and
Sovereign Bank.

"Creating jobs and providing economic opportunity for people in Massachusetts is
the responsibility of all elected officials," Cahill said Monday. "I believe we
have a particularly strong role to play within the treasury, given that we
oversee the management of billions of dollars of taxpayer money and tough all
facets of state government."

The task force is expected to look at what the Treasury is already doing to
benefit the local economy and job market, find ways to leverage Treasury
initiatives for further job growth and identify potential new job growth
initiatives to explore. The group expects to present a set of recommendations in
60 days.

Statehouse hearing set on stem-cell research

BOSTON --The Legislature's Economic Development and Emerging Technologies
Committee is holding a hearing this morningon legislation supporting stem-cell
research. Senate President Robert Travaglini, D-East Boston, who sponsored the
legislation, plans to testify. The hearing will be held at 10 at the Statehouse.

Mass. hospitals see financial improvement

BOSTON --Massachusetts hospitals have seen some improvement in their financial
performance, but are not out of the fiscal woods, according to a Massachusetts
Hospital Association survey that tracked results for fiscal 2004, which ended
Sept. 30, 2004.

The median operating margin for hospitals that responded was 0.8 percent, an
improvement on the 0.1 percent recorded the year before.

Approximately 42 percent of the hospitals surveyed posted operating losses, a
slight improvement compared to the year before. The median total margin was 1.8
percent. Negative total margins were recorded by 25 percent of the hospitals
responding.

Joe Kirkpatrick, MHA vice president for health care finance, said the numbers
show some improvement compared to recent history.

"But even those hospitals that are doing better are not making enough to recover
fully from years of minimal or negative margins," he said. "Gains will have to
be greater in order for the hospital sector to invest as much as it should to
upgrade facilities or equipment."

Most financial experts say hospitals should maintain at least a 3 percent total
margin to be viable over the long term. Wall Street generally demands margins of
7 percent or better before awarding an AA bond rating.

UMass putting $1M into research program

LOWELL --University of Massachusetts President Jack Wilson announced yesterday
that $1 million from a university fund will be used to renew a program designed
to spark university research and to make the state a magnet for federal funds
and ground-breaking science.

Last year, the university distributed $1 million to fund seven initiatives that
involved all five campuses.

The UMass Science and Technology Initiatives Fund was designed to provide seed
funding for researchers who could then go on to compete for much larger grants.
The researchers who shared last year's $1 million in funding shaped proposals
for federal, state and private funding entities that total $40 million in
potential funding.

LNG port proposed off Massachusetts coast

BOSTON --A liquefied natural gas company announced plans this week to develop a
deep-water port for deliveries in federal waters off the coast of Massachusetts.

Neptune LNG LLC, a subsidiary of Tractebel LNG North America LLC, is proposing
to locate its port about 10 miles south of Gloucester and 22 miles northeast of
Boston.

The Neptune LNG operation will be designed to provide an average of 400 million
cubic feet of natural gas per day to the New England market -- enough to heat
about 1.5 million homes.

The port will be capable of mooring specially designed ships equipped to store,
to transport and to vaporize LNG into natural gas that can be sent to customers
using the existing subsea pipeline. The LNG carriers will moor at the proposed
deep-water port by means of a submerged unloading buoy system.

Neptune LNG anticipates the project's development phase, including regulatory
and public consultation and evaluation, and a formal project application review,
to take approximately 15 to 18 months.

Compiled by The Eagle's Boston Bureau

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

   Copyright 2005 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.


