                              155 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                      November 1, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Implementation of the Regional Strategic Services
Maritime Trial Boutique Overall Economic Development

LENGTH: 2105  words


Beijing, Nov. 1 -- In recent years, the North Sea Maritime Court conscientiously
implement the Party Guangxi Higher People's Court of the relevant work plan,
based on maritime judicial functions, take the initiative to put into the work
of the Court Party committees and governments in planning and promoting the
overall work, and actively serve the overall situation of economic and social
development, has won the local party committee and government highly valued and
full support for the work of the Court to create a favorable external
environment, effectively promoted the building of the court itself, the trial
execution, infrastructure, logistics, party building and other work go hand in
hand, particularly in the strengthen the government website construction,
promote information technology, has made outstanding achievements in order to
achieve the overall development of the Court's career and complement each other.



*Based on the trial function, accurately grasp the Court's work combined with
the overall work of party committees and governments point, to the overall
economic and social development services.

*Adhere to the overall economic development around the service to conduct
research, positive for party committee and government decision-making reference.
In recent years, the hospital carried out closely around North Bay marine
economy, the West River golden waterway construction and the Lancang River
Maritime and Beihai Park to build three billion industry, the process of
economic development issues facing the legal research, trial work consciously
put the maritime placed in Guangxi Beibu Gulf economic construction and Beihai
City's overall economic construction to carry out the initiative of the Beibu
Gulf Economic Zone on the region's economic and social development of the legal
level brings new situations and problems, has formed a "Lancang - Mekong River
International shipping problem research "and" On the Nansha fishing vessels
after by foreign fishermen illegally snatch compensation research report on
legal issues "," three billion industry creating Beihai Park Legal Environment
"," Guangxi legal protection of marine fisheries development policy issues
research, "and many other articles of research results, and actively in
decision-making committees and government departments to provide a reference.
The hospital's research results lead to the regional and municipal party
committee and government attach great importance to the relevant departments.
July 2013, Beihai Municipal Committee, Municipal People's Congress Wang Xiaodong
right "to build three billion industry Beihai Park Legal Environment" article
fully affirmed and made important instructions: "'research report' overall
development around the North Sea to play learn professional advantages, in-depth
research, careful analysis, recommendations, has a certain reference value,
please note that draw upon the relevant departments and units, in order to
accelerate the build three billion dollar industry to provide protection. "

*Insist on the implementation of quality strategy maritime trial to trial
quality maritime service area overall economic development. Adhere to the
implementation Maritime Trial hospital quality strategy, fully committed to
China - ASEAN Free Trade Area, the North Bay Economic Zone Development Strategy
and the "two areas along the" construction, and other regional economic
development to provide quality maritime trial services. If, in response to China
- ASEAN Free Trade Area is established maritime economy on the new requirements
of the Marine trial, the hospital timely establishment of the "ASEAN maritime
cases involving special collegiate bench," from the hospital eight judges
elected senior collegial panel composed of judges Judges alternative libraries,
specialized trial involving ASEAN maritime cases. After the founding of the
collegial panel to promote foreign-related cases closely around the
implementation of brand strategy to serve China - ASEAN free trade zone
development as the core, adhere to the principle of equal protection of the law,
"mediation first, adjusting sentence combined with" the principle of open,
transparent and efficient principles and convenience principle, properly
concluded a large number of cases involving maritime ASEAN countries, has won
the praise of Chinese and foreign parties.

*Beihai four team leaders work on maritime court's concern and support,
effectively promoted the self-construction of the maritime court.

*Often concerned to intervene. Although the North Sea maritime court personnel,
financial management relations are not owned by the North Sea, but the four team
leaders Beihai has maintained care, concern the norm in hospital work, in
addition to the hospital by reading timer, periodic summary of the work and the
information presented Briefing to understand the work of the hospital, but also
adhere to an annual field trip to visit the hospital to listen to the House
leadership's work. The last three years, Beihai Municipal Committee (Chief
Municipal People's Congress) and the Municipal Committee, deputy director of the
NPC all, and all of the CPPCC Vice Chairman, Municipal Committee and secretary,
deputy city mayor and deputy mayor and other leaders have related went to the
hospital to guide research, trial function for the hospital to play full service
marine Beihai overall situation of economic and social development work and
achievements fully affirmed that the hospital overall high starting point, the
quality is good, the work "very standard, very legal , it is science and
technology, it is cultural, it is for the people. " August 2013, Beihai
Municipal Committee Wang Xiaodong Zeng Yan in the hospital listened to the work
report of the President of the Institute of Marine judicial functions into full
play full service Beihai overall situation of economic and social development
fully affirmed for the training of cadres specialized courts Use questions to
encourage and support the hospital Secretary Wang sent cadres to local
departments for testing and training exchanges, the current Municipal
Organization Department of the hospital has been sending cadres training issues
on the agenda.

*Actively solve problems. First, efforts to help resolve the hospital building
siting of new trials. The hospital because of the active area is too small trial
complex and can not be expanded at the site, you need to separate siting
relocation. In order to make the siting of the new building work, Zhou Jiabin
when he was mayor and vice mayor Sun Daguang very seriously and personally
instructed the relevant departments of the municipal government support, through
the efforts of the City Planning Commission finally decided the best in Beihai
City District Lots allocated 21.5 acres of land for the new trial to my hospital
building construction and municipal relevant departments to quickly complete
their respective approval. In addition, the land acquisition process, the
Municipal Committee held a meeting in person Mo Xiang also coordinate relevant
and timely completion of the demolition. Second, efforts to help the police
solve the housing problem. Police officers from all over the hospital, new staff
in the North Sea have no housing, in order to solve the vital interests of
police officers involved in the big problem, Beihai municipal government
emergency hospital's urgent, the multi-feasibility studies and try to get the
original hospital dormitory area a small piece of vacant land is changed to
commercial and residential land, allowing developers to build residential
buildings hospital after police organization buy, so that we can live and work.
Three family members employed in the police, schooling, medical care, etc.,
Beihai relevant units are also within the scope of the competence and
responsibility to give a great deal of care and convenience, to solve a lot of
police officers worries.

*Party support. Work was supported by the hospital's Party Beihai Municipal
Organization Department and the municipal committee support. In the municipal
leadership and care, municipal committee led many to the hospital serious
research, guidance of party building work, in 2010 by the party branch was
upgraded to the party committees, and annually thereafter was named outstanding
and other times, won the "North Sea City party building model "," excel advanced
grassroots party organizations, "" Top Ten learning party municipal authorities,
"and many other honors, the hospital continued work of party building to a new
level, and through the Party led by construction, which greatly promoted the
trial and other work.

*Full support for the trial. Duties in the trial on the appointment, Beihai
Municipal People's Congress in time for, but also through various channels
northward mirage Standing Committee of the hospital and the need to introduce
appointed judge, let everyone know the hospital's work and judge the situation,
so that each appointment can be highly ticket even unanimously, that the
appointment of Municipal People's Congress in the North Sea is relatively rare
work. In the case of treatment, Beihai City, four team leaders strictly
independent judicial principles, the handling of specific cases never writing
notes, greeting, toned. But the need for coordination between departments or
parties, the Municipal Committee, secretary of Politics and Law Committee in
particular, both personally coordinating the work.

* Actively promote the government website, and deepen the overall service
capabilities, using information technology to promote open and fair
administration of justice.

* Early planning, timely advance construction of government websites. May 3,
2012, Guangxi High Court held a "region's courts 'online office, online
investigators' on the spot." After the meeting, the North Sea Maritime Court
conscientiously implement the High Court Luodian Long president of information
technology on the spirit of the speech, carried out in August 2012 for
construction of government websites. After more than a year of effort, has
initially built a hospital owns all intellectual property rights by the new
concept, a new service concept of government websites. The process of building
the website, the hospital will the sun of justice, the idea of accessible
justice combining work and trial practice, and strive to improve trial
efficiency and litigation services to meet the needs of the parties, to ensure
the public's right to information, participation and supervision, to win
community to fully trust. Currently, the hospital's government website building
walking in the forefront of the region's courts.

* Government website features prominent, rich in content. Hospital-government
sites to "professional, practical, simple and effective" for the construction
principles, with the "target position clear, accurate and authoritative
information, services targeted, fully featured prominent, simple and practical
design," five characteristics. Administrative hospital site column content is
very rich, concentrated opened a "query services, online litigation, consulting
complaints suggested message announcements, public trial services, government
affairs, sent the court, the database" and twelve columns, consists of more than
70 sub- section. Each section has a different range of services and objects,
each sub-columns have specialized services, reflecting the "one-stop" service
principle. Currently, the hospital has embarked on two Internet sites
development work, and strive to build two Web sites will enhance both service
and openness to upgrade and improve and increase English, Traditional Chinese,
reflecting the characteristics of foreign maritime court, facing the
international openness. Increase online video mediation and online
questionnaires, such as columns, to better serve the public and the parties.

Significant effect on government sites, running well. The opening of the
hospital government website, to further reflect the hospital to perform "justice
for the people," the commitment is to the principle of public trial and the
effective administration of justice embodied, help improve trial efficiency and
promote the effective implementation of trial activities, help publicize the
image of the court , establish a judicial authority and credibility, is
conducive to social supervision, to ensure that judges honest, incorruptible
courts, judicial Qingming, help to promote and deepen the reform of the court.
The hospital will strive to Internet sites into a national-class maritime
specialized courts Administrative website.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


