                              159 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                   September 10, 1998, Thursday, ALL EDITIONS

GROWTH & DEVELOPMENT;
World markets won't hurt Cobb, KSU expert says

BYLINE: Chris Reinolds

SECTION: COBB EXTRA; Pg. 07JG

LENGTH: 930 words


Robert Tuttrow, Kennesaw State University chairman of the economic and finance
department, sees a healthy future for Cobb County despite unstable national and
world markets.

"I think both nationally and locally you'll see a second half slower than the
first half (of 1998)," Tuttrow said. Even with the Asia slowdown, Cobb County is
one of the strongest counties in the metro area, he said.

"The labor market here is tight and the unemployment rate's low (in Cobb)," he
said.

The Southeast had less exposure to Asia in terms of exports, he said.

And Cobb's job growth has been in service sectors, not manufacturing which would
be affected by the problems in Asia, he said. Tuttrow, who is co-director of the
Econometrics Center at the university, recently completed a third-quarter
consumer confidence survey of metro Atlanta and it continues to be favorable.

KSU's Econometrics Center produces a monthly purchasing managers index and a
quarterly consumer confidence index, as well as provides economic forecasts for
regional and national groups and municipalities. Bringing it home To generate
more business, the Cobb County Convention & Visitors Bureau has started a new
campaign: "Bring Your Convention Home."

Billboards throughout the county are displaying the convention bureau's new logo
and tagline, "Cobb County, The Very Best of Atlanta," and encouraging residents
to bring their meetings home to Cobb. Convention and Visitors Bureaus do not
charge for their services as a liaison agency to match county meeting venues
with customers.

The billboard design was awarded a 1998 Best Ideas Award in the outdoor
advertising category by the Georgia Association of Convention & Visitors
Bureaus. Hospital reorganization Emory-Adventist Hospital at Smyrna, 3949 South
Cobb Drive, is planning a renovation and reorganization of its first floor in
the next 12 months. Hospital spokeswoman Merri Sheffield said construction will
begin late this year to make the hospital more accessible to outpatient clients
and their families.

The number of people who are using outpatient services has increased 10 percent
in the last year, Sheffield said. And the population growth in south Cobb has
spurred the hospital to upgrade services, redecorate and add new doctors as
well.

Sheffield said the demographics of the patients is shifting from primarily
elderly care to more families and younger patients.

The hospital will be changing the registration area, expanding the waiting rooms
and outpatient surgery rooms for pre- and post-operation care.

"We want to make sure we're using all the space efficiently," Sheffield said.

While patients might have to dust off their clothes a little during the
construction, the hospital will not shut down. The 100-bed hospital has 88
general acute beds and 12 beds in a skilled nursing unit.

The increase in the number of outpatients is due in part to more people on
managed care plans and hospitals shifting their focus toward more outpatient
procedures, Sheffield said. Bank company new name American Bankshares Inc., the
holding company for Riverside Bank, has changed its name to Riverside Bancshares
Inc. Kessel D. Stelling, chairman and chief executive officer, said the change
will allow the holding company to benefit from the Riverside name and
reputation.

Riverside Bancshares is a one-bank holding company with assets of about $ 133
million. Its subsidiary, Riverside Bank, is a full-service financial institution
in Cobb County. Preview of new theaters Regal Cinemas has announced plans to
revamp and rebuild two theaters in Austell and Town Center this year.

The Austell theater will be brand new and have a total of 20 screens. All seats
will be stadium style and theaters will be equipped with digital sound
technology --- the bells and whistles that modern day theater-goers expect.

The theater will seat about 4,500 people and be about 89,000 square feet.
Customers will be able to choose from popcorn and sodas to a gourmet cafe menu
that includes lattes, hot chocolates, ice cream and muffins.

Regal officials have not yet decided what to do with the old Austell theater.
The new theater is scheduled to open next spring.

The Town Center theater complex, currently 12 screens, will be adding four more
and converting all seats to stadium style. However, a gourmet cafe is not
planned for that site, Regal spokesman Phil Zacheretti said.

The renovated theater will seat about 3,700 people and expand to 65,000 square
feet. Pramac consolidation Eighteen months after opening a North American
distribution center in Kennesaw, Pramac Industries Inc. plans to open a
manufacturing plant in Cherokee. The Development Authority of Cherokee County
has approved measures that will enable Pramac to seek up to $ 8 million in
tax-exempt financing. Pramac will close its Kennesaw office.

The company, which manufactures materials handling equipment and generator sets,
expects to move into a 97,000-square-foot building in the Canton-Cherokee
Industrial Park by the end of January, said Richard Kennedy, president of Pramac
Industries Inc., the U.S. subsidiary of Florence, Italy-based Pramac
Industriale, which reported $ 110 million in sales in 1996.

Kennedy hopes to employ 44 people by the end of next year, and eventually double
the size of the company's new Cherokee plant serving the North and South
American markets. If you have any news about growth or development in Cobb
County, call Chris Reinolds at 770-509-4092 or e-mail at creinolds@ajc.com. Her
fax number is 770-509-4170.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Home

GRAPHIC: Photo :
 Cobb flexing economic strength: Smooth sailing lies ahead for Cobb's
 economy, says Robert Tuttrow, chairman of Kennesaw State's economic and
 finance department and co-director of the school's Econometrics Center,
 which provides economic forecasts for regional and national groups. /
 ANDY SHARP / Staff

                    Copyright 1998 The Atlanta Constitution


