                              158 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                            October 15, 2004 Friday
                                  City Edition

NEWSLINE - BUSINESS;
Children's hospitals will work together

BYLINE: Patriot Ledger News Services

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 435 words


BOSTON - Two children's hospitals said yesterday they have tentatively agreed to
a partnership in maternal and pediatric care.

Children's Hospital Boston and the Floating Hospital for Children at Tufts-New
England Medical Center said they agreed to begin negotiating terms of the
partnership. Children's Hospital Boston was founded in 1869, and today is a
300-bed center for children and teenagers. The Floating Hospital for Children
began as an actual floating hospital that sailed Boston Harbor from 1894 to
1927.

Mortgage rates retreat once again

WASHINGTON - Mortgage rates fell this week, erasing most of last week's big
increase, Freddie Mac reported.

The mortgage giant reported in its weekly survey that 30-year mortgages
retreated to 5.74 percent this week, after climbing to 5.82 percent last week,
which had been the highest level in a month.

Rates on 30-year mortgages hit a high this year of 6.34 percent the week of May
13. Then during the late spring and early summer, rates slowly drifted downward
as economic activity cooled, easing fears about inflation. However, since late
August, rates have been exhibiting a seesaw pattern as markets responded to a
variety of mixed signals on economic growth.

National debt nears $7.4 trillion limit

WASHINGTON -Treasury Secretary John Snow announced that the government has begun
using various accounting procedures to avoid hitting the $7.4 trillion national
debt limit.

Snow made the announcement in a letter to Congress, which has not passed
legislation needed to boost the government's borrowing authority, which now
stands at a statutory limit of $7.4 trillion.

Democrats used Snow's announcement to attack the Bush administration's record
budget deficits, which will force Congress to raise the debt ceiling for the
third time in three years. FDA believes stents now on market safe

BOSTON - Regulators do not expect to take further action after reviewing Boston
Scientific Corp.'s recall of 100,000 heart stents because of a manufacturing
defect linked to three deaths and dozens of serious injuries, a Food and Drug
Administration official said.

Daniel G. Schultz, director of the FDA's Center for Devices and Radiological
Health, said the agency's review backs up the company's contention that it has
fixed the flaw that led to the summer recall, and that stents now on the market
are safe.

Schultz said the agency would continue to collect information on the recall and
could still take action if new reports of problems emerge.

Boston Scientific, based in Natick, employs about 460 people at a warehouse and
call center in Quincy. Patriot Ledger news services

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Patriot Ledger


