                              153 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                            South China Morning Post

                                 March 10, 2005

Private hospitals recover as patients flee public-sector queues

BYLINE: Mary Ann Benitez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 413 words


Private hospitals have staged a remarkable turnaround from the dark days of Sars
and are treating more patients now than at any time since 1997.

Doctors attribute the rise to employer-funded medical care and to long queues
for treatment at public hospitals.

The Baptist and St Teresa hospitals in Kowloon had reported 99 to 100 per cent
occupancy, said Alan Lau Kwok-lam, spokesman for the Private Hospitals
Association.  On Hong Kong Island, where six private hospitals compete with
public hospitals, occupancy had been between 70 and 80 per cent.

"Since the second half of last year there has been a constant increase in market
share," Dr Lau said.

In 2001, between six and seven in every 10 private hospital beds were empty. In
2002, in the depths of the economic downturn, four hospitals cut salaries and
two froze pay. The following year, Sars emptied private hospitals for a time.

Many private patients are among the 1 million whose employers provide medical
insurance.

Doctors say the attractiveness of private hospitals has more to do with long
waiting times at public hospitals than economic recovery.

David Fang Jin-sheng, medical superintendent at St Paul's Hospital, said:
"Patients have moved back from the public to private sector in substantial
numbers because queues for public operations have become unacceptably long."

Louis Shih Ta-cho, a private dermatologist and vice-chairman of the SynergyNet
health think-tank, said: "For non-urgent specialist consultation, the wait can
be over a year. A lot of people would like to be looked after in the private
hospitals, such as when they have cataract surgery and many elective
operations."

The Hospital Authority said the waiting time for patients needing urgent
treatment is about two weeks. Non-urgent cases wait at least two months.

Choi Kin, president of the Hong Kong Medical Association, said private family
doctors' patient numbers had also stabilised, and the past six months had seen a
steady flow of doctors from public hospitals into private practice.

The hospitals association believes there is a long way to go before the fee
differential between the public and private sectors narrows.

"Even if the in-patient charge were to be increased to $ 500 a day for the first
seven days at public hospitals, it would still be only a sixth to a seventh the
cost if the patient were to be admitted into a private hospital," Dr Lau said.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2005 South China Morning Post Ltd.


