                              156 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                          The Weekender (South Africa)

                                November 6, 2008
                              Business Day Edition

Medi-Clinic upbeat on growth outlook

BYLINE: Tamar Kahn

SECTION: ECONOMY, BUSINESS & FINANCE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 458 words


Medi-Clinic upbeat on growth outlook

Science and Health Editor

PRIVATE hospital group Medi-Clinic says it is optimistic about growth prospects
despite the turmoil on international markets and a slowdown in domestic economic
growth.

The international credit crisis has stifled global economic growth, while here
at home the treasury expects the economy to grow only 4% this year, down from an
average of 5% over the past four years.

Cape-based Medi-Clinic is SA's third-largest hospital group, with about 24% of
the market. With local growth constrained by tight regulatory control, it has
grown its offshore operations. In 2006, it moved into Dubai, acquiring a
controlling stake in Emirates Healthcare Holdings, which opened its new City
Hospital three weeks ago. Last October, it bought Switzerland's biggest private
hospital group, Hirslanden, for $2,36bn

"Our business is relatively immune to economic downturns," Medi-Clinic chairman
Edwin Hertzog said yesterday. "We do find there is a drop-off in cash-paying
patients and some elective procedures like plastic surgery, but on the whole
people still need healthcare and operations," he said.

"Illness doesn't wait for economic cycles," said group CEO Louis Alberts.

In line with expectations, Medi-Clinic announced its acquisition of Hirslanden
knocked the group's interim profits for the six months to September. Headline
earnings per share fell 43% to 51,2c, down from 89,3c in the previous period.
"We fully anticipated these declines ... and informed shareholders," said
Hertzog.

The Hirslanden transaction was funded partly by a R4,5bn rights offer (of
198,7-million shares) last December. It resulted in higher finance charges, and
a 55% increase in the weighted number of ordinary shares for the period
resulting from the rights offer.

Funds raised in the rights offer were also used to finance regional expansion,
including Medi-Clinic's new Cape Gate hospital. The R278m facility will house
140 beds, and is due to be completed in 2010.

Group revenue rose 132% to R7,496bn, up from R3,228bn in the previous
corresponding period. Earnings before interest, tax, debt and amortisation rose
135% to R1,554bn, increasing from R661m last year. Revenue growth was driven by
increased patient volumes across the group, said Alberts.

Medi-Clinic announced a dividend per ordinary share of 21,6c, up 12% on the
19,3c dividend previously.

Hertzog said management intended to focus on exploiting the assets in its stable
and had no immediate plans for further acquisitions.

"We have a high debt burden, and we must make sure we don't overextend
ourselves. Usually the most profitable way to grow business is to deal with
bottlenecks and enlarge existing groups before buying new businesses," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BD


                    Copyright 2008 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


