                              152 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Meridian Star (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 7, 2010 Sunday

John C. Stennis Hospital to impact community medically, economically

BYLINE: The Meridian Star, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 565 words


Nov. 07--MERIDIAN -- When the new John C. Stennis Memorial Hospital opens its
doors in February 2011, the facility not only will provide medical care for the
people of Kemper County and surrounding areas, but also will have a substantial
economic impact on the community.

Currently under construction on Highway 16 West in DeKalb, Stennis Memorial -- a
division of Rush Health Systems -- will be the only hospital in Kemper County.
The new facility is expected to have an economic impact of $10 million annually
in the community.

Chuck Reece, executive vice president of RHS, underscored Rush's commitment to
the community.

"We are dedicated to providing health care to the citizens of Kemper County and
surrounding areas, as we have in other communities," Reece said. "Working
together, we can improve the quality of life for citizens of Kemper County."

The sixth hospital in the Rush System, the 45,000-square-feet hospital will be
staffed with healthcare employees, including emergency-room physicians and
professional staff who will provide health care services daily.

"Rush is excited about providing a much-needed service for the Kemper County
area," said Fred Rogers, vice president, chief resource officer and facility
manager for Rush Health Systems. Rogers added that Rush is proud to have the
facility named after former U.S. Senator John C. Stennis.

"John C. Stennis was a real gentleman, and we feel like it was an honor and a
tribute for the hospital to be named after him, since he made such an impact,
not only in DeKalb, but also in the state of Mississippi," Rogers said.

Jason Payne, who will serve as the hospital's administrator, said the facility
will be an economic stimulus for the area.

"We are slated for different types of jobs, ranging from clinical to
nonclinical," he said. "We will be looking for nurses, radiology technicians,
lab, maintenance, housekeeping, pharmacy and respiratory therapy workers. There
will be a whole range of opportunities for employees."

Payne said the hospital will also serve an important function in the life of the
community.

"Our cafeteria will be open for our patients and their visitors and will also
serve the public for breakfast and lunch," he said. "We will have seating for
approximately 100, with a community room with space for meetings. We are excited
about being part of the community as health providers and active as community
leaders."

Brian Henson, executive director of the Kemper County Economic Development
Authority, stressed the long-term benefits of the hospital, in addition to its
immediate impact on the community.

"The John C. Stennis Memorial Hospital will provide the citizens of Kemper
County with quality health care for many years to come, adding much-needed
quality of life," he said.

"This quality of life will also aid in our efforts to recruit new industries and
expand existing ones while creating direct economic impact with the addition of
new jobs for our area."

To see more of The Meridian Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.meridianstar.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Meridian Star, Miss.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101107-ZG-John-C-Stennis-Hospital
-to-impact-community-medically-economically-1107-20101107

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZG


                        Copyright 2010 The Meridian Star


