                              160 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                           November 28, 2013 Thursday

Korea to ease rules for FEZ hospitals, schools

LENGTH: 372 words


The Park Geun-hye administration is considering easing a set of business
regulations on medical institutions and schools in free economic zones
nationwide.

During a policy briefing to the president on Thursday, the National Economic
Advisory Council unveiled a vision to develop the service industry by lifting
outdated barriers in terms of attracting foreign capital to the FEZs in Incheon
and other regions.

For the medical sector, the NEAC recommended eliminating the requirements that
foreign hospitals in the FEZs should employ a doctor staff of at least 10
percent expat doctors and that the hospital chief should be a foreigner.

In addition, it is necessary for policymakers to allow Korean hospitals in the
zones to hire foreign doctors, said the council.

The council also called on the government to abolish the rule that limits the
proportion of inpatients for expats in the FEZ hospitals to 5 percent of the
total sickbeds.

It also stressed the necessity of easing the investment rules, saying that
hospitals in FEZs should benchmark Jejudo Island.

Currently, any foreign hospital is entitled to operate in Jeju as long as its
investment capital exceeds $5 million with a foreign investor ratio of 50
percent.

Park and the advisory council also discussed the methods â[#x20ac]o though they
are still at the beginning stages â[#x20ac]o to promote Korean medical
institutions' advancement into the overseas market.

To draw renowned foreign educational institutions, the NEAC said the government
should allow foreign colleges and other schools in the zones to transfer
operational surplus to their countries.

Speaking on the positive effects of the free economic zone on the local economy,
the Committee on Northeast Asian Business Hub last month said the government
would ease regulations in the area to lure as much foreign investment as
possible.

The government plans to inject a total of 202 trillion won ($190 billion) into
the construction of the zone while trying to attract foreign investment worth
$27.6 billion by 2020, the committee said.

Of the total amount, $17.6 billion will be raised through direct foreign
investment while the remaining $10 billion will come from project financing, the
committee said.

By Kim Yon-se (kys@heraldcorp.c

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


