                              162 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                        May 6, 2002 Monday, Home Edition

Downtown's three hospitals an economic powerhouse

BYLINE: DAVID PENDERED

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Business Horizon; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 1672 words


Chad VanDenBerg used to spend his paycheck from Grady Memorial Hospital on rent
for a Virginia-Highland apartment, meals out, sports tickets and other
entertainment.

That was before he bought a condo in Midtown.

"A lot of my money now goes to Home Depot for paint, paint supplies and other
things for the condo," VanDenBerg says with a smile. "It's only 60 percent
finished with furniture and pictures on the wall. So there's a lot to buy."

VanDenBerg, a Grady administrator, is part of a sizable economic engine driven
by three big hospitals in downtown Atlanta.

Grady, Emory Crawford Long Hospital and Atlanta Medical Center --- formerly
Georgia Baptist --- generated an economic impact of $2.9 billion in 2000,
according to recently released studies. The three hospitals in downtown Atlanta
account for nearly 11 percent of the statewide impact of hospitals, studies
show.

"That's a chunk of change," says David Sjoquist, an economist at Georgia State
University.

To put the hospitals' impact in perspective, the three central city institutions
have an impact on the local economy greater than the $2.4 billion gross domestic
product of the Caribbean country of Barbados.

The hospitals, too, will churn more money than the proposed Northern Arc, a
59-mile toll road with a $2.4 billion price tag.

The $2.9 billion is an estimate of the ripple effect created by direct
expenditures by the three hospitals. Direct expenditures in 2000 totaled $937
million, according to studies of the most recent data by the Georgia Hospital
Association and Grady Health System, the umbrella that oversees the state's
largest public hospital, its health clinics and nursing home.

It's easy to overlook hospitals as an economic stimulant.

Most people don't like to think of hospitals until they need health care. Then,
thoughts often turn to trauma and drama and the final bill. Not to mention those
bothersome parking fees.

But downtown development officials are starting to think about how to harness
some of that financial power and keep it in the central city.

"At this point, we only know that the health care industry is a really big issue
for downtown," says Richard Reinhard, president of Central Atlanta Progress. He
realizes he has a challenge.

Hospitals, historically, have appeared to turn their backs on their
neighborhoods.

They aren't a destination point in the sense of a mall or tourist attraction.
And they typically offer in-house amenities that make it easy for workers and
visitors to stay inside rather than create a market for nearby retail and
restaurants.

At Atlanta Medical Center, for example, it's effortless to spend an entire day
without ever venturing outdoors. The hospital and its three medical office
buildings are connected with overhead walkways. Inside there's a post office,
bank, coffee shop, two fast-food restaurants, athletic club, drugstore and
chapel.

There's method to the apparent madness.

"The trend of health care development is to make the environment more friendly
for both the patients and their families," says Adrienne Wade of Atlanta
Medical. "The families don't want to be far from their loved ones, so they don't
want to have to go far to go to the post office or get something to eat. It's a
benefit to have all these services available on campus."

In this regard, downtown hospitals are somewhat like the old campus of Georgia
State University.

The old cluster of buildings provided a self-contained community where students
never had to venture beyond the perimeter. But under the leadership of GSU
President Carl Patton, the campus has expanded into the core business district.
Students who now stop at coffee shops, sandwich shops and convenience stores
create much of the bustle around Five Points.

Two hospitals are moving in the direction of being more interactive with their
community.

Behind what is to be a floral garden, a delightful atrium with towering
black-olive trees is the entry into Emory Crawford Long Hospital's new office
tower.

Grady Memorial Hospital opened a sidewalk plaza four years ago and has leased
land to Georgia State for a student housing high-rise. After a 40-year lease
worth $17.3 million to Grady, the land and all buildings will revert to the
hospital system.

"The concept is to create a livable center in the downtown area," says Edward
Renford, Grady's president and chief executive officer. "Georgia State is
developing the property to fulfill needs for student housing, and it may
eventually have some parking and retail. That definitely will have an economic
impact on the downtown area."

Tapping the synergy

Downtown business leaders are struggling to devise ways to capitalize on the
three hospitals, the incredible amount of money they generate and their
potential research capabilities to create valuable new treatments.

"I wish we knew the answers, but we don't know the answers," says CAP's
Reinhard.  "We've had discussions with the principals from the hospitals, the
educational institutions and some businesses. And there clearly is a synergy
between and among all those businesses here in downtown Atlanta."

CAP is in the early stages of figuring out how downtown can benefit from the
next technology boom. While neither Atlanta nor Georgia got much from the
telecom boom of the last decade, Gov. Roy Barnes is trying to position North
Georgia as a player in the expected health sciences research boom. Some
forecasters say biotech could be even more lucrative than the dot-com economy.

"We're joining with the Georgia Research Alliance to begin working on what the
downtown Atlanta part of the statewide strategy should be," Reinhard says of the
partnership that links research universities, the private sector and state
government. "There probably needs to be folks who look at the whole picture and
say what belongs where."

The state already is building a cancer research center at Grady. Scheduled to
open in January, it will be a key component of Barnes' $1 billion plan to put
Georgia on the map for cancer treatment and research. Barnes wants the state to
earmark up to $400 million of its tobacco settlement for the cancer program over
the next decade, with the rest of the investment to come from the private
sector.

At Grady, the state Board of Regents is overseeing a $24.4 million renovation of
60,000 square feet on two floors.

The center will house the Avon Breast Cancer Center and cancer research done
under auspices of the Georgia Cancer Center for Excellence at Grady.

Collegial competition

Meanwhile, the three downtown hospitals are making strides to continue thriving
despite the huge economic challenges facing hospitals nationwide. Although they
compete for paying patients, the competition appears to be collegial.

Just a mile north of Grady, Emory Crawford Long Hospital is finishing a $270
million renovation of its historic campus on Peachtree Street. The hospital is a
component of Emory HealthCare, Emory's clinical arm.

The project includes a new 20-story building that will provide 356,844 square
feet of medical office space atop a 500,000 diagnostic and treatment center.
Cousins Properties Inc. was the developer and will manage the office space.

Albert Blackwelder, Crawford Long's chief operating officer, says the hospital
plans to grow into several niche medical markets. The biggest growth area could
be for babies born early or in need of intensive care.

"We have no interest in being like Northside Hospital," Blackwelder says of the
baby factory near Sandy Springs. "The market we are trying to get is mothers who
are going to deliver small babies who need high-skill care. The neonatal unit
also could attract mothers who expect to deliver normally but want the comfort
of having this level of care if something is going to go wrong."

Crawford Long is not banking on a boom from the surge of residents --- like
VanDenBerg --- moving to the central city.

"What hasn't decided itself yet is whether the youngsters who buy condos and
come here for gynecological services will stay here when they start a family, or
move out to the suburbs," Blackwelder says. "We can't count on our local
neighborhood here, except the exceptionally wealthy areas like Ansley Park. We
do know that to address the situation we needed a facility that is modern and
convenient and easy to use and easy to get to."

Atlanta Medical Center also is renovating with an eye to building a niche
market. One goal is to continue growing its endoscopy business. AMC, owned by
California-based Tenet HealthCare Corp., is the only downtown hospital to report
that it performs endoscopies, procedures in which a fiber- optic tube is
inserted to examine internal structures.

Bloodless medicine is another growth area, says William Moore, AMC's president
and CEO.

There is an escalating demand for procedures in which donor blood is not used,
he says, because a growing number of patients have religious objections to
transfusions or are wary of the nation's blood supply.

Trickle-down effect

As the high-stakes hospital business swirls around, VanDenBerg --- a director in
Grady's medical affairs division --- and his fiancee engage in economic impact
of a more everyday nature. They meet for lunch at his Midtown condo.

VanDenBerg stopped by his neighborhood Publix and picked up two sandwiches, two
bananas and a big bag of chips. They sat at the kitchen counter in sunlight
streaming through the yawning windows of a renovated 1952 office building and
talked about how they love Midtown.

"There's so much to do around here," says his fiancee, Sarah Niec, who lives
near Emory and coordinates volunteers for the Girl Scouts.

"We're right by Piedmont Park. There are so many restaurants and so many people
walking around. There must be 10 to 20 new stores in the past year. And it's
nice to park the car and be able to walk to so many places.

"This is a great investment."

LOAD-DATE: May 06, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo:
Downtown officials are seeking to build upon the economic impact of Grady
Hospital (above), Emory Crawford Long Hospital and Atlanta Medical Center./ BITA
HONARVAR / Staff Photo:
Demolition continues on an old building on the property of Crawford Long
Hospital./ BITA HONARVAR / Staff Photo:
Construction continues on a new cancer center at Grady Hospital./ BITA HONARVAR
/ Staff Photo:
Robert Jordan (left) and Andrew Johnson prepare for renovation of a cardiac
surgery room at Atlanta Medical Center./ BITA HONARVAR / Staff Graphic:
$2.9 BILLION ECONOMIC IMPACT
Three intown hospitals generate $2.9 billion for the local economy. And that
bank is getting bigger with extensive expansions and renovations under way at
all three. Downtown officials are hoping to harness some of that financial power
and keep it in the central city.
1. Crawford Long Hospital
550 Peachtree St.
Owner: Emory University
Type: Not for profit
Economic impact: $666.2 million
Beds set up and staffed: 408
Total physicians: 1,215
Total registered nurses: 604
Average daily total in-patient charge: $2,507
In-patient days: 112,944
Recent construction: $270 million expansion under way, including a 20-story
office tower that is to open in July.
2. Atlanta Medical Center
303 Parkway Drive
Owner: Tenet Health System, GB Inc.
Type: For profit
Economic impact: $594.1 million
Beds set up and staffed: 343
Total physicians: 524
Total registered nurses: 227
Average daily total in-patient charge: $4,717
In-patient days: 69,266
Recent construction: $12 million renovation of patient tower completed in May
2001; this year's $11 million capital improvement program includes renovation of
emergency room and equipment upgrades.
3. Grady Health System
80 Butler St.
Owner: Fulton-DeKalb Hospital Authority
Type: Hospital Authority (not for profit)
Economic impact: $1.5 billion
Beds set up and staffed: 622
Total physicians: 946
Total registered nurses: 1,070
Average daily total in-patient charge: $1,990
In-patient days: 167,507
Recent construction: $24.4 million renovation under way to house a state cancer
center; $318 million renovation finished in 1995.
Note: Grady reports in an internal study a $1.6 billion economic impact.
Source: Georgia Hospital Association, based on reports by hospitals to Georgia
Dept. of Community Health
/ JEROME THOMPSON / Staff Map:
Downtown Atlanta, with Crawford Long Hospital, Atlanta Medical Center and Grady
Health System pinpointed. Graphic:
FULL-TIME JOBS CREATED
All hospitals in the Atlanta area create more than 120,000 a year.
Line graph shows annual number of jobs, in thousands, created from 1996 through
1999 (129,376).

                Copyright 2002 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


