                              164 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

KL seeks $ 33m loan for health care

                                 June 12, 1998


Rising costs of drugs and an increase in the number of patients at government
hospitals are adding to the nation's health care costs

KUALA LUMPUR -Malaysia has requested a M$ 78 million (S$ 33 million) loan from
the World Bank to cope with the rising cost of drugs and increased number of
patients following the economic downturn.

The Star yesterday quoted Health Minister Datuk Chua Jui Meng as saying that
Malaysia needed the money because of an average 15-per-cent increase in drug
costs and 20-per-cent rise in the number of patients at government hospitals.

The increase in the cost of drugs is due mainly to the devaluation of the
Malaysian ringgit as the products are imported.

More people visit government hospitals now because of higher treatment costs at
private clinics and hospitals.

"Last year, we spent M$ 260 million for the purchase of drugs. However, this
year we need a M$ 274 million allocation, or an additional M$ 14 million, to
cope with the economic changes and increased number of patients," he said.

Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, he said World Bank loans had health and
education allocations and he had asked the Treasury to request for a M$ 78
million allocation under the loan to Malaysia.

He said that certain hospitals were experiencing difficulty in purchasing an
adequate supply of drugs due to insufficient funds and the ministry had to come
up with extra money.

He added that some hospitals had requested urgent action.

Citing a case, the minister said Hospital Bahagia in Tanjung Rambutan was found
to have insufficient food and drug supplies caused by misallocation of funds.

RISING COSTS

* An average 15-per-cent increase in drug costs. This is due to the devaluation
of the Malaysian ringgit. * A 20-per-cent rise in the number of patients at
government hospitals because of the higher treatment costs at private clinics
and hospitals.

SECTION: Malaysia; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 320 words

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1998 The Straits Times Press Limited


