                              168 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             April 19, 2009 Sunday
                                  ALL EDITION

IMPACT ON TOTAL DANE COUNTY EMPLOYMENT GOES FAR BEYOND HOSPITAL WALLS

BYLINE: Compiled by Professor Steve Deller

SECTION: BUSINESS; ECONOMIC SNAPSHOT; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 205 words


In the first article in this series, we learned that businesses create jobs in
three ways. First, they hire employees (direct employment). Second, businesses
spend money on the goods and services they need to operate. This spending
supports additional employment in the firms that provide those goods and
services (indirect employment).

Finally, more jobs are created as people employed by the business and those
employed by their suppliers spend their wages and salaries (induced employment).

This is known as the employment multiplier effect.

A recent study of the economic impact of the hospital industry in Wisconsin
calculated an employment multiplier of 1.773 for hospitals. That means that
spending by Wisconsin hospitals, their employees and their suppliers' employees
translates into another 1.773 jobs outside the hospitals.

In 2006, hospitals in Dane County employed 12,286 people. Applying the
employment multiplier reveals that the hospital industry in the county supported
an estimated 21,783 jobs (12,286 x 1.773). The following chart includes the
direct, indirect and induced impact for hospitals in Dane County.

The full report is available at: http://www.uwex.edu/ces/cced/economies/d
ocuments/HealthyHospitals_web.pdf

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  Employment.  Week 3:  The Multiplier Effect.

GRAPHIC: State Journal graphic Source: Wisconsin Department of Workforce
Development, Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages Employment by Dane County
hospitals Economic Snapshot is a weekly feature provided by the UW-Extension.
QUESTIONS: Contact Bill Pinkovitz, Center for Community and Economic
Development, UW-Extension at billpinkovitz@uwex.edu

