                              166 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                   January 28, 2003 Tuesday Marshall Edition

Bremen council endorses expansion plans

BYLINE: By JOSHUA STOWE; Tribune Staff Writer

SECTION: NATION; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 280 words


BREMEN -- Community Hospital of Bremen could be one step closer to getting a $16
million U.S. Department of Agriculture loan that would help pay for a new
building.

The Town Council voted unanimously Monday night to favorably recommend the
hospital's loan request.

Duwaine Elliott, town manager and director of economic development for Bremen,
said an expanded hospital would strengthen the town's economy.

"I feel it would be an economic boost for Bremen," he said before the vote.
"From an economic development standpoint, I'd certainly ask the council's
support in the matter."

Hospital administrators applied for the loan in December. If approved, the loan
would pay for a 65,000-square-foot building that would better accommodate the
hospital's growing number of patients.

The loan is administered through the USDA's Rural Development division and is
designed for hospitals in communities with fewer than 10,000 residents.

If Community Hospital of Bremen's loan request is approved this year,
construction on the new building could begin next year and would be finished in
2005.

In other business, the council voted to extend David Holmes's contract as town
attorney for another year.

Council members also approved raising the Bremen Electric company's fines from
$10 to $25. The fines apply to late electric bill payments and to customers who
have their power disconnected twice or more in a year.

Bremen Police Chief Mathew Hassel announced that Trent Stouder and Dana Cole
have finished police training and are ready to join the Bremen Police Department
as patrol officers.

Staff writer Joshua Stowe:

jstowe@sbtinfo.com

(574) 936-1021


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2003 South Bend Tribune Corporation


