                              165 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                            January 13, 2009 Tuesday

Samitivej hospital defers Bt1-bn plan

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 423 words


Samitivej Hospital has delayed its three-year Bt1-billion investment plan
(2009-2011) because of the economic crisis.

"We decide to freeze all major investment plans and wait for an economic
recovery," managing director and CEO Raymond Chong said.

He said the company, in the third quarter of last year, had planned to allocate
roughly Bt1 billion to improve its medical services at its three hospitals -
Samitivej Sukhumvit, Samitivej Srinakarin and Samitivej Sriracha. But the plan
was deferred after the US economic meltdown spread to other countries, including
Thailand.

The Bt1-billion investment budget was formerly set to improve the dental and eye
departments at Samitivej Sukhumvit and expanding those divisions. There were
also plans to provide more medical technology to Samitivej Srinakarin as that
hospital had been the top performer with a 20-per-cent increase in revenue in
2008 compared with the other two hospitals of the Samitivej group.

The budget also included a provision to build the second building at Samitivej
Sri Racha. At present, occupancy rate of that hospital is 80 per cent, said
Chong.

The main reason for delaying the investment plan, he said, was that the hospital
this year has decided to maintain last year's medical treatment fees.

In addition, it has started a 30-per-cent discount campaign for patient rooms to
celebrate its 30th anniversary this year. The discount will run from now until
the end of June this year.

"Although medical inflation is expected to increase by 4 per cent this year, we
decided to absorb the increasing costs and extend our policy not to adjust
medical treatment fee for another year. We want to draw more patients to
Samitivej. We have to also maintain our medical treatment standard at the same
time. So we have to save more cash and focus on only medical services instead of
business expansion," he said.

Samitivej has also cut its Bt500-million budget for the connected-hospital
programme, which was aimed at improving the IT system at Samitivej Sukhumvit. It
will now spend only 30 per cent of the total budget this year, he added.

Chong said the company would revise its investment plan and the connected
hospitals programme in this year's third quarter.

However, the hospital would spend only 2-3 per cent of its total revenue on
improving staff capability, information-technology system and replacing some
medical instruments, said he.

Samitivej expected revenue growth of 15-16 per cent last year compared to 2007,
and is targeting revenue growth of 8-10 per cent for this year.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


