                              171 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Private hospitals hit as patients turn to govt facilities

                                December 9, 1997


Regional Economic CRUNCH

BANGKOK -Private hospitals in Thailand, reeling under the economic crisis, are
looking for new ways to survive as patients flock to cheaper government
facilities.

The Nation newspaper reported yesterday that a 20-per-cent drop in the number of
patients has prompted private hospitals to offer attractive health-care
packages.

Some hospitals are also consolidating services and improving efficiency to stay
competitive.

Bangkok General Hospital, for example, has formed an alliance with two other
private establishments, Ramkhamhaeng Hospital and Kasemrat Hospital.

"Alliances are one way private hospitals can overcome the economic crisis, which
has seen patients moving to government hospitals or simply buying medicine from
pharmacies and treating themselves," managing director Pongsak Viddayakorn said.

The hospital is also discussing possible mergers with partners, he said.

This could include pooling of staff, medical equipment and joint purchasing.
Vibhavadi General Hospital's managing director Savek Taranat said the hospital
had arranged a share swap with Chaophraya Hospital and acquired a share in
Piyarat Hospital.

The partnership is aimed at sharing patients and medical equipment to reduce
overheads and overcome problems arising from an expected 10-per-cent fall in the
number of patients this year.

Vibhavadi General had projected revenue at 500 million bahts (S$ 20 million) for
this year.

It has set up a central warehouse for medicine and other pharmaceutical goods,
joining its two partners in the bulk purchase of medicines and equipment in a
bid to lower overall costs.

The hospital has no plans to lay off any of its 650 full-time staff, but will
rotate them through other tasks to improve efficiency.

Said Bumrungrad Hospital's chief executive Curtis Schroeder: "This is a good
time for private hospitals to improve efficiency.

"This will result in much more efficient hospitals once Thailand is out of the
recession."

The Nation report said middle-income earners would continue to move back to
government hospitals and rely on social-security services once they lose their
jobs and the benefits they were receiving ceased.

SECTION: South-East Asia half price, anyone?"; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 369 words

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1997 The Straits Times Press Limited


