                              169 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday

Row over hospitals rekindled

BYLINE: Lee Ji-yoon

LENGTH: 481 words


Ministries failed to narrow differences over the introduction of profit-oriented
mega hospitals in their first joint analysis report released yesterday.

Under the current law, only individuals, schools and other non-profit entities
can establish a hospital here. However, if for-profit medical facilities are
allowed, anyone can set up a hospital and operate it as a listed company.

Currently among 30 member states of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development, Korea, Japan and the Netherlands do not allow profit-oriented
hospitals.

The Ministry of Strategy and Finance has supported the proposal, saying it will
improve the nation's medical services and have a ripple effect on the entire
economy.

However, the Ministry for Health, Welfare and Family Affairs has claimed that
the deregulation would lead to overall price hikes in the medical service market
and widen the service quality gap between the haves and have-nots.

Amid controversies deepening, early November the two ministries had asked two
state-run research institutes to conduct a joint study on the need for
profit-seeking hospitals here in a bid to renew their discussions.

However, as predicted, the Korea Health Industry Development and the Korea
Development Institute yesterday released two conflicting analysis, reconfirming
the fierce differences between the two ministries. And their joint news
briefing, scheduled in the morning, was also cancelled.

In their separate reports, the two institutes agreed that profit-seeking
hospitals would revitalize the nation's medical industry and enough safety
measures should be made against possible side effects.

However, KDI put more emphasis on deregulation's positive economic effects,
while KHDI expressed concerns that the new measure could seriously unsettle the
public health care sector.

"According to the (KDI) report, profit-oriented hospitals would generate more
positive economic effects then side effects. Because the two institutes
suggested a compromise proposal, the side-effects would be reduced as well,"
said an official of the Finance Ministry.

However, the Health Ministry cautioned about the immediate revision of the
current medical law, saying that a full-fledged discussion over the issue has
just started.

"The Health Ministry is in charge of the medical law revision. If sufficient
remedial measures are not prepared before allowing for-profit hospitals, we
can't change the law," Health Minister Jeon Jae-hee said at a meeting with news
editors yesterday.

"It seems that the Finance Ministry is pushing the revision ahead as a way of
creating jobs and attracting investments. Despite such positive things, however,
the public nature of medical services should be maintained," she said.

"For now, there are no countermeasures. Further discussions (with the Finance
Ministry) need to be done and it will take a long time."

(jylee@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


