                              170 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Broomfield Enterprise, Colo.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             April 2, 2011 Saturday

Children's Hospital to break ground Monday in Broomfield

BYLINE: Joe Rubino, Broomfield Enterprise, Colo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 421 words


April 02--Children's Hospital plans to break ground in a ceremony Monday on the
new outpatient clinic it is building in Broomfield's Arista neighborhood.

The ceremony is scheduled to begin at 11:45 a.m. and is estimated to run until
12:15 p.m. Broomfield Mayor Pat Quinn and Jim Shmerling, president and CEO of
Children's Hospital, will be among the event's specials guests.

"We welcome the opportunity to build a new Network of Care location in
Broomfield, at the hub of the Northwest Corridor," Shmerling said in an e-mail.
"Undoubtedly, there will be a greater need to serve families in this growing
area and we will enthusiastically meet that need.

"We believe that children and their families deserve a way to access the same,
excellent care available on our main campus, but in their own backyards."

The new clinic, estimated to cost $2.1 million, will be the 16th network of care
clinic built by The Children's Hospital. Children's opened a 46,000-square-foot
clinic at 469 W. Colo. 7 in north Broomfield in 2008. The hospital's main
facility is on Anschutz Medical Campus in Aurora.

The new 20,000-square-foot Broomfield facility will sit on the northwest corner
of Arista Place and Uptown Avenue across the street from the Aloft Broomfield
Denver Hotel in Arista. It will provide audiology, occupational therapy,
physical therapy, and speech and learning services. A sensory park will also be
built on the 3.46-acre property to aid some children in their sense-based
therapies. The park will be open to the public, according to developers.

Jessica Erickson, president and CEO of the public-private Broomfield Economic
Development Corporation, said Friday the new clinic will be an excellent
resource to Broomfield residents and be a source of economic growth in the
Arista area.

"Any new development in this economic climate is good news," Erickson said.
"Development of a hospital facility in any climate brings with it jobs, new
retail opportunities and tax revenue. BEDC is proud to have played a role in
bringing this project to Broomfield and is excited to celebrate the
groundbreaking on Monday."

Early estimates indicate the clinic will be open by the early fall.

To see more of the Broomfield Enterprise or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.broomfieldenterprise.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Broomfield Enterprise,
Colo. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110402-1BE-Children-s-Hospital
-to-break-ground-Monday-in-Broomfield-0402-20110402

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1BE


                      Copyright 2011 Broomfield Enterprise


