                              172 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Times (Kigali)

                                 April 26, 2016

New Firm to Manage King Faisal Hospital

BYLINE: Julius Bizimungu

LENGTH: 506 words


The Government has signed a deal with Oshen Healthcare Rwanda Limited that will
see the latter manage King Faisal Hospital, Kigali.

The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and the Rwanda Development Board
signed the concession agreement on behalf of the Government, expected to
facilitate maintenance, upgrading of hospital infrastructure, financing new
investments, and operating services that the hospital provides.

Under the deal, Oshen Healthcare Rwanda Limited is also expected to turn the
hospital into a multi-speciality regional referral facility.

The firm will invest Euro 21 million (about Rwf17 billion) for the next five
years, according to the deal.

The agreement grants permission to the investor to be able to operate in Rwanda
and documents the main roles and responsibilities of both the investor and the
Government of Rwanda to ensure King Faisal Hospital, Kigali, is able to operate
as a regional referral hospital with several specialities.

The Minister for Finance and Economic Planning, Amb. Claver Gatete, said: "This
investment comes at a time Rwanda's ambition is to become a medical hub for the
region. It is through right investments that the hospital can provide excellent
medical services, thus expanding its catchment area."

Rwanda Development Board chief executive Francis Gatare noted that such
initiatives help enhance economic values of the country.

"The provision of world class health care to all Rwandans is a priority for the
Government. The private investments to transform King Faisal Hospital into a
multi-speciality regional referral hospital provide great economic value," he
said.

The concession is based on performance indicators such as introduction of new
procedures, equipment and latest technologies, improvement of management
structure and offering training to local professionals in medicine and nursing
as well as maintaining the hospital's conformity to international standards.

"It's a challenge we are relishing. We have received the right support from
government and with the right people we look forward to transforming King Faisal
Hospital into a regional referral hospital," said Alex Lifschitz, the
vice-president of Sphere Global Health Care, the firm which is part of Oshen
Group SA.

Oshen Healthcare Rwanda Limited is wholly owned by Oshen Group SA, a company
incorporated in Angola.

Dr Emile Rwamasirabo, the chief executive of King Faisal Hospital, Kigali, said
the agreement is based on mutual understanding and will not affect the ownership
of the hospital as many might think.

"This is a service delivery-based concession agreement, and it's based on mutual
satisfaction agreed among partners. We have not tied it to a long period of time
but rather to the delivery of agreed upon services," Dr Rwamasirabo said.

"This is giving us the confidence to believe that this is the best agreement
while we are not having any partners rushing to recover investments over a short
period of time, but as a partnership meant for delivery of improved and
top-notch health care services."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


