                              19 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                              April 1, 2016 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

REPORT TOUTS HOSPITALS' IMPACT;
BILLIONS PUT INTO AUGUSTA ECONOMY

BYLINE:  DAMON CLINE  STAFF WRITER

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 878 words


A recent report by Georgia's largest hospital trade association shows the
industry pumped more than $43.6 billion into the state's economy in 2014.

Based on information recently provided by some local hospitals, a significant
portion of that total can be attributed to Augusta's massive health care
industry.

The Georgia Hospital Association said all hospitals in its state survey directly
employed

160,000 Georgians on a full- and part-time basis and indirectly created 364,000
full-time jobs in other Georgia industries through a ripple effect.

Association spokesman Kevin Bloye said it disclosed individual hospital details
only to the hospitals themselves, giving them final say on whether to release
them.

"We just publicize the aggregate data, which shows that each one of these
facilities are integral to the state and local economy there," he said.

The association calculates the impact figures by running direct hospital
expenditures through an economic multiplier developed by the U.S. Department of
Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis.

Augusta has eight hospitals: two affiliated with the federal government; two
speciality facilities; one academic medical center; one community-based
nonprofit health system; one private for-profit and one faith-based.

The two largest hospitals, Augusta University Medical Center and University
Hospital, issued statements following on the association's study. Doctors
Hospital provided its figures when asked. The economic impact of the three was

$2.6 billion.

Four of the remaining five hospitals declined to respond to information
requests, while the fifth said it was not included in the report.

The market's largest health system in terms of economic impact, the
state-affiliated AU Medical Center, disclosed that its economic impact in 2014
was $1.2 billion - $1.3 billion if its partnership with the state's Roosevelt
Warm Springs Rehabilitation and Specialty Hospitals were combined.

"While our health system prides itself on being the hospital that meets the
critical health care needs for this area, we are equally proud to be a major
regional employer and a business partner to many, contributing countless added
benefits to the Georgia economy," said Shawn Vincent, the medical center's
interim chief operating officer.

He said the trade group's report noted that the hospital provided nearly

$50 million in uncompensated care and sustained more than 7,800 full-time jobs
in Augusta and elsewhere.

A news release from University Hospital said it generated an $849.6 million
impact, with more than 6,700 employees and $33 million in uncompensated care.

James Davis, the president and CEO of University Health Care System, said the
company's

$371.8 million in direct expenditures included facility investments such as a $9
million renovation of the hospital's Orthopaedic & Spine Center. And though it
wasn't reflected in the report, the hospital's board in February approved a $30
million renovation/expansion of its emergency department and $7 million in
equipment upgrades.

"As Augusta's only locally owned not-for-profit hospital, University reinvests
all revenue in excess of expenses back into the hospital and satellite
facilities to ensure all residents have access to the latest technology," he
said. "We are easily one of the best equipped health systems in the state."

When contacted, Doctors Hospital in west Augusta issued a statement reporting
its economic impact at

$549 million, with more than 1,600 employees. As part of the for-profit,
Nashville-based Hospital Corp. of America network, it reported paying more than
$23.2 million in local, state and federal taxes and providing $21.1 million in
uncompensated care.

"The loyalty of our patients, staff and physicians is the main reason we are
able to have such a major impact on our local economy," Doctors Hospital
President and CEO Doug Welch said in a statement. "We judge success based more
on the lives we improve and save, but we know the money we put into the economy
helps our area, too."

Augusta's Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center wasn't included in the report,
according to hospital spokesman Brian Rothwell. He said the downtown facility
employs more than

2,500.

Requests for information from the city's other federally affiliated hospital,
Eisenhower Army Medical Center, the on-post hospital at Fort Gordon, went
unanswered Thursday, as did requests to Trinity Hospital, a private
Catholic-affiliated hospital in the Summerville area; Select Speciality
Hospital, a specialized acute care facility in the medical district; and
HealthSouth Walton Rehabilitation Hospital, an inpatient rehabilitation facility
in the medical district.

Facilities on the South Carolina side of the Augusta metro area were not
included in the report.

Reach Damon Cline at (706) 823-3352

or damon.cline@augustachronicle.com

ECONOMIC IMPACT IN AUGUSTA AREA

Hospital Employment Impact

Augusta University Medical Center 7,800 $1.2 billion

University Hospital 6,700 $849.6 million

Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center 2,500 Not in report

Doctors Hospital 1,600 $549 million

Eisenhower Army Medical Center* N/A N/A

Trinity Hospital* N/A N/A

HealthSouth Walton Rehabilitation Hospital* N/A N/A

Select Specialty Hospital* N/A N/A

* Did not respond

Source: Georgia Hospital Association, local hospitals

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


