                              173 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                October 18, 2010

Economic credentialing policy struck down by Arkansas high court

BYLINE: By Amy Lynn Sorrel, amednews correspondent. Posted Oct. 18, 2010.

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 20 Vol. 53 No. 42

LENGTH: 757 words



HIGHLIGHT: Justices rule that the state's largest hospital system was not
justified in denying staff privileges to physicians who owned shares in a rival
facility.


Arkansas' highest court unanimously rejected a hospital system's economic
credentialing policy, saying the facility was unjustified in denying staff
privileges to a group of physicians with an ownership stake in a competing
specialty hospital.

The Arkansas Supreme Court upheld a 2009 trial court decision that found Baptist
Health's policy of restricting privileges based on financial concerns interfered
with patient-physician relationships and suppressed competition, in violation of
state laws.

Little Rock-based Baptist, the largest hospital system in Arkansas, instituted
its economic conflict-of-interest policy in 2003, causing 12 staff cardiologists
who owned a competing specialty heart hospital to lose their privileges. The
physicians sued. The high court's final ruling permanently bars Baptist from
enforcing its policy.

"Baptist's motive was to discourage competition by physicians who considered
investing in specialty hospitals, and Baptist wanted to force patients to choose
between it and [their doctors]," the Sept. 30 opinion stated. "The [plaintiffs']
interest was in patient-physician relationships and continuity of care, which
outweighed Baptist's interest in protecting its economic viability because no
evidence supported Baptist's purported need for the policy."

The court also rejected Baptist's arguments that the doctors' case was
invalidated by a 2008 federal appeals court decision dismissing a separate
antitrust lawsuit brought by the physician investors in the Arkansas Heart
Hospital.

Representatives of organized medicine say the ruling affirms the sanctity of the
patient-physician relationship and helps to promote quality care by encouraging
competition and patient choice. Policies like Baptist's serve only to restrict
patient care, not protect it, said American Medical Association President Cecil
B. Wilson, MD.

"Patients benefit when physicians have admitting privileges at multiple health
care facilities," giving patients the option to choose a place that best suits
their needs, he said. "The primary factor in credentialing physicians should be
competency, not economic factors unrelated to quality."

The AMA and the Arkansas Medical Society joined the case as plaintiffs. The
Litigation Center of the American Medical Association and the State Medical
Societies contributed to the physician plaintiffs' legal expenses.

Impact of the ruling

The decision is believed to be the first of its kind by a state Supreme Court
and probably will guide courts nationwide in deciding the validity of hospital
economic credentialing policies, said Jack R. Bierig, who represented the AMA
and AMS.

"Other forms of economic credentialing are going to have to be decided on a
case-by-case basis as to whether they are consistent with the laws of that
state. But this is the first and strongest case that says hospital policies
based on economic interests will be scrutinized, and if the hospital goes too
far, [the policy] will be struck down," said Bierig, a health law and policy
professor at the University of Chicago Law School. "Courts are going to have to
look at what is the justification offered by a hospital; is the policy narrowly
tailored to meet that justification; and does [the policy] give physicians an
opportunity to present their case."

In a statement, Baptist said it had an "absolute right" to have a
conflict-of-interest policy, noting that the practice was commonplace in other
industries. The hospital system said it is evaluating the ruling to determine
its next steps.

Baptist had argued that its policy was aimed at protecting patients from
potential conflicts when physicians refer to their own facilities, and that such
actions can undermine hospitals' livelihoods when they are left with
unprofitable charity care.

"Certainly, patients have a right to be treated where they want," said Elisa M.
White, vice president and general counsel at the Arkansas Hospital Assn., which
was not involved in the case.

But concerns about the potential for physicians' outside interests to interfere
with their treatment decisions have been raised by the health care industry at
large, White said. Although the Supreme Court agreed that "society has a strong
interest in Baptist's continued viability, the evidence showed that its finances
were never at risk. These factors, and others, led to the [trial] judge's
ultimate finding that Baptist had acted improperly."

Justices did, however, reverse a portion of the lower court ruling that
Baptist's policy violated the state's Deceptive Trade Practices Act.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

