                              177 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 20, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MORRISANIA;
'Anchor' for Neglected Area

BYLINE: By ANDREA K. WALKER

SECTION: Section 13; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 428 words


For 20 years, the abandoned Morrisania Hospital building was a symbol of
everything that had gone wrong in the Bronx. Vagabonds and drug addicts shared
the dank, dark space with rats. The windows were broken and missing, the floors
and walls had been stripped bare. Forgotten and empty, it towered over its
equally overlooked neighborhood, the poorest Congressional district in the
nation.

Now, after 14 months of reconstruction, the hospital, whose opening in the
1920's was seen as a sign of the borough's rising prosperity, has been reborn.
The sprawling block-long building will soon become home to more than 100
low-income families as well as a training center for child-care and catering
industry jobs.

The story of Morrisania Hospital's rebirth is about more than just renovating a
gutted shell. It is also about erasing a major remaining sign of urban decline
and giving an impoverished neighborhood a core for economic development. "It
means all sorts of wonderful things," said Margarita Hunt, district manager for
Community Board 4. "We now have much-needed new homes and an anchor to the
community that will spur economic development."

The transformation of Morrisania was the first big job of the Women's Housing
and Economic Development Corporation, in collaboration with other groups. The
huge neo-Renaissance building had been all but ignored since the hospital closed
in 1976. But securing the right to use it for apartments tested the political
savvy and determination of the fledgling group. Among the difficulties were
rallying political support and gathering the needed $23 million in state,
Federal and private money.

Of 132 new apartments, 48 have been set aside for the homeless. Tenants are to
begin moving in next month. A day-care center for 72 children has been created,
as well as a clinic and a state-of-the art kitchen for local residents to learn
professional cooking and catering. A small building, once the ambulance garage,
has been turned into a community gym. A public school will eventually occupy an
adjacent building.

"Lots of times people see new residents coming into their neighborhood and
getting services," said Nancy Biberman, president of the development
organization, "and they feel as if they've lived here and gotten nothing. This
is for the community."

Hurdles remain, including funding to run the day-care center and cooking and
catering classes. But last week Ms. Biberman was delighted to learn that Brooke
Astor had donated $1 million to the building's reserve fund.   ANDREA K. WALKER

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Morrisania Hospital building, abandoned for 20 years, will
soon house 100 low-income families. The renovation project was spearheaded by a
development corporation headed by Nancy Biberman (right). (Photographs by Chris
Maynard for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


