                              181 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                           The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo)

                             July 8, 1999, Thursday

Prescription for change / Hospital inspections should be made public

BYLINE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 998 words


Every patient wants to be provided with the best treatment available, but in
reality treatment techniques and their success rates vary greatly depending on
medical institutions and doctors. To make matters worse, this information is not
available to patients.

Aki Yoshikawa, a researcher at the U.S. National Bureau of Economic Research,
was surprised to learn in a medical economics study of the two nations that
Japanese hospitals fail to collect information on treatment methods that best
suit certain patients.

Yoshikawa, who conducted a comparative study of five Japanese hospitals'
treatment methods for heart attacks involving cardiac infarction, found that one
hospital only employed bypass operations, while another mainly used drugs to
dissolve blood clots. One hospital mostly employed a method to expand the
passageway in veins with a catheter. Yoshikawa also found death rates varied as
much as fivefold between hospitals.

After World War II, the government introduced universal access to medical care
with low costs to patients through state-supported, mandatory health-insurance
programs.

However, the quality of medical care and treatment methods were not stressed.

Shigekoto Kaihara, director of the public National Okura Hospital in Setagaya
Ward, Tokyo, said: "A doctor's authority, rather than scientific data, tends to
be respected here. Treatment methods are not standardized yet."

In the United States, 5,200 hospitals, about 80 percent of all hospitals, are
inspected by a nonprofit organization that is financially supported by various
medical associations including hospitals.

Inspections are wide in scope, typically covering facilities, management of
medical records, whether explanations are given to patients and whether nursing
care methods are appropriate. Results of the inspections are made public through
the media and the Internet. Concerning operations, death rates per hospital and
surgeon are also made public.

In Japan, the Health and Welfare Ministry, the Japan Medical Association and
other organizations have established the Japan Council for Quality Health Care
foundation, which started two years ago to rate hospitals in terms of
facilities, supervision of drugs and personnel management.

However, only about 230 hospitals, 2 percent of all medical institutions in
Japan, have been screened. Moreover, the results of the inspections were only
reported to the institutions, and not made public.

Some U.S. critics argue that doctors become dispirited when the number of
patients who die while in their care becomes public knowledge, while others say
that the treatment of seriously ill patients is shunned for fear that a
hospital's death rate would increase.

The current situation in Japan is far from patient-oriented, since medical
information is not disclosed.

A new hospital evaluation organization that includes representatives of health
insurance associations and patients should be created, free from the influence
of hospitals and doctors. Results of the inspections, including the success rate
of treatments and the degree of patient satisfaction have to be made public.

If such an independent organization were formed, high-quality hospitals and
clinics would benefit from the publicity, while those below standard would be
forced to improve. If rankings were made public, waiting three hours to see a
doctor for three minutes would probably become less common.

When general hospitals cooperate with high-quality regional clinics and share
information on patients through the digitization of medical records, inefficient
practices such as repeating medical checkups or concentrating large numbers of
patients at major hospitals could be stopped.

Another problem is shortages of medical staff. There are seven staff members per
10 inpatients in Japanese hospitals, compared to 28 in the United States. The
total number of hospital beds in Japan is less than half that in the United
States. This is hardly an environment in which medical treatment can be received
comfortably.

Yoshinori Hiroi, assistant professor at the Chiba University law and economics
department, argues that the medical structure is of "a developing-nation type,"
which focuses on quantity rather than quality, and that it should be transformed
into a "mature-economy type," which focuses on quality and cost.

The medical reimbursement system, in which the government reimburses hospitals
for the costs of drugs prescribed and treatment, should also be reviewed. Drug
costs are quite high and charges for treatment not high enough. Doctors' fees
should be evaluated in a reform of the system.

At Japanese hospitals, doctors and nurses tend to rely on their instincts and
experience. Therefore, it is quite rare for them to think about quality control,
which is common in the manufacturing sector.

The Musashino Red Cross Hospital in Tokyo has begun efforts to prevent medical
accidents, which were prompted by its payment of a huge sum in an out-of-court
settlement of a medical accident. Doctors at the hospital launched a
risk-management committee to analyze incidents that stopped just short of
causing an accident to enable them to compile risk-management manuals.

In March, the Okubo Hospital in Mito became the first hospital to obtain the
ISO9001, an International Standard Organization certificate for quality control,
in an attempt to introduce strict quality- control methods comparable to the
manufacturing sector.

However, these innovations are rare in the country. Health-care professionals
should make every effort to prevent accidents.

Patients want satisfactory information not only about their condition and
methods of treatment, but also about the level of quality of hospitals and
clinics they attend. Therefore, the evaluation of medical practices and
disclosure of this information is indispensable. This is the key to whether a
truly patient-oriented health-care system will be realized.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Yomiuri Shimbun


