                              178 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday

Nurses, patients returning to public system amid economic downturn

BYLINE: Amy Nip

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 307 words


More nurses and patients are returning to public hospitals from the private
sector, the Hospital Authority says.

In the past week, the authority had recruited more than 10 nurses from private
hospitals, non-government organisations and from overseas, authority chief
manager (nursing) Sylvia Fung Yuk-kuen  said.

Some had shifted from public hospitals to private ones less than a year ago, she
said.

The nurses had not been laid off by private hospitals but had found it difficult
adapting to the private-sector environment.

And clinics and emergency rooms in public hospitals had seen a rise in the
number of patients in recent months, she said.

She suggested the economic downturn could be driving a shift by patients from
private to public hospitals, a phenomenon that would increase the authority's
need for nurses. The Hospital Authority planned to recruit about 720 nurses next
year, 10 more than the target set this year.

Ms Fung also expected fewer nurses would quit their jobs in public hospitals as
private-sector recruitment decreased in the near future. One in 20 nurses
working in public hospitals quit this year, according to the authority.

In the long term, the authority would train more registered nurses, Ms Fung
said. Nursing schools at Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Tuen Mun Hospital and Caritas
Medical Centre were now running programmes that would produce 900 qualified
nurses in the next three years.

Salaries for nurses working in private care centres could be lower than in
public hospitals, said Tang Wai-fun, a nurse working in a home for elderly
people.

The Hospital Authority paid cash allowances to nurses while the private sector
would not, she said.

Private hospitals, on the other hand, may pay bonuses and a 13th month to
compensate for the lack of cash allowances, said Claudia Leung, a public
hospital nurse.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


