                              179 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Whitehorse Leader (Australia)

                          November 25, 2009 Wednesday
                                 1 - WH Edition

A shot in the arm Group says hospital project a must

BYLINE: Development | James Dowling

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 270  words


IMMEDIATELY redeveloping the Box Hill Hospital will create a much needed boost
for eastern Melbourne's economy, a key business lobby group says.

The Victorian Employer Chamber of Commerce and Industry listed the ``shovel
ready'' project as a short-term infrastructure priority.

The lobby group released its infrastructure wishlist at its Victoria Summit on
November 14. VECCI spokesman Chris James said the economic meltdown gave
governments good reason to accelerate building vital infrastructure that was
languishing.

Mr James said the hospital's plans were well advanced and just needed approval
in the State Budget.

``The infrastructure will be needed because of the growing population in the
eastern suburbs and the old hospital needs to be replaced,'' Mr James said.

``Given we are coming out of an economic slowdown it would be an ideal
public-private infrastructure project.''

Mr James said the project, which is tipped to cost more than $1 billion, would
provide extra building industry jobs.

Government spokesman Chris Owner could not give a specific date on when a
funding announcement would be made, but reiterated it would be by the end of the
year.

Mr Owner referred all project-related questions to Box Hill Hospital's operating
body, Eastern Health.

Box Hill Hospital general manager Clare Douglas said the hospital completed the
$38 million stage one development last December and had prepared the site for
construction of stage two. ``We are ready to progress as soon as funding is
available.''

There are four State Parliamentary sitting dates remaining this year and 36 days
until year's end. Details: vecci.org.au

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: WHV


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


