                              183 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Journal Record (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             April 27, 2009 Monday

Small hospitals in Okla. make large impact on community care

BYLINE: Brian Brus

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 612  words


The economic impact of Weatherford's new critical access Regional Hospital was
quickly felt as its staff grew from about 100 people just a few years ago to
more than 160 now and continues to attract physicians, Chief Executive Debbie
Howe said.

Darrel Morris, chief executive at Drumright Regional Hospital, saw similar
growth when his hospital opened in 2005 - "In terms of economic development, you
create 60-70 jobs in a community the size of Drumright - about 2,900 - it's a
big impact," he said.

Oklahoma Office of Rural Health Director Val Schott said Drumright and
Weatherford are two good examples of the value of building new hospitals to
provide critical access care to small communities, even in a recession. The
health care experts are scheduled to attend this week's 2009 Rural Health
Conference in Midwest City.

"There is a niche for these small hospitals, and in my view we can (do) a better
job in some of these rural hospitals than in the big cities," Schott said.
"They're extremely valuable to their communities and well worth the investment,
even now. "

A critical access hospital, or CAH, is certified to receive cost-based Medicare
reimbursements under a more flexible set of participation conditions than other
acute care hospitals. Congress' goal in creating the system was to improve those
small hospitals' financial performances and reduce closures, Schott said. To
earn the designation, a CAH must be at least 35 miles from the next-closest
hospital, have no more than 25 beds and the average patients' stay is no more
than 96 hours.

According to the state Department of Health, 34 of Oklahoma's 97 non-special
hospitals are considered critical access facilities, the sole community
emergency health providers for their surrounding communities.

Schott said in most cases it's possible for a hospital to fund upgrades and
conversion to a CAH, but many towns have stepped up to help because of the need
for improved health care and economic development.

Drumright Regional, for example, was funded largely by revenue bonds, in
addition to donated land and a $700,000 investment by a local hospital
foundation. It opened in 2005 under the city's ownership and was acquired by
HMC/CAH Consolidated in Kansas City, Mo., this month, Morris said.

The Weatherford hospital was financed through revenue bonds, Howe said. The
hospital is still owned and operated by the city of Weatherford through a trust
authority.

 "It was a struggle to jump through all the hoops to get financing, but it's
worth it in the end to provide a better facility and equipment," she said.

Morris said the Drumright hospital, with just 15 beds, is treating twice the
number of patients originally projected in a feasibility study and revenues have
increased accordingly. The hospital provides standard acute care and has
developed a minor niche in knee and hip surgeries that draws patients from as
far away as Tulsa.

Weatherford, at 25 beds, has made the most of its three labor delivery rooms as
another developing specialty - "I know that's a little strange for a local
access hospital that's trying to focus on Medicare, but we deliver close to 300
babies a year," Howe said.

Howe agreed with Schott that even in a recession, small hospitals should
consider upgrades and access to CAH access to Medicare, for health care
improvements as well as economic development.

"Physician recruitment was one of the things we really wanted when we started
out," she said. "We weren't getting anybody to look at us before. Now our
physicians have built a new medical office building just north of the hospital,
and we're looking to add on another operation room in the next year to year and
a half. "

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

