                              189 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     Sun Journal (New Bern, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday

Provider integration a trend in health care

BYLINE: Laura Oleniacz, Sun Journal, New Bern, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 779 words


Dec. 02--The consolidation of health care providers is not unique to New Bern.
It's occurring elsewhere in the state and nation, according to officials from
several health care advocacy organizations.

Eastern Carolina Internal Medicine, one of the largest private physician
practices in the New Bern area, and CarolinaEast Health System leaders are
discussing the possible integration of ECIM into the public hospital system.

The number of physicians employed by hospitals across the country increased by
35 percent from 2000 to 2008, said Caroline Steinberg, vice president of trends
analysis for the American Hospital Association. That includes hospital-based
physicians as well as primary care physicians working in outpatient offices.

Steinberg said economic pressures, administrative hassles, as well as angst
about what the future holds for health care are factors driving that trend.

She said she's seen anecdotal evidence that the trend of clinical integration is
increasing as providers form relationships needed to implement reforms that can
lead to financial incentives.

For example, she said that if providers form Accountable Care Organizations,
which she said are groups that accept the responsibility for all of the care for
a defined patient population, they can benefit from a share in cost savings they
achieve compared with a control group.

Other factors that have pushed the integration trend include penalties through
Medicare for not making an investment in electronic medical records, she said,
as well the state of the economy.

"During the economic downturn, hospitals (were) reporting that physicians more
and more were approaching hospitals wanting to sell their practices," she said.

Don Dalton, spokesman for the N.C. Hospital Association, said he expects to see
a "significant amount of movement" toward integration in the state in the next
few years.

"I think there's probably a lot of discussion going on, but those discussions
haven't, for the most part, come to fruition," Dalton said. "It's kind of like
the duck. Everything's calm on the surface, but they're paddling like crazy
below the surface."

Bob Seligson, executive vice president and CEO of the N.C. Medical Society that
represents about 12,000 physicians across the state, said physicians are looking
for ways to put themselves in a position to survive the current economic
environment.

"The hospitals' purchasing of physician practices is happening all over the
state," Seligson said, and some of those efforts toward joint integration have
already taken place. "I think hospitals in Raleigh have bought a lot of primary
care practices, in some cases cardiology practices, to keep a base of patients
coming into their hospitals."

Seligson said factors driving that are health care reform, an impending
significant cut to physician reimbursements for providing care to Medicare
patients that Congress voted recently to delay until Jan. 1, and a shortfall of
several billion dollars that is projected in the state's budget for the next
fiscal year that he fears could impact state funding for Medicaid.

"We have concerns about that budget being cut," Seligson said. "And so, because
of health system reform, it has caused competition to intensify, it has caused
physicians and hospitals to be looking at different models to prepare for the
changes that may or may not come."

He said that hospitals may be better situated to face those economic and
administrative pressures.

"In the current economic environment, both hospitals and physicians are
experiencing draconian cuts from the federal and state level budgets," Seligson
said. "(But) they are usually better financed and have more resources at their
disposal than physician (practices) will and have the vehicle to strategically
plan out things, do the market research, and to come up with a plan to
strategically position that hospital for the future."

Steinberg said integration can cause increased efficiency, leading to lowered
costs.

"(There are) economics of scale in implementing information systems, economies
of scale in terms of investing in research to figure out what is the best way to
provide patient care," she said. "It's easier to diffuse new technology and new
techniques when you're in a large organization."

Laura Oleniacz can be reached at 252-635-5675 or at loleniacz@freedomenc.com

To see more of the Sun Journal or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.newbernsunjournal.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, Sun Journal, New Bern,
N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101202-NS-Provider-integration-a-trend-in-health-care-1202-20101202

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NS


                           Copyright 2010 Sun Journal


