                              188 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                 The Tribune-Democrat (Johnstown, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 5, 2014 Thursday

Report: Hospitals healthy for local economy

BYLINE: David Hurst, The Tribune-Democrat, Johnstown, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 424 words


June 05--JOHNSTOWN -- The area's hospitals injected a healthy dose of economic
aid into the economy in 2012, a Harrisburg-based statewide hospital group said
Wednesday.

The Conemaugh Health System alone, with its hospitals in Johnstown, Hastings and
Meyersdale, contributed more than $938 million into the region's economy, a
figure that includes employee salaries and other data, Conemaugh CEO Scott
Becker said.

"There is no doubt the Conemaugh Health System plays a major role in the
economic and social well-being of our community," he said, calling Conemaugh "a
safety net for our most vulnerable citizens."

Nonprofit and investor-owned hospitals across Pennsylvania contributed nearly
$104 billion into state and local economies, according to The Hospital &
Healthsystem Association of Pennsylvania. The statewide hospital advocacy group
has been collecting the economic impact information since 2004, Vice-President
of Research Martin Ciccocioppo said.

Windber Medical Center contributed $79 million into the area economy in 2012,
according to the same data, hospital spokeswoman Amy Jeffords said.

Its total included $2.4 million in community benefit, she added.

"We're a true community-based hospital. Our mission is to ensure people in the
community can acess high-quality care and services right in their backyard,"
Jeffords said.

She said the area can expect to see more invested into the community in the
coming year, as plans for community speakers and health screenings are in the
works.

Conemaugh's community benefit for 2012 was listed at $8.9 million. The health
system employs more than 4,500 people in the area, its website shows.

Windber Medical Center employs 471 people, Jeffords said.

Cicciocioppo said employment and salary numbers were one of several indicators
the The Hospital & Healthsystem Association of Pennsylvania used to formulate
its totals. It used a multiplier equation adopted by the state Department of
Economic Analysis to determine the "ripple effect" those employees have on their
area's economy, noting the workers shop and dine locally and rely on area
services for their needs.

They also look at IRS tax forms that not-for-profit hospitals file annually and
cost reports provided to the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services,
Cicciocioppo said.

David Hurst is a reporter for The Tribune-Democrat. Follow him on Twitter at
www.twitter.com/tddavidhurst

___ (c)2014 The Tribune-Democrat (Johnstown, Pa.) Visit The Tribune-Democrat
(Johnstown, Pa.) at www.tribune-democrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140605-JO-Report-Hospitals-healthy-for-local-economy-0605-20140605

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JO


                      Copyright 2014 The Tribune-Democrat


