                              184 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        Tribune-Review (Greensburg, PA)

                            January 8, 2009 Thursday

Uniontown Hospital cuts staff, freezes wages

BYLINE: Chris Foreman

LENGTH: 483 words


Uniontown Hospital administrators informed employees this week of 11 pending
layoffs because of the economic downturn and asked workers represented by
Teamsters Local 491 to agree to a wage freeze starting in July.

The announcement comes about two months after administrators said Fayette
County's largest employer was experiencing a $2 million lag in profits, but was
still on stable financial ground.

Hospital officials on Tuesday announced the elimination of the equivalent of 50
full-time union and nonunion positions on Jan. 25, although some of the cuts are
coming through the reduction of hours for several employees. Of the 50 jobs, 27
1/2 are vacancies that will not be filled.

Wages for nonunion workers, scheduled for a Jan. 1 increase, already have been
frozen.

Patients are delaying or avoiding health care services, leading to lower patient
volumes for hospitals, administrators said.

"We anticipated a slowdown in patient activity, which mirrors the experience of
hospitals across the country," James D. Pound, the hospital's vice president of
human resources, said in a prepared statement. "In response, we have been
holding on (to) a number of vacancies for several months now. The 11 employees
who will actually be laid off represent less than 1 percent of the 1,500
employees who work for the hospital and its related organizations."

At an Oct. 30 board meeting open to the public, Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer Steven Handy reported the $2 million lag in profits. The
hospital's fiscal year runs from July 1 through June 30.

"We are convinced that we must take these actions to sustain our progress and
thrive in the future," President and CEO Paul Bacharach said in the hospital's
statement. "Failure to respond to an economic event of this magnitude would not
only be irresponsible, but would put the organization, our people and our
mission in jeopardy."

The Teamsters said hospital officials outlined the proposed cost-cutting
measures at a meeting Tuesday, when they requested union members agree to a wage
freeze beginning July 1. The union represents 450 nonprofessionals.

A union committee of hospital stewards, union representatives and legal counsel
will meet again with hospital administrators later this month or in February.

The Teamsters then will vote to decide whether to accept the hospital's
proposal.

"It is our intention to review this request very carefully to scrutinize whether
the proposal is supported by actual economic conditions at the hospital and that
all options for cost-cutting measures are being explored," said Vito Dragone,
the Teamsters' secretary-treasurer. "Our number one priority is to protect our
members employed at the hospital, and the union will approach this situation
from that perspective."

Uniontown Hospital is in the midst of a $59 million expansion project, which
officials have said will create 216 jobs.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2009 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


