                              185 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                April 17, 1998, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Columbia sells 34 surgery centers

BYLINE: KRIS HUNDLEY

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 458 words



Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp. sold nearly three dozen outpatient surgery
centers and named President Reagan's former economic adviser to its board.

The moves reflect the Nashville, Tenn., hospital chain's efforts to regain
credibility and market focus during the ongoing government investigation of  the
company.

Martin Feldstein, a Harvard University professor and president of the  National
Bureau of Economic Research, joins the Columbia board, expanding it  to 13
members. Columbia had been under pressure from a union pension fund to  add
outside directors and last month brought on three additional members:  Frederick
W. Gluck, John H. McArthur and Kent C. Nelson.

Meanwhile, Columbia sold 34 outpatient surgery centers to HealthSouth Corp.  for
$ 550-million in cash. The acquisition makes the Birmingham, Ala., company  the
biggest operator of facilities that do surgery without overnight stays,  with
212 centers. HealthSouth operates 24 outpatient surgery and  rehabilitation
centers in the Tampa Bay area.

None of Columbia's eight outpatient surgery centers in the bay area were
included in the sale, which targeted centers in markets where Columbia had no
other facilities. The sale leaves Columbia with 114 outpatient surgery centers
nationwide.

As Columbia moves forward on efforts to improve its image, the government's
investigation against the company appears to have stalled. Three mid-level
managers were indicted in late July on charges of overbilling Medicare in cost
reports for Columbia Fawcett Memorial Hospital in Port Charlotte. Those  charges
are pending and though the federal prosecutor said additional  indictments would
be filed by late March, none has been made public.

Columbia's activities also are being investigated by the Securities and
Exchange Commission and by federal prosecutors in Texas and Tennessee. The
company is expected to pay at least a $ 1-billion fine to reach a settlement
with the government.

As part of its restructuring, Columbia has been trying to sell its home  health
business. The company also expects to seek Internal Revenue Service  approval
within the next few weeks for a tax-free spinoff of about one-third  of its 340
hospitals.

Peter Costa, an analyst with ABN AMRO in Boston, was encouraged by  Columbia's
announcements Thursday.

"I think they got a real good price on the surgery centers," said Costa,  who
has a buy recommendation on Columbia stock. "And the company has added  four new
outside directors, all of whom are very well respected and high  caliber, in the
past few weeks. It's a smart move to try to gain some public  confidence."

Columbia's shares closed Thursday at $ 32.81 1/4, down 31 1/4 cents.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


