                              191 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                           December 14, 2004 Tuesday
                                  ROP Edition

CEO: Hospital is 'economic engine';
Points to study that Quincy Medical ordered as it looks to expand

BYLINE: Julie Jette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 559 words


The Patriot Ledger

QUINCY - A report commissioned by Quincy Medical Center shows the hospital
contributed nearly $30 million in one year to the region's economy, with $10
million of that in the city of Quincy.

The hospital released the report, which was written by the Beacon Hill Institute
at Suffolk University in Boston, as it looks to expand its presence outside the
city.

Christine Schuster, the hospital's chief executive, said yesterday that the
hospital seeks an additional location for its occupational health services.

The occupational health department has contracts with a number of towns on the
South Shore, including Hingham, Weymouth, Hull and Scituate. Hospital
spokeswoman Bonnie Goldsmith said the hospital needs space for the expanding
program, which works with 230 employers, and would like to have a new location
south of Quincy.

Schuster said the hospital commissioned the report in part to answer questions
about the $33 million that the city contributed to the hospital in several
annual installments to help bail it out of financial difficulty since 1999, when
it nearly closed. The state, meanwhile, loaned the hospital $12 million, and the
hospital also has been seeking a federal contribution since that time.

"For ever dollar that they spent, the city of Quincy got $2 back," Schuster
said. "I think clearly the study indicates (that the hospital) is an economic
engine."

The study looked at the hospital's local spending on salaries, goods and
services, and spending by its employees and local vendors.

The authors of the report calculated that the 232-bed hospital was directly or
indirectly responsible for $28.6 million in the local economy in 2003, based on
the hospital's spending that year.

That figure only partially reflects the roughly $38 million the hospital spent
in 2003 to pay salaries and benefits for its 1,000-plus employees. The report's
authors used only the salaries for employees who live in Norfolk County to
calculate the hospital payroll's impact on the local economy.

The Beacon Hill Institute said the report likely understates the hospital's
total economic contribution to the entire South Shore, because the report looked
only at communities in Norfolk County.

One economist said the estimated contribution could just as likely be an
overstatement.

Alan Clayton-Matthews, an economist at UMass-Boston, said that economic-impact
studies often tend to ignore the fact that if a particular business didn't
exist, something else might be there to take its place.

The hospital has significantly reduced its operating deficit since the bailout,
which provided an infusion of cash from the city and state, and linked it
clinically with Boston Medical Center. In 2000, Quincy Medical posted an $8
million loss, compared to a $3.8 million loss in fiscal 2003.

A number of doctors from the Boston hospital now work part time in Quincy, but
the two institutions remain financially independent.

The hospital has not yet released its financial reports for the 2004 fiscal year
that ended in September, but Schuster said the institution will report a loss.

She said a major contributor to that loss was a reduction in state reimbursement
for free care provided by the hospital. Quincy Medical had expected to be paid
88 percent of its costs for care and instead was paid 63 percent. Julie Jette
may be reached at jjette@ledger.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Patriot Ledger


