                              192 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                    The Land

                           November 2, 2016 Wednesday
                           Print & Internet Editions

RBA governor makes debut

BYLINE: Scrutineer

LENGTH: 384 words


IN ANOTHER relatively quiet week for economic data, equity markets traded in a
relatively narrow range with most markets slightly higher.

The Australian market was lower over the past week primarily due to declines in
several stocks such as Crown Resorts, BHP and Healthscope. Over the past week,
the uptrend in long term government bond yields took a breather. In currency
markets the Australian Dollar and British Pound were both stronger against the
US Dollar, helped by higher coal prices and higher inflation respectively.

New Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) Governor Phil Lowe chose an
expos&Atilde;&copy; on inflation and monetary policy for his first official
speech as Governor and the RBA also released this month's board minutes. The
near-term policy debate seems a little more lively than had been previously
considered with the RBA board. The Governor remained uncertain about momentum in
the labour market and the housing market. He said new consumer price index
inflation data for the September quarter and an update of the forecasts would be
available at the next meeting. This would provide an opportunity to consider the
economic outlook, assess the effects of previous reductions in the cash rate and
review conditions in the labour and housing markets.

Private healthcare operator Healthscope Limited provided a first quarter FY17
trading update. A company spokesman said various data points across the industry
showed the average rate of hospital volume growth has generally slowed. This has
impacted a number of hospitals resulting in increased variability in volumes and
case mix month to month in the first quarter, particularly in September.
Healthscope's focus would continue to be on driving revenue growth and cost
control. However, if the trend for the first quarter was to continue, it is
likely that operating earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortisation (EBITDA) growth for its hospitals division would be flat year on
year.

Consensus expected 8.1pc revenue growth and 10.9pc EBITDA growth in FY17.

I believe the market has potentially overreacted to the news, given one quarter
does not make a year.

As management highlighted, the hospital expansion program pipeline remains
firmly in place over several years providing strong earnings growth over the
long term.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


