                              194 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday

MDA to take up Natchez Regional issue next week

BYLINE: Rod Guajardo, The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 446 words


June 11--NATCHEZ -- The Natchez Board of Aldermen approved a resolution to help
the sale of Natchez Regional Medical Center Tuesday, but a state economic
development agency won't discuss the matter until next week.

To facilitate the sale structure of the county-owned hospital to Community
Health Systems, the Adams County Board of Supervisors applied last week to the
Mississippi Development Authority for the sale to be considered a Regional
Economic Development Act (REDA) project.

The move would allow CHS to prepay property taxes as part of the sales process.
Those prepaid taxes would be part of an overall purchase price that would be
sufficient to pay off the bankrupt hospital's debt.

The REDA designation allows multiple municipalities to apply jointly to issue
revenue bonds based on the anticipated future tax revenues of an economic
development project, MDA spokesman Jeff Rent said.

The bond proceeds can be used to build or improve infrastructure needed for the
project, and the taxes collected from the project are used to service the debt
on the bonds.

Rent said NRMC was not on the agenda for the MDA board's Tuesday meeting.

Hospital attorney Walter Brown said Tuesday evening that MDA officials told him
the matter would not be discussed until the board's June 17 meeting.

The Natchez Board of Aldermen adopted its REDA resolution Tuesday, which was
needed before an approval from MDA.

The county hopes to convince MDA that the hospital's sale should be considered
an economic development project because it would consolidate the local
healthcare market and help bring in new doctors, including specialists the area
currently doesn't have, and likely would result in the construction of a new
hospital in the near future.

NRMC opened in 1960 as Jefferson Davis Memorial Hospital. Its $2.4 million
construction was underwritten by an $800,000 local contribution and state and
federal funds.

It has been financially independent since 1974 and does not receive tax support,
but is backed by a 5-mill standby tax that the Mississippi Development Bank
required the hospital to get in 2006 when it asked for the MDB to reissue its
revenue bond.

The hospital board of trustees announced in February its intention to declare
bankruptcy, citing at the time a $3-million deficit between financial assets and
liabilities.

The county supervisors appoint the hospital's volunteer trustees. The board of
trustees includes White, John Serafin, Dr. Linda Godley, Bill Ernst, Lionel
Stepter, Lee Martin and Dr. Jennifer Russ.

___ (c)2014 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140611-YY-MDA-to-take-up-Natchez-Regional-issue-next-week-0611-20140611

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2014 The Natchez Democrat


