                              193 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Stimulus That's Short Of Stimulating

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER.

E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 733 words


The shining city of New York opened for business Tuesday morning, one day after
the normally very obedient and housebroken City Council rose up against the
mayor and voted down a heavily subsidized shopping mall development at the
Kingsbridge Armory in the Bronx.

The developer could not, or would not, promise that the stores would pay more
than the minimum wage of $7.25 an hour. Once the mall was open, public funds
still would have been needed to provide subsidies for people working at wages
that would most likely have left  them far below the poverty line. The mayor
argued that low-paying jobs were better than none.

In any case, there were more primal forces at work than a debate over the
economics of the living wage. It turns out that even the docile Council has
decided that it's safe to stick a finger in Michael R. Bloomberg's eye. This may
turn out be a long four years for him, and not just because of a frisky Council
with notions of its own independence.

Take the events of Tuesday morning. In a meeting on William Street, the city's
Economic Development Corporation drew $19.5 million out of a purse labeled
''American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009'' for the construction of a
six-story parking garage at St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx.

Currently, about 25 people are employed as parking attendants and valets at the
hospital. The new garage, where drivers will park themselves, will have jobs for
6.

Officials from the hospital and the city spent a good part of the day arguing
that the project really wasn't all that grim -- many of the attendants would get
jobs at parking lots elsewhere in the city, or could be hired as security guards
at the hospital, and so on.

However you slice it, building the garage would result in a loss of about 20
parking positions.

''This financing is from an agency whose sole goal is to create jobs,'' said
Bettina Damiani, director of Good Jobs New York, a research group that analyzes
the city's economic development strategies. ''So why are they funding projects
that will lose jobs?''

The answer, said David Lombino, a spokesman for the Economic Development
Corporation, is that the project will help buttress the central mission of St.
Barnabas, which is losing money on its current parking setup. The hospital
argues that a lack of parking facilities will thwart its ability to hire capable
people and serve patients.

But there's more. In truth, the city is financing the project because it has
federal money and apparently doesn't have all that many other great ways to
spend it.

In its earliest days, the Obama administration sponsored stimulus legislation
that included money, in the form of tax-free bonds, to get stalled construction
projects moving. Among the requirements: the money could only be used for retail
or commercial purposes, not to build housing, and it had to be done by
for-profit entities. The work had to be ''shovel ready'' and is supposed to be
finished by the end of 2010.

St. Barnabas set up a for-profit corporation to build the parking garage. That
is being run by Scott Cooper, the chief executive of the hospital, who was paid
$934,536 last year, including a bonus of $150,000 when the hospital lost
millions. Dr. Cooper will not be paid extra for his work on the parking garage
corporation, said Steve Clark, a hospital spokesman.

IT was a mistake, Mr. Clark said, to think about the garage project simply in
terms of the lost positions. ''That's the easy way of looking at it,'' he said.
''It's a community hospital and it needs a garage. Its economic viability
depends on it. There are 2,200 other people working in the hospital, and not
having this garage could jeopardize their jobs.''

In seeking the financing, the hospital noted that it was surrounded by deep
poverty, which the city and hospital officials emphasized in making their case.
Ms. Damiani said that simply invoking the difficulties of the neighborhood
should not have carried the day. ''They're flaunting the poverty in the Bronx
without guaranteeing that the people of the Bronx will get anything,'' she said.

The government is fighting over scraps. One day it is over jobs in a shopping
mall that pay $7.25. The next day it is about financing $19 million to build a
garage that will  cost only 20 jobs, and supposedly head off the loss of
thousands of others. We are in an era of threadbare ambition.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company


