                              22 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Americus Times Recorder (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 21, 2009 Thursday

Mandy Young: New Community and Economic development director

BYLINE: Robert Griffin, Americus Times-Recorder, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 450 words


May 21--AMERICUS -- Hometown pride and economic development are things that
Mandy Young learned from an early age. Young is the new Community and Economic
Development Director for the City of Americus.

The Community and Economic development director plans, directs, and manages the
operation of community development. This includes housing, zoning, writing and
applying for grants, downtown development, economic development as a whole,
marketing, and historic preservation.

Young is a 2001 graduate of the University of Georgia where she obtained a
degree in Speech Communications. She started her career with the City of
Americus later that year with the Downtown Development Authority (DDA) as the
main street manager. Young worked with the DDA until 2005 when she was hired as
the director of Customer service for Sumter Regional Hospital.

After the tornado of 2007, Young became the recovery campaign coordinator for
the hospital, where she became an intregal part of the hospitals effort to
rebuild in the aftermath of the storm. During this time, Young served as the
hospitals liason to representatives associated with FEMA, GEMA, and federal
lobbyists.

The next year Young took over as the director of physician relations for the
hospital. Her job entails managing the hospitals physician recruitment and
retention programs and activities.

Young's new position with the city is allowing her to return to her passion and
to help the city she loves. "I love what Im doing at the hospital, but this
position is a great opportunity to help the community as a whole," said Young, "
instead of just in one aspect."

My passion is in economic recruitment. my job here at the hospital is physician
recruitment and retention, which is a form of economic development. I reallly
knew that I wanted to get back into the economic development side of things, I
just didnt know when, so when Angela Davis (the previous holder of this
position) called me and let me know that she was resigning I knew immediatly
that I would apply for this position. "I have a lot of ideas for further
developing the economic development side, I plan to meet with the other economic
players in town, the coc director, PDA, chamber, and just see how we can all
work together and get the same goal."

To see more of the Americus Times-Recorder, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.americustimesrecorder.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Americus
Times-Recorder, Ga. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090521-AF-Mandy-Young-New-Community-and-Economic
-development-director-0521

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AF


                                 Copyright 2009


