                              201 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                  Korea Times

                              May 3, 1999, Monday

Patients Exposed to Higher Risk of Medical Accidents

LENGTH: 418 words


   An increasing number of hospital patients are becoming the victims of medical
accidents as financially-strapped hospitals slash jobs amid the financial and
economic downturn.

Civic groups claimed yesterday that patients have been forced to pay more for
medical treatment since the nation was battered by the 1997 Asian crisis, while
the quality of medical services has deteriorated.

The Citizens' Coalition for Economic Justice and other activist groups said in a
joint statement that hospitals have at the same time been trying to make profits
by providing excessive amounts of treatment and prescription medicine to some
patients.

Concerned about a decline in earnings in the wake of the financial and economic
crisis, hospitals have charged patients exorbitant amounts for treatment to make
up for their losses,'' CCEJ said in a press conference.

The civic group pointed out that many hospitals have been pushing for drastic
manpower cuts, which has only led to a drop in the quality of their medical
services.

Despite surging medical costs, patients are receiving poorer quality
treatment,'' the civic group charged.

It cautioned that more and more patients are now exposed to greater risk of
medical mishaps due to sharp cuts in hospital manpower, including nurses.

The civic group's claims were based on survey of 992 patients hospitalized in 28
hospitals across the nation.

According to the survey, a total of 404 medical accidents took place in those
hospitals last year.

Some 145 patients were found to have suffered injuries from falls from their
beds due to a lack of proper care by medical staff members.

About 88 patients received wrong prescriptions, while 171 were victimized by
mistakes in medical tests and checkups.

Too drastic manpower cuts can directly explain why a growing number of medical
accidents have taken place,'' said a CCEJ representative.

In a separate survey of nurses, 89.7 percent of those polled said hospitals are
suffering from severe staff shortages amid the painful restructuring of
hospitals.

Meanwhile, the number of patients rose by 53.2 percent in 1998 compared with the
figure in 1997.

Medical staff members, including nurses, have thus been suffering from heavier
workloads, leading to a poorer quality of medical services.

At the same time, patients had to shoulder higher medical bills.

Hospital patients had to pay 2.33 million won on average per month in 1998, a
two-fold increase from the pre-crisis years.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                          Copyright 1999 Hankook Ilbo


