                              199 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                               December 19, 2001

(pounds) 268m plan to revamp Mater and children's hospital

BYLINE: By EITHNE DONNELLAN

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 572 words


Plans for a (pounds) 268 million hospital development on Dublin's northside
which will see the Mater and Temple Street Children's Hospitals coming together
on one site, have been approved by the Department of Health.

Planning permission will now be sought for the first stages of the project,
which is expected to begin in autumn 2002 on a derelict car- park site at the
Mater Hospital on Eccles Street. The project is expected to be complete by 2008.

The development control plan for the new hospital campus was unveiled yesterday
by the Minister for Health, Mr Martin. It will result in a significantly
extended Mater Hospital and a new purpose-built children's hospital. The present
Temple Street hospital site will be retained for future medical/community use.

Treatment of adults and children will be provided separately but "back to back"
on the new campus. Both hospitals will still have separate entrances and car
parking will be provided in the basement of the new buildings.

The old Mater Hospital building will be refurbished as a 70-bed day hospital. It
is expected to take pressure off the new acute hospital, which will have 546
beds, the same as at present.

The new children's hospital will have seven theatres and 170 beds, 38 more than
it has now. Also included in the complex will be facilities for the new national
heart/lung transplant programme. It is the largest health project in the
National Development Plan (NDP).

A special company, the Mater & Children's Hospital Development Ltd, was set up
two years ago to oversee the project. It is a joint initiative of the Sisters of
Charity, who run Temple Street, and the Sisters of Mercy, who run the Mater
Hospital.

Mr Martin said he was confident, despite the economic downturn, that the
development would be completed. "This year we have provided sufficient capital
to meet the implications of the NDP for 2002 and we will continue to do that
over the lifetime of the plan (to 2006). Obviously there will be extra costs
coming on stream in terms of both inflation and development issues, but I am
very, very confident that the plans we have so far committed and the hospital
projects we have committed to will be realised," he said. "We have entered into
this project and I've now approved it to stage three. I wouldn't do that if I
wasn't committed to getting the project completed".

Sister Helena O'Donoghue, provincial of the Mercy Congregation, said the
approval of the plans was a significant milestone. "We are very excited today
about the stage that we have come to because we are having the opportunity to
celebrate something visible," she said.

Mr Paul Cunniffe, chief executive of Temple Street Children's Hospital, said the
staff of the hospital, its children and their families, looked forward with
"eager anticipation" to the development. "Not only are we building a new
hospital, but by moving onto the campus of our sister hospital, we are helping
to pioneer a new model of paediatric hospital. This will enable us to share
specialists' facilities and open up new opportunities for both our hospitals".

Mr Martin Cowley, chief executive of the Mater Hospital, described the unveiling
of a model of the development plans as a very exciting day for the Mater
Hospital. "We have been waiting a long time for this." He said it would result
in better working facilities for everyone which would bring about higher morale.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2001 The Irish Times


