                              212 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                            August 29, 2000, Tuesday

HOSP HAS ROOM TO SPARE CITY SEEKS DEVELOPMENT BIDS FOR 3 SITES NEAR NE W
FACILITY

BYLINE: BY DONALD BERTRAND DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SUBURBAN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 523 words

As the new $147 million Queens Hospital Center nears completion, the city
Economic Development Corp. is looking for development proposals for three sites
on the campus that will become surplus when the hospital is finished next
spring.

The new 200-bed hospital will feature Centers of Excellence in cancer care,
diabetes and women's health.

The city is seeking proposals for uses such as assisted senior living,
biomedical research, staff housing and wellness/health or child-care centers,
said corporation spokeswoman Janel Patterson.

"By offering this surplus property for development, we are once again promoting
the Giuliani administration's priority of transforming underused city properties
into valuable assets," said corporation President Michael Carey.

"The development of biomedical research facilities, wellness- care centers and
senior housing will generate increased economic activity while providing
residents with access to top-quality health care services," said Carey.

The sites offered for reuse include the current hospital building site, the
10-story former Triboro Hospital for Tuberculosis and the hospital's main
parking area between the two other sites.

It is expected that the city will build a high school on the site of three other
buildings on Goethals Ave.

The morgue and steam plant will continue to function in their current
capacities.

A three-story building now used for materials receiving and handling at the
corner of Parsons Blvd. and Goethals Ave. may also be considered for
redevelopment as part of the Triboro Hospital site. But it has yet to be
determined whether it is feasible to move the current operations to a new
location.

Triboro Hospital, on Parsons Blvd., is a 10-story building of approximately
267,000 square feet that is considered to be historically significant.

It is a striking example of 1930s period architecture, with large windows,
extended solariums and open sun decks on cantilevered concrete decks.

Preferences will be given to proposals that create age-restricted, medically
supportive housing for this parcel, said Patterson.

"The brand-new Queens Hospital Center will provide state-of-the-art services in
a modern setting that will significantly benefit the Queens community. The
campus for health-related purposes will support and greatly enhance the mission
of Queens Hospital Center," said Pete Velez, senior vice president of the Queens
Health Network, which includes Queens and Elmhurst hospital centers.

Patterson said the city and the Health and Hospitals Corp. are most interested
in long-term leases for the properties that would run up to 99 years.

Proposals for sale of the properties will be considered if a substantial benefit
in terms of quality of development and other public benefits can be realized
through a sale, she said.MAP: QUEENS HOSPITAL CENTER1. Site of new 200-bed
hospital (nearly completed)SITES OFFERED FOR REUSE:2. Former Triboro Hospital3.
Hospital parking lot4. Site of current hospital (to be demolished when new
hospital is completed)5. City morgue and steam plant (to remain)6.  Possible
site of new high school


LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEIL SCHNEIDER ROOM TO BUILD New Queens Hospital Center is being built
next to site of former hospital. The city's Economic Development Corp. is
seeking building plans for three sites that will be available when the new
hospital is completed next spring.  JIM WILLIS DAILY NEWS

                        Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.


