                              211 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                              The Sligo Weekender

                                January 20, 2009

New private hospital for Sligo is still on the cards

SECTION: IRISH NEWS

LENGTH: 366 words


WHILE doubts have arisen about some planned new private hospitals in the
country, the HSE have confirmed that the proposal for a new co-located hospital
attached to Sligo General is still on track.

There has been speculation recently about whether banks would be prepared in the
current economic climate to put up the finance for new private hospitals and how
this would impact on government plans for co-located private hospitals on the
grounds of public hospitals.

However, a spokesperson for the HSE told the Sligo Weekender this week that work
towards the signing of an agreement for the building of the new hospital in
Sligo was progressing. "The bidder and the HSE are in regular contact to
facilitate this".

However, it is understood that while there is confidence that the development
will go ahead, it may be a few months before the contract is signed.

It was announced in 2007 that the Mount Carmel Medical Group, which owns St
Joseph's private hospital, Garden Hill, have been selected to build a new 96-bed
co-located hospital alongside Sligo General Hospital. They would then move their
operation from St Joseph's to there.

It is planned that a new common entrance would link the two hospitals. The new
facility, expected to cost around    90 to    100 million, would be constructed
on the car park side of the hospital and there would be a new multi-storey car
park to serve both hospitals.

It had been expected that the contract would have been signed by now as it had
been suggested that the hospital could be up and running within three years.

It was initially suggested that the signing of the contract for new hospital
would happen by the end of May last. When that date passed it was stated at the
end of August that it was likely to be within three to four weeks. However, a
further inquiry in October elicited the response that it would be "in the near
future".

A senior banking source was recently reported in the Sunday Business Post as
saying that the co-location initiative always presented a challenge to financial
institutions, even in the good times and that the economic downturn had
complicated matters, as banks were now less prepared to take on underwriting
risks on deals.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


