                              204 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                October 19, 2000

ESRI report says State subsidises private care
Public hospitals 'recouping only half of costs' of private patients from
insurers

BYLINE: By NUALA HAUGHEY

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; ERSI HOSPITAL CARE REPORT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 634 words


Public hospitals recoup only half the cost of caring for private patients from
insurance companies, with the taxpayer making up the shortfall, a study released
today reveals.

The report, by the Economic and Social Research Institute, shows that private
patients in public hospitals are being substantially subsidised by the State. It
concludes that a phased increase in health insurance premiums to fill this gap
would not drive people away from private insurers.

The study, Private Practice in Irish Public Hospitals, was written by Prof Brian
Nolan, the ESRI's research professor and Prof Miriam Wiley, head of its health
policy research centre. It shows that private patients account for one-fifth of
all hospital stays in acute public hospitals, yet about a quarter of the
hospitals' total expenditure on in-patient care is spent on them.

The State spent about (pounds) 130 million in 1996 to provide in-patient care in
public hospitals to private patients. This is about double the income raised by
the hospitals through charges paid by private patients or their insurers.
Private patients are further subsidised by the State through tax relief on
health insurance premiums, the study notes.

Speaking at a press briefing on the report yesterday, Prof Wiley said the extent
of the State's subsidy of private patients in public hospitals was likely to be
at least the same today as it was in 1996, given increases in State expenditure
on hospital care in recent years.

The Government's policy was to move towards charging private patients the full
cost of providing care for them in public hospitals, she said.

"We now know the extent of the subsidy currently being applied to supporting
private patients in public hospitals and what's clear is that a substantial
increase in the daily charges by the hospital will be required if we are to
actually get to the point of charging the full economic cost of private patients
in public hospitals," she added.

"Given that most of that income is coming from insured patients, then that has
obviously implications for charges levied against insurance companies, and
presumably subsequently for premium levels charged by insurance companies as
well."

If the level of charges for private care in public hospitals was doubled to
redress the current funding imbalance, then annual claims faced by insurers
would increase by one quarter, the report estimates.

However, if this cost was immediately passed on to private patients through a 25
per cent increase in health insurance premiums, there would be a decline in the
numbers of people taking out health insurance, it adds.

The authors say a phased increase in premiums of 5 per cent per year over five
years would not produce a dramatic fall-off in the numbers of people buying
insurance. "We drew the conclusion that the scale of increase in the price of
insurance required to move up towards charging the cost of the care provided, if
it was phased in over a number of years, would not be likely to burst the bubble
and lead to a sharp decline in the numbers of people on health insurance," Prof
Nolan said.

"This is contingent on continued healthy economic growth per annum of 4 to 5 per
cent and no radical shift in people's perceptions of the public system, because
what's fuelling demand for private insurance is what people think their options
are if they don't have it."

Prof Wiley said the report did not assess the impact of the subsidy for private
patient care on the quality of care for public patients. "We feel that there
would be an important need for research on issues addressing quality of care,
given that our survey of attitudes of people who buy health insurance suggested
that a lot of people buy it because they could feel that there is a quality
difference," she added.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2000 The Irish Times


