                              205 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             India Investment News

                        June 7, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

ITG Market Research Releases New Hospital Executive Survey

LENGTH: 500  words


New Delhi, June 7 -- ITG Market Research today released the results of a recent
survey showing that most US hospital executives believe that the overall US
economy will expand in 2013, but they are not convinced that this growth will
translate into improved business conditions for the hospital industry.



"Our Hospital Executive Confidence Index showed its greatest improvement in
three years, buoyed by recent positive economic news. Even in the latter half of
2012, we were capturing a lot of negative sentiment among hospital executives,
but the proportion expecting economic conditions to deteriorate in 2013 has
fallen by over 50% this quarter. It is a very promising indicator," said Graeme
Christianson, Vice President of Healthcare Market Research at ITG.

At the same time, the study highlights significant challenges that are specific
to the hospital industry. Almost 50% of surveyed executives reported that some
investment has been postponed or cancelled because of reimbursement cuts
embedded in the federal budgetary sequester, and many continue to report
uncertainty regarding the impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act.

Furthermore, almost half of the surveyed executives reported that patient
volumes fell below expectations in the first quarter of 2013. The lower volumes
translated into lower than expected revenues and profits, making Q1 2013 the
worst quarter in terms of reported performance since ITG Market Research
initiated its Hospital Executives syndicated report series in 2011.

"We've already heard from some big players like HMA (NYSE: HMA), HCA (NYSE:
HCA), and Tenet (NYSE: THC) that patient volumes were soft, especially in the
latter half of the first quarter," said Christianson, "but we were still
surprised that executives from so many different types of facilities reported
lower volumes. It may be true that the healthcare industry has avoided the full
brunt of recent economic difficulties, but the industry now faces some uniquely
challenging conditions."

The survey results show that hospitals are responding to the difficult climate
by aggressively implementing new reimbursement and care models, including
accountable care programs, pay-for-performance initiatives, and risk-based
contracting. Furthermore, cost containment strategies for medical devices and
implants have been prioritized, with executives reporting increased focus on
vendor consolidation, market-share discounting, and other aggressive supply
chain management strategies.

About HOSPITAL EXECUTIVES

HOSPITAL EXECUTIVES is a syndicated report series that tracks and analyzes
leading indicators and key metrics that define the US hospital industry. These
bi-annual reports provide timely insights and forward-looking projections to
support more informed decision-making regarding the impact of new products,
changing economic conditions, financial pressures, regulatory constraints,
managed care policies, and governmental regulations on hospital purchasing plans
and market dynamics.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


