                              210 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                             March 13, 2012 Tuesday

Logan County escapes closure of prison - for now

BYLINE: By Edith Brady-Lunny;eblunny@pantagraph.com

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 569 words


LINCOLN - When the 2011 economic scorecard is tallied for Logan County, what was
not lost could be more important than what was gained.

Lincoln and Logan County officials and residents breathed a sigh of relief in
November after Gov. Pat Quinn ditched a plan to close seven state facilities,
including the Logan Correctional Center with its 350 workers and 2,000 inmates.

The community came together in September in a campaign to prevent what could
have been a massive economic loss comparable only to the closing of the former
Lincoln Developmental Center, said Michael Maniscalco, director of the Lincoln &
Logan County Economic Development Partnership.

But the economic development leader is urging residents to keep the T-shirts and
yard signs from last year's campaign to save the prison.

"We do have that fear that it could happen again," said Maniscalco, as the state
continues to struggle with huge deficits.

Loss of the Lincoln prison could have drained $21.7 million in lost worker
income and $73 million in total economic losses to the area, according to an
economic impact study.

Maniscalco took over as director of the economic development agency several
weeks before the prison closure debate began.

Since the prison crisis ended in November, he has focused on a countywide master
plan for residential and business growth. Among the priorities of the plan are
finding ways to capitalize on Logan County's centralized location and hopes to
become a leader in wind energy.

Lincoln also is looking forward to a major boost in the number of affordable
housing units available in the community. A Chicago developer has announced
plans to build 43 townhomes that will help with a shortage of homes in the
$100,000 to $160,000 range, said Maniscalco.

New hospital opens

One of the major boosts to the Logan County area came with the March opening of
the new Abraham Lincoln Memorial Hospital on Stahlnut Drive, a $50 million
facility that replaced a facility built in 1954 in the middle of town.

The new hospital reflects a shift from inpatient care to a greater emphasis on
outpatient services. The 116,000-square foot medical center takes care of 160
outpatients a day.

The community financial support - almost $5.5 million-is a reflection of how
important the hospital is to residents, said hospital spokeswoman Amy Denney.

The contributions "speak volumes for how people feel about their community
hospital," said Denney.

The 290-person workforce at ALMH puts the facility among the top employers in
the county and serves as an incentive for potential new residents, said
Maniscalco.

"This is one of those things you show off to new people. When you're looking for
a place to live, it's all about the schools and the hospital," for some people,
he said.

Legal expense looms

Logan County taxpayers face a potential mountain of legal bills associated with
the trials of two brothers accused of killing five members of a Beason family in
2010. The Logan County Board has earmarked about $1 million in estimated revenue
the county could receive from wind farms expected to locate in the area for the
pending cases against Christopher and Jason Harris.

The repeal of the death penalty in Illinois ended state funding for defense
costs in capital murder cases.

The responsibility of paying the legal bills for those accused of slaying Rick
and Ruth Gee and three of their children now rests with Logan County.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Pantagraph


