                              209 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                THE KOREA HERALD

                          November 17, 2004, Wednesday

Koreans allowed to use foreign hospitals in FEZ

BYLINE: By Sim Sung-tae

LENGTH: 433 words



The government yesterday decided to allow Koreans to use the foreign-invested
hospitals envisioned for the free economic zones.

But foreigners-only pharmacies operating in the zones will not be allowed to
sell medicine to locals, the Ministry of Finance and Economy said in a
statement.

The decision came as the Cabinet approved a bill aimed at facilitating the
establishment of foreign hospitals and other facilities in these special zones.

"We will soon submit the approved bill to the Assembly to have it approved by
the end of this year," said Cho Sung-ik, head of the Free Economic Zone Planning
Team, a government agency working on establishing zones.

Korea is developing free economic zones in three port cities - Incheon, Busan
and Gwangyang - in the hope that they will become hubs of business, finance and
logistics for Northeast Asia.

During the Cabinet meeting, policymakers also endorsed a revision of the
immigration law to prevent discrimination against foreign residents.

According to a recent poll, 80.7 percent of the general public said locals
should be allowed to use the foreign hospitals in the free economic zones.

The survey, jointly conducted by Korea Gallup and Kyung Hee University's medical
research center, also showed 68.6 percent of the general public want foreign
hospitals to be built in the zones.

The foreign hospitals issue has been a source of contention between the
government, which supports the move, and those in the medical profession and
civic groups who oppose the idea.

The government says that over the long term, bringing in foreign hospitals could
help improve the quality of medical care in Korea.

However, many medical groups and civil organizations says it is unfair to
provide such benefits only to the foreign hospitals and not offer the same
service to locals.

Capitalizing on its geographical advantage and superb logistics and industrial
infrastructure, the government says Korea is poised to reinvent itself as the
economic nerve center of Northeast Asia.

At the core of the plan is a trio of free economic zones in Incheon,
Busan-Jinhae and Gwangyang, complete with ports, industrial towns, tourist
attractions and financial institutions.

In these special zones, foreign-invested companies and their employees can enjoy
exceptional benefits and incentives compared with the rest of the country,
including tax breaks, expanded foreign-exchange circulation, language services,
labor flexibility, relaxation of greater-Seoul restrictions, and establishment
of foreign education and medical centers. (saintsim@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2004 The Korea Herald


