                              23 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             March 27, 2009 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

STUDY DETAILS HOSPITAL BENEFITS

BYLINE: The Capital Times

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 288 words


They add significantly to communities' economic health, a new report says.

Hospitals are good for a community's economic health, according to a study
released Thursday by the University of Wisconsin Extension and the Wisconsin
Hospital Association.

The report on the state's 145 hospitals showed the facilities generated $22
billion in economic activity and employed more than 100,000 people.

Hospitals were among the top 10 employers in 44 of the state's 72 counties and
among the top five employers in 20 counties, said Andrew Lewis, community
development specialist with the Center for Community and Economic Development at
the UW-Extension.

The study found a strong health-care network adds to a community's
attractiveness as a place to live, work and retire.

"As baby boomers age, more Wisconsin families will base their decision on where
to retire on the availability of quality health care," the study said.
"Wisconsin consistently is among the top-ranking states in health-care quality."

The study also said in addition to a 100,000-plus workforce, hospitals
indirectly are responsible for 90,000 more jobs in Wisconsin through purchases
of goods and services, with the ripple effect of hospitals accounting for $22
billion in business a year.

A hospital in a rural setting also acts as a magnet for other essential
services, said Matthew Kures of the UW-Extension.

"Rural hospitals provide an anchor for other health-care jobs, such as
physicians and pharmacists, that, in the absence of the hospital, may not be
available," Kures said.

"Communities we work with cite the inability to attract and retain college
graduates, but hospitals are able to provide employment for these individuals
and help stem the so-called brain drain."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


