                              214 of 994 DOCUMENTS



             The Wabaunsee County Signal-Enterprise (Alma, Kansas)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                               February 14, 2013

Kansas Hospitals and Health Care Systems Boost State Economy

BYLINE: The Wabaunsee County Signal-Enterprise staff

LENGTH: 734  words


As the fifth largest producer of total income and sales in the state, the Kansas
health sector is a powerful economic force. The contributions of the health care
systems to the state's economy are often overlooked, including the number of
people employed, the impact of hospital and health system purchases and the
impact of employees' spending and tax payments.

A January 20 13 report entitled The Importance of the Health Care Sector to the
Kansas Economy, produced by researchers at the Office of Local Government,
K-State Research and Extension, estimated the "gross" impacts associated with
the health care sector on economic activity in the State of Kansas. The report
identified three general areas of health care's importance to the state's
economy: 1) health care attracts and retains business and industry; 2) health
care attracts and retains retirees; and 3) health care creates jobs in the local
economy.

"Hospitals and health services truly represent an economic anchor in our state,"
said Tom Bell, president and CEO of the Kansas Hospital Association. "This
report documents the relative importance of the health care sector to the Kansas
economy. While the estimates of economic impact are substantial, they are only a
partial accounting of the benefits that health care in general, and community
hospitals in particular, provide to the state. Kansas community hospitals help
to not only stabilize the population base, but also invigorate their communities
and contribute significantly to the quality of life."

According to the report, Kansas hospitals employ 81, 931 people or 4.4 percent
or all job holders in the state. This is a one percent increase over last year's
findings. The report calculated economic multipliers and estimated that
hospitals account for another 61.855 jobs throughout all businesses and
industries in the state. Thus, the hospital sector employment had a total impact
on state employment of 143, 786jobs. This means that for each job created in the
hospital sector, another 0.75 jobs were supported in other business and
industries in Kansas.

Furthermore, the entire health sector in Kansas employs 226, 333 people or 12.0
percent of all jobholders in the state. This puts Kansas ahead of the national
average of 10.1 percent of al 1 jobholders in the United States working in
health care services. The total employment impact of the health services sector
in Kansas resulted in an estimated 358.025 jobs in the Kansas economy. The
health care sector is the fourth largest aggregate employer in the state.

The study found that Kansas hospitals generate approximately 4.9 billion in
direct labor income to the Kansas economy each year. For every one dollar of
income generated in the hospital sector, another $0.48 was generated in other
business and industry. Thus, the hospital sector had an estimated total impact
on income throughout all business and industry of nearly $7.2 billion.

Funds spent to buy goods and services flow from hospitals to businesses and then
ripple throughout the economy. The impact of hospitals on area retail sales
generates more than $2.2 billion to the Kansas economy each year. Additionally,
it is estimated that the hospital sector generates more than $142 million in
sales tax for the state, which is largely used to fund state programs.

'"While these raw numbers indicate the importance of community hospitals and
health services to the Kansas economy, they also make it clear that the
challenges faced by our state cannot be met by those directly responsible for
health care administration alone," said Bell. "These challenges require a
community-wide response involving government, business and civic leaders. They
also require supportive state- and federal-level policies and programs that
don't take for granted the access to care provided by the community hospital"

The full statewide report and links to county reports can be found on the KHA
Web site at: www.kha-n et.org.

The Kansas Hospital Association is a not-for-profit association of health care
provider organizations and individuals that are committed to the health
improvement of their communities. KHA membership includes 217 member facilities,
of which 126 are full-service community hospitals. Founded in 1910, KHA
maintains its vision of "an organization of hospitals working together to
improve access, quality and the affordability of health care for all Kansans."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

