                              215 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Hawk Eye (Burlington, Iowa)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 9, 2014 Wednesday

Board looks back on Keokuk Hospital, grants funds

BYLINE: Sarah Tomkinson, The Hawk Eye, Burlington, Iowa

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 584 words


April 09--KEOKUK -- Lee County Supervisors had a change of heart Tuesday
regarding funds requested by the Keokuk Area Hospital.

During its meeting at Heritage Senior Center in Keokuk, the board voted 4-1 to
give the struggling hospital roughly $103,000. The hospital will use the funds
as a match for state funding.

Keokuk-area farmer Bob Leu told the supervisors he didn't understand why the
board turned down the funds originally.

"Nobody can understand the board's decision not to give the hospital $100,000,
especially when you give $80,000 to showers for conservation," he said. "I just
can't understand your thinking."

Supervisors Rick Larkin and Ernie Schiller said they took a lot of heat from
residents for rejecting the request in March, but Larkin advised the hospital
this is the last time.

"I will vote to pass it this time," Larkin said. "This is it for me. Don't come
back next year and be surprised when I vote it down."

Schiller, Larkin and Supervisor Ron Fedler voted against the contribution in
March because they were told last year it was a one-time deal.

On Tuesday, Fedler was the lone opposing vote. He said his hesitation is because
there doesn't appear to be a stopping point.

Duane Fitch, president of Fitch Healthcare, the Oak Brook, Ill.-based health
care consulting company that manages the Keokuk hospital, told supervisors the
hospital's financial challenges "are due less to activity, but more on the
economic downturn and people's inability to pay."

He said 71 percent of the hospital's patients use Medicare or Medicaid and the
state owes about $3 million for those patients.

"We are an underfunded agency of the government," he said, noting the hospital
has a $21 million annual budget.

Keokuk Mayor Tom Marion and Keokuk City Council members Roger Bryant and Mike
O'Connor were at the meeting to encourage the county board to approve the funds.

Last Thursday, Keokuk City Council voted unanimously to contribute $103,000 to
the hospital.

"It seems the progress they've made is significant," O'Connor said about the
hospital. "Right now they are at a critical point where they might be turning a
corner."

Since last June, the hospital has added staff members, including three surgeons,
and is starting to see more cash flow, despite having a large debt hanging over
its head.

In March, hospital CEO Kathy DeVine told the board the hospital had paid off
more than $1 million in debt to various organizations.

On Tuesday, Fitch told the board the administration continues to seek ways to
adjust the remaining debt.

Lee County Economic Development Group Executive Director Steve Bisenius joined
in showing support for the hospital and its staff.

"One goal of any economic group is the retention of jobs," Bisenius said. "It is
fundamental to the community."

The hospital employs more than 360 area residents and sees more than 12,000
emergency room patients a year.

Last year, KAH received $100,000 from the city of Keokuk and another $100,000
from the county. The funds were met with a 140 percent match by the Iowa
Department of Human Services and Iowa Medicaid Enterprise, and the hospital
received more than $490,000 in funding.

To receive similar funding this year, the city and county had to increase
contributions to more than $103,000.

Financial problems arose in 2011 when officials announced they were in danger of
closing the hospital's doors.

___ (c)2014 The Hawk Eye (Burlington, Iowa) Visit The Hawk Eye (Burlington,
Iowa) at www.thehawkeye.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140409-QW-Board-looks-back-on-Keokuk-Hospital
-grants-funds-0409-20140409

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QW


                          Copyright 2014 The Hawk Eye


