                              24 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     October 8, 1993, Friday, City Edition

CEOs told economy is picking up

SECTION: BUSINESS; BUSINESS BRIEFS; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 858 words



Chief executives of the nation's largest corporations were told Thursday that
the lackluster economic performance during the first half of this year was a
temporary setback and that growth already had picked up.

Senior economic advisers to the 111 active and retired chief executives
attending the meeting of the elite Business Council in Williamsburg, Va.,
forecast an economic growth rate of 3.1 percent during the second half of this
year and in 1994.

That's more than double the first half's 1.3 percent growth rate in the  gross
domestic product, the sum of all goods and services produced in the  United
States.

Meanwhile, corporate expectations for higher sales and profits in the  fourth
quarter of 1993 rose from a year ago, the Dun & Bradstreet Corp. said  Thursday.
Its quartely poll of about 3,000 U.S. executives also showed that  some of the
optimism expressed in this year's third quarter had waned because  of
uncertainties surrounding upcoming fiscal and health care policy decisions.

HOSPITAL COMPANIES FORM ALLIANCE. Columbia Healthcare Corp., a fast-growing
hospital company, has forged an alliance with Medical Care America Inc., which
runs outpatient surgery centers in a move that further integrates their health
care offerings. The announcement Thursday came less than a week after  Columbia,
the nation's largest for-profit hospital chain, said it would  acquire HCA-
Hospital Corp. of America in a $ 5.7-billion stock-swap deal.

ROBERD'S WILL OPEN IN SEMINOLE. Roberd's Inc., a Dayton, Ohio-based  consumer
electronics and furniture retailer with four stores in Tampa Bay, has  signed a
lease to take over a vacant Kmart in Seminole. The 87,000-square-foot  store on
Seminole Boulevard at Park Boulevard will be remodeled into Roberd's  latest
prototype store. It will be one-third bigger than other Roberd's stores  in the
area when it opens in mid-November.

PEPSI HOAX COSTLY. Pepsi-Cola Co. estimated Thursday that a syringe hoax
earlier this year cost the soft drink marketer and its bottlers about  $
35-million in lost sales and increased expenses. But the company said its
overall sales including new products were up 7 percent in July and August, the
biggest gains for Pepsi products in the two key summer months in five years.

PER CAPITA INCOME GROWS. The growth of Americans' per capita income  accelerated
in 1992, growing 4.9 percent nationally last year. The income  growth exceeded
inflation in all but seven states: Florida, where it was up  just 2.6 percent;
Delaware, 2.7 percent; California and Hawaii, 2.9 percent  each; Alaska, 3.2
percent; Maryland, 3.6 percent; and Wyoming, 3.7 percent.

LORENZO DECISION TO BE RECONSIDERED. The Transportation Department ordered  one
of its administrative law judges Thursday to reconsider a recommendation  that
Frank Lorenzo be barred from operating a new discount airline. The  department
told Judge Richard L. Barton Jr. to reopen public hearings in the  case and
develop a more complete record on Lorenzo's bid to launch a new  carrier, ATX
Inc.

VALUE LINE TO RATE MUTUALS. Value Line, publisher of the nation's largest
independent investment advisory service, announced Thursday that it was
launching a rating and reporting service on mutual funds. The mutual fund
service, which also includes a monthly newsletter, costs $ 295 a year, and will

 compete with the well-established Morningstar Mutual Funds service, based in
Chicago.

NEW LAYOFFS NUMBER FALLS. The Labor Department said Thursday the number of
newly laid off Americans fell by 9,000 last week to 320,000, the lowest level
in more than nine months. It was the second straight decline and the seventh  in
the last 10 weeks.

PLANT TO DEMONSTRATE CLEANUP METHODS. The U.S. Department of Energy plant  in
Largo will be the first agency facility to participate in a program
demonstrating various innovative environmental cleanup methods. The department
will provide data on proven technologies that have not yet achieved widespread
acceptance in the private sector in an effort to accelerate their use. The
plant, operated by Martin Marietta Corp., makes components for nuclear weapons
and is scheduled to stop production in 1995.

RETAIL SALES REBOUND. Sales at the nation's major retailers rebounded in
September from the prior month's dismal start for the back-to-school season.
The Salomon Brothers retail index rose 5.6 percent last month from a year ago,
based on reports released Thursday.

TOOJAY'S REORGANIZES. The two partners who fashioned TooJay's into a
Florida-style New York deli chain with a 300-item menu have split up. Hal
McGeorge, a former Wendy's International executive who is bringing the chain  to
Tampa Bay, will be the new president of the West Palm Beach chain. The deal
means McGeorge's franchise operation in Tampa Bay will be folded into a
reorganized TooJay's International headed by TooJay's other founder, Marc
Katzenberg. TooJay's opened in Clearwater this summer and will open in St.
Petersburg's Tyrone area in a few weeks and in Tampa by year's end.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                            Times Publishing Company


