                              220 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                 The Tribune-Democrat (Johnstown, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 21, 2009 Wednesday

Memorial blames economy for 47 layoffs

BYLINE: Randy Griffith, Tribune-Democrat, Johnstown, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 575 words


Jan. 21--Decreasing patient volumes and loss of investment income during the
economic downturn led the layoffs of 47 Memorial Medical Center employees
Tuesday.

Layoffs affected employees in support areas but did not include hospital nursing
staff, hospital executives announced.

"Careful planning and much thought went into this process, and our goal was to
maintain as many jobs as possible while meeting our fiscal responsibilities in
this unprecedented economic environment," hospital President Steve Tucker said
in a news release.

The cutback represents a little more than 1 percent of Memorial's 3,700
employees.

Severance packages, counseling and help with finding another job are being
offered to affected employees.

Some may be able to take new positions within the Conemaugh Health System.

"We know that even one job lost is one too many," Tucker said.

"Every effort was made to keep the number of impacted employees to a minimum
through attrition and other fiscal interventions."

Those fiscal interventions include adjustments to employee benefit packages,
fewer outside consultants and other belt-tightening measures, sources said.

Dr. David Carlson, Conemaugh's chief medical officer, said, "We have seen a
decline in volume at Memorial Medical Center in the past few months due to the
economy.

"This is concerning, not just for the financial impact to the hospital but to
the health and well-being of the patients who are not seeking the care they
need."

Memorial is not alone. A Hospital & Healthsystem Association of Pennsylvania
report issued earlier this month showed three-quarters of the state's hospitals
expect a moderate to significant effect on their financial stability this year.

"The current economic crisis imperils hospitals -- our community safety net --
and the patients who depend on them," association President Carolyn Scanlan said
in the report.

Financially wary patients are delaying elective surgeries, which often are the
more profitable procedures for a hospital, association spokesman Roger
Baumgartner said.

Cutbacks in other industries have sent more patients to emergency and behavioral
health departments, often without the means to pay.

"We get more people in this economy coming in who are uninsured or
underinsured," Baumgartner said. "There are more people using emergency
departments as the primary support."

Community hospitals such as Memorial can't turn away patients in need,
Baumgartner added.

The Conemaugh Health System provides more than $34 million in uncompensated care
each year, including $2 million in charity care.

"These really are challenging times; however, we are confident in our continued
ability to provide outstanding health care to our region," Tucker said.

"This current national economic challenge does not change our commitment to
continue to grow and excel."

In the past, hospitals have relied on income from investments to offset declines
in patient revenue.

But the association's report showed 83 percent of Pennsylvania hospitals have
seen investment income decline.

To see more of The Tribune-Democrat or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.tribune-democrat.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Tribune-Democrat,
Johnstown, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090121-JO-Memorial-blames-economy-for-47-layoffs-0121

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JO


                      Copyright 2009 The Tribune-Democrat


