                              221 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             January 5, 1998 Monday
                                  Late Edition

HCoA plans $200m expansion in Asia;
HEALTH

BYLINE: LEONIE WOOD

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 400 words


Australia's largest private hospitals group, Mayne Nickless's Health Care of
Australia, yesterday signalled it intended doubling its proposed investment in
Asia to about $200 million as new opportunities emerged in Indonesia and the
Philippines.

In a bullish assessment of Asia's economic outlook, the head of HCoA, Dr Barry
Catchlove, said lower land prices meant HCoA could now consider buying existing
hospitals in South-East Asia as well as developing new sites.

"Assets that six months ago were priced at prohibitively high levels are now
looking a lot more attractive," Dr Catchlove said.

He argued that the continuing economic turmoil in Asia would not greatly affect
the expected demand for healthcare in the region, and instead opened more doors
for private providers of healthcare.

"The current crisis restricts the capacity of governments to allocate public
funding for hospital developments, which creates the opportunity for HCoA to
expand its role as a regional healthcare operator," Dr Catchlove said.

He said HCoA, which at present has about $50 million invested in Asia, has
previously indicated it would like to channel about $100 million into a network
of private hospitals and partnerships in the region.

"It's fair to say it's early days, . . . but if the right opportunities present
themselves, I do not think the (Mayne Nickless) board would be averse to, over
three, four, five years, doubling that investment," Dr Catchlove said.

"We would be looking to aggressively expand our opportunities in the region."

Dr Catchlove specifically singled out Indonesia and the Philippines as countries
offering the most potential for healthcare providers, and while HCoA would like
to expand in Malaysia and Thailand, it was yet to find suitable investment
partners in those countries.

"We have never been able to compete with Asian investors for hospitals or
property before because they place such enormous value on the underlying land,"
Dr Catchlove said.

Contrary to many forecasters, Dr Catchlove argued that Asia's present economic
crisis should be considered part of a normal economic cycle in the same way as
industrialised nations endured economic cycles.

HCoA is already in partnerships in Indonesia where it is presently operating a
250-bed hospital in Jakarta and is building three more hospitals in Jakarta and
Surabaya.

It also has a joint venture with the Oberoi group in New Delhi, India.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1998 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


