                              217 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Bond Buyer

                            January 16, 2009 Friday

Wisconsin's Doyle Brings Back Plan for New Hospital Assessments

BYLINE: Yvette Shields

SECTION: THE REGIONS; Pg. 6 Vol. 367 No. 33047

LENGTH: 571  words


CHICAGO - Winning the praise of many lawmakers and business and health care
groups, Wisconsin Gov. Jim Doyle this week resurrected a plan to impose a new
assessment on hospitals with the aim of raising an additional $300 million
annually in federal Medicaid funds.

"In these challenging economic times, it is more important than ever that we
move forward with a hospital assessment in order to reward hospitals that
consistently provide high-quality health care to Medicaid patients," Department
of Health Services Secretary Karen Timberlake said of the new proposal that was
submitted to lawmakers.

Doyle first proposed such a tax, similar to one imposed in neighboring Illinois
and 21 other states, in 2007 but it was opposed by hospital groups, and the
Legislature's Republicans, who controlled the House, killed it. Democrats now
hold a majority in both of the Legislature's chambers. The failed proposal was
expected to leverage an additional $450 million annually in federal matching
reimbursements.

Under the new three-year program that would include the current fiscal year,
about 72 hospitals would be assessed a 1.4% tax on their gross patient revenues.
Most hospitals would receive federal reimbursement equal to their payments and
about 59 will receive $200 million in additional funds based on their level of
Medicaid patients. The state would also use a piece of the new federal dollars
to cover state health care costs, freeing up money in the general fund as the
state grapples with a $5.4 billion, two-year budget deficit.

Unlike the governor's original proposal, its successor received a ringing
endorsement from various health care groups. It comes as hospitals across the
state are struggling with declining revenue and investment returns and a heavier
load of bad debt and charity care as they treat more uninsured and under-insured
patients.

The latest economic turmoil has contributed to what is already a roughly $600
million annual shortfall between the costs hospitals incur in treating Medicaid
recipients and what they receive back. About 58 critical access and state
psychiatric hospitals are excluded from the program because they automatically
receive a 100% Medicaid reimbursement.

"Wisconsin hospitals have been hit hard by the recent economic downturn with
both charity care and bad debt increasing by 20% over the past year, and these
numbers will get worse," Wisconsin Hospital Association president Steve Brenton
said in a statement. "Medicaid utilization is also increasing and the
combination of those factors, left unaddressed, could jeopardize access to
important health care programs in communities all across the state."

House Speaker Mike Sheridan, D-Janesville, predicted swift passage. "I believe
that the hospital assessment is a smart way to help bridge our budget gap. The
assessment on hospital revenues could attract several hundred million dollars in
federal money to help reimburse hospitals for care provided to patients on
Medicaid," he said in statement.

While Democrats praised the plan, some Republicans remained skeptical, including
Senate Republican Leader Scott Fitzgerald of Juneau, who raised concerns that
the state would use the funds for non-health care related expenses.

"I am fearful ... revenue will be skimmed off and used as a quick source of cash
for unrelated projects, which has occurred in the past with the transportation
fund," Fitzgerald said in a statement.

URL: http://www.bondbuyer.com/

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BB


                        Copyright 2009 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


