                              213 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                                 April 8, 1998

Private hospitals, clinics face drop in number of patients

BYLINE: By Stephanie Rajendram

SECTION: National; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 701 words

DATELINE: Kuala Lumpur


KUALA LUMPUR, Tues. - Private clinics and hospitals are beginning to feel
the crunch of the economic problem with more people turning to the cheaper
government hospitals.

Health Ministry director-general Tan Sri Abu Bakar Sulaiman confirmed he
had received feedback that more people were opting for government
hospitals due to the economic slowdown.

He said government hospitals were experiencing an increase in the number
of patients seeking affordable subsidised healthcare.

However, he said it was too soon to quantify the shift in preference as
there was insufficient data on the matter.

"For example, there was an increase in the number of patients visiting
government hospitals in February compared to January.

"However, there is always a drop in patient number around January due to
the two festivals celebrated then," he said.

The department would be able to gauge the true situation at the end of
April.

On whether the "patient influx" from private to public healthcare
systems would place an extra burden on government hospitals, he said:

"One must appreciate that we are equally concerned over the matter. We
have to accommodate our budgets for the purpose."

During the last recession, government hospitals experienced a 10 to 15
per cent increase in workload.

"We have to be prepared for such an eventuality and that is why we are
monitoring the situation closely."

Malaysian Medical Association president Dr Milton Lum said the private
sector was certainly not immune from the effects of the economic slowdown.

He confirmed that although the MMA did not have statistical back-up,
general practitioners and specialists had noted a decrease in the number
of patients in either general practitioner clinics or private hospitals.

Meanwhile, a random check by the New Straits Times in the Klang Valley
revealed that five-star comfort and services are no longer a draw.

Private hospitals, for example, are witnessing a decline in the number
of patients being admitted, although most are tight-lipped about the
issue.

Sources say the decline could be as much as 50 per cent although those
interviewed said they have been recording about a 15 per cent decrease in
the number of patients admitted.

Regional department general manager for Kumpulan Perubatan Johor,
Aminudin Dawam, said the company recorded a "slight drop in the number of
patients" coming to their hospitals since the end of last year.

Kumpulan Perubatan Johor owns and manages Pusat Pakar Tawakal, Ampang
Putri Specialist Hospital and Damansara Specialist in the Klang Valley.

Aminudin said he was unable to provide statistics but said they would be
able to gauge the full extent of the problem by the end of April.

Meanwhile, business development manager with Pantai Medical Centre, Lum
Sau Mei, said they had experienced a 10 per cent decrease in the number of
patients being admitted in the last two months.

"We are, however, not sure if the contributing factor is the economic
slowdown, as we are currently undergoing renovations."

Private clinics, on the other hand, are recording a decrease of as much
as 40 per cent.

Skin specialist Dr Low Bin Tick said he had experienced a decrease by 40
per cent in the number of patients seeking treatment since the end of last
year.

Dr Low, who operates a clinic in Jalan Raja Chulan, said the decrease
could be attributed to the economic slowdown.

"The cost of medicines has gone up by about 30 per cent, so it is not
surprising that patients are reluctant to patronise private
establishments," he said.

A general practioner in Bangsar, who did not wish to be named, said
there was a 15 per cent decrease in the number of patients seeking
treatment.

"They are coming only if they are really sick. Those who used to come
for routine checks like for their cholesterol levels or blood sugar levels
are not coming anymore.

"Generally, there has been a drop in cash patients, but no drop in
company patients as the companies foot the employees' bill," he said.

Dr S. Sellamah of Klinik Setapak and Surgeri said the clinic in Setapak,
which has three doctors, experienced a 20 per cent decrease since
December.


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 1998 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


