                              216 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                     February 18, 1994 Friday Final Edition

Do bed cuts mean less care?

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 285 words


SHOULD YOU worry if there are fewer hospital beds in local hospitals?

Nurses say it's a problem that will affect all of us, but health policy analyst
Jonathan Lomas says extensive research shows hospital beds are a poor barometer
of the state of our health.

A person's health is only related to a 'very small degree' to the number of
hospital beds, doctors and other health care providers in a community, said Mr.
Lomas, co-ordinator of the Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis at
McMaster University.

He was commenting after Hamilton Civic Hospitals announced this week that it
will close beds and reduce employment at Hamilton General and Henderson
hospitals on April 1.

'Ultimately, how healthy the community is, is far more related in
Hamilton-Wentworth to how effectively we are engineering economic growth and
full employment, than how many hospital beds we have.'

Earlier this week, Bev Mathers, president of Local 70 of the Ontario Nurses'
Association, said the cuts will mean fewer beds, longer waiting lists for
surgery, some cancellations, and longer waits in emergency rooms.

However, Mr. Lomas said the state of the economy is the key to people's health.

People with no hope of a job, who are insecure about losing the one they have,
or find their work meaningless 'cannot resist any kind of disease to the extent
of somebody who is satisfied and secure in their job,' he said.

Twenty-five years of research shows that the nature of a person's employment,
and whether they work, is a major determinant of their long-term health, he
said.

With fewer hospital beds in Hamilton, Mr. Lomas said it's imperative that access
to existing beds is co-ordinated effectively.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SPECTATOR GRAPHIC E. PAWCZUK Area hospitals cut a total of 243 beds
since 1992 (SEE PRINT COPY OR MICROFILM FOR DETAIL)

                    Copyright 1994 Metroland Media Group Ltd


