                              222 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                      BtoB

                                January 18, 2010

Health care execs seek cutback cures;
Marketers must demonstrate product's value while understanding provider's values

BYLINE: MARY E. MORRISON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0013

LENGTH: 915 words


U.S. HOSPITAL EXECUTIVES currently face a number of challenges, including
keeping finances afloat in a difficult economy, ensuring patient safety and
quality despite personnel shortages, and keeping doctor-hospital relations
strong.

In addition, it's unclear at the moment how pending health care reform
legislation will affect those issues, said Deborah Bowen, exec VP-chief
operating officer of the American College of Healthcare Executives.

"Everybody's concerned about health care reform-what is that going to mean to
our operations, what is that going to mean to how we do business going forward,"
Bowen said. "They're concerned about the unknown; they're worried they'll get
paid less for treating more people, and that presents certain challenges."

Though health care providers have a guaranteed stream of income from government
programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, they still suffered as a result of the
economic recession, said Fawn Lopez, VP-publisher of Crain Communications Inc.'s
Modern Healthcare (see Q&A, this page). "High unemployment from the devastating
economic recession has greatly affected providers' revenues, and revenues have
not been keeping pace with the rapidly rising costs," she said.

INVESTMENT INCOME DOWN

Also, the turmoil in the financial market and investment portfolio losses have
negatively impacted providers' balance sheets, she said. "Historically,
providers have relied on their investment income to fund certain operational
expenses," she explained. "When that money is not there, providers have had to
make tough decisions such as postponing capital expenditures on needed
construction projects or IT systems, or reducing work force and employee
benefits."

Those cuts in personnel and capital spending have been widespread, according to
an April report from the American Hospital Association, "The Economic Crisis:
Ongoing Monitoring of Impact on Hospitals." In fact, between September 2008 and
March 2009, nine in 10 hospitals had made cutbacks to address economic concerns,
with eight in 10 cutting administrative expenses and nearly half reducing staff.
Between the beginning of 2008 and March 2009, eight in 10 hospitals had cut
capital spending for facility upgrades, clinical technology and/or information
technology, the survey found. (The survey was sent in March to community
hospital CEOs via fax and e-mail, and drew 1,078 responses.)

Despite these challenges, there are some bright spots for vendors that sell
products or services to hospitals. For example, Under the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act (the government stimulus package), health care providers that
can prove they are "meaningful users" of certified electronic health record
technology may be eligible for incentive payments beginning in 2011; those that
are not actively using such technology by 2015 will be subject to financial
penalties.

As a result, spending on hospital IT applications is expected to grow, according
to the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society, from an estimated
$4.7 billion in 2009 to approximately $6.8 billion in 2014.

HOW TO REACH THEM

Marketers hoping to cash in on such opportunities should remember to keep
messaging focused on how products or services can solve health care
organizations' problems and how they can help executives deliver quality patient
care, Bowen said. "Health care is a business, but it's a business with a cause;
and therefore, there are always values associated with it," she said. "[A lot of
the ads] ? are about reminding people what business we're in. It's all about the
patient."

Using credible sources in testimonials can be very effective for reaching this
audience, Lopez said. "Providers look to one another to learn about new trends
and best practices," she said.

Marketers should also make their messages as specific as possible, she added.
"Health care is a local and regional kind of business," she said. "You really
have to speak to the providers on that level and not just with a general, global
kind of message."

Cathy Wolfe, director of marketing services for Toshiba America Medical Systems
(see case study, page 14), said the company often relies on testimonial
marketing, using customers in its communications whenever possible.
"Word-of-mouth is huge in health care," she said. "We feel that's the strongest
way to be successful in a market like this."

As for the best media to reach this audience, print advertising remains a
staple, Lopez said, while new media such as webinars are also very effective,
particularly since so many health care organizations' travel budgets have been
cut.

EFFECTIVE TRADE SHOW EXPERIENCE

Trade show marketing efforts-especially those that create an experience for
visitors-are also very effective, said Heather Rosenow, VP-marketing for Derse
Inc., a face-to-face marketing agency. "This segment has embraced experiential
marketing far above and beyond what we've seen in other industries," she said.

Many marketers in the health care industry, such as those selling medical
devices or pharmaceuticals, are subject to regulations limiting what they can
give prospects. "Experiential" marketing that is focused on education and
stresses the benefits of the product or service encourages message retention,
she said. "If you tell me about something, I hear what you have to say," she
said. "But if you show me and I'm immersed in it, I really retain that
information and it may impact how I feel."

Copyright 2010 Crain Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: bb


                      Copyright 2010 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


