                              226 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Brunswick News (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 22, 2014 Monday

Report highlights health system's contribution to economy

BYLINE: Lindsey Adkison, The Brunswick News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 548 words


Sept. 22--The Southeast Georgia Health System continues to be a driving economic
force in Glynn and Camden counties.

The health system recently released a statement outlining just how great an
impact it has on the areas.

According to the Georgia Hospital Association, the state's largest hospital
trade association, Southeast Georgia Health System had direct expenditures,
payments to employees, suppliers, contractors and other beneficiaries totaling
around $234 million in 2012, the latest figures available.

Utilizing the economic multiplier formula developed by the U.S. Department of
Commerce's Bureau of Economic Analysis, the health system was able to determine
the total economic impact or the "ripple" effect of those expenditures, which
tops $533 million.

The report shows the health system maintains 1,464 full- and part-time jobs, not
including positions in the health system's two Senior Care centers or the
strategic affiliates, which include four Family Medicine Centers, three
Immediate Care Centers and 43 physician practices. When these additional health
care providers are factored into the mix, the number of jobs reliant on the
health system jumps to 2,269. All of these employees and affiliates are able to
re-invest much of their health system-dependent salaries back into the local
community.

It's something that makes Gary R. Colberg, president and CEO of the Southeast
Georgia Health System, very proud.

"This new report shows that as the state's economy continued its slow rebound
from years of economic downturn, Southeast Georgia Health System maintained an
enormous positive impact on our local economy," Colberg said in the release. "We
thank our communities for their unwavering support of our hospitals and will
continue to work hard to ensure that the residents of our communities have
access to health care services that are second to none in safety, quality and
affordability."

Southeast Georgia Health System continues to thrive, though the story is not the
same for the state's hospital community as a whole.

The report indicates that 42 percent of all hospitals in Georgia are operating
with negative margins.

The economic struggle is largely contributed to cuts in Medicare and Medicaid
payments and an increasingly uninsured population.

Colberg hopes state lawmakers will work to protect Georgia's health care system
with the same fervor that they do other initiatives like education and public
utilities.

"We're extremely concerned with the current operating environment for hospitals,
" Colberg said.

"We've made a commitment to every citizen of the communities we serve to be on
call for them 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. However, our ability to do so is
being compromised when a growing number of our patients are either uninsured or
severely underinsured. It is our hope that our elected lawmakers will do what is
necessary to protect our local health care system and preserve access to health
care for every resident of southeast Georgia."

-- Reporter Lindsey Adkison writes about business and other local topics.
Contact her at ladkison@thebrunswicknews.com, on Facebook or at 265-8320, ext.
346.

___ (c)2014 The Brunswick News (Brunswick, Ga.) Visit The Brunswick News
(Brunswick, Ga.) at www.thebrunswicknews.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140922-GE-Report-highlights-health-system-s-contribution-to-economy-0922-20140
922

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GE


                       Copyright 2014 The Brunswick News


