                              227 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                            Crain's Detroit Business
                                 Print Version

                               February 10, 2014

OPINION

SECTION: Pg. 8 Vol. 30

LENGTH: 429  words


Just how long can Crittenton go solo?

Can an independent hospitals afford to go it alone? That's a question reporter
Jay Greene considered in his Jan. 27 report, "Local hospital merger talks are in
the air."

Garden City Hospital, included in that roundup, announced last week it would be
acquired by a for-profit, physician-led hospital company based in California.

Hospitals generally seek mergers to save money, increase efficiency or gain
access to capital for improvements. As payments from federal programs (Medicare
and Medicaid) drop and new formulas pay for outcomes versus each individual
service, hospitals are forced to look for ways to operate more efficiently.
Bigger can be better.

That's why Crittenton Hospital's go-it-alone strategy in Rochester Hills will be
interesting to watch. With a new CEO hired last July, that hospital's leadership
wants to remain independent.

Yet it's tempting to consider another scenario. McLaren Health Care Corp. has
been fighting regulators to build a new 200-bed hospital in Clarkston. Critics
say more hospital beds will add cost to the region. But what if Crittenton and
McLaren merged? Both hospitals would come out ahead - and so might Oakland
County.

Jackson leaves solid legacy

The rumor mill has been spinning since George Jackson announced he would step
down as CEO of the Detroit Economic Growth Corp. on March 31. Was Jackson pushed
out by the new Duggan administration that had installed F. Thomas Lewand as
economic development chief? Or did he leave to create a consulting firm
voluntarily?

Jackson says it was just time, and he will continue to serve on the board now
chaired by retired General Motors Corp. executive Rod Gillum, who also will
chair the search for Jackson's successor.

As a quasi-city agency, the DEGC has a tool kit of economic incentives and
programs not always available to the city itself. As Gillum notes: "We have the
flexibility to operate as a private entity, but with a public objective."

Jackson and his team succeeded on many projects, from knocking down cement silos
on Detroit's riverfront to redeveloping the Westin Book Cadillac Detroit Hotel
to smaller projects like the Garden Theater block in Midtown. Also important was
using the agency's independence as a buffer from politics; some developers
credit Jackson with protecting them from shakedowns during the Kilpatrick
pay-to-play era.

The search committee will include DEGC vice chairs, board members and Lewand. A
successor may be named before Jackson leaves. Whoever he or she is, Jackson has
left a strong foundation on which to build.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CD


                      Copyright 2014 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


