                              228 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                August 30, 2001 Thursday Five Star Lift Edition

NURSES OK NOTICE OF ACTION AT ST. JOHN'S;
 TALKS ARE IN 23RD MONTH; WORK SLOWDOWN, STRIKE OR CALL FOR BOYCOTT IS POSSIBLE

BYLINE: Judith VandeWater Of The Post-Dispatch Jeremy Kohler Of The
Post-Dispatch Contributed To This Report.

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 665 words


After 22 months of negotiations, registered nurses at St. John's Mercy Medical
Center in Creve Coeur authorized their union Wednesday night to give notice of
an economic action against the hospital.

That action could mean a call for a community boycott of the hospital, a work
slowdown, a work stoppage, a refusal to work overtime or other actions.

In a series of three meetings at Queeny Park on Wednesday that were closed to
the news media, nurse negotiators sought the authority to call for an "economic
action" against St. John's, one of the area's largest hospitals. The three
meetings yielded about a 91 percent approval of authorizing the notice of an
economic action, union officials said. About 700 attended the meetings.

In a separate issue, hospital administrators confirmed Wednesday that nurses
opposed to the union were in the early stages of an effort to decertify United
Food and Commercial Workers Local 655 as the collective bargaining agent for the
approximately 1,500 registered nurses at St. John's.

A decertification vote would be scheduled if supporters presented the National
Labor Relations Board with petitions signed by 30 percent of the nurses.

When nurses authorized the union as their collective bargaining agent in July
1999, the election was the first major victory for an AFL-CIO union in hospital
organizing in this area. St. John's and the union negotiating team have been in
initial contract talks since the fall of 1999 and have reached a tentative
agreement on all contract matters except wages and benefits.

The union charges that the hospital is stalling now, and it launched a publicity
campaign to turn up the pressure.

The hospital said in a statement issued Wednesday that both sides have been
working hard and in good faith to reach agreement and negotiations are
continuing.

Hospital spokeswoman Amy Zimmerman said she would not comment on the vote to
authorize the notice until the hospital had been formally notified of the vote
by the union.

The union is required by law to give the hospital 10 days' notice of an economic
action.

Kathy Smith, a nurse who broke from the union Sunday and resigned her seat on
the negotiating committee, held a series of open meetings at the hospital
Wednesday to express her "alarm at the path the union is taking and the
potential end result." Smith said that the union is moving toward a strike or a
work action that could affect patient care. "A strike is against my principles,"
she said.

Union supporters said the authority to take economic action of some sort is a
bargaining tool - it is not a strike authorization, and it is unlikely that they
would take the most drastic action as an early tactic.

About 14 nurses and representatives of the national union attended Smith's 2
p.m. meeting Wednesday in the hospital cafeteria, one of 18 she scheduled over
five days. Some in the audience asked why Smith had waited to speak out against
the union and the contract it is negotiating.

Carey Thacker, a nurse and union supporter, said hospital administrator s
allowed nurses to leave their assignments while still on the clock to attend
Smith's meeting - a privilege not afforded to those attending union meetings at
the hospital.

"She has some hospital backing," Thacker said of Smith. Thacker said she was
disappointed in Smith. "She says, 'Put your faith in the hospital.' I'd rather
put my faith in my co-workers," Thacker said.

Smith said the international union did not offer enough direct support to Local
655 in negotiations. "In my opinion, the union does not have the expertise at
this local in the complexities of health care negotiations," she said. Smith
said that in 22 months of bargaining, the union has made no real advances for
nurses and has kept nurses in the dark about details of the contract that have
been tentatively agreed to by both sides.

Local 655 President Nick Torpea said the union has made efforts to keep nurses
apprised of contract progress.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: Reporter Judith VandeWater:; E-mail: jvanderwater@post-dispatch.com;
Phone: 314-340-8201

GRAPHIC: PHOTO; Photo by J. B. FORBES/POST-DISPATCH - Nurses at St. John's Mercy
Medical Center in Creve Coeur stand to express their votes Wednesday night when
Sean Harrigan of the United Food and Commercial Workers Local 655 asks who
supports authorizing the union to give notice of an economic action against the
hospital. The meeting was held at Queeny Park.

                  Copyright 2001 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


