                              25 of 994 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1993, American Health Lawyers Association,
                              Journal of Health Law

                                  April, 1993

                         Vol. 26, No. 4, HOSPLW Pg. 97

LENGTH: 4748 words

TITLE: Exclusive Contracting: The Original Economic Credentialing

AUTHOR: Michael J. Baxter, Smith, Somerville & Case, Baltimore, Maryland. B.A.,
1977, University of Maryland; J.D., 1980, George Washington University.

TEXT:

   INTRODUCTION

   As the controversy surrounding the use of economic analysis in the
credentialing of physicians escalates, little attention has been paid to a
related credentialing mechanism: exclusive contracting.  This fact is
particularly ironic given the economic underpinnings of most exclusive
contracts.  The broad-based acceptance of exclusive contracts makes them an
attractive means for both medical managers and policy makers to contain costs
and improve efficiency.  Accordingly, this Article analyzes the utility of
exclusive contracting in relation to economic credentialing, cost containment
and quality assurance concerns.

   THE CURRENT STATUS OF ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING AND EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTS

   The furor over economic credentialing extends to disagreement as to its
definition. [n1] Opponents of economic credentialing describe it as the "use of
economic criteria which do not apply to quality to determine a physician's
qualification for the granting or renewal of medical staff membership or
privileges." [n2] It has also been more generally defined as "evaluative
practices whose goal is to assess the fiscal impact on a medical institution of
a particular physician's practice." [n3] Another commentator even distinguished
between two types of economic credentialing: [n4] first, linking physicians'
privileges to comparative utilization data and second credentialing based on a
physician's patient mix (i.e., the patients' ability to pay and the
profitability of their diagnosis related groups (DRGs)). [n5] This definitional
disagreement explains to some extent the ongoing controversy over the concept.
Insofar as economic credentialing is thought to allow medical institutions to
reduce costs only at the expense of sacrificing quality care, it will evoke
strong opposition.  However, to the extent economic credentialling merely allows
consideration of some economic measures in physician credentialing, in addition
to quality of care issues, it may constitute a legitimate cost-containment
measure for institutions already under intense fiscal pressure.

   The dispute over economic credentialing, even absent a consistent definition,
continues to escalate.  A recent Florida trial court decision, Rosenblum v.
Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center, attracted national attention as
the first judicial approval of pure economic credentialing. [n6] Moreover, the
medical profession's opposition to the concept of economic credentialing has
progressed to the point that the American Medical Association (AMA) issued a
policy paper advocating specific responses physicians should take against
economic credentialing in their hospitals. [n7]

   Notwithstanding the ongoing debate over economic credentialing, the use of
exclusive contracts continues to increase quietly.  Although physicians have not
accepted exclusive contracting with open arms, [n8] the process is widely used
and judicially approved. [n9] While various courts describe exclusive
contracting differently, [n10] unlike economic credentialing, there is no
definitional dispute.  Simply stated, an exclusive contract is an agreement
between a medical institution and an individual or group of physicians whereby
the hospital allows only the contracting physician(s) to be exclusive
provider(s) of certain medical services in that institution, and the
physician(s) agree to provide and manage all aspects of that service.

   Exclusive contracts were first used in the areas of pathology, anesthesiology
and radiology because there specialties are ancillary hospital-based services
requiring extensive coverage and depending almost exclusively on referrals from
other physicians. [n11] Exclusive contracts are said to facilitate better
service coverage and superior peer review, and to improve care supervision.
[n12] They are thought to encourage better working relationships between the
contracting group and support and primary health care providers. [n13]

   Judicial approval of exclusive contracts in the past was virtually unanimous.
[n14] In fact, courts considering challenges to the legality of exclusive
contracts did not hesitate to cite the economic efficiencies of such agreements
when upholding them. [n15] Those same economic justifications for the contracts
suggest that they are a form of economic credentialing.

   Only recently have challenges to exclusive contracts experienced limited
success. [n16] However, the successful challenges have not been based on the
invalidity of economic justifications for the contracts, but on the impingement
of rights of excluded physicians.  It remains undisputed that hospitals may, in
their exercise of management discretion, enter into exclusive contracts for
economic as well as quality of care reasons. [n17]

   PRIOR CHALLENGES TO EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTING

   Challenges based on antitrust theory

   Early challenges to exclusive contracting focused specifically on the
legality of the contracts, as distinguished from the effect of the contracts on
an excluded physician's privileges. [n18] For example, in Blank v. Palo
Alto-Stanford Hospital Center, [n19] a staff radiologist challenged an exclusive
contract to run a hospital's radiology department as an unlawful restraint of
trade and an unreasonable monopoly.  Citing administrative and efficiency
considerations, the court upheld the contract as a reasonable exercise of
discretion and judgment by the hospital's board of directors. [n20] Several
years later, the California Court of Appeal rejected a similar challenge to an
exclusive contract in Letsch v. Northern San Diego Hospital District. [n21] The
Letsch court also rejected the claim that the exclusive contract violated the
excluded physician's constitutional and statutory rights to practice medicine.
[n22]

   Attacks on exclusive contracts for their alleged violation of antitrust laws
have also failed.  In Hyde v. Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist. No. 2, [n23] the
United States Supreme Court reversed a decision of the Court of Appeals of the
Fifth Circuit that held an exclusive contract was a per se illegal tying
arrangement in violation of section 1 of the Sherman Act.  Similarly, in Beard
v. Parkview Hospital, [n24] the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit rejected a contention that an exclusive contract with a group of
radiologists was an illegal tying arrangement under the Sherman Act. [n25] Again
in Belmar v. Cipolla, [n26] the Supreme Court of New Jersey held an exclusive
contract between a hospital and a group of anesthesiologists did not violate
that state's antitrust law.

   Challenges based on due process claims

   The current dispute over exclusive contracts concerns their impact on
excluded physicians (those physicians who are not party to the contract).
Basing their claims on due process rights, [n27] aggrieved physicians have
sought to block exclusive contracts which exclude them from practicing at a
particularly institution.  Early unsuccessful challenges in this regard
recognized the impact of such contracts on certain basic rights of excluded
physicians.  For example, in Anne Arundel General Hospital v. O'Brien, [n28] the
Maryland Court of Special Appeals recognized the due process rights of staff
physicians when those physicians lost their exclusive contract to another group.
Holding that the hospital's bylaws represented an enforceable contract between
the hospital and the excluded physicians, the court concluded the due process
procedures contained in the bylaws applied to the exclusion of physicians
resulting from the change in exclusive contracts.  However, the court went on to
hold the process by which the new exclusive contractor was selected (which
included affording an opportunity to the ultimately excluded physicians to apply
for the contract) provided adequate due process.  Hence, the court upheld the
exclusive contract. [n29]

   Other courts have enforced exclusive contracts holding that an exclusive
contract, absent express revocation of the excluded physician's privileges, does
not trigger the credentialing bylaws due process provisions because the
privileges are not actually terminated. [n30] This rationale seems more
compelling when the excluded physician does not provide hospital-based,
equipment-intensive medical services.

   Ultimately, most courts upholding exclusive contracts have based their
decisions on a hospital's right to make management decisions.  These courts
expressed reluctance to second-guess rational management decisions. [n31] As the
New Jersey Supreme Court stated:

   No matter what arrangement a hospital may have with a physician, its primary
purpose remains to serve the public (citations omitted).  As long as those
entrusted with the management and governance of a hospital make reasonable
decisions consistent with the public interest, their decisions should be
respected.  (citation omitted)

   Consequently, courts normally do not interfere with a reasonable management
decision concerning staff privileges as long as that decision furthers the
health care mission of the hospital (citation omitted). [n32]

   Such judicial deference to management decisions is founded upon an implied
acceptance of economic factors underlying the decisions.  Courts describe this
acceptance in different ways, [n33] but it is the implicit support for the use
of economic analysis in deciding to enter into an exclusive contract which ties
economic credentialing to the exclusive contracting issue.  The widespread
nature of this judicial approval suggests economic credentialing is already
entrenched in the privileging process, and exclusive contracting may be the
least objectionable means of applying economic factors to the practice of
medicine.

   Challenges based on contractual claims

   However, in several recent cases physicians aggrieved by exclusive contracts
successfully sued the contracting hospital. [n34] Nevertheless, none of those
cases turned up judicial opposition to economic justifications for the exclusive
contracts.  Instead, all of the cases merely allowed damages and/or injunction
relief to excluded physicians.  As a practical matter, those decisions may have
made implementation of the particular contracts difficult, if not impossible.
Nevertheless, the contracts and their economic basis have not been successfully
challenged.

   A careful examination of those recent cases holding in favor of excluded
physicians exposes their limited precedential value.  Each case turned upon
clear violations of the specific contract and/or medical staff bylaws at issue.
For example, in Lewisburg Community Hosp. v. Alfredson, [n35] the Tennessee
Supreme Court held a Tennessee hospital was required, pursuant to its medical
staff bylaws, to grant a hearing to a privileged radiologist who was prohibited
from practicing at the hospital when the hospital awarded an exclusive contract
to another group of radiologists.  The court ruled the medical staff bylaws were
a contract between the hospital and the radiologist.  Because the bylaws
mandated a hearing when a physician's privileges were altered, the hospital was
required to provide a hearing when it entered into a new exclusive contract.
Primarily because the hospital had prohibited the radiologist from using
hospital equipment after entering into the exclusive contract, the court
rejected the hospital's contention that the radiologist's privileges had not
been altered. [n36]

   The determinative aspect of the Alfredson holding was that the radiologist's
contract with the hospital initially contained a provision stating the
physician's privileges would be automatically terminated if the hospital did not
renew his contract. [n37] However, that provision was deleted before the new
exclusive contract was signed.  Clearly, the parties contemplated the effect of
the contract termination on the physician's privileges, and decided not to
revoke them by such termination.  Because the hospital's actions constituted a
de factor reduction or termination in privileges, they triggered the staff
bylaws due process provisions. [n38]

   Hospital Corp. of Lake Worth v. Romaguera [n39] is another recent case
decided in favor of a physician who objected to an exclusive contract.  In
Romaguera, the District Court of Appeal of Florida held a hospital's decision to
enter into an exclusive contract with a group of pathologists constituted a
breach of its contract with an excluded staff pathologist.  Again, the court's
holding turned on a violation of the bylaws and contract at issue.  When the
physician first contracted with the hospital the medical staff bylaws contained
a "clean sweep" clause [n40] providing if an exclusive contract was terminated,
the excluded physician's privileges were automatically revoked.  The physician's
contract with the hospital contained a similar provision.  However, after the
contract with the physician was entered into, the hospital amended the medical
staff bylaws such that termination of exclusive contracts did not affect staff
privileges.  Holding that the bylaws constituted a contract between the hospital
and the physician, the court gave effect to this amendment and ruled the
physician's privileges remained intact, despite the termination of his exclusive
contract.  Accordingly, the hospital's failure to comply with the bylaws due
process provisions pertaining to privileges termination constituted a breach of
contract on its part.  Again, the specific language of the bylaws comprising
part of the contractual agreement with the physician was the determinative
factor in the court's holding.

   A similar case drawing national attention was Bilek v. Tallahassee Memorial
Regional Medical Center, a nisi prius decision arising in Florida. [n41] In
Bilek, a hospital staff radiologist claimed his privileges were improperly
altered when the hospital entered into an exclusive contract with another
radiologist.  The hospital bylaws required certain due process procedures be
followed before altering a physician's privileges.  The hospital contended the
radiologist's privileges were not altered, although the hospital prohibited him
from using hospital radiology equipment.  Finding for the physician, the court
held 1) the hospital's actions were a de facto reduction in the physician's
privileges; 2) the medical staff bylaws constituted a contract between the
physician and the hospital; and 3) the hospital breached the contract by not
following its due process mandate. [n42]

   Once again, the specific language of the contract was the dispositive factor.
In particular, the absence of a "clean sweep" provision (a bylaw providing in
the event an exclusive contract is entered into within a department, the
incumbent department members' privileges are automatically terminated), required
the court to find for the physician. [n43]

   Lastly, in a case more notorious for the amount of its verdict than for its
precedential effect, a pathologist brought suit over a hospital's decision to
enter into an exclusive contract for pathology services. [n44] The pathologist
was awarded a $ 19.2 million judgment, over $ 19 million of which was punitive
damages.  The hospital allegedly attempted to limit the excluded physician's
ability to practice pathology at the hospital using harassing methods, although
it did not expressly revoke his privileges.  While the physician received a
large verdict, the exclusive contract at issue was not invalidated. [n45]

   To date there are no reported cases involving a successful challenge to an
exclusive contract where the challenge was based on economic factors.  Indeed,
when exclusive contracts were implemented without violating the medical staff
bylaws or prior contracts with excluded physicians, courts have been quick to
point out the economic advantages of such contracts.  In this format, reasonable
economic credentialing is alive and well.

   ORGANIZED MEDICINE AND EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTS The AMA and several leading state
medical associations recently issued position papers on economic credentialing,
and on exclusive contracting insofar as it involves economic credentialing.
[n46] All of these organizations, including one prominent hospital organization
(the California Association of Hospitals and Health Systems), oppose economic
credentialing and exclusive contracting to the extent that those activities
consider only economic factors to the exclusion of quality of care factors.  In
that regard, the positions of these organizations are hardly controversial.
However, several of the organizations further contend that no economic factors,
with or without quality of care issues, should be considered in credentialing.
[n47] The same arguments supporting that position are being extended to the
exclusive contracting area. [n48]

   As noted above, the AMA's definition of economic credentialing is essentially
credentialing based solely on economic factors. [n49] Understandably, the AMA
opposes that practice. [n50] However, it also condemns any credentialing process
which considers economic factors in addition to quality of care issues. [n51]
While the AMA has not specifically opposed exclusive contracting that is
partially based on economic criteria, it does oppose related contractual clean
sweep provisions facilitating the use of exclusive contracts. [n52]

   The Medical Society of New York (MSNY) also opposes the use of any economic
analysis in physician credentialing, both generally and specifically when
exclusive contracts are involved. [n53] In a policy paper issued in 1992, the
Society argues economic considerations should have no effect on medical
determinations. [n54] MSNY further suggested that medical institutions may be
using exclusive contracts strictly for financial reasons, and as a means of
circumventing established peer review procedures.  Like the AMA, the MSNY also
recommends specific actions for physicians to take to prevent the consideration
of economic factors in the credentialing process.

   In California, the leading physician group and hospital organization, the
California Medical Association (CMA) and the California Association of Hospitals
and Health Systems (CAHHS), recently issued a joint statement on economic
credentialing and exclusive contracting. [n55] Reflecting the different
perspectives of the groups, the paper strikes a more moderate tone.  While it
rejects consideration of only economic factors in credentialing, it accepts
analysis of resource utilization.  Although "patient payor mix or diagnosis"
[n56] is deemed an inappropriate criteria for privileging decisions, the paper
concludes physicians should not "disadvantage a hospital through selective or
discriminatory practices." [n57] Specifically regarding exclusive contracting,
the CMA and CAHHS agree such contracting should not be allowed to preempt
medical staff peer review.  While recognizing the need for medical staff input
in exclusive contracting decisions, the groups also advocate reserving the final
decision making authority in this regard to the medical institution's governing
body.

   Clearly, the California groups' position is closest to the mainstream of
practice.  Most hospitals do (or should) consider efficiency issues in deciding
whether to implement exclusive contracts.  Invariably, quality of care
considerations are intertwined with these efficiency issues.  However, to the
extent an exclusive contract provides quality care and results in greater
efficiencies and, perhaps, lower costs, even absent quality problems with an
incumbent physician or group, hospitals and other medical institutions are
continuing to enter into such contracts.  As long as specific contracts and
bylaws are complied with, courts generally uphold such contracts.  In that
regard, the positions of the AMA and the MSNY may be representative of the
sentiment of their memberships, but not indicative of what is occurring in
medicine today [n58] or what will likely occur in the future.

   CLEAN SWEEP PROVISIONS

   As discussed above, successful challenges to exclusive contracts have been
based on the specific language of an institution's staff bylaws and the
exclusive contract at issue. [n59] Given the general acceptance of exclusive
contracts absent unique bylaw or contractual provisions, as well as the
acceptance of the economic justifications for such contracts, careful drafting
of bylaws and contracts should ensure their validity.  Specifically, including
"clean sweep" provisions in both may prevent costly litigation, thereby
facilitating the use of exclusive contracts.

   Clean sweep provisions are simply contractual terms providing for automatic
termination of an excluded provider's staff privileges when a new or replacement
exclusive contract is executed. [n60] Such provisions are often included in an
exclusive contract and may also be included in an institution's medical staff
bylaws.  If such provisions are included only in exclusive contracts, subsequent
amendments to medical staff bylaws may be deemed as overriding any clean sweep
provisions in exclusive contracts. [n61]

   The AMA and several prominent state medical associations publicly oppose
clean sweep provisions. [n62] The primary objection to such provisions is that
they forfeit the due process rights of the excluded provider, i.e., the right to
notice and a hearing pertaining to the exclusion. [n63] Physician groups are
concerned hospitals armed with clean sweep provisions in their staff bylaws and
confronted by cost-containment pressures, may use exclusive contracts solely for
economic reasons to the detriment of quality care.  These groups suggest
granting a hearing to a potentially excluded provider whenever an exclusive
contract is considered will prevent such abuses.

   Given the increased incidence of economic and efficiency justifications for
exclusive contracts, the rationale for the opposition to clean sweep provisions
loses some of its force.  The due process provisions of medical staff bylaws are
generally designed to assess clinical competency, not matters of economic
efficiency.  Indeed, due process proceedings serve legitimate purposes when the
issue is quality of care.  However, when the issues are economic (i.e., that a
department will be more efficient and more cost-effective if administered by a
particular exclusive contractor as opposed to an open system), there is nothing
to consider at the excluded provider's hearing.  Medical competency is not the
issue in such a situation.  The management decisions of a hospital or HMO rests
solely with its governing body.  The medical staff's input should be limited to
clinical issues.

   However, clean sweep provisions do reduce staff autonomy and increase
hospital leverage in the dynamic of hospital-physician relations.  As such, they
create the potential for abuse.  By by-passing the peer review protections
afforded to incumbent staff members, clean sweep provisions transfer significant
authority from those with little real cost-containment concerns (i.e. the
medical staff) to those with significant economic pressures upon them (i.e. the
hospital administration).  Therefore, care must be taken when clean sweep
provisions are exercised.

   The primary safeguard against abuse of clean sweep provisions is inclusion of
the medical staff in the clinical component of the selection of an exclusive
contractor.  Although the hospital's governing board must retain final
decision-making authority in this regard, [n64] active participation by the
staff, especially in the selection of the contractor, will guard against any
profit-driven excesses.

   In addition, strict scrutiny when considering granting privileges to new
exclusive providers is essential.  New exclusive providers must be members of
the medical staff in good standing.  The clinical aspect of the application
process for all new providers, exclusive or otherwise, should be reserved to the
medical staff. [n65] If a hospital medical staff is rigorous in its
consideration of incumbent members as well as new applicants, including
exclusive providers, there should be no quality of care problems.

   Lastly, governing board members must be careful to avoid improper motives
when entering into exclusive contracts.  Directors and trustees have significant
obligations accompanying their positions.  Fiscal responsibility is just one of
them.  While they may decide to close a department or to contract with one
provider for a specialty service, they must not ignore the welfare of their
institution's patients in the process.  Just as board members must ensure
inappropriate motives do not taint privileging recommendations by the medical
staff, so too must they monitor administrative decisions.

   Clean sweep provisions, if properly used, provide a distinct competitive edge
for hospitals and the physicians comprising their medical staff.  They prevent
costly challenges to new contracting groups.  Assuming the medical staff and the
hospital governing body work together to prevent their misuse, clean sweep
provisions are good for physicians and patients, not just hospital.

   EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTING IN THE FUTURE

   Given increasing physician opposition to economic credentialing, exclusive
contracting may come under greater scrutiny because it involves economic
considerations.  However, opposition to exclusive contracting may prove
short-sighted in light of increasing political and societal demands for
controlling health care costs.  The sweeping changes of the managed care system
(itself a form of exclusive contracting) were, in large part, in response to
economic problems.  Given the limited success of medicine in that regard, [n66]
and the increasingly recognized detrimental implications of the escalating
expense of medicine, [n67] continued efforts to contain costs are likely.

   In many ways, exclusive contracts offer an opportunity to the health care
industry to being controlling costs without sacrificing quality of care.  The
ability of a hospital or HMO to freely change department structures in a rapidly
evolving industry creates a distinct competitive advantage.  Competition in a
health care setting includes the ability to attract the best medical staff as
well as new specialties.  Inflexible staff membership or inappropriately closed
departments will quickly disadvantage a medical institution.  On the other hand,
a hospital or HMO that can react quickly to new advances or to fleeting
opportunities to attract leaders in a specialty field, while at the same time
controlling costs, certainly will succeed both medically and financially.

   With careful monitoring, exclusive contracting may foster higher quality of
care.  Controlled competition produces excellence.  The removal; of structural
impediments to medical staff changes fosters a healthy competitive environment.
Provider groups that contract with hospitals have clear motivation to insist
upon competency in their group's members, which only can result in aggressive
peer review and better patient care.

   In addition to providing opportunities for quality improvement and cost
control, exclusive contacts may be a model for much of what the medical delivery
system will consist of in the future.  Some commentators predict that grouping
of physicians and other health care providers will significantly alter, if not
supplant, the current medical staff system in place across the country. [n68] If
that prediction materializes, a necessary accompanying development will be the
proliferation of exclusive contracting.  With that proliferation will come
broad-based acceptance of consideration of economic factors and resource
consumption in the practice of medicine.

   The structure of the health care industry has changed significantly in the
last decade.  Most of the changes, such as managed care, fraud and abuse
monitoring, and joint ventures, have been driven by the problems that have given
rise to exclusive contracts, many of which are economic.  As long as quality of
care is not ignored in the search for ways to improve efficiency in medicine,
exclusive contracting, with its economic credentialing aspects, represents a
viable method of bringing the medical delivery system in line with resources
available to support it.

REFERENCE: [n1.] See, e.g., Emmons, et al., Data on Employee Physician
Profiling, 26 J. HEALTH & HOSP. LAW 73, 75 (1993). See also, Andresen, Economic
Credentialing, infra note 7, at 1 (AMA definition of economic credentialing).

   [n2.] CALIFORNIA MEDICAL ASSOCIATION'S TASK FORCE ON EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTING
AND ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING, EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTS AND ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING:
POTENTIAL FOR ABUSE IN THE QUALITY ASSURANCE SYSTEM, Jan. 1991, at 4
[hereinafter CMA TASK FORCE]. See also AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION COUNCIL ON
MEDICAL SERVICE, Report B, Dec. 1991, at 245.

   [n3.] John Blum, Physician Economic Efficiency-A New Factor in Credentialing,
MED. STAFF. COUNS., Winter 1992, at 25.

   [n4.] Discussed in Economic Credentialing is Fine -- For Tightrope Walkers,
HOPS. PEER REV., Apr. 1990, at 1.

   [n5.] Id.

   [n6.] Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Ctr., No. 91-589
(Fla. Cir. Ct. 1992).

   [n7.] Denise Andresen, Economic Credentialing: Profitability versus Quality,
AMA Memoranda (1992) [hereinafter Andresen, Economic Credentialing].

   [n8.] See David Kalifon, Romaguera Refrain: Staff Privileges and Exclusive
Hospital Contracts, MED. STAFF COUNS., Fall 1989, at 51; Denise Andresen,
Exclusive Contracts and Clean Sweep Provisions, AMA Memoranda, Jan. 1992
[hereinafter Andresen, Exclusive Contracts].

   [n9.] The following cases provide examples of concurring opinions reflecting
judicial approval of exclusive contracting: Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist. No. 2
v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2, (1984) (concurring opinion); Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912
F. 2d 138 (6th Cir. 1990); Redding v. St. Francis Medical Ctr., 225 Cal. Rptr.
806 (Cal. Ct. App. 1989); Belmar v. Cipolla, 475 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984); Anne
Arundel Gen. Hosp. v. O'Brien, 432 A.2d 483 (Md. Ct. Spec. App. 1981); Adler v.
Montefiore Hosp. Ass'n of Western Pa., 311 A.2d 634 (Pa. 1973).

   [n10.] Various courts have described exclusive contracting in different ways.
In Hospital Corp. of Lake Worth v. Romaguera, 511 So.2d 559 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App.
1986), the District Court of Appeals of Florida described exclusive contracting
as the awarding of "exclusive franchises to medical doctor groups to perform all
the hospital's work, on a contract basis" (in certain practice areas). In
Radiology Professional Corp. v. Trinidad Area Health Ass'n, 577 P.2d 748, 751
which "limit the use of a hospital's facilities to certain specialists or which
provide that all services of a particular type required by hospital patients be
performed by the contracting specialists. . . ."

   [n11.] Mark A. Hall, Institutional Control of Physician Behavior: Legal
Barriers to Health Care Cost Containment, 137 U. PA. L. REV. 431 (1988).

   [n12.] See M. Pollard & R. Leibenluft, Antitrust and the Health Professions;
Policy Planning Issues Paper (Fed. Trade Comm'n, 1981).

   [n13.] See id.

   [n14.] See supra note 9 and accompanying text.

   [n15.] See Belmar v. Cipolla, 475 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984) (the advantages of
anesthesiology exclusive contracts include better use of operating room
personnel, greater ability to process more operative procedures, avoidance of
fee-splitting between surgeon and anesthesiologist and better 24 hour coverage);
Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d 138 (6th Cir. 1990) (exclusive contract was
argued as necessary to enhance quality of patient care and improve hospital
efficiency); Datillo v. Tuscon Gen. Hosp., 533 P.2d 700 (Ariz. Ct. App. 1975)
(recognizing prior case law describing exclusive contracts as in furtherance of
a hospital's obligation to operate and administer the hospital efficiently and
economically): Centeno v. Roseville Community Hosp., 167 Cal. Rptr. 183 (Cal.
Ct. App. 1979) (exclusive radiology contract may improve operational efficiency
as well as promote better scheduling economy and availability of services).

   [n16.] See infra notes 34-45 and accompanying text.

   [n17.] Redding v. St. Francis Medical Center, 225 Cal. Rptr. 806 (Cal. Ct.
App. 1989); Belmar v. Cipolla, 475 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984); Engelstad v. Virginia
Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d 262 (8th Cir. 1983).

   [n18.] Blank v. Palo Alto-Stanford Hosp. Center, 44 Cal. Rptr. 572 (Cal. Ct.
App. 1965); Letsch v. Northern San Diego County Hosp. Dist., 55 Cal. Rptr. 118
(Cal. Ct. App. 1967).

   [n19.] 44 Cal. Rptr. 572 (Cal. Ct. App. 1965).

   [n20.] Id. at 579.

   [n21.] 55 Cal. Rptr. 118 (Cal. Ct. App. 1967).

   [n22.] Id. at 120. In an interesting precursor to current events the Letsch
Court alluded in dicta to the fact that the hospital had not profited
financially from its decision to implement the exclusive contract: ". . . the
fees charged the patients for services of the radiology department have produced
income for the hospital but such income has not resulted in any profit or gain
to the hospital from the professional services rendered by the hospital
radiologist."

   [n23.] 466 U.S. 2 (1984).

   [n24.] 912 F.2d 138 (6th Cir. 1990).

   [n25.] See also Collins v. Associated Pathologists, 844 F.2d 473 (7th Cir.
1988) (exclusive contract with group of pathologists not an illegal tying
arrangement); Peter Sfikas, Antitrust Challenges by Allied Health Professionals
Involving Hospital Staff privileges, 24 J. HEALTH & HOSP. L. 361 (1991).

   [n26.] 475 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984).

   [n27.] The source of the due process rights varies depending on the nature of
the involved hospital.  Public hospitals are governed by the Fourteenth
Amendment. Private hospitals are not, absent a showing of state action. However
private hospitals may be governed by common law due process principles. See
Adkins v. Sarah Bush Lincoln Health Ctr., 544 N.E.2d 733 (Ill. 1980) (physicians
entitled to notice and fair hearing in disciplinary action); Desai v. St.
Barnabas Hosp, 537 N.Y.S.2d 944 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 1989) (private hospital
disciplinary process must provide due process to physician); Huntsville Memorial
Hosp. v. Ernest, 763 S.W.2d 856 (Tex. Ct. App. 1988 (private hospital must
provide due process before terminating physicians' staff privileges).

   [n28.] 432 A.2d 483 (Md. Ct. Spec. App. 1981).

   [n29.] Id.

   [n30.] Engelstad v. Virginia Municipal Hosp., 718 F.2d 262 (8th Cir. 1983).
The Engelstad court aptly noted the hearing provisions of the bylaws at issue
were designed to address credentialing decisions based solely on quality of care
issues.  Thus, they made little sense in the context of an exclusive contracting
decision based on an administrative rationale. However, the court concluded the
pathologist-physician's privileges were not terminated, despite the fact that he
was apparently excluded from using the hospital's pathology lab. This reasoning
seems to ignore the realities of hospital-based ancillary practices such as
pathology and radiology, and has not been adopted in recent cases. See, e.g.,
Lewisburg Community Hosp. v. Alfredson, 805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991).

   [n31.] See Redding v. St. Francis Medical Ctr., 255 Cal. Rptr. 806 (Cal. Ct.
App. 1989); Belmar v. Cipolla, 475 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984); Capili v. Shott, 487 F.
Supp. 710 (S.D. W. Va. 1978), aff'd, 620 F.2d 438 (4th Cir. 1980); Centeno v.
Roseville Community Hosp., 167 Cal. Rptr. 183 (Cal. Ct. App. 1979); Radiology
Professional Corp. v. Trinidad Area Health Assoc., 577 P.2d 748 (Colo. 1978).

   [n32.] Belmar, 475 A.2d at 538.

   [n33.] See Redding, 255 Cal. Rptr. at 810 ("reasonable management decisions
to change" (hospital's format)); Dattilo v. Tucson Gen. Hosp., 533 P.2d 700, 704
(Ariz. Ct. App. 1975) (exclusive contract needed for "effective, efficient
operation of the department"); Centeno, 167 Cal. Rptr. at 188 ("managerial
decision" resulting in "decreased costs to patients").

   [n34.] Lewisburg Community Hosp., 805 S.W.2d at 756; Hosp. Corp. of Lake
Worth v. Romaguera, 511 So. 2d 559 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1986); Bilek v.
Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Ctr., No. 91-973 (Fla. Cir. Ct., Apr. 29,
1991); American Medical Int'l, v. Scheller, 590 So. 2d 947 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App.
1991), review dismissed, 602 So. 2d 533 (Fla. 1992).

   [n35.] 805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991).

   [n36.] See contra, Engelstad v. Virginia Municipal Hosp., 718 F.2d 262 (8th
Cir. 1983).

   [n37.] Lewisburg Community Hosp., 805 S.W.2d at 756.

   [n38.] Although the Court's rationale enforced the parties' contractual
intention, there is some question as to the utility of requiring a hearing in
this setting. There was apparently no issue as to the competence of the involved
physician.

   [n39.] 511 So. 2d 559 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1986).

   [n40.] For a discussion of "clean sweep" provisions, see infra notes 48-65
and accompanying text.

   [n41.] No. 91-973 (Fla. Cir. Ct., Apr. 29, 1991).

   [n42.] Id. In what seems to be a more sensible approach than that employed in
Romaguera, the Court went on to hold, apparently with the hospital's consent,
that requiring a hearing would be meaningless because the hospital would not
change its decision to implement the exclusive contract.

   [n43.] Id. slip op. at 3-6.

   [n44.] American Medical Int'l. v. Scheller, 590 So. 2d 947 (Fla. Dist. Ct.
App. 1991), review dismissed, 602 So. 2d 533 (Fla. 1992).

   [n45.] Id.

   [n46.] See Andresen, Economic Credentialing, supra note 7; Andresen,
Exclusive Contracts, supra note 8; CALIFORNIA MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, supra note 2;
MED. SOCIETY OF NEW YORK, ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING AND EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTS: MSNY
POLICY PAPER (1992) [hereinafter MSNY POLICY PAPER].

   [n47.] See MSNY POLICY PAPER, supra note 46, at 2; Andresen, Economic
Credentialing, supra note 7.

   [n48.] See CMA TASK FORCE, supra note 2.

   [n49.] AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION COUNCIL ON MEDICAL SERVICE, Report B,
Dec. 1991, at 245.

   [n50.] Andresen, Economic Credentialing, supra note 7, at 3.

   [n51.] Id. In its policy paper on this issue the AMA warns physicians to be
on guard for medical staff bylaws that permit consideration of any economic
factors in the credentialing process.  It offers the following example of an
unacceptable staff bylaw provision pertaining to factors to be considered in
credentialing:

   "[appropriate] training, current experience, clinical results, utilization,
practice patterns, documenting a continuing ability to provide patient care
services at an acceptable level of quality and efficiency given the current
state of the realty cuts and consistent with available resources." Id. at 2.

   [n52.] Andresen, Exclusive Contracts, supra note 8, at 5.

   [n53.] MSNY POLICY PAPER, supra note 46.

   [n54.] Id. at 1.

   [n55.] Id. CMA TASK FORCE, supra note 2.

   [n56.] Id. at 11.

   [n57.] Id.

   [n58.] A nationwide survey conducted under the auspices of the Institute for
Health Law, Loyola University, Chicago, reported approximately 60% of the
nation's hospitals include economic issues in their credentialing processes.
Loyola University of Chicago News Release, Nov. 11, 1992.

   [n59.] See supra notes 34-45 and accompanying text.

   [n60.] Andresen, Exclusive Contracts, supra note 8, at 2.

   [n61.] See Hospital Corp. of Lake Worth v. Romaguera, 511 So. 2d 559 (Fla.
Dist. Ct. App. 1986).

   [n62.] Andresen, Exclusive Contracts, supra note 8, at 3-5; MSNY, supra note
46, at 1; CMA TASK FORCE, supra note 2.

   [n63.] Andresen, Exclusive Contracts, supra note 8, at 3.

   [n64.] See, Joint Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Organizations,
ACCREDITATION MANUAL FOR HOSPITALS, §§ GB.1.1, MS 2.12 (1992).

   [n65.] Id. § MS.5.1.

   [n66.] It has been estimated that by the year 2000, health care costs will
constitute 18% of American's gross domestic product. Health Care Spending to
Consume 18 Percent of GDP by 2000, CBO Says, HEALTH LAW REP. (BNA) vol. 1, No.
6, at 159 (Oct. 22, 1992).

   [n67.] Id. at 160.

   [n68.] Arthur Chenen, Medical Staff Structures, National Health Lawyers
Association Medical Staff Seminar (1992) (in a presentation at the National
Health Lawyers Association Medical Staff Seminar in Chicago speaker argues the
growth of multi-specialty medical groups, to the exclusion of the traditional
medical staff, is inevitable).


