                              225 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                           October 12, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

LOCAL

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 471  words


Forum set on economic development

Economic-development officials and government and business leaders from Volusia,
Flagler and St. Johns counties will gather in Ormond Beach next week to discuss
business-growth initiatives in their respective areas and for the overall
three-county region.

The "Regional Overview of Economic Development" forum will take place Oct. 21,
from 10 a.m. to noon, at the Halifax Plantation Clubhouse, 3400 Clubhouse Drive.
Registration begins at 9:30 a.m. "We put on educational programs every other
month, and the topics differ," said Dave Castagnacci, executive director for the
Volusia County Association for Responsible Development (VCARD), the event's
primary organizer.

Castagnacci said to his knowledge this is the first time the three counties have
teamed up to put on an economic-development forum.

VCARD has teamed up to put on the forum in partnership with the Flagler County
Association for Responsible Development (FCARD), Team Volusia Economic
Development Corp., Surfcoast Chapter of the Florida Planning & Zoning
Association, the Volusia League of Cities, the Daytona Regional Chamber of
Commerce, Flagler County Chamber of Commerce, and St. Johns County Chamber of
Commerce.

FCARD is an affiliate of VCARD.

Mark Watts, VCARD chair, will give a presentation on the impact of state
legislation passed this year to streamline the process for permit reviews.

Castagnacci said he expects a turnout of more than 100 people for the event.

The cost to attend is $30. For more information, call 386-257- 4169.-- Valerie
Whitney

HOSPITAL NEWS

New VP named

DELAND -- Rick Robinson has been named vice president of physician services for
both Florida Hospital DeLand and Florida Hospital Fish Memorial in Orange City.

In his new role, Robinson will oversee the operations of DeLand Medical
Associates and Southwest Volusia Medical Associates, manage relationships with
hospital-based physicians such as hospitalists and radiologists, and provide
leadership to physician-recruitment activities.

Robinson has more than 20 years of experience in physician relations and
practice management, has built a hospital-based physician group and is an
exceptional physician advocate.

He most recently was a Florida Region vice president, working with all of the
Florida Hospital physician groups in Florida, outside of Orlando.-- Staff Report

DELAND CHAMBER

Economic official to speak

DELAND -- Tammie Nemecek, director of partner development for the Florida
Economic Gardening Institute at the University of Central Florida, will be the
featured speaker at the DeLand Area Chamber of Commerce's "DeLand Means
Business" luncheon today.

The noon event will be at the DeLand Conference & Business Center, 1301
International Speedway Blvd. Registration begins at 11:30 a.m.

For more information, call 386-734-4331.-- Staff Report

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


