                              234 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                              April 5, 2009 Sunday
                                  ALL EDITION

EMPLOYMENT MULTIPLIER EFFECT IS OFTEN MISUNDERSTOOD

BYLINE: Compiled by Steve Deller, professor of Applied and Agricultural
Economics at UW-Madison

SECTION: BUSINESS; ECONOMIC SNAPSHOT; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 237 words


The employment multiplier is a commonly used, sometimes misused, and often
misunderstood concept.

For example, the 2006 employment multiplier for hospitals in Wisconsin was an
estimated 1.773. That simply means that every 1,000 jobs in hospitals supported
another 773 jobs outside hospitals.

A recent study on the economic impact of Wisconsin hospitals helps explain the
source of these jobs and how they were generated.

Wisconsin hospitals ranked second in the state in total jobs in 2006 with
112,780 direct employees. However, that only tells part of the story.

Hospitals purchased goods and services needed to operate their facilities and
deliver their services. This spending supported additional employment in the
businesses that provided those goods and services. This indirect employment was
an estimated 47,219 jobs in 2006.

Similarly, induced employment occurred as direct and indirect employees spent
their earnings, thus generating more jobs.

In 2006, spending by direct and indirect employees supported an estimated 39,959
in induced employment in Wisconsin.

Total employment (direct, plus indirect, plus induced) attributable to hospitals
in Wisconsin totaled 199,957 in 2006.

The employment multiplier is calculated by dividing total employment by direct
employment.

The complete report, "Healthy Hospitals. Healthy Communities," is available at:
http://www.uwex.edu/ces/cced/economies/documents/HealthyHospitals_web.pdf

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: State Journal graphic Source: Wisconsin Department of Workforce
Development, Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages Employment by Wisconsin
hospitals Economic Snapshot is a weekly feature provided by the UW-Extension.
QUESTIONS: Contact Bill Pinkovitz, Center for Community and Economic
Development, UW-Extension at billpinkovitz@uwex.edu

