                              238 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                           September 18, 2011 Sunday

Debate reignited over for-profit hospitals

BYLINE: By Kim Tae-jong

LENGTH: 613 words


Health Minister designate Lim Chae-min, a veteran economic bureaucrat, has
reiterated the government's commitment to attracting for-profit hospitals in
free economic zones and Jeju Island.

His remarks made at a nomination hearing at the National Assembly are sparking a
fresh round of debates over the pros and cons of for-profit hospitals.

Lim worked at the Ministry of Strategy and Finance for a long time, which has
taken a supportive stance on the introduction of for-profit hospitals. The
designation of Lim as the head of the health ministry raises speculation that he
will more aggressively expand the plan to areas other than the currently
designated ones.

Asked about the government's position at the Assembly, Lim reaffirmed that the
administration will allow for-profit hospitals only in such designated areas as
free economic zones and the Jeju Special Self-Governing Province.

'Even if foreign-invested (for-profit) hospitals accept Korean patients, it
won't have any substantial impact on the overall medical industry as they will
operate in restricted areas,' Lim said.

His remarks came several days after the government's decision to allow foreign
medical staff to work at hospitals owned by overseas entities in free economic
zones.

On Aug. 22, the Ministry of Health and Welfare revised the rules on recognizing
foreign medical licenses to allow foreign doctors, dentists and nurses to work
at facilities in the Incheon Free Economic Zone.

Many civic groups are expressing concerns about the plan, claiming that the
easing of the rules on foreign medical staff is a preparatory move to allow the
nationwide establishment of for-profit hospitals.

'The government has pushed forward its plan to allow for-profit hospitals to
open by introducing a series of deregulatory measures,' said Baek Young-hwan, an
official from the Korea Security Insurance Union (KSIU). 'In the end, it will
privatize health care, which will be a huge burden for citizens.'

Permitting foreign-owned hospitals to do business in the country's seven free
economic zones will be the starting point for a broader range of changes in the
healthcare sector, he said.

'By naming a key figure from the finance ministry as the head of the health
ministry, the government is obviously trying to push forward its plan,' Baek
said.

Other civic groups such as the People's Solidarity for Participatory Democracy
and the Korea Health and Medical Workers' Union have also expressed their
opposition to Lim as the new health minister for similar reasons.

Mindful of mounting criticism and suspicion, the ministry held a news conference
Wednesday to reaffirm that the government is maintaining a cautious stance on
the allowance of for-profit hospitals nationwide.

'We have simply specified the existing regulations and conditions as investors
said relevant rules were too vague,' said Park In-seok, an official from the
ministry. 'It has nothing to do with the allowance of for-profit hospitals
outside FEZs, and we are still very cautious on that matter.'

The establishment of for-profit hospitals has been allowed in FEZs since 2003
after a related law went into effect, but no foreign investors have shown any
serious interest.

Proponents have argued that allowing such hospitals is the key to boosting
medical tourism and to attracting outside investment in order to make local
facilities more competitive.

Under the current law, hospitals are non-profit entities and banned from seeking
investment. They must follow guidelines set by the health authorities on their
operations including charging patients.

But opponents claim that if for-profit hospitals open and health care is
privatized, medical bills will go up.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


