                              235 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Bond Buyer

                            August 5, 2010 Thursday

Mass. Merger Could Boost Debt Costs

BYLINE: Michelle Kaske

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 Vol. 373 No. 33362

LENGTH: 952  words


Massachusetts hospitals and higher educational institutions could face higher
borrowing costs in the future as the state plans to fold the Massachusetts
Health and Educational Facilities Authority into the Massachusetts Development
Finance Agency.

The initiative is included in an economic development reorganization bill, S.
2582, that was passed by lawmakers. Gov. Deval Patrick is now reviewing it. The
administration worked on the measure with the legislature. Patrick proposed
merging the two bonding agencies last year.

"Merging these two quasi-public agencies will ensure greater transparency,
efficiency, and equity in financing to a critically important sector of our
economy," Kofi Jones, spokeswoman for the executive office of housing and
economic development, said in an e-mail.

Overall, S. 2582 aims to make the Bay State more competitive for business growth
and to attract new businesses. The bill includes authorization of $75 million of
general obligation bonds for economic development and tax initiatives.

It also establishes regional economic development organizations to assist the
private sector, requires all governors to file an economic development plan by
the end of his or her initial year in office, and facilitates more small
business lending, among other initiatives.

If Patrick signs the bill into law, it would abolish HEFA by Oct. 1 and blend
its operations within MassDevelopment. Colleges and universities currently issue
debt through HEFA or MassDevelopment while hospitals sell through HEFA.

Many borrowers are concerned that consolidating economic development, higher ed
and health care borrowing under one bonding agency will increase the cost of
borrowing.

HEFA charges its clients five basis points, with a minimum fee of $15,000 and a
limit of $95,000.

By comparison, borrowers that issue through MassDevelopment pay 50 basis points,
according to fee schedules the authorities released to The Bond Buyer in April
2009. HEFA declined to confirm its fee schedule.

MassDevelopment spokeswoman Kelsey Abbruzzese said the agency charges higher
education and cultural institutions lower HEFA rates while other borrowers pay
50 basis points.

That means a $10 million HEFA hospital sale would cost $15,000 - the minimum fee
- while MassDevelopment would charge, as of now, $50,000 for a hospital deal of
the same size. For a $100 million transaction, borrowers would pay $50,000 at
HEFA compared to $500,000 at MassDevelopment.

The legislation would freeze, from now through fiscal 2013, current borrowing
costs at HEFA and MassDevelopment's fiscal 2010 levels.

After that, MassDevelopment would then hold a public hearing before establishing
new bonding fees.

According to Sen. Karen Spilka, D-Middlesex, sponsor of S2582 and chair of the
Joint Committee on Economic Development and Emerging Technologies, combining
HEFA with MassDevelopment will make the borrowing process more open.

"We blended [the agencies] and we said by merging them that as MassDevelopment
sets its fees, it has to do three things, it has a public hearing, it has to
publish them so they're transparent," Spilka said. "And there has to be a
three-year fee freeze because a lot of people were concerned that if we merged
and if there wasn't that competition, then fees would go up dramatically."

It remains to be seen what MassDevelopment's fees would look like after three
years and whether they might resemble MassDevelopment's current fee schedule.

"This is up to the board of MassDevelopment to figure out, not the legislature,"
Spilka said. "We were concerned with transparency and fairness so suddenly fees
won't spike up."

Health care borrowers said they are concerned that terminating HEFA will result
in higher fees in the long run.

Ronald Bartlett, chief financial officer at Boston Medical Center, also pointed
to HEFA's ability to negotiate lower costs for outside professional services on
borrowings.

"We thought they brought a lot of expertise and we thought their fees were very
reasonable based on the work they did," Bartlett said. "And additionally, they
were very helpful in regard to getting the best fees from the consultants,
whether it be the attorneys or investment bankers, etc."

Others question if MassDevelopment will have the same capabilities to serve
hospital clients as HEFA does. William Grigg, chief financial officer at
Southcoast Health System, described HEFA as well run and highly organized.
Southcoast oversees three hospitals in southeastern Massachusetts.

"Southcoast is concerned that MassDevelopment is not familiar with hospitals and
the hospital bond market therefore there is a greater risk that they will not
run as efficiently as HEFA did," Grigg said in an e-mail. "Ultimately, a lack of
efficiency could translate into higher costs."

In addition, borrowers and HEFA point out that MassDevelopment uses fees that it
collects from bond and note sales to help finance economic development projects.
Current HEFA clients would then be paying for such developments.

"MassDevelopment, to our understanding, uses a portion of their fees for other
economic development activities and that was obviously a concern for the
hospital community," said Michael Sroczynski, vice president, government
advocacy at the Massachusetts Hospital Association.

MassDevelopment declined to discuss, before the governor signs the bill into
law, how it plans to accommodate an increase in business, including serving
hospitals, the potential impact of clients scaling back on capital programs due
to higher borrowing costs, and the issue of fees that hospitals and higher
education institutions pay being used for economic development projects.

The administration did not respond to questions on those issues.

URL: http://www.bondbuyer.com/

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BB


                        Copyright 2010 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


