                              232 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                             April 27, 2015 Monday
                              MON REGIONAL Edition

Hospital fee shouldn't count toward spending cap

BYLINE: Kelly Brough

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 642 words


In Colorado, we're committed to getting things right. From the business
community to the floor of the statehouse, time and time again we seize
opportunities to correct errors and make improvements. And this legislative
session presents an opportunity to do just that by tweaking the design of the
Hospital Provider Fee and its impact on the Taxpayer's Bill of Rights (TABOR).

Earlier this month, Gov. John Hickenlooper proposed doing so as part of a five
point plan to ease what he calls Colorado's "fiscal thicket." In the absence of
action, we risk losing hundreds of millions of dollars for roads, bridges and
even schools.

TABOR limits government spending of revenues that exceed a growth cap determined
by inflation and population growth. Colorado is on track to go above the TABOR
cap in coming years, which would result in a taxpayer refund of the amount
exceeding the cap.

The refund isn't up for debate. We're supportive of it because our state
constitution is clear that when we hit the TABOR cap, a tax refund is triggered.
But let's make sure that cap accurately represents what voters signed on for in
1992 when TABOR passed and again in 2005 when Referendum C reset the formula.
Today's cap formula includes more than $500 million not from economic growth,
but from the Hospital Provider Fee.

The Hospital Provider Fee was established in 2009 (four years after we reset the
TABOR cap) and is assessed solely to hospitals based on bed occupancy. It
generates more than $500 million a year for health care in Colorado. You can
imagine that bundling an additional half billion dollars a year into general
revenue would easily push our state over the TABOR cap. But these funds don't
actually reflect economic growth; instead, they represent a new revenue source,
one that was endorsed by those paying into it and that is already set aside for
a very specific purpose: expanding health care access in Colorado.

Plainly put, the Hospital Provider Fee reflects economic and state revenue
growth that shouldn't be considered for TABOR purposes. It's not too late to
recognize that the Hospital Provider Fee could have been implemented
differently.

That's why we're in agreement with Gov. Hickenlooper that provider fee dollars
should be appropriately accounted for in a separate enterprise fund, and not
counted as general revenue.

Not only is it more accurate accounting for the numbers people, it also helps
the state continue to invest in critical places like education and
transportation. Because to complicate matters, another law, Senate Bill 228 from
2009, requires that when the state issues a TABOR refund, funding for
transportation projects is cut in half or eliminated completely.

That's a frightening prospect given how far behind we are in terms of
maintenance of our roads and bridges throughout the state.

But the solution is there: Establish a separate enterprise for the Hospital
Provider Fee by repealing and reauthorizing the fee into an enterprise fund.
Colorado has almost two dozen enterprises that finance or administer government
programs using specific revenues like a fee assessed only to hospitals for
specific purposes, like health care coverage and provider reimbursements.

Placing the Hospital Provider Fee revenues into a government enterprise protects
the will of voters who supported TABOR and passed Referendum C.

As the governor put it in a recent letter to legislative leadership, "Without a
change, rebates that result because of the Hospital Provider Fee will be paid at
the expense of our roads, schools and other items supported by the general
fund."

We don't like the sound of that. It's important that our elected officials know
we support solutions that address this issue with the formula and get us back to
investing in critical needs.

Kelly Brough is the president and CEO of the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Hospital Provider Fee was established in 2009 (four years after we
reset the TABOR cap) and is assessed solely to hospitals based on bed occupancy.
(AP file)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


