                              239 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                            March 20, 2008 Thursday

Crist's hospital proposal opposed;
Some legislators don't agree that certificates of need are unnecessary.

BYLINE: LARRY HANNAN

SECTION: Pg. B-1

LENGTH: 539 words


A proposal by Gov. Charlie Crist to deregulate the way hospitals are built is
encountering opposition from lawmakers and statewide medical groups.

Crist wants to eliminate certificates of need, now a prerequisite to hospital
construction, in hopes of encouraging more competition.

But a formidable roadblock stands in the way.

State Rep. Aaron Bean, R-Fernandina Beach, expressed opposition to the proposal
Wednesday, saying it doesn't make sense given the economic climate and the
prospect of state funding cuts to hospitals. Bean is chairman of the health care
committee.

Crist's proposal needs approval by the Legislature.

Crist spokesman Thomas Philpot shrugged off the opposition, saying it's still
early in the legislative session and that the governor looks forward to
presenting his case to lawmakers. He said hospitals would still be licensed by
the state to meet certain standards. Under that licensing, hospitals would be
required to provide an emergency room to anyone who needs help.

Philpot said the proposal demonstrates the governor's commitment to improving
health care in Florida. He also said increased competition would lower health
care costs, a point of dispute between Crist and health care providers.

Certificates of need exist to make sure hospitals are not duplicating services.
The goal is to have all the medical facilities needed for a community, but not
an overabundance that leads to a hospital shutting down for a lack of patients.

Rep. Audrey Gibson, D-Jacksonville, also opposes the proposal.

But Rep. Don Davis, R-Jacksonville, supports it, saying that hospitals should be
built with minimal interference from the government. The current process imposes
costly delays, he said.

Davis chairs the committee on economic development, which may also review the
proposal if it gets through Bean's committee.

Statewide medical executives oppose scrapping certificates of need, fearing it
would create for-profit boutique hospitals and encourage a system where only the
uninsured poor would be able to get treatment in nonprofit hospitals, said Rich
Rasmussen, spokesman for the Florida Hospital Association.

It's important that hospitals provide a wide range of specialized services and
not specialize in one procedure, said Lori Bilello, executive director of the
Health Planning Council of Northeast Florida.

Baptist Health Chief Executive Hugh Greene recently withdrew his hospital from
consideration for a certificate of need to build a hospital in Clay County
because of competition from two other hospital systems.

While acknowledging disappointment over the Clay County situation, Greene said
he supported the certificate-of-need process and doesn't want to see it changed.

larry.hannan@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4470

WHO TO CONTACT

The following elected officials could play a key role in the debate over
certificates of need.

Gov. Charlie Crist

(850) 488-4441 (governor's switchboard)

Rep. Aaron Bean

Health care council chairman

Tallahassee: (850) 488-6920

Fernandina Beach: (904) 491-3664

Rep. Don Davis

Chairman of committee on economic development

Tallahassee: (850) 488-0001

Jacksonville Beach: (904) 247-4040

Rep. Audrey Gibson

Member of committee on health quality

Tallahassee: (850) 488-7417

Jacksonville: (904) 353-2180

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 The Florida Times-Union


