                              240 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       The Janesville Gazette (Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          February 18, 2009 Wednesday

SSM delays plans for Janesville

BYLINE: Jim Leute, The Janesville Gazette, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 537 words


Feb. 18--JANESVILLE -- Unfavorable credit markets will delay but not destroy
plans for a $140 million hospital and physicians complex in Janesville.

Officials of SSM Health Care of Wisconsin and Dean Health System said Tuesday
the new complex on Janesville's east side likely will not open until 2011, up to
a year later than initially planned.

"We remain fully committed to build St. Mary's Janesville Hospital," said Mary
Starmann-Harrison, SSM's president. "However, we find ourselves in an
unprecedented economic time that is affecting new construction in all sectors,
including hospital projects across the country.

"We will go forward with this project, but the timing has to be that it makes
sense."

Starmann-Harrison said the delay is strictly tied to the system's ability to
obtain financing at favorable interest rates. SSM is including the Janesville
project with other SSM projects in one larger bond issue.

Last April, SSM and Dean announced plans for the $80 million hospital and $60
million physician office complex near the intersection of Interstate 90/39 and
Highway 11. The project is expected to provide 344 direct and 155 indirect jobs
and have a $164 million annual economic impact.

Two months later, General Motors announced that it would end SUV production in
Janesville, but hospital and clinic officials have remained steadfast in their
commitment to the Janesville project.

"The need for a new hospital and medical complex in Janesville remains as strong
as ever," said Craig Samitt, president of Dean Health System. "We will continue
to finalize our plans and meet with the community and will be poised to
aggressively begin construction once the economy becomes more favorable."

Samitt and Starmann-Harrison have said surveys indicated the community demanded
choice and competition in the local health care market and drove the decision to
build the new hospital and a doctors' office complex.

Mercy Health System has a hospital and numerous clinics in Janesville.

Starmann-Harrison is well aware that Janesville has been ravaged by job losses
that go well beyond the auto industry.

She's also aware that some residents will blame the delay on cold feet and jump
to the conclusion that SSM and Dean will never build in Janesville.

"That would be absolutely wrong," she said. "The St. Mary's Janesville Hospital
remains the top priority for SSM Health Care.

"This is not a local, Janesville economic issue. It is simply a national
economic issue: The credit markets are not at all favorable for hospital
projects."

In the interim, progress is being made, she said. A site plan and the design of
the facility are complete, and Kerry Swanson has been hired as president of the
new hospital.

Officials broke ground for the project in November, but no other site work has
taken place since.

To see more of The Janesville Gazette, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.gazetteextra.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Janesville Gazette, Wis.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090218-JG-SSM-delays-plans-for-Janesville-0218

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JG


                     Copyright 2009 The Janesville Gazette


