                              233 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     Hickory Daily Record (North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 21, 2009 Tuesday

Commissioners OK loan for Catawba Valley Medical Center

BYLINE: Dee Henry, Hickory Daily Record, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 602 words


Jul. 21--NEWTON -- Catawba Valley Medical Center will refurbish and expand its
surgery suite with loan money that comes with refunds from the American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act of 2009.

"The construction plan addresses certain critical needs at the hospital," said
Tony Rose, hospital president.

The plan addresses the size of the hospital's operating rooms, which covers the
first phase of a $70 million three-phase renovation project. The plan will give
the hospital 13 operating rooms within the next three years at a cost of $25
million.

Hospital officials asked the Catawba County Board of Commissioners on Monday for
access to Build America Bonds and Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds for
the project. Commissioners unanimously approved the request.

"This was not a fast decision," said Barbara Lail board co-chairwoman. "It is
consistent with what we wanted to do and with the economy. We spent lots of
hours at different banks, but I think it will pay off."

Both types of bonds give refunds on the interest incurred on loans. The plan is
to put two-thirds of the $25 million under Build America Bonds, which will give
35 percent credit on the interest on the loan. The remaining one-third will be
put under an Economic Recovery Zone Bonds, which gives a 45 percent rebate on
the interest.

"We have been advised this is the best, least costly financing option at this
time," Rose said.

The first phase will begin in August. Rose said at least 12 operating rooms will
remain functional at all times during the renovation.

Hospital staff had hoped to break ground for the project this past January and
had planned to issue a hospital revenue bond to finance it. However, the state
of the credit market resulted in the recommendation to break the project into
phases. Future phases of the project will be considered as more affordable fixed
rate credit becomes available.

A resolution to approach the commissioners for the funding was approved by the
hospital board of trustees June 22.

The hospital was constructed 40 years ago.

In other action, the commissioners approved giving County Manager Tom Lundy
authority to enter a lease agreement with Duke Energy Carolinas. That agreement
will allow the county to keep the Sherrills Ford Convenience Center operational,
possibly for another 10 years.

The lease, director of county Utilities and Engineering Barry Edwards said, is
for 10 years in two five-year periods. The lease amount to be paid by the county
is $1,000 each year for the first five years, $1,100 a year for the second five
years.

The center had been threatened when Carolina Centers bought the property,
including the tract on which the center is located, in 1986 from original owners
Crescent Land & Timber. Since that time, the county has been trying to work out
a lease agreement, like the one it had with Crescent since 1976, to no avail.
However, when the property changed hands again this year to Duke Energy
Carolinas, an agreement was reached that pleases both sides.

"I just want to express our gratitude to Duke Power for working this out," Lail
said. "They came right to the table in working this out and it's something
positive for the county and its citizens."

To see more of the Hickory Daily Record or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.hickoryrecord.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Hickory Daily Record, N.C.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090721-HI-MED-CENTER-LOAN-20090721

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HI


                      Copyright 2009 Hickory Daily Record


