                              237 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            November 4, 2011 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Construction of relocated hospital boosts Pasco economy

BYLINE: CARL ORTH, The Suncoast News

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 388 words


Building facility with 236 beds cost $210 million

BY CARL ORTH

The Suncoast News

TRINITY -- A new hospital could help cure what has been ailing the Pasco County
economy during the recession.

Once it opens this winter, Medical Center of Trinity "is going to put some
energy into the area," said John Hagen, president and chief executive officer of
the Pasco Economic Development Council.

With much of the construction trade slowing to a snail's pace in recent years,
the $210 million hospital project helped resuscitate the financial health of
some area builders.

Crews continue to work at the five-story hospital at 9330 State Road 54 during
the final stages of preparation.

"We're kind of blessed," Hagen said. "I think medical construction has been the
only bright spot" in the construction industry here.

With Community Hospital of New Port Richey turning 40 this year, administrators
decided to relocate and build a modern facility in Trinity. The 236-bed Medical
Center of Trinity will have all private rooms. A medical office building will
open alongside the hospital.

Like Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point in Hudson, Community Hospital and
Medical Center of Trinity are owned by HCA, based in Nashville, Tenn.

Pasco also is gaining another new hospital. Ground was broken in December for
Florida Hospital Wesley Chapel, a 200,000-square-foot facility on 52 acres off
Bruce B. Downs Boulevard near S.R. 56.

The project is expected to take 18 to 24 months to complete. The Wesley Chapel
medical center initially will feature 80 beds with the ability to expand to 300
beds in future phases.

"We're kind of lucky to have two hospitals" under construction, Hagen said. "I
think it's pretty unusual in this economic climate."

In recent years, Morton Plant North Bay Hospital in New Port Richey underwent a
$49 million renovation and expansion.

The health care industry in general is a "pretty big opportunity for Pasco
County," Hagen said.

The new Trinity hospital could draw patients from north Pinellas County and
parts of Hillsborough County.

"We could be a magnet for health care," Hagen said. "It's going to take it to an
even higher level.

"The cost of doing business in Pasco is pretty reasonable," he said.

Photo: John Hagen

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


