                              247 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        Savannah Morning News (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 21, 2010 Sunday

Mercer University School of Medicine in Savannah equals jobs, growth: The
presence of Mercer University School of Medicine in Savannah has added millions
of dollars - and status - to the local economy

BYLINE: Arlinda Smith Broady, Savannah Morning News, Ga.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1264 words


Mar. 21--With unemployment rates steadily climbing, the medical industry
continues to buck the trend.

A study released last fall by the Association of American Medical Colleges
showed that in 2008 Georgia's 10 teaching hospitals and four medical schools
provided 81,632 jobs in the state. That ranked the Peach State at No. 11 among
the 46 states and the District of Columbia that have accredited programs.

"U.S. medical schools and teaching hospitals are substantial economic engines in
the terms of jobs, state tax revenues and economic growth," Darrell G. Kirch,
president and CEO of the association, wrote in the report's executive summary.

Even though the period examined ends in mid-2008, prior to the worst of the
national economic downturn, the data coincide with state and federal labor
department findings that show half of the 30 fastest growing occupations in 2009
were in health care.

That's especially true in the Savannah area, with two hospital systems and a
medical school campus located here.

Medical school comes to Savannah

Back in 1996, Mercer University School of Medicine began a relationship with
Memorial Hospital. Third- and fourth-year medical school students came to
Savannah to complete their clinicals.

For up-and-coming physicians, the practical hands-on experience is invaluable.
And Mercer was continuing in its mission to provide an education for future
physicians who will meet the primary and ancillary health care needs of Georgia.

"Unlike a lot of other medical schools, Mercer has a strong case-based
approach," said Dr. Wayne C. Glasgow, senior associate dean for research and
chair of the department of Biomedical Sciences as well as a professor of
pharmacology at Mercer. Glasgow also serves as director of the department of
Laboratory Oncology Research for Memorial's Anderson Cancer Institute.

"The basic science classes have more exposure to a clinical orientation," he
said. "They don't just learn anatomy, they learn body systems such as cardiology
and gastrointestinal."

So, in 2008, that partnership was expanded to bring first- and second-year
students to Savannah. By then, Memorial had added "university" to its name and
had become home to the Mercer's Savannah campus.

About one-third of the junior and senior classes are based in Savannah and
complete their entire clinical curriculum at the Savannah campus. Memorial
remains the sponsoring institution for the residency program officially called
the Mercer University School of Medicine (Savannah) Program.

"From Memorial's perspective, this adds to our mission," said Dr. Ramon V.
Meguiar, senior vice president and chief medical officer for Memorial as well as
senior association dean for Clinical Affairs at Mercer.

He said the three main functions of the hospital system are to:

-- Provide excellent patient care.

-- Teach new doctors and medical professionals in specified areas.

-- Conduct research that leads to improved outcomes.

Training doctors boosts economy

Besides the obvious perks of training doctors locally as well as retaining and
attracting the best and brightest medical professionals in the country, Mercer's
impact on Savannah can be measured in dollars.

Glasgow said the medical school has had an impact of $12 million to $19 million
on the area. And that's not including Memorial's $255 million payroll for its
4,500 employees.

"The doctors, nurses and staff buy homes and spend money in businesses as well
as through taxes," Meguiar said.

The study by the association of medical colleges showed that in 2008 the
combined economic impact of its members equaled more than $512 billion,
accounting for more than 3.3 million full-time jobs -- one in every 43 wage
earners in the U.S. labor force.

In Georgia, total economic impact was $10.9 billion; total employment impact
81,632 was people, and total government revenue impact was $218.6 million.

Those figures weren't derived from thin air.

The direct economic impact comes as a result of the education, research and
clinical services of medical schools and teaching hospitals. And the study
measured the direct and indirect employment generated and government revenues.

Medical schools and teaching hospitals that are public and not-for-profit
indirectly generate government revenue through income taxes paid by staff,
employed physicians and medical residents; sales tax revenues paid by businesses
providing goods and services to medical schools and hospitals and corporate net
income taxes paid by businesses providing goods and services to medical schools
and hospitals.

Other selective business taxes such as gross receipts taxes, public utility
realty taxes, insurance premium taxes, motor vehicle taxes and financial
institutions taxes also contribute to those revenues.

In addition, businesses are recipients of spending by hospital patients,
patients' visitors, medical students and their visitors.

All of these direct expenditures are re-circulated in the economy as recipients
"re-spend" with other businesses within the state. This is often referred to as
a multiplier. With medical schools and teaching hospitals, the multiplier effect
is about 2.3. Therefore, for every dollar directly spent by a medical school or
teaching hospital, an additional $1.30 is indirectly generated.

Med school draws companies

Although the medical college association study didn't include further residual
benefits, Savannah is expected to reap even more benefits from Mercer's
presence.

Higher education institutions as well as hospitals are big draws for companies
looking to locate in the area, said Eric R. Winger, president and CEO of the
Savannah Economic Development Authority.

"Companies jump on those right away," he said. "Higher ed speaks to the
sophistication of the area, and health care shows that there are places of
employment for spouses and family of the target company's employees."

He said the continued growth of Mercer's Savannah campus strengthens the diverse
local economy and makes it that much more resilient to recessions and such.

"There's something to be said for the stability of a five-legged stool," he
said, referring to the ports, tourism, manufacturing, military and health care.

And a strong medical school is sure to attract travelers for seminars and
conventions as well as extended stay in-residence programs.

"Medical meetings and conventions are big business," said Joseph Marinelli,
president of the Savannah Area Convention & Visitors Bureau.

Savannah already has been a big draw for nursing-related meetings.

"Those types of conventions tend to skew toward female and more mature
travelers," Marinelli said. "They like that Savannah is safe and comfortable and
not too intimidating."

Pharmaceutical meetings also are increasing. So it stands to reason that as
Mercer grows locally, so will its draw for medical-oriented travel.

Just as the Cleveland Clinic and Johns Hopkins in Baltimore attract visitors for
their facilities, Marinelli envisions a smaller-scale effect for Savannah.

Those predictions are no surprise to Meguiar.

"What attracts doctors and their families is the great quality of life," he
said. "And they in turn help improve that quality of life. ... Everybody wins."

To see more of The Savannah Morning News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.savannahnow.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Savannah Morning News, Ga.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20100321-SV-Mercer-University-School-of-Medicine-in-Savannah-equals-jobs-growth-
0321

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SV


                      Copyright 2010 Savannah Morning News


