                              241 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                 July 16, 2002

Matilda Hospital sacks 25 amid private-sector fears

BYLINE: Patsy Moy and Sam Ho

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 384 words


Twenty-five people - about 10 per cent of the workforce - have been laid off at
the exclusive Matilda Hospital as private hospitals struggle to stay afloat in
the economic downturn.

Adventist Hospital in Stubbs Road and its sister hospital in Tsuen Wan will cut
the salaries of their 500 staff by between 1.58 per cent and 4.42 per cent from
January, in line with civil service pay cuts.

A legislator warned there could be more lay-offs and even closures of private
hospitals if the government did nothing to bridge the imbalance between the
private and public sectors.

Public hospitals now take 94 per cent of in-patients and private hospital groups
want medical reforms speeded up so that some of the burden can be shifted to the
private sector.

In a statement yesterday, the Matilda Hospital - which has been in Mount Kellett
Road, the Peak, for 95 years - said jobs had been cut in various departments and
included nursing posts.

It said the redundancies were a "direct result of the poor economic climate" and
were a cost-cutting measure.

No doctors were affected as they practised independently of the hospital and
there would be no pay cuts for the remaining 200 staff, the hospital said.

The statement read: "It is one of the hardest actions we have ever had to take.
On the other hand, by taking this action now we believe we are safeguarding the
future of the remaining 200 employees."

One member of staff said 12 nurses had been fired, most of them senior nursing
staff with an average of 10 years' experience.

Legislator Dr Lo Wing-lok, who represents the medical constituency, said more
private hospitals could be forced to lay off staff or even close if public
hospitals continued to expand.

Dr Kwong Kwok-hay, director of clinical services at the private Hong Kong
Sanatorium and Hospital, said he believed it was the first time a private
hospital had made lay-offs on such a scale.

He said patients would be deprived of choice if private hospitals were forced to
close or make cuts because of competition from the public sector.

A spokesman for the Health, Welfare and Food Bureau said the Hospital Authority
had already issued referral guidelines for patients in public hospitals in a
move to shift some patients to the private sector.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Photo: Martin Chan); Matilda Hospital says it has been forced to make
job cuts.

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2002 South China Morning Post Ltd.


