                              249 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                          September 5, 2012 Wednesday

Patients, doctors welcome u-turn on private care;
Groups say medicine should never have been seen as economic pillar, and hail
focus on locals

BYLINE: Emily Tsang emily.tsang@scmp.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 03

LENGTH: 402 words


The government's decision to stop pursuing private health care as a "new pillar"
of economic growth is a step towards reform, say patients' and doctors' groups.

Secretary for Food and Health Dr Ko Wing-man announced the change yesterday in
his first news conference since taking office, saying private hospitals should
gear their services towards locals instead of overseas patients, and help to
ease the burden on public hospitals.

Tim Pang Hung-cheong, spokesman for the Patients' Rights Association, welcomed
the move, saying health care should have never been a pillar industry "as it
means the government encourages [it] to become a money-making business".

"This contradicts the spirit of life-saving service," he said.

During the 2008 financial crisis, former chief executive Donald Tsang Yam-kuen
earmarked medical services as a key industry that could be developed to boost
the city's long-term growth. But the Patients' Rights Association and the Hong
Kong Medical Association (HKMA) agreed it was time to change course.

Ko said that after years of private health care being cornered by mainland
patients, it was time to make more private hospital beds available for
Hongkongers. But the minister's announcement has caused concern that giving
private hospitals a larger role in meeting local needs would result in a brain
drain from public hospitals, as medical staff seek the same training for higher
pay.

Ko said public hospitals had been using various measures to retain talent and
improve efficiency, such as cutting patients' waiting times.

Still, statistics show an imbalance, with public hospitals serving 90 per cent
of the city's population, while 60 per cent of doctors work in the private
sector.

HKMA president Dr Tse Hung-hing, a medical sector candidate in this Sunday's
Legislative Council election, said he understood it might be difficult on
ethical grounds for private hospital operators to turn away overseas patients so
as to prioritise local ones.

Tse said he had never understood why the government highlighted private medical
services as an industry.

Incumbent lawmaker Dr Leung Ka-lau, also a Legco candidate, said that aside from
obstetric wards, private medical services were more than enough to meet demand
and should be made available for foreigners if there was low local demand.

The Private Hospital Association said it would meet Ko this week to further
understand his proposals.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


