                              246 of 994 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             July 7, 2016 Thursday

Residency program at Cape Fear Valley could provide economic boost

BYLINE: Steve DeVane, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 699 words


July 07--A residency program at Cape Fear Valley Health System could have a
major economic impact for Cumberland County and the region, county officials
say.

The program also will be vital to Campbell University's medical school, which is
expected to provide most of the residents.

The program could create about 300 jobs that pay about $50,000 each and about 50
jobs that pay $50,000 to $400,000 each, according to hospital documents. Total
funding for the medical education effort is expected to be more than $30 million
a year, records show.

The 300 jobs would go to recent medical school graduates serving their
residencies at Cape Fear Valley. The other positions would be teachers, mentors
and support workers for the program.

Marshall Faircloth, chairman of the Cumberland County Board of Commissioners,
said he can't think of an economic development project with the potential of the
residency program since the Kelly-Springfield Tire Co. opened in 1969. The tire
manufacturer, which is now Goodyear Tire Co., employs about 2,500 workers.

Commissioners are excited that the state budget includes $7.7 million for the
residency program, because they had discussed how the county could potentially
pay for it if needed, he said. The commissioners also serve on the hospital's
board of trustees.

"We really looked at each other and said, 'We can't not do this,'" Faircloth
said.

The state General Assembly approved the budget last week and sent it to Gov. Pay
McCrory for his signature.

Cape Fear Valley is planning to reclassify as a rural hospital so it can start
the program. Federal rules set a cap on residency programs in urban hospitals.

The hospital stands to lose more than $10 million a year in federal funding by
reclassifying. The state's $7.7 million and financial support from Campbell
University are expected to help make up for the loss, along with grants and
donations.

Campbell is prepared to provide up to $3 million, according to Britt Davis, a
school spokesman.

"Campbell is prepared to make the program whole," he said. "That's how important
this program is."

Davis said Cape Fear Valley is expected to be the main location for Campbell
medical students to get their residency training. The program is critical for
the medical school, he said.

"The reality is you cannot practice medicine without completing a residency
program," he said.

Most residents go on to practice medicine within 50 miles of where they were
trained, he said.

County officials are hopeful that holds true for the Cape Fear Valley program.

"Studies show a good majority of them are going to stay in this area,"
Commissioner Jimmy Keefe said. "It is a huge economic impact to the community."

Commissioner Glenn Adams said the residents likely will live close to the
hospital because they'll be working long hours.

"That's economic development if you can add that many jobs making $50,000," he
said. "That's like bringing a company to town."

Hospital officials believe the program will improve health care and help with a
doctor shortage in the region.

Davis said the training will help the medical school fulfill its mission of
training doctors for rural areas and places that don't have enough.

Faircloth said the program could lead to improved access to health care for
people in the region.

"That's just as big a deal," he said. "Access to health care is an issue for all
communities going forward."

Hospital officials plan to start hiring and preparing for the residency program
later this year. The first residents would begin work at the hospital in July
2017.

"A year from now, we could see residents living in this area," Faircloth said.

Keefe said he thinks the program also will improve the hospital's image as a
teaching facility.

The commissioners say a proposed baseball stadium that would host a minor league
team and other potential projects could help keep the residents in the area.

"They're looking for stuff for their families to do," Adams said.

Staff writer Steve DeVane can be reached at devanes@fayobserver.com or 486-3572.

___ (c)2016 The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) Visit The
Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) at www.fayobserver.com Distributed by
Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160707-FY-Residency-program-at-Cape-Fear-Valley-could-provide-economic
-boost-0707-20160707

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2016 The Fayetteville Observer


