                              245 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             July 19, 2016 Tuesday

Massachusetts: South Shore Hospital Expands With MassDevelopment Bonds

LENGTH: 487  words

DATELINE: New York



  Boston:  The Mass Development, The State of Massachusetts has issued the
following news release:



 MassDevelopment has issued two tax-exempt bonds totaling $137,245,000 on behalf
of South Shore Hospital, Inc., a regional health care system in South Weymouth.
The hospital is using bond proceeds to build a new critical care unit, renovate
an existing building to make room for more beds, upgrade information technology
and HVAC systems, and to make interior, lighting and landscaping improvements.
South Shore Hospital is also using bond proceeds to refund and refinance
previous debt. The hospital expects the projects to create 233 hospital jobs.





 "These bonds will allow South Shore Hospital to make needed improvements to its
hospital campus and add more than 200 jobs to the Weymouth area," said
MassDevelopment President and CEO Marty Jones. "We're proud to support the
growth of this hospital and medical centers across the Commonwealth, which
provide essential health services to their communities and serve as one of
Massachusetts's most important economic sectors."



 South Shore Hospital is part of South Shore Health System, Inc., a nonprofit
health system comprised of South Shore Hospital, South Shore Medical Center,
South Shore NeuroSpine, South Shore VNA, Health Provider Services Organization
and South Shore Health System Foundation. South Shore Hospital provides acute
medical, surgical, critical, obstetrical, gynecological, pediatric, cardiac and
cancer care to the 725,000 residents of southeast Massachusetts. Its 900-member
medical staff represents all leading medical specialties, and it employs 4,000
total people who are supported by 700 volunteers. It was ranked among the top 10
Massachusetts hospitals in 2015 by U.S. News & World Report, and named a top
place to work by The Boston Globe. South Shore Hospital has also been designated
a Magnet hospital by the American Nurses' Credentialing Center.



 "Our region is expanding, and our communities increasingly look to South Shore
Hospital, as a part of South Shore Health System, for guidance--not only to stay
healthy, but also to provide the highest level critical care at the most
critical moments," said South Shore Hospital President and COO Joe
Cahill."MassDevelopment has been an essential partner in helping us meet the
health and wellness needs of those living in our region."



 MassDevelopment, the state's finance and development agency, works with
businesses, nonprofits, financial institutions, and communities to stimulate
economic growth across the Commonwealth. During FY2015, MassDevelopment financed
or managed 294 projects generating investment of more than $2.5 billion in the
Massachusetts economy. These projects are projected to create about 6,100 jobs
and build or rehabilitate about 2,000 residential units.



  In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


