                              243 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                            Aberdeen Evening Express

                                August 24, 1998

Hospital closure will cost 135 jobs
 Fears of severe impact on Banff economy

BYLINE: By John Thomson

SECTION: Health: Hospitals, Pg.5

LENGTH: 292 words


AROUND 135 jobs could be lost if plans to close a North-east hospital go ahead,
according to a new study.

The total job loss at Ladysbridge is less than originally forecast but is still
expected to have a severe impact on the Banff area.

Aberdeenshire's north planning boss Keith Newton said: "While the loss of jobs
to the local area might be seen as less than previously expected, it is
nevertheless significant in regard to an already fragile local economic
structure."

The independent study was commissioned by councillors last year to identify
responses and economic development intervention to mitigate the effects of any
closure.

It followed recommendations by a task group to replace the hospital with
community facilities within three to five years.

Mr Newton said: "The report considers the groups of staff most likely to require
assistance in finding new employment and highlights the reduction in the overall
skills base as managerial positions are not replaced or are lost.

"Given the timescale of rundown that might be envisaged, the consultants
conclude that the local labour market should be able to absorb these additional
demands but that some programme of re-training would be appropriate."

Mr Newton said the hospital site represented "a significant economic resource"
although there was no clear vision for its future use.

A second phase of the study is now likely to get under way to investigate new
investment and employment, uses for the site and an action plan for economic
support.

Banff and Buchan councillors will tomorrow consider the report findings and are
likely to endorse the second stage of the study which will be carried out in
conjunction with Grampian Healthcare and Grampian Enterprise Ltd.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Evening Express


