                              248 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             July 12 1988, Tuesday

Patients are 7 times more likely to die in some hospitals; League table of
mortality rates; Centre for Health Economics at York University

BYLINE: JILL SHERMAN, Social Services Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63131.

LENGTH: 519 words


Patients are seven times more likely to die in some hospitals than others,
according to a league table of mortality rates published yesterday.

The table, being submitted to the Prime Minister to be considered in the review
of the health service, shows that one in seven patients admitted to hospitals in
Halton health authority in Merseyside fails to leave hospital alive.


In Bloomsbury health authority, in central London, however, only one in 50
patients die in their hospital beds.

The analysis of mortality data, published by the Centre for Health Economics at
York University for the first time nationally, suggests that some consultants
are better than others and that some hospitals offer safer treatment than
others.

The researchers point out that many factors have to be taken into consideration
when comparing data, but they argue that instead of comparing efficiency between
hospitals, the Government should be looking at standards of care.

Mr Paul Kind, a research fellow, said that when he allowed for demographic and
case mix factors, Halton dropped out of the 10 worst districts because most of
the patients admitted to hospital were over 65.

An analysis of standardized death rates when this is taken into account shows
that the most 'dangerous' places to go into hospital are North-west Surrey,
North-west Hertfordshire and Grimsby.

One is 50per cent more likely to die in these places than in hospitals with
average mortality rates, and three times more likely to die than in the 'safest'
hospitals, found in Harrow and Bloomsbury.

Doctors have been opposed to the publication of death rates because it says that
patients will be too frightened to go into hospital with high mortality rates
even when there is a good explanation.

Some diseases and operations, for example, have a high death rate merely because
procedures are complicated and patients are gravely ill.

The York research shows for example that death rates are highest about 18per
cent for patients diagnosed with heart or circulatory disease.

The average death rate for infectious diseases throughout the country is 2.48per
cent, but in West Midlands the rate is 1.58per cent, almost a quarter of the
rate in East Anglia, which is 5.61, double the national rate.

Mr Kind's examination of death rates per consultant specialty shows wide
variations between districts in certain specialties.

For example death rates among geriatric admissions exceed 20per cent in all
regions, but the highest rate is in East Anglia, 29.6per cent.

Mersey with 12.6 per cent has the highest death rate among general medicine
admissions, and 4.02 per cent among general surgery compared with Oxford, 9.4
per cent and 2.39 per cent respectively.

Last night Professor Alan Maynard, director of the Centre for Health Economics,
said that until there was more information about health outcomes, no government
could decide how best to spend its money.

Hospital deaths the Missing Link: Measuring Outcome in Hospital Activity Data
(Centre for Health Economics, York University, YOI 5DD; Pounds 5).

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited


