                              250 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright (c) 2007 Wayne State University
                              The Wayne Law Review

                                  Winter, 2007

                                Wayne Law Review

                             53 Wayne L. Rev. 1583

LENGTH: 13151 words

COMMENT: THE ECONOMIC BENEFIT OF NONPROFIT HOSPITALS: BROADENING THE EVALUATION
OF TAX-EXEMPT STATUS AT THE STATE LEVEL

NAME: DELIA D. JOHNSON

TEXT:
 [*1583]  I. INTRODUCTION

   The debate over nonprofit hospital tax-exempt status granted by states
garnered national headlines in 2004 when the Illinois Department of Revenue
revoked the tax-exempt status of Provena Covenant Medical Center, a prominent
Catholic hospital in Urbana, Illinois.  n1 State authorities determined that
Provena was not a "charitable" institution under Illinois law based largely upon
the hospital's aggressive debt collection policies directed toward patients.  n2
The debate over state tax exemption policy for nonprofit hospitals is not new,
however, nor is it limited to Illinois. For over twenty years states have
questioned the continuing exemption of nonprofit hospitals from taxation in
light of their evolution from charitable institutions for the poor to highly
structured and organized corporate entities.  n3 Critics of tax exemption for
nonprofit hospitals have advanced several arguments for denying exemption at
both the federal and state levels.  n4 One of the most common of those arguments
is that nonprofit hospital corporations have grown in size and sophistication of
business model so that they function in a nearly equivalent manner to for-profit
hospital corporations.  n5 While it is true that contemporary nonprofit hospital
corporations have progressed dramatically beyond their nineteenth-century
origins as alms houses for the poor,  n6 the question remains as to how
nonprofit hospitals should be treated for purposes of state and local taxation.

   State requirements for nonprofit hospital tax exemption typically are not
well defined, and this has added to the controversy over whether  [*1584]
nonprofit hospitals merit their state and local tax exemptions.  n7 The current
standard for nonprofit hospital tax exemption in most states is either a
demonstration of charity care provided, or a combination of the provision of
charity care along with other types of community benefit.  n8 Nonprofit hospital
corporations also provide economic benefits to their communities, yet these
benefits are not considered by most states when determining whether a nonprofit
hospital merits state and local tax exemption.

   For-profit corporations, on the other hand, are routinely granted various tax
exemptions by states based primarily on the theory that these corporations
provide a significant economic benefit to state and local governments.  n9
States have developed economic growth programs which utilize business tax
incentives to attract, retain or encourage expansion of for-profit entities
within the state.  n10 These programs grant tax credits and exemptions to
qualified for-profit corporations in return for the provision of economic
benefit to the state, which is typically calculated in terms of capital
investment and number of jobs created or maintained.  n11

   The failure of states to consider the economic benefit provided by nonprofit
hospitals invites comparison between the requirements imposed on nonprofit
hospitals for tax exemption, and the requirements imposed on for-profit
corporations for tax exemptions and credits under business tax incentive
programs. In the broader scope of state tax revenue collection, both nonprofit
hospital tax exemption and for-profit tax incentive programs have a similar
result. Both are types of state and local tax expenditures  n12 that reduce the
amount of revenue collected by millions of dollars annually.  n13 Any state's
decision to provide tax  [*1585]  exemptions and incentives to either nonprofit
or for-profit entities should therefore be examined for objectives of fairness,
economic efficiency and sound public policy.  n14

   This Comment contemplates whether the economic benefits provided by nonprofit
hospitals should be considered in the evaluation of their qualification for tax
exemption at the state and local levels. Since taxation and economic policies
vary widely from state to state, this Comment examines the current taxation and
economic law and policy of the State of Illinois as a model for analysis. Part
II first provides an overview of both nonprofit hospital tax exemption and
business tax incentives and then outlines specific Illinois provisions for
nonprofit hospital tax exemption as well as business incentive plans used in
this Comment as models for analysis. Part III of this Comment advances several
arguments for recognition of the economic benefit of nonprofit hospitals as a
factor used in qualifying nonprofit hospitals for tax-exempt status. Data
illustrating the economic benefit of Illinois nonprofit hospitals will be
examined in the process and compared to the criteria for state business
incentive programs for private corporations. Part IV provides conclusions
concerning nonprofit hospital tax-exempt evaluation at the state level with
recommendations for including economic benefit as an evaluative factor.

   II. BACKGROUND

A. State and Local Tax Treatment of Nonprofit Hospitals

1. Overview of State and Federal Nonprofit Hospital Tax Exemption Requirements

   State and local governments exempt nonprofit hospitals from a variety of
taxes including property taxes, income taxes, sales and use taxes, and other
types of state and municipal taxes.  n15 States are not legally bound by federal
tax exemption statutes, but many states base their nonprofit hospital tax-exempt
standards on those used at the federal level.  n16 The origins of both federal
and state laws providing charitable tax exemption to nonprofit hospitals are
"based on the common law principle that hospital care is intrinsically
charitable."  n17 Federal and state charitable exemption requirements have
changed independently over  [*1586]  time, and their independent evolution has
resulted in many nonprofit tax-exempt hospitals operating under divergent sets
of tax policies.  n18

   Federal requirements for the tax exemption of nonprofit hospitals as
charitable organizations have continued to develop since the 1950s, and have
been addressed by the IRS in a series of revenue rulings.  n19 In 1956, the IRS
ruled that in order for a nonprofit hospital to qualify for charitable tax
exemption, it "must not . . . refuse to accept patients in need of hospital care
who cannot pay for such services."  n20 The IRS removed the requirement for
nonprofit hospitals to care for patients without charge several years later in
Revenue Ruling 69-545.  n21 Revenue Ruling 69-545 is very important in the
chronicle of federal charitable tax exemption for nonprofit hospitals, and
states that:


     The promotion of health, like the relief of poverty and the
     advancement of education and religion, is one of the purposes in the
     general law of charity that is deemed beneficial to the community as a
     whole even though the class of beneficiaries eligible to receive a
     direct benefit from its activities does not include all members of the
     community, such as indigent members of the community, provided that
     the class is not so small that its relief is not of benefit to the
     community.  n22

   Revenue Ruling 69-545 marked the birth of the "community benefit" standard,
and factors in this ruling enumerated by the IRS as indicative of providing
community benefit include having the hospital controlled by an independent board
of directors selected from the community, maintaining an open medical staff with
privileges available to all qualified physicians, and operating an active and
generally accessible emergency room.  n23 In 1983, the IRS withdrew the
qualification of operating an emergency room as a demonstration of community
benefit, and instead ruled that there were other significant factors that may be
considered when determining whether the promotion of health was broad enough for
a nonprofit hospital to provide community benefit.  n24

   Professor John D. Colombo, a prominent legal scholar with numerous
publications on tax-exempt organizations, argues that the pure community benefit
standard is now dead, and that the IRS has now  [*1587]  embraced the "promotion
of health plus" standard  n25 for nonprofit hospital charitable tax exemption,
as set forth in IHC Health Plans, Inc. v. Commissioner.  n26 The court in IHC
Health Plans held that:


     In summary, under section 501(c)(3), a health-care provider must make
     its services available to all in the community plus provide additional
     community or public benefits. The benefit must either further the
     function of government-funded institutions or provide a service that
     would not likely be provided within the community but for the subsidy.
     Further, the additional public benefit conferred must be sufficient to
     give rise to a strong inference that the public benefit is the primary
     purpose for which the organization operates.  n27

   Professor Colombo further contends that, "various rulings and court decisions
also make clear that the chief 'plus' is a substantial charity care program,
although certain outreach programs such as wellness education and medical
research may also be significant."  n28

   The debate surrounding nonprofit hospital tax-exempt requirements at the
federal level continues on, aided in large part by the efforts of Senator Chuck
Grassley of Iowa, who most recently called on the GAO to undertake a study of
how nonprofit hospitals meet their requirement to provide community benefits in
exchange for their tax-exempt status and related tax breaks.  n29 Federal
standards for the charitable tax exemption of nonprofit hospitals under section
50I(c)(3), while now defined to include some form of required benefit to the
community (charity care and/or other factors), are likely to continue undergoing
revisions into the foreseeable future.

   Charitable tax-exempt standards for nonprofit hospitals at the state level
vary widely, and have also evolved over the years by mirroring the changing
standards at the federal level.  n30 As noted previously, states are free to set
forth their own statutes providing for charitable tax exemption, and are not
required to adhere to federal charitable exemption standards. State statutes
providing for nonprofit hospital charitable exemption have consequently been
interpreted in numerous state court opinions. For  [*1588]  example, the
Michigan Supreme Court in Wexford Medical Group v. City of Cadillac  n31
considered the meaning of "charitable institution," which was not defined in the
Michigan statute providing ad valorem property tax exemption for charitable
institutions.  n32 The Michigan Tax Tribunal had previously denied Wexford's
property tax exemption based upon the fact that Wexford reported a $ 10 million
annual budget in the tax year at question, while in the same year Wexford
provided only $ 2,400 in charity care to patients.  n33 The court first held
that the "charitable" inquiry pertains more to "whether an institution could be
considered a 'charitable' one, rather than whether the institution offers
charity or performs charitable work."  n34 The court also held that while a
charitable institution could not discriminate within the group of individuals
who are afforded the benefit of the institution's charitable deeds, a charity
nevertheless does not have to serve every single person regardless of the type
of charity sought or offered.  n35 The court then reversed the lower court
opinions denying charitable tax exemption to Wexford, and held that since the
Legislature did not provide a measuring device to gauge an institutions
charitable composition, that the court could not presuppose the existence of
one.  n36

   As a result of the Wexford opinion,  n37 Michigan is a representative example
of those states which broadly classify nonprofit health care entities as
"charitable" without further statutory definition, as is reminiscent of the
common law origins of the charitable purpose exemption. Other states such as
Pennsylvania and Texas, however, have moved in the opposite direction toward
more strictly defining the contributions which must be made by nonprofit
hospitals to qualify for state and local charitable tax exemption.  n38 In 1993,
the Texas Legislature enacted charity care and community benefits requirements
for charitable hospitals in the state, and thus Texas became the first state to
enact a statute explicitly defining and quantifying the amount of charity care
and community benefits which must be provided to qualify for charitable tax
exemption.  n39 The Texas statute provides that nonprofit hospitals must fulfill
charitable tax-exempt requirements by providing one of the following:


      [*1589]  (1) Charity care and government-sponsored indigent health
     care must be provided at a level that is reasonable in relation to the
     community needs, as determined through the community needs assessment,
     the available resources of the hospital or hospital system, and the
     tax-exempt benefits received by the hospital or hospital system;

     (2) Charity care and government-sponsored indigent health care must be
     provided in an amount equal to at least four percent of the hospital's
     or hospital system's net patient revenue;

     (3) Charity care and government-sponsored indigent health care must be
     provided in an amount equal to at least 100 percent of the hospital's
     or hospital system's tax-exempt benefits, excluding federal income
     tax; or
     (4) Charity care and community benefits must be provided in a combined
     amount equal to at least five percent of the hospital's or hospital
     system's net patient revenue, provided that charity care and
     government-sponsored indigent health care are provided in an amount
     equal to at least four percent of net patient revenue.  n40

   The Pennsylvania General Assembly moved in the same legislative direction by
enacting the Institutions of Purely Public Charity Act (IPPCA) in 1997.  n41 The
IPPCA arose in response to concerns that the standards for charitable tax
exemption in Pennsylvania were being applied inconsistently.  n42 The IPPCA
explicitly requires an institution of purely public charity to demonstrate
advancement of a charitable purpose, which may be satisfied by fulfilling any
one of a number of factors including the relief of poverty, and the prevention
and treatment of disease or injury.  n43 The IPPCA also requires the institution
to "donate or render gratuitously a substantial portion of its services."  n44
This criterion is satisfied if the institution benefits the community by
providing any one of a number of benefits, including providing services "to all
who seek them without regard to their ability to pay," or providing  [*1590]
services to individuals "based on their ability to pay" which may include
reduced fees based on the recipient's income.  n45

   Following the Provena decision, the Illinois General Assembly also moved to
explicitly define requirements for charitable hospital tax exemption, and
recently considered a proposed bill known as the Tax-Exempt Hospital
Responsibility Act which would establish, implement and enforce clear standards
for delivery by Illinois tax-exempt hospitals of charity health care services to
financially qualified persons.  n46 Texas, Pennsylvania and Illinois are
illustrative of at least a slowly moving trend in some states toward allowing
nonprofit hospitals to receive tax-exempt status in exchange for providing
quantifiable charity care amounts or other specified forms of community benefit.
Recent developments in Illinois in the area of state requirements for nonprofit
hospital charitable tax exemption make the state a suitable model for analysis
in subsequent sections of this Comment.

2. Current Illinois Requirements for Tax Exemption of Nonprofit Hospitals

   The Illinois Constitution provides that the General Assembly may exempt from
taxation property used exclusively for charitable purposes.  n47 The Illinois
General Assembly, acting within state constitutional limitations, enacted
section 15-65 of the Property Tax Code which provides that "[a]ll property of
the following is exempt when actually and exclusively used for charitable or
beneficent purposes, and not leased or otherwise used with a view to profit: (a)
Institutions of public charity."  n48

   The factors for determining whether an entity is an institution of public
charity were enumerated by the Illinois Supreme Court in Methodist Old People's
Home v. Korzen.  n49 The court reaffirmed these guidelines in Eden Retirement
Ctr., Inc. v. Dep't of Revenue,  n50 which stated that the guidelines or
criteria generally to be applied in determining whether charitable use was met
are that:


     (1) the benefits derived are for an indefinite number of persons for
     their general welfare or in some way reduces the burdens on
     government; (2) the organization has no capital, capital stock, or
     [*1591]  shareholders, and does not profit from the enterprise; (3)
     funds are derived mainly from private and public charity, and the
     funds are held in trust for the objects and purposes expressed in the
     organization's charter; (4) charity is dispensed to all who need apply
     for it; (5) no obstacles are placed in the way of those seeking the
     benefits; and (6) and the exclusive, i.e., primary, use of the
     property is for charitable purposes.  n51


The court  n52 also stated that charitable use is a constitutional requirement
for exemption from property taxation, and that applicants for a charitable use
property tax exemption must comply unequivocally with the charitable requirement
of exclusive charitable use."  n53

   The judicial interpretation that "exclusive" charitable use means a "primary"
use was applied by the Illinois Court of Appeals in a 2006 opinion, Cmty. Health
Care Inc. v. Dep't of Revenue,  n54 where the court held that property owned by
a nonprofit medical clinic did not meet the primarily charitable use test when
the clinic admitted that they used their property to provide free or discounted
medical care to the medically underserved community only twenty-seven percent of
the time. The clinic's use of the property for the remaining seventy-three
percent of the time was spent in the normal operation of a nonprofit medical
clinic providing services to patients with the means to pay for care received.
n55 The court concluded that the clinic's use of its facility for a charitable
purpose was therefore "debatable," and that the issue must be resolved in favor
of taxation.  n56

   To summarize, current Illinois law does not require the provision of a
defined amount of charity care in order to qualify for tax exemption based on
the charitable purpose use. Illinois standards for nonprofit hospital charitable
tax exemption in use prior to 2006 are similar to those required at the federal
level, and are more like those used in states such as Michigan, where court
opinions broadly define principles for nonprofit hospital charitable tax
exemption based on the historic perception of hospitals as institutions of
charity. More recent Illinois court opinions and Department of Revenue
determinations including the Provena case and the Community Health Care case,
however, have  [*1592]  moved the Illinois standards for charitable purpose tax
exemption in the direction of requiring defined amounts of charity care to be
provided by the nonprofit hospital in exchange for receiving tax-exempt status.

3. Proposed Illinois Requirements for Charity Care Provided by Nonprofit
Hospitals

   In January 2006, Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan proposed the
Tax-Exempt Hospital Responsibility Act  n57 to "ensure that hospitals taking
advantage of very lucrative tax-exemptions earn that privilege by investing at
least eight percent of total operating costs in care for uninsured or poor
patients."  n58 As of March 2007, the Illinois General Assembly had not passed
the Tax-Exempt Hospital Responsibility Act, and although the lengthy period of
legislative inactivity may ultimately mean that the Act is not adopted, its
provisions are illustrative of the model used by states holding nonprofit
hospitals more directly accountable for providing quantifiable amounts of
charity care in exchange for their tax-exempt status.  n59 The proposed Act
linked nonprofit hospital compliance with the provision of tax exemption under
the Illinois Income Tax Act, the Use Tax Act, the Service Use Tax Act, the
Service Occupation Tax Act, the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, and the Property
Tax Code.  n60 The proposed Act also referenced opinions of the Illinois Supreme
Court that have consistently held that in order to satisfy the State's
constitutional requirements for charitable property tax exemption, a hospital
must unequivocally demonstrate that charity is dispensed to all who need and
apply for it.  n61

    [*1593]  The definition of a "tax-exempt hospital" under the proposed Act
required that the hospital be organized as a not-for-profit corporation or
charitable trust in Illinois or any other state or country.  n62 The most
far-reaching and controversial provision of the proposed Act required tax-exempt
hospitals to furnish aggregate annual charity care in an amount equal to at
least eight percent (8%) of the hospital's total operating costs.  n63 The
proposed Act also mandated that "full charity care" must be provided to any
uninsured Illinois resident who applied and had a family income of no more than
150% of the federal poverty guidelines.  n64 Significant mandatory reporting
requirements for tax-exempt hospital disclosure were also drafted into the
proposed Act, including:


     (1) the total number of charity care applications received, approved
     and denied by the hospital on an annual basis; (2) the total number of
     charity care patients at the hospital with separately itemized details
     by recipient; (3) the hospital's most recent set of audited financial
     statements and most recently filed Medicare cost report; (4) a
     statement detailing the aggregate dollar amount of charity care
     furnished by the hospital as reported on the actual cost of services
     performed; (5) a statement detailing the hospital's net patient
     service revenue and its investment income; and (6) the total amount of
     funds that were derived from any source other than patient service
     revenues, and that were used by the hospital to subsidize the cost of
     charity care in the annual reporting period.  n65

   Not unexpectedly, the proposed Illinois Act received almost immediate
opposition from those constituencies in the state that would be most greatly
impacted by heightened requirements for nonprofit hospital charitable tax
exemption.  n66

 [*1594]  B. State and Local Business Tax Incentives Available to For-Profit
Corporations

1. Overview of State and Local Tax Incentive Programs

   The history of state tax incentives stretches back to 1791 when tax
abatements were offered to Alexander Hamilton by the State of New Jersey in
exchange for locating a manufacturing plant in the state.  n67 Mississippi
pioneered tax-exempt bonds used to attract industry in 1936, and since that time
all states have developed programs to financially assist new or expanding
businesses.  n68 A leading legal scholar in the area of state taxation noted
that "scarcely a day goes by without some state offering yet another tax
incentive to spur economic development, often in an effort to attract a
particular enterprise to the state."  n69

   State business tax incentives come in many forms, and most states have
implemented, at a minimum, investment tax credits, job creation credits, and
property tax abatement programs.  n70 The underlying rationale for these
incentives includes attracting and retaining business investment with
accompanying jobs.  n71 Business tax credits typically involve "investing in
plants, expanding employment in existing enterprises, or creating new jobs
within a state."  n72 States allow business tax credits to be applied toward
"corporate income taxes, business franchise taxes, gross receipts taxes, real
property taxes, personal property taxes, or other tax liabilities."  n73 Tax
exemptions or abatements are often applied to real and personal property, and
also are often extended only for a limited period of time.  n74 Tax increment
financing incentives have also gained popularity, and these incentives typically
include "low-cost loans, . . . infrastructure such as roads and utilities,
tax-exempt bond financing," and sometimes direct subsidies to businesses.  n75
These various types of state business tax incentives are generally referred to
as "tax expenditures," as they are tax breaks in the form of credits and
[*1595]  abatements given to corporations, individuals or other organizations
which result in forgone revenue to the state.  n76

   Business tax incentive programs, like nonprofit hospital tax exemption laws,
share a chorus of critics including legal scholars, commentators, special
interest groups and individual taxpayers.  n77 Supporters of business tax
incentives advance several arguments for their worth, including (1) reducing the
tax burden on businesses so that they earn higher profits in order to stimulate
growth and investment within a state; (2) lowering business taxes as a way of
improving the state's business climate; (3) offering incentives to attract
businesses from other states; and (4) that business incentives are revenue
neutral because additional capital investment and new job creation will generate
more than enough revenue growth to offset the lost revenue not collected by the
state.  n78 Opponents of business tax incentive counter these arguments by
stating that (1) taxes collected from businesses are needed to provide financial
support for public services; (2) business tax incentives can undermine factors
that contribute to a positive business climate; (3) there is little evidence to
support the fact that tax cuts and incentives motivate firms to relocate; and
(4) the expansion of business tax incentives has caused a profound long-term
shrinkage in the share of state revenues contributed by businesses and cost the
states billions of dollars in lost revenue.  n79

   Business tax incentives have also faced challenges in court. A notable recent
Supreme Court opinion was issued in DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno,  n80 where
the Court reviewed a Sixth Circuit Court opinion holding that an Ohio investment
tax credit violated the dormant aspect of the Commerce Clause.  n81 The Supreme
Court in DaimlerChrysler Corp.  [*1596]  ultimately vacated the Sixth Circuit
Court opinion by holding that the citizen taxpayer plaintiffs challenging the
Ohio investment tax credit lacked standing under Article III to challenge the
tax because their alleged injury was hypothetical and was not fairly traceable
to the state's allegedly unlawful conduct.  n82 Despite their controversial
aspects, states continue to use tax incentive programs as part of their business
and economic plans to increase in-state investment and employment.  n83 Illinois
business tax incentive programs will be used as models for analysis in the
following sections.

2. Business Tax Incentives in Illinois

   Illinois currently has a wide variety of tax credits and incentives available
to businesses.  n84 One example of an Illinois tax incentive program is the
Economic Development for a Growing Economy (EDGE) incentive, which provides tax
credits for a maximum of ten years for a qualifying project.  n85 To qualify for
EDGE credits, a business project must make a minimum investment of $ 5 million
in capital improvements and employ at least twenty-five new employees within the
state.  n86 The Illinois Department of Commerce has discretion in determining
the amount of the tax credit awarded, and considers factors such as number and
location of jobs created, potential impact on the Illinois economy, the
incremental payroll attributable to the project, the amount of the average wage
and benefits paid by applicant, and the cost to Illinois and affected political
subdivisions with respect to the project.  n87 Illinois law requires that an
EDGE tax credit recipient must fulfill an agreement to maintain operations at
the project location for a specified duration,  [*1597]  adhere to a specific
method for determining the number of new employees employed during the taxable
year, and report to the state if it determines that the required number of jobs
or investment are no longer being maintained as set forth in the agreement.  n88

   The Illinois High Impact Business (HIB) program is another example of a tax
incentive program that is designed to encourage large-scale economic development
activities by providing tax incentives to companies that make a "substantial"
capital investment in operations, and that will create or retain a specified
number of jobs.  n89 The HIB program is part of the Illinois Enterprise Zone
Act,  n90 and allows businesses to qualify for investment tax credits, state
sales tax exemption on building materials, state sales tax exemption on
manufacturing equipment purchases and exemption from state gas and electric tax
in exchange for a minimum investment of $ 12 million and creation of 500
full-time jobs.  n91 Alternatively, a business may apply for the HIB program if
it intends to make a minimum investment of $ 30 million and retain 1,500
full-time jobs at a designated Illinois location.  n92 The state is required to
revoke an entity's HIB designation if they fail to comply with the conditions of
agreement.  n93

   Illinois for-profit corporations may also qualify for property tax abatements
if they are located within a designated Illinois Enterprise Zone.  n94 The
Illinois Revenue Act authorizes a taxing district to abate any portion of its
taxes on real property located within an enterprise zone where new improvements
have been constructed, or where existing improvements have been renovated or
rehabilitated.  n95 The enterprise zone property tax abatement provision is
described as "broader and more flexible" than the provisions in the property tax
code.  n96 Enterprise zone property tax abatements are available to all classes
of real property (commercial, residential, and industrial), and may be offered
in any amount up to an aggregate amount of $ 3 million offered by all taxing
[*1598]  districts.  n97 Unlike many of the Illinois business tax incentives
which are limited in duration, "the Enterprise Zone property tax abatement
provisions may be offered for any number of years," and they share an unlimited
duration element with the Illinois charitable tax exemptions offered to
qualifying nonprofit hospitals.  n98

   HIB, EDGE and the Illinois Enterprise Zone statutes are examples of three
Illinois tax expenditures seeking to provide significant economic benefits to
the state in terms of business investment and jobs. Illinois law does provide
for accountability in the use of corporate tax expenditures in the Corporate
Accountability for Tax Expenditures Act.  n99 The Act requires disclosure of all
development assistance agreements resulting from programs approved by each state
granting body within the prior calendar year, as well as submission of an annual
Unified Economic Development Budget to the General Assembly.  n100 Expenditure
reports for Fiscal Year 2005 show that "the impact of general business
expenditures in Illinois was $ 960 million."  n101 EDGE tax credits produced $
9.08 million in tax expenditures,  n102 while HIB and Enterprise Zone credits
added approximately $ 69.7 million in tax expenditures in FY 2005.  n103 The
reported tax expenditures highlight the fact that for-profit corporations are
given significant tax breaks in Illinois based primarily upon their perceived
economic benefit to the state, and also demonstrate that the state is willing to
forgo substantial revenue dollars in an effort to attract and retain for-profit
corporate citizens as part of state taxation and economic development policy.
n104

    [*1599]  III. THE CASE FOR RECOGNIZING THE ECONOMIC BENEFIT OF NONPROFIT
HOSPITALS

   In light of the willingness of states to offer tax incentives to for-profit
corporations in exchange for capital investment and job creation or maintenance,
states should take a step back and more broadly consider the economic benefits
provided by nonprofit hospitals, as well as what should be required in exchange
for their tax-exempt status. States can begin consideration by reviewing the
rationale behind their support for the use of business tax incentive programs as
tools for encouraging economic development and growth. In Illinois, for example,
the state was willing to contribute nearly $ 80 million in tax expenditures from
EDGE, HIB and Enterprise Zone credits and abatements in FY 2005 to for-profit
corporations.  n105 These significant business tax incentives were extended in
order to secure capital investment in the state, as well as to encourage job
creation and maintenance.

   If economic benefits to the state are worth millions in business tax
expenditures annually, the question naturally arising within the broader scope
of state taxation and economic policy is, "Why is economic benefit not included
as a factor in all state tax exemption evaluations where the recipient of the
exemption, such as a nonprofit hospital, has the potential to provide, or is
already providing, significant economic benefit to the state?" The answer to
this question with respect to nonprofit hospitals is embedded in the historic
perception of these hospitals as "charities" which began in this country in the
1750s to serve the poor.  n106 Some 250 years later, nonprofit hospitals are
still primarily regarded as "charities" that should be providing substantially
all of their services at no charge or at discounted rates below cost to the
community at large. The charitable sentiment is referenced in the proposed
Illinois Act suggesting that hospitals must unequivocally demonstrate that
charity is dispensed to all who need and apply for it.  n107

   Many of the current state tax-exempt laws retain this sentiment and still
regard hospitals as charitable institutions.  n108 The unchanging perception of
nonprofit hospitals as charities has led many states to retain their focus on
provision of charitable care as either the single or the  [*1600]  primary
evaluative factor for extending tax-exempt status to nonprofit hospitals.
However, this single-factor focus is no longer merited, and should not be
retained by states. Nonprofit hospitals are arguably far more valuable today in
terms of their ability to provide significant economic benefits to states in
exchange for their tax exemptions than they were hundreds of years ago when
hospitals functioned exclusively to reduce the visible effects of poverty in
burgeoning American cities.  n109

   The inclusion of economic benefit as a factor in nonprofit hospital tax
exemption evaluation is an idea that is long overdue in state taxation and
economic development policy. As noted earlier in this Comment, nonprofit
hospitals are often criticized for running their business operations in a
similar manner to for-profit corporations.  n110 This criticism ignores the
reality of contemporary nonprofit hospitals because they are entities that
operate within a modern economy where it is no longer economically feasible to
provide advanced levels of health care services at little or no charge to the
community. By today's standards, technologically advanced health care services
must be provided to meet the representative standard of care in the health care
community.  n111 Rather than criticizing hospitals for operating as nonprofit
corporations, states should look upon nonprofit hospitals as desirable
businesses that provide significant economic benefits to the community in terms
of jobs and capital investment.

   Nonprofit hospitals have themselves begun to recognize their economic value,
despite the lack of recognition of their value as economic entities by most
states. The American Hospital Association (AHA) recently published an assessment
of the economic contribution of nonprofit hospitals.  n112 The AHA report found
that in 2004: (1) hospitals accounted for approximately fifteen percent (15%) of
Gross Domestic  [*1601]  Product, or $ 571 billion; (2) hospitals support nearly
one out of every ten jobs in the U.S. either directly or indirectly; (3)
community hospitals employed nearly 5 million people and spent nearly $ 246
billion on goods and services; (4) hospitals paid approximately $ 249 billion in
employee compensation; and (5) that hospitals regularly rank among the top ten
employers in large urban areas.  n113

   A 2005 study commissioned by the Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council
found that the hospitals in that geographic area have a significant impact on
the local economy in that they: (1) employ approximately 142,347 full-time
equivalent employees; (2) generate a payroll of over $ 8.9 billion annually, or
over $ 90 million per hospital; (3) pay an average wage of $ 63,800; and (4)
invest approximately $ 1.8 billion annually in capital expenditures."  n114 The
significance of these economic statistics strengthens the argument that Illinois
and other states should consider the economic benefit of nonprofit hospitals as
a factor in evaluating their tax-exempt status. These statistics demonstrate
that the economic performance of many nonprofit hospitals meets or exceeds the
requirements imposed on for-profit corporations to earn tax incentives and
abatements available under many state business tax incentive programs.  n115

   Another notable example of the economic benefit of nonprofit hospitals comes
from Children's Memorial Hospital in Chicago. Children's Memorial is building a
new hospital scheduled to break ground in 2008, and the construction phase of
the project is expected to generate approximately 15,500 new jobs and $ 1.5
billion in business activity between 2007 and 2012 when the new hospital is
scheduled to open.  n116 After its first full year of operation, the new
Children's Memorial Hospital is projected to generate an ongoing economic impact
that includes "the creation of more than 10,000 jobs" and "an annual business
volume of $ 857 million statewide."  n117 The magnitude of capital investment
and large number of jobs created makes the Children's  [*1602]  Memorial project
a strong candidate for winning both an EDGE and HIB award if it were a
for-profit corporation, because the dollars of capital investment and number of
jobs created in this project far exceeds the requirements for either of these
business incentive programs. The Children's Memorial hospital project is another
compelling example of the economic benefit of nonprofit hospitals, particularly
when compared to the requirements placed on for-profit businesses in Illinois to
qualify for business tax incentives.

   Provena Health is much smaller in terms of size of operations than Children's
Memorial, yet it also provides significant economic benefits to the communities
that it serves. Provena operates six hospitals in eastern Illinois, including
Provena Covenant which lost its tax-exempt status in 2003, and that since that
time has paid $ 4.8 million in property taxes.  n118 Provena Health's audited
2005 financial statements show that the system paid $ 487 million in salary and
benefits, and released $ 3.8 million in restricted net assets to invest in the
purchase of property, plant, and equipment.  n119 That level of investment may
not qualify an entity with the resources of Provena for an EDGE or HIB credit in
Illinois, but it might qualify such an entity for tax credits or property tax
abatements if investing in a designated Illinois Enterprise Zone.  n120 It is
interesting to note that five of the six Provena Hospitals are located in cities
or counties where Illinois Enterprise Zones exist.  n121

   All of the previously cited economic benefit data overwhelmingly supports the
contention that nonprofit hospitals are substantial contributors to the state's
economy.  n122 State tax-exempt laws that exclude economic benefit data as an
evaluative factor for nonprofit hospitals should therefore undergo examination
within the broader scope of state taxation policy for objectives of fairness,
economic efficiency, and sound public policy. A valid starting point for this
evaluation is the practice of states to focus exclusively, or to weigh most
heavily, the factor of providing charity care as the key to granting nonprofit
hospital tax exemption. There is no parallel system of single factor evaluation
when states consider applications from for-profit entities for business tax
[*1603]  incentive programs. In fact, states like Illinois are using multiple
evaluative factors when qualifying businesses for tax incentive programs. Recall
that Illinois business tax incentive programs evaluate applicants based on
several factors including the number of jobs created by the business, the
potential impact on the state economy, the average wage paid by the business,
and the cost to Illinois with respect to these projects.  n123 A multi-factored
evaluation process for tax credits and exemptions is more likely to result in
tax expenditures being granted based on a variety of benefits that the state may
recover in exchange for lost tax revenue. If states are willing to grant
business tax incentives based on a variety of economic benefits to the state,
there is no compelling reason to limit the evaluation of nonprofit tax exemption
to the single factor of charity care amounts provided annually, especially when
this excludes the consideration of the millions of dollars invested and the
thousands of jobs with a high average wage created in the state by nonprofit
hospitals.  n124

   In order to achieve objective fairness between requirements for tax credits
and abatements imposed on nonprofit and for-profit entities, there is not a
compelling reason to exclude the provision of goods or services to the state as
an evaluative factor required when granting business tax incentives to
for-profit corporations. As demonstrated previously, there is more than adequate
data available to document the substantial economic benefit provided by
nonprofit hospitals to the state. Legislative mandates requiring specified
amounts of charity care to be provided in exchange for nonprofit hospital tax
exemption places a higher burden on these nonprofit organizations than is
imposed on for-profit corporations. For-profit corporations qualify for most tax
incentives in Illinois and other states based on their capital investment in the
state and/or the number of jobs created or maintained as the only required
financial investments. There are no current requirements for business tax
incentive recipients to provide any services or products free of charge as a
condition for receiving tax credits or exemptions as would parallel the current
requirement imposed on nonprofit hospitals to provide health care services at no
charge. Theoretically, since most states are in need of infrastructure services
such as improving roads or maintaining parks and public spaces, how unthinkable
is it to require manufacturing or industrial businesses to contribute products
and services to state and local governments in partial exchange for the various
business tax incentives that many of these businesses receive? This idea does
not seem unreasonable when considering creating or amending state tax-exempt
laws that are objectively fair and that demonstrates economic efficacy,
especially since the value of commercial and industrial products and services
provided by for-profits can be quantified in the same way that  [*1604]  the
value of charity care services can be quantified by nonprofit hospitals.  n125

   Next, the duration of tax exemptions that are awarded in the state should be
examined for objectives of fairness, economic efficiency and sound public
policy. As noted earlier, it is true that many of the available Illinois
business tax incentive programs are limited in duration. Recall, for example,
that the Illinois EDGE credits were limited in duration to no longer than ten
years for a project. The fact that many business tax incentives are limited in
duration may be a factor examined by states for objectives of fairness, as the
generally accepted principle on the nonprofit hospital tax exemptions side is
that these exemptions are granted in perpetuity so long as the hospital
continues to meet state standards imposed for tax exemption. Not all business
tax incentive programs are limited in duration, however, and the Illinois
Enterprise Zone Act is an example of an incentive program which may be offered
for any number of years. Data reported for FY 2005 in Illinois showed that the
value of Enterprise Zone tax expenditures ($ 69.7 million) far exceeded the
value of EDGE tax expenditures ($ 9.08 million) for the same time period.  n126
The report does not specify detail on the duration of Enterprise Zone tax
exemptions granted, but it suggests the possibility that the state is willing to
forgo millions in tax revenue for a potentially unlimited number of years under
this business tax incentive program.  n127

   The unlimited duration of nonprofit hospital tax exemption has not gone
unchallenged in states. The Illinois Department of Revenue has shown, for
example, that it is not reluctant to revoke the tax-exempt status of nonprofit
hospitals if they are deemed to fail the charitable purposes test currently
utilized as the tax-exempt standard, as demonstrated in the Provena Covenant
case.  n128 To achieve objectives of fairness, economic efficiency and sound
public policy, Illinois and other states should examine the duration of tax
exemptions and credits in relation to the required return to the state. One
possible explanation for why some states have moved toward imposing the
requirement of significant quantities of charity care provided by nonprofit
hospitals to merit tax exemption may be based on the practice of granting these
nonprofit hospital tax exemptions of unlimited duration. Since states like
Illinois also grant some tax exemptions to for-profit corporations on a
potentially unlimited basis, however, states should either impose greater
[*1605]  requirements on for-profit corporations receiving unlimited tax
exemptions, or balance the requirements imposed on nonprofit hospitals in terms
of providing services at no charge so that the overall state tax expenditure
policy is objectively fair and economically efficient. State tax expenditure
policy should be rationally conceived for both nonprofit and for-profit
corporations in order to provide the required return to the state in exchange
for these tax exemptions, whether extended for a specified duration or for an
unlimited duration.

   Finally, the objectives of fairness, economic efficiency and sound policy
should be examined in the area of accountability standards for state tax
exemptions. State public policy is advanced by imposing reasonable
accountability standards for both nonprofit and for-profit tax expenditures, and
this in turn helps ensure that the required return to the state is being
achieved in the form of economic benefits. For-profit corporations receiving tax
incentives in Illinois are required to enter agreements, as noted previously,
adhering to the terms required by the state as a qualification for the award.
n129 Illinois business incentive recipients are required to document number of
jobs created or retained along with capital investments made. For-profit
corporations routinely capture capital investment figures as part of their
required financial reporting,  n130 and also keep track of employee counts for a
variety of purposes. Under Illinois law, the state fulfills the majority of the
accountability function under business incentive programs rather than placing
these accountability requirements on the for-profit tax incentive recipients.
n131

   Accountability standards for nonprofit hospital tax exemptions are becoming
an area of focus in the debate over nonprofit hospital accountability. Current
law in many states, including Illinois, does not explicitly provide for a
reporting method to establish accountability for adhering to standards the state
imposes on its nonprofit hospitals in exchange for tax-exempt status. Illinois
proposed a much different accountability standard in the Tax-Exempt Hospital
Responsibility Act,  n132 which would have created multiple layers of detailed
reporting to document the provision of nonprofit hospital charity, as this is
the primary factor used in Illinois to earn nonprofit hospital tax exemption.

   States should carefully consider the accountability standards placed on
nonprofit hospitals to document their compliance with state tax-exempt
requirements. A balance should be struck between providing adequate information
and burdening the nonprofit hospital with  [*1606]  excessive reporting
requirements to establish their tax-exempt qualifications. The risk of imposing
extremely heightened reporting requirements on nonprofit hospitals for
justifying their tax exemption is that the resulting burden on the nonprofit
hospital in terms of cost may likely outweigh any benefit to the state. It is
realistic to expect that exposing nonprofit hospitals to greater personnel and
processing costs to meet heightened reporting requirements such as those
proposed in the Illinois Act will be counterproductive to their ability to
provide more charity care and greater economic benefits to the state. If states
like Illinois are willing to bear the majority of the accountability reporting
burden under current business incentive programs provided to for-profit
corporations, the question should be raised as to why nonprofit hospitals would
then be required at their own expense to fulfill the majority of the
accountability reporting function largely without help from the state. This type
of accountability standard has the effect of cost-shifting the expense of
fulfilling the accountability standard to nonprofit hospitals, and ultimately
throws the objectives of fairness and economic efficiency out of balance. Such a
result would be an example of poorly conceived state tax exemption policy.

   IV. CONCLUSION

   States universally accept the concept of business tax incentives as a way of
attracting and retaining business and industry to the state. Used judiciously,
business tax incentives to for-profit corporations may benefit states in
attracting and retaining jobs and related economic benefits. When it comes to
nonprofit hospitals and state tax exemption, however, work must be done to
refine the methods of evaluation currently used by many states to determine
whether the nonprofit hospitals merit their tax-exempt status.

   States should relinquish the archaic practice of treating nonprofit hospitals
as if they were the contemporary equivalent of alms houses for the poor, and
instead adopt a modern view of the capability of nonprofit hospitals that
includes consideration of economic benefits provided as at least one factor in
the tax-exempt evaluation process. Nonprofit hospitals are important economic
entities capable of contributing to state and local economic development in a
manner at least equivalent to many for-profit corporations in terms of capital
investment and jobs. The benefits provided by nonprofit hospitals are far
greater than currently acknowledged in state and local taxation policy, and
state laws should be amended to reflect this reality.

   Recognition of the economic benefit provided by nonprofit hospitals also
contributes to sound tax expenditure policy by recognizing and rewarding these
significant contributions to the state in terms of economic growth and
development. Economic benefit is a key concept to be realized by tax
expenditures; therefore economic benefit should be included as one factor in
nonprofit hospital tax-exempt evaluation, most  [*1607]  especially in those
states that require nonprofit hospitals to contribute specified quantities of
charity care to merit tax exemption. The inclusion of nonprofit hospital
economic benefit as a state tax-exempt qualification factor is needed to enhance
fairness in tax expenditure policy between the nonprofit and for-profit sectors.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
GovernmentsLocal GovernmentsFinanceHealthcare LawBusiness Administration &
OrganizationTax ExemptionsHospitalsHealthcare LawBusiness Administration &
OrganizationTax ExemptionsNonhospital Organizations

FOOTNOTES:





n1  Lucette Langnado, Hospital Found "Not Charitable" Loses its Status as Tax
Exempt, WALL ST. J., Feb. 19, 2004, at B1.





n2  Id.





n3  Alice A. Noble, Andrew L. Hyams & Nancy M. Kane, Charitable Hospital
Accountability: A Review and Analysis of Legal and Policy Initiatives, 26 J. L.
MED. & ETHICS 116 (Summer 1998).





n4  Linda S. Moroney, Tightening the Noose on Nonprofits? Nonprofits Targeted
for Reform Whether Needed or Not, Wis. L.J., HEALTH LAW (Special Section, 2005),
available at http://www.wislawjournal.com/special/healthlaw-05/noose.html (last
visited Mar. 17, 2007).





n5  Mark Schlesinger & Bradford H. Gray, How Nonprofits Matter in American
Medicine, And What To Do About It, HEALTH AFFAIRS (Web Exclusive, Jan.-Jun.
2006), at W287.





n6  See Noble et al., supra note 3, at 116.





n7  Thomas C. Buchmueller, Hospital Community Benefits Other Than Charity Care:
Implications for Tax Exemption and Public Policy, 41 HOSP. & HEALTH SERV. ADMIN.
461, 462 (1996).





n8  John D. Colombo, The Failure of Community Benefit, 15 HEALTH MATRIX 29,
37-40 (2005).





n9  Terry F. Buss, The Effect of State Tax Incentives on Economic Growth and
Firm Location Decisions: An Overview of the Literature, 15 ECON. DEV. Q. 90, 91
(2001).





n10  James K. Smith, Use of Business Tax Incentives: Part 1, 17 J. ST. TAX'N 1
(1999).





n11  James K. Smith, Use of Business Tax Incentives: Part 2, 18 J. ST. TAX'N 1,
2 (1999).





n12  Stanley S. Surrey & Paul R. McDaniel, The Tax Expenditure Concept and the
Budget Reform Act of 1974, 17 B.C. INDUS. & COM. L. REV. 679, 680 (1975-76). The
origin of the term "tax expenditures" comes from the Congressional Budget Act of
1974, which included a definition of the term and a special analysis section
entitled "Tax Expenditures." Id. at 679. Tax expenditures are departures from
the normal tax structure that are designed to favor a particular industry,
activity or class of persons. Id. at 680. Tax expenditures are also referred to
as "tax incentives" or "tax subsidies," and may take one of several forms
including deductions, deferrals of tax liabilities, credits against tax, special
rates or permanent exclusions. Id.





n13  The author acknowledges the existence of both business tax incentives and
the tax exemption of nonprofit hospitals at the state level, and seeks to
examine their use in state taxation and economic policy, rather than expressing
opinions on their merits in this Comment.





n14  William H. Oakland & William A. Testa, State-Local Business Taxation and
the Benefits Principle, 20 ECON. PERSPECTIVES 2 (1996).





n15  See John D. Colombo, Hospital Property Tax Exemption in Illinois: Exploring
the Policy Gaps, 37 Loy. U. Chi. L.J. 493, 495 (2006).





n16  Noble et al., supra note 3, at 116.





n17  Margaret A. Potter & Beaufort B. Longest, Jr., The Divergence of Federal
and State Policies on the Charitable Tax Exemption of Nonprofit Hospitals, 19 J.
HEALTH POL. POL'Y & L. 393, 400 (1994).





n18  Id. at 416.





n19  Id. at 402-04.





n20  REV. RUL. 56-185, 1956-1 C.B. 202.





n21  REV. RUL. 69-545, 1969-2 C.B. 117.





n22  Id.





n23  Id.





n24  REV. RUL. 83-157, 1983-2 C.B. 94. This ruling maintained the other
community benefit factors enumerated in REV. RuL. 69-545, and also included the
factor of, "treating of persons paying their bills with the aid of public
programs like medicare and Medicaid" as an example of community benefit. Id.





n25  Colombo, supra note 8, at 42.





n26  325 F.3d 1188, 1197 (10th Cir. 2003).





n27  Id. at 1198.





n28  See Colombo, supra note 8, at 40.





n29  Press Release, U.S. Senate Committee on Finance, Sen. Chuck Grassley, Iowa,
Ranking Member, Grassley Seeks GAO Study of Nonprofit Hospitals' Community
Benefits (Apr. 5, 2007), available at http://www.senate.gov/
finance/press/Gpress/2007/prg040507b.pdf (last visited Nov. 25, 2007). Senator
Grassley refers to the community benefit standard as "loosely defined," and
states that, "[w]e need to get a better handle on how nonprofit hospitals are
fulfilling their requirement to serve the community in exchange for the generous
tax breaks they receive." Id.





n30  See Colombo, supra note 8, at 37.





n31  713 N.W.2d 734, 745 (Mich. 2006).





n32  Id. See also MICH. COMP. LAWS ANN. § 211.70 (West 2006).





n33  Id. at 738.





n34  Id. at 745.





n35  Id.





n36  Id.





n37  713 N.W.2d 734.





n38  See Colombo, supra note 8, at 37-40. See also Potter & Longest, supra note
17, at 409-15.





n39  See Colombo, supra note 8, at 39.





n40  TEX. TAX CODE ANN. § 11.1801(a)(1)-(4) (Vernon 2001).





n41  10 PA. CONS. STAT. ANN. §§ 371-385 (West 1997).





n42  See 10 PA. CONS. STAT. ANN. § 372(a)(5) (West 1997). The legislative intent
expressed in the IPPCA is to reduce confusion and confrontation among
traditionally tax-exempt institutions, and to ensure that charitable and public
funds are not unnecessarily diverted from the public good to litigate
eligibility for tax-exempt status by providing the standards to be applied
uniformly in all proceedings throughout the Commonwealth. See 10 PA. CONS. STAT.
ANN. § 372(b) (West 1997).





n43  See 10 PA. CONS. STAT. ANN. § 375(b)(1)-(6) (West 1997).





n44  10 PA. CONS. STAT. ANN. § 375(d)(1) (West 1997).





n45  Id.





n46  See H.B. 5000, 94th Gen. Assem., Reg. Sess. (Il. 2006), available at
http://www.ilga.gov/legislation/fulltext.asp?DocName'&SessionId'50&GA'94&DocType
Id'HB&DocNum'5000&GAID'8&LegID'24242&SpecSess'&Session'50 (last visited Nov. 25,
2007).





n47  See ILL. CONST., art. IX, § 6 (1970).





n48  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 200/15-65 (West 2001).





n49  233 N.E.2d 537, 541-42 (Ill. 1968).





n50  821 N.E.2d 240, 248 (Ill. 2004).





n51  Id.





n52  Id.





n53  Id. (quoting Small v. Pangle, 328 N.E.2d 285 (1975), citing People ex rel.
Nordlund v. Ass'n of the Winnebago Home for the Aged, 237 N.E.2d 533 (1968)).





n54  859 N.E.2d 1196 (Ill. App. Ct. 2006).





n55  Id. at 1199-1200. The court's holding that Community Health Care was not
entitled to charitable property tax exemption was also bolstered by the fact
that the clinic could not meet its burden of proof in providing clear and
convincing evidence of its charitable purpose due to a lack of financial data
illustrating the clinic's patient and payor mix. Id.





n56  Id. at 1200.





n57  H.B. 5000, supra note 46.





n58  Press Release, Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan, Madigan Proposes Two
Bills to Hold Hospitals Accountable for Charity Care, Stop Unfair Billing and
Collection Practices (Jan. 23, 2006), available at
www.ag.state.il.us/pressroom/2006_01/20060123.html (last visited Nov. 25, 2007).
The Attorney General also introduced a companion bill, the Hospital Fair Billing
and Collection Practices Act, to "require all tax-exempt and for-profit Illinois
hospitals to avoid unfairly aggressive and harassing tactics when seeking
payment from patients." Id. It is interesting to note that the billing and
collection practices legislation, while certainly a partial response to the
Provena Covenant allegation of aggressive debt collection practices, also
applies to for-profit hospitals in Illinois. Id.





n59  H.B. 5000, supra note 46.





n60  Id.





n61  See H.B. 5000, supra note 46 at § 5(b)(2).





n62  See H.B. 5000, supra note 46 at § 10.





n63  See H.B. 5000, supra note 46 at § 25(a). Operating costs were defined as
those reported by the hospital each year in its Medicare Cost Report. Id.





n64  H.B. 5000, supra note 46 at § 15(a)(1)(A). "Full charity care" was defined
as medically necessary services provided as charity care at no charge to a
patient. H.B. 5000 § 10. The federal poverty guideline applicable to Illinois in
2006 for a family of 4 is $ 20,000. Annual Update of the HHS Poverty Guidelines,
71 Fed. Reg. 3848 (Jan. 24, 2006). 150% of the 2006 Federal Poverty Guidelines
for an Illinois family of 4 would be calculated as approximately $ 30,000. Id.





n65  H.B. 5000, supra note 46, at §§ 30(b)(1)-(7).





n66  See Press Release, Illinois Hospital Association, Hospital Leaders Urge
General Assembly To Reject Damaging Proposals On Charity Care and Billing (Feb.
7, 2006), available at
http://www.ihatoday.org/issues/paymenticharity/pressconfrelease.pdf (last
visited Nov. 25, 2007). This press release states that Illinois hospital leaders
were joined by legislators, the Catholic Conference of Illinois, and the
Illinois Chamber of Commerce at the State Capital to talk about the devastating
impact of the proposed bills on hospitals and the health care delivery system.
Id. Effective lobbying against H.B. 5000 may be responsible for legislative
inaction toward adopting the bill over a year after it was first introduced.





n67  See Buss, supra note 9, at 90-91.





n68  Id. See also William J. Barrett, VII, Problems with State Aid to New or
Expanding Businesses, 58 S. CAL. L. REV. 1019, 1020 (May 1985).





n69  Walter Hellerstein, Commerce Clause Restraints on State Tax Incentives, 82
MINN. L. REV. 413 (Dec. 1997).





n70  Peter D. Enrich, Business Tax Incentives: A Status Report, 34 URB. LAW.
415, 417 (Spring 2002).





n71  Id. at 416.





n72  Calvin Kent and Robin Capehart, Chief Justice John Marshall and State
Competition for Economic Development, 22 J. ST. TAX'N 72, 75 (Summer 2003).





n73  Id.





n74  Id.





n75  Id. See also Enrich, supra note 70, at 417.





n76  Daniel W. Hynes, Comptroller, State of Illinois, Tax Expenditure Report,
Fiscal Year 2005, Oct. 2006, at 1, available at
http://163.191.177.7/iocpdf/TaxExpRptFY2005WEBTaxExpRptFY2000WEB.pdf (last
visited Sept. 24, 2007). The Comptroller's report states that, "Illinois tax
expenditures have been used to implement tax fairness (e.g., food and
prescription drug exemption from sales taxes), education policy (e.g., tuition
tax credits), and economic development (e.g., tax exemptions for Enterprise Zone
businesses)." Id.





n77  Michael Schroeder, States Pay Steep Price to Attract Industry -- Local
Taxpayers, Small Businesses Bear the Burden, Say a Growing Chorus of Critics,
WALL ST. J., Jun. 29, 2005, at A4.





n78  ROBERT G. LYNCH, RETHINKING GROWTH STRATEGIES: How STATE AND LOCAL TAXES
AND SERVICES AFFECT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 4-18 (Econ. Pol'y Inst. 2004). See also
Kent, supra note 72, at 75.





n79  Lynch, supra note 78, at 4-18. See also Enrich, supra note 70, at 417.





n80  126 S. Ct. 1854 (2006).





n81  Id. at 1859-60, 1868. See also Cuno v. DaimlerChrysler, Inc., 386 F.3d 738
(6th Cir. 2004). The Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution authorizes
Congress to "regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes." U.S. CONST. art. I, § 8, cl. 3. While there
is no explicit constitutional provision prohibiting states from burdening
interstate commerce, the Supreme Court has inferred such a prohibition based
upon the power of Congress to regulate commerce among the states. ERWIN
CHEMERINSKY, CONSTITUTIONAL LAW: PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES 419 (3d ed. 2006). The
resulting doctrine is known as the "dormant" or "negative" aspect of the
Commerce Clause, and it "is the principle that state and local laws are
unconstitutional if they place an undue burden on interstate commerce." Id. at
419-20.





n82  DaimlerChrysler Corp., 126 S. Ct. at 1862-65, 1868. The Supreme Court noted
that the Court had previously denied standing to federal taxpayers under Article
III, and that this rational applied "with undiminished force to state taxpayers
who allege simply that a state fiscal decision will" impose disproportionate
burdens on them. Id. at 1856.





n83  Joshua S. Smith & John D. Miller, The Economics of Business Attraction: Are
Beneficial Michigan Tax Incentives in Jeopardy After Sixth Circuit Court Ruling
?, 84 MICH. BAR J. 16 (Sept. 2005).





n84  Ill. Dep't of Commerce and Economic. & Econ. Opportunity, Tax Assistance,
available at
http://www.illinoisbiz.biz/dceo/Bureaus/Business_Development/Tax+Assistance
(last visited Nov. 25, 2007).





n85  State of Illinois Business Portal, Illinois EDGE Program, available at
http://business.illinois.gov/assistance_edge.cfm (last visited Nov. 25, 2007).





n86  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 10/5-20(b)(1) (2005). EDGE alternatively allows
business applicants with fewer than 100 employees to make a minimum investment
of $ 1 million in capital improvements and create at least five new jobs in
exchange for the EDGE credits. 35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 10/5-20(b)(3) (1999).





n87  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 10/5-40(1)-(7) (1999).





n88  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 10/5-50(1)-(14) (1999). The agreement also authorizes
the Illinois Department of Commerce to, "take whatever actions are necessary or
appropriate to protect the State's interest in the event of bankruptcy, default,
foreclosure, or noncompliance with the terms and conditions of financial
assistance or participation required under this Act." 35 ILL. COMP. STAT.
10/5-10(j) (1999).





n89  Ill. Dep't of Commerce & Economic & Econ. Opportunity, Tax Assistance, High
Impact Business, available at
http://www.illinoisbiz.biz/dceo/Bureaus/Business_Development/Tax+Assistance/HIB.
htm (last visited Nov. 25, 2007).





n90  20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 655/5.5(2005) (amended 2007).





n91  20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 655/5.5(a)(3)(A) (2005) (amended 2007).





n92  Id.





n93  20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 655/5.5(g) (2005).





n94  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 200/18-170 (2006).





n95  Id.





n96  Illinois Enterprise Zone Association Website, Property Tax Incentives FAQ,
available at
http://www.ieza.org/component/option,com_easyfaq/Itemid,43/task,cat/catid,29
(last visited Nov. 25, 2007). See also 35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 200/18-165 (2006).





n97  Illinois Enterprise Zone Association Website, Property Tax Incentives FAQ,
supra note 96.





n98  Id.





n99  20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 715/1-99 (2003).





n100  20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 715/20(a) (2003). Development assistance programs
defined under the Act are the tax credits and exemptions given as incentives to
businesses under EDGE, HIB, the Illinois Enterprise Zone Act and other state
business incentive programs. 20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 715/10 (2003).





n101  Hynes, supra note 76, at 9.





n102  Id. at G-2. The EDGE tax expenditures were attributable to corporate
income taxes. Id, at B-1.





n103  Id. at G-1-G-2. Enterprise Zone and HIB expenditures were attributable to
the Telecommunications Excise Tax, the Electricity Excise Tax and to sales and
use taxes. Id. at B-1-B-3. Although the Illinois Comptroller's reports for FY
2005 include expenditures attributable to the Charitable Entities Exemption such
as vehicle use tax and sales and use tax, it is impossible to get exact
expenditures attributable only to nonprofit hospital corporations because the
figures on the report include expenditures attributable to all exempt
organizations, including state and local government entities, religious entities
and educational entities that are also exempt from state taxation. Id.





n104  Id.





n105  Id. at G-1-G-2.





n106  Gary B. Nash, Poverty and Poor Relief in Pre-Revolutionary Philadelphia,
33 WM. & MARY Q. 3, 7 (Jan. 1976). The author discusses the founding of the
"Philadelphia Hospital for the Sick Poor" by stating that the hospital was,
"Regarded with pride by Philadelphians and admired by foreign visitors, the
hospital has become a symbol for historians of the spread of enlightened social
ideas in the New World." Id.





n107  See H.B. 5000, supra note 46.





n108  All of the state tax exempt laws examined in this Comment that are
available to nonprofit hospitals fall under the state's charitable use
exemptions. See TEX. TAX CODE ANN. §§ 11.1801(a)(1)-(4) (Vernon 2001). See also
10 PA. CONS. STAT. ANN. §§ 371-85 (1997). See also ILL. CONST., art. IX, § 6
(1970).





n109  Nash, supra note 105, at 7. The author notes that a leading motive for
founding the Philadelphia Hospital was the growing dissatisfaction of the middle
and upper classes with rising poor rates in the city.





n110  Schlesinger, supra note 5, at W28.





n111  Michael E. Chernew et al., Barriers to Constraining Health Care Cost
Growth, 23 HEALTH AFFAIRS 122 (Nov.-Dec. 2004). The authors note that as of
2004, health care spending is growing much more rapidly than the economy as a
whole. Id. The authors cite the opinion of health economists, as a majority of
these "economists concur that the use of innovative technology has historically
been the main driving force behind health care cost growth. Id. See also Peter
P. Budetti, M.D., J.D. et al., Medical Malpractice Law in the United States, 5-6
(May 2005), available at
http://www.kff.org/insurance/-upload/Medical-Malpractice-Law-in-the-United-State
s-Report.pdf (last visited Nov. 25, 2007). The authors discuss the required
standard of care to be provided by physicians as a defense to a medical
malpractice claim. The standard of care required to be provided is not modified
by an individual patient's financial need.





n112  Am. Hosp. Ass'n, Beyond Health Care: The Economic Contribution of
Hospitals, (July 2006), available at
http://www.aha.org/aha/content/2006/pdf/ECONRPT3.pdf (last visited Sept. 24,
2007). The AHA report relied on data provided by the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services (CMS), the Department of Labor, and the Department of
Commerce. Id.





n113  Id. at 2-3.





n114  GERALD A. DOEKSEN, Metropolitan Chicago Healthcare Council, The Economic
Impact of Chicago's Hospitals on the Metropolitan Chicago Area, (conducted by
Dr. Gerald A. Doeksen, Professor and Health Economist at Oklahoma State
University, 2005), available at https://www.mchc.org/care/economic_
reportcom/eweb/docs/newsroom/Value%20of%20Caring%20Full%20Report.pdf (last
visited Sept. 22, 2007).





n115  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 10/5-20(b)(1) (2005). See also 20 ILL. COMP. STAT.
655/5-5(a)(3)(A) (2005). Recall that Illinois EDGE credits are available to
businesses in exchange for $ 5 million in capital improvements and creation of
25 new jobs, and HIB credits are available to businesses for a minimum
investment of $ 12 million coupled with the creation of 500 full-time jobs.





n116  Children's Memorial Hospital, Media & Advocacy, New Hospital to Provide
Economic Benefits, available at
http://www.childrensmemorial.org/newsroom/econ_benefits.asp (last visited Sept.
23, 2007).





n117  Id. This total economic impact on the State breaks down to include $ 218
million for the City of Chicago and $ 21 million for the Streeterville
community. Id.





n118  Provena Health and Affiliates, Consolidated Financial Statements and
Supplementary Information at 3, Dec. 31, 2005, available at
http://www.provena.org/documents/About%20Us/2005%20Audited%20Financials.pdf
(last visited Sept. 23, 2007).





n119  Id. Assets limited or restricted as to use include assets set aside by the
Board of Directors for future capital improvements. Id. at 9.





n120  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 200/18-170 (2006).





n121  Illinois Enterprise Zone Association, Enterprise Zone Directory, available
at http://www.ieza.org/component/option,com_mtree/Itemid,26/ (last visited Nov.
25, 2007). It is unknown to the author whether or not any of the Provena
Hospitals are actually located within an Illinois Enterprise Zone. See also
Provena Health, Hospital Ministry Locations, available at
http://www.provena.org/body.cfm?id'220 (last visited Nov. 25, 2007).





n122  Doeksen, supra note 113.





n123  35 ILL. COMP. STAT. 10/5-40(1)-(7) n.88.





n124  Doeksen, supra note 114.





n125  It is likely to be even easier to quantify the value of business services
and industrial products since they are typically based on fair market value,
whereas nonprofit hospital charity care calculations are fraught with
controversy over whether bad debts and Medicare and Medicaid shortfalls should
be included in the calculation. Id. For a discussion of the problematic issues
in measuring charity care provided by nonprofit hospitals, see, e.g., Colombo,
supra note 8, at 40-43.





n126  Hynes, supra note 76, at G-1, G-2.





n127  Id.





n128  Langnado, supra note 1, at B-1.





n129  20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 715/20(a) (2003), see note 100.





n130  FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD, STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING
STANDARDS No. 95, STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 7, 8 (John Wiley & Sons 2007) (Nov.
1987), available at http://www.fasb.org/pdf/fas95.pdf (last visited Nov. 25,
2007).





n131  20 ILL. COMP. STAT. 715/1-99 (2003).





n132  See H.B. 5000, supra note 46, at §§ 30(b)(1)-(7).


