                              254 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                           December 13, 2014 Saturday
                                 Early Edition

Rural hospitals play a vital role; Closing them should be a last resort

BYLINE: Al Kemmere, Edmonton Journal

SECTION: IDEAS; Al Kemmere; Pg. A27

LENGTH: 644 words


Rural Albertans recognize that they cannot have it all. Not all municipalities
need a hospital, and not all hospitals can have a full suite of services. All
Albertans do, however, deserve access to a toptier health care system in a
timely and efficient manner. Hospitals are the anchor of many communities and
the anchor of an integrated and robust health-care system.

The Edmonton Journal's recent five-part series Condition: Critical critiqued
Alberta's hospital systems using a variety of statistics including occupancy
rates, in-patient admissions and emergency room visits. While these measurements
are valuable, the recommendation to close several rural hospitals fails to
recognize the health and non-health benefits that hospitals provide to their
surrounding communities and the corresponding negative impacts closing a
hospital has on that community.

The closure of hospitals in any community, but especially in rural areas, will
have immediate negative health impacts at the local and regional level. Rural
residents would be forced to travel longer distances to receive care, which is
not only an inconvenience, but a danger in emergency situations.

This would also create roadblocks to active or preventive treatments, which
increases the risk of long-term ailments. In closing local facilities, rural
residents may be hospitalized hours away from their families and support
networks, both of which are critical components of good health and healing.

Hospitals are also essential to attracting doctors to rural communities. Doctor
and medical staff retention within communities will suffer in the absence of a
hospital, which could ultimately lead to the closure of other local health
services such as clinics and the departure of non-hospital medical specialists.
Additionally, rural hospitals are essential for physician education throughout
the province which promotes the recruitment of healthcare professionals to rural
areas.

In addition to providing significant health benefits to rural communities,
hospitals contribute to economic growth and development, retain and attract
residents to rural areas and promote safe and healthy living. In many of
Alberta's resourcerich areas, rural hospitals provide emergency services and are
often a consideration for investors when they decide on locations for industrial
facilities. Rural Alberta is the economic driver of the province's economy. To
support continued growth and development, rural Alberta needs the health and
social services that will ensure the long-term sustainability of rural
communities.

The closure of a rural hospital should be considered as a last resort and a
greater emphasis should be placed on innovative ways to repurpose current rural
health facilities while maintaining an appropriate level of care. In Westlock,
north of Edmonton, this innovative approach has already been applied in the
town's hospital where hip and knee replacements are completed which are reducing
wait times in Edmonton-area hospitals. Closing a hospital means a lot more than
just the loss of that hospital. It is a reduction in quality of life. It is a
loss of high-quality jobs. It costs rural residents through lost productivity,
time and wages, and is ultimately a threat to the viability of the communities
they serve. There is certainly room for improvement in Alberta's hospital
system, but closing hospitals without considering their broader impact will have
adverse consequences for rural communities across the province. Al Kemmere is
president of the Alberta Association of Municipal Districts and Counties. Since
1909, the association has helped Alberta's rural municipalities achieve strong ,
effective local government. It provides advocacy and aggregated business
services for the province's 69 counties and municipal districts. !@COPYRIGHT=©
2014 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Larry Wong, Edmonton Journal; In addition to providing significant
health benefits to rural communities, hospitals contribute to economic growth
and development, Al Kemmere writes.;

