                              255 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           January 10, 2015 Saturday

Hawaii: New Guam Private Hospital May Receive Huge Tax Breaks

LENGTH: 889  words

DATELINE: Honolulu


Pacific Islands Development, The State of Hawaii has issued the following news
release:

The island's new private hospital could soon be approved for receiving millions
of dollars in tax breaks over the next two decades.

Hospital officials have said a qualifying certificate -- which is part of a
program that offers tax rebates and abatements to businesses -- is needed for
the hospital's viability and success.

The $219 million hospital, Guam Regional Medical City, is being constructed in
Dededo. The hospital has applied for tax breaks of as much as $170.6 million
over 20 years through the qualifying certificate program.

The governor's Deputy Press Secretary Oyaol Ngirairikl said the governor's
office has received the application and the legal team is reviewing it.

The governor is the last person that needs to sign off on the QC before it is
approved. Gov. Eddie Calvo, who was recently sworn-in for his second term in
office, has said he will approve certain tax breaks for the private hospital
because it fills a community need.

Guam Economic Development Authority Business Development Manager Tina Garcia
said the contract was given to the governor's office on Monday.

The qualifying certificate program has existed since the 1960s and offers tax
rebates and abatements to businesses to encourage them to create jobs and spur
economic growth.

Usually the process doesn't take very long, Garcia said. On average it takes
about four to six months for approval, but this QC needed to be reviewed
thoroughly before it could be approved, she said.

There were some issues with the QC's wording such as what "medical activities"
fell under the category and it needed to be worked on, she said.

"We really had to address a number of issues," she said.

The QC was sent to the AG's office in mid-December for review before it was sent
to the governor's office, she said.

New hospital

The private hospital expects to have a workforce of about 400, according to the
developer. The project's construction phase workforce has been estimated at 300.

The private hospital also will offer specialized health care services, including
cancer care, cardiology and endocrinology, helping to keep money in the local
economy if Guam patients opt to receive care at the private hospital rather than
travel to the Philippines, California or Hawaii, according to an analysis
performed by Guam Economic Development Authority officials.

The QC application has been in review for months and has needed approval from
various agencies including the Guam Economic Development Authority and the
Office of the Attorney General.

GEDA's board approved the recommended tax breaks for the private hospital in a
meeting in December 2013. Since then the QC has been reviewed by the AG's office
and GEDA to fix the wording of the contract.

A GEDA analysis showed the government of Guam will gain $420 million in taxes
over the same 20-year period as a result of the hospital's business.

The private hospital, which will be run by the Philippine-based health care
organization The Medical City, also agreed to accept patients regardless of
their ability to pay, according to a GEDA presentation of its analysis. The
Medical City is Joint Commission-accredited.

Guam faces recurring hospital bed shortages, and the private hospital project
promised to help fill that gap with 130 beds in a 270,000-square-foot hospital
that will open near the Micronesia Mall in Dededo.

The private hospital also will offer specialized health care services, including
cancer care, cardiology and endocrinology, helping to keep money in the local
economy if Guam patients opt to receive care at the Guam private hospital rather
than travel to the Philippines, California or Hawaii, according to GEDA's
analysis.

The hospital was initially expected to open last month, but construction delays
led to the postponement of the opening.

"Overall, we are pleased with the progress, although disappointed we could not
open as planned in December," stated GRMC's chief operating officer, Gloria Long
last month.

"We look forward to the construction being completed in early 2015," she added.

GRMC could open by the first quarter, or at the beginning of the second quarter
next year, she added.

The new hospital has hired about 200 of the 700 people it needs, according to
GRMC.

Under the qualifying certificate program that grants tax breaks to the hospital,
at least 75 of its hires must be U.S. citizens or permanent U.S. residents.

About 58 nurses have been hired from the Philippines, according to GRMC, which
also clarified that no Filipino citizen doctors were hired.

Two of the doctors who were hired are U.S. citizens of Filipino heritage,
according to GRMC, clarifying it hasn't hired foreign doctors.

The hospital has paid about $1.4 million for road improvements on Route 3. The
main entrance to the soon-to-open hospital will be through Route 3.

The project includes a new raised center median, left and right turn lanes into
the hospital entry drive, sidewalks and crosswalks, a traffic signal system and
intersection lighting, according to a statement from GHD, the new hospital
project's architect.

Ambulances and emergency vehicles have a separate access road from visitors to
the facility.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


