                              259 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                 bondbuyer.com

                           September 24, 2010 Friday

Hospitals Boost Illinois Economy to the Tune of $75B, Association Says

BYLINE: Yvette Shields

SECTION: Vol. 1 No. 1

LENGTH: 622  words


CHICAGO - Illinois hospitals pump more than $75.1 billion into the state's
economy annually and provide about $4.9 billion in community benefits, including
$500 million in charity care, a new report from the Illinois Hospitals
Association asserts.

The association's report seeks to underscore the importance of the health care
sector's contributions to the local economy at a time when Medicaid and other
health care-related spending cuts are under consideration at both the state and
federal levels as a means to trim budget deficits.

"To continue to retain and create jobs, attract businesses to their communities,
and provide access to high-quality health care services, it is critical that
Illinois' hospitals have the funding support they need to remain fiscally
healthy," said the association's president, Maryjane Wurth. The report is
available atwww.ihatoday.org/economicreport.pdf.

The association released the report on Friday at its annual leadership summit
and presented it to attendees Gov. Pat Quinn and his Republican opponent in the
November governor's race, state Sen. Bill Brady of Bloomington.

"We urge state and federal lawmakers to take steps to continue to invest in the
state's health care system to ensure that hospitals remain strong and viable
employers in their communities," Wurth said.

In addition to their primary role of providing health care services, the state's
hospitals generate $75.1 billion in economic activity through direct spending,
capital expenditures, payroll, and spending by their employees and suppliers,
according to the report.

The 200 hospitals that are represented by the association, including about 150
not-for-profit hospitals, employ more than 250,000 people who receive $14.8
billion in wages and benefits.

In almost half of the state's counties, hospitals are among the top three
employers.

The health care sector directly spends $13.3 billion annually on goods and
services for patient care. The report also promotes the Medicaid program as a
major economic stimulus as additional federal matching funds flow into state and
hospital coffers through the state's provider tax on hospitals.

Hospitals spent about $3.2 billion on buildings and medical equipment last year,
many tapping the tax-exempt market to fund their projects and purchases.

The sector's overall estimated economic contribution accounts for 6.8% of the
state's gross domestic product, and the sector is expected to create the
greatest number of new jobs in the coming years.

About 100 of the state's not-for-profit hospitals that must report charity care
benefits to the state provided nearly $4.9 billion of community benefits,
including $500 million in charity care last year. That figure is up slightly
from $4.7 billion reported in 2008, according to the report.

The association includes charity care, uncompensated care, subsidized services,
medical research, education and training of health care professionals, and
underpayments for Medicare and Medicaid patients as community benefits. Most
not-for-profit hospitals must submit annual reports to the state to show they
warrant their tax-exempt status under the Illinois Community Benefits Act.

Illinois hospitals have been a focal point of heightened local, state, and
federal scrutiny over whether nonprofit facilities warrant their various
exemptions from taxation.

The state has challenged the property tax exemptions of several hospitals, and
Attorney General Lisa Madigan has proposed setting minimum charity-care
thresholds.

A report last year by the Center for Tax and Budget Accountability said that
Chicago-area hospitals enjoyed an estimated $498 million in tax-exemption
benefits annually while collectively providing just $176 million in charity
care.

URL: http://bb.prod.source-media.psdops.com/news/hospitals
-boost-illinois-economy-to-the-tune-of-75b-association-says

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


