                              258 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 28, 1995, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Report: Cost cutting could hurt health care

BYLINE: Lisa Green

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 284 words


Health care providers that are cutting costs need to develop extensive plans to
ensure that the quality of care isn't reduced, the Economic Policy Institute
says in a report due for release Sunday.

Leading hospitals and health maintenance organizations (HMOs) that are
streamlining have not been able to demonstrate that clinical quality is
maintained "let alone enhanced," the report says.

The report, Cost and Quality Matters: Workplace Innovations in the Health Care
Industry, is based on focus groups and interviews with care givers, managers,
union representatives and executives.

Case studies of seven health care providers, including the University of
Michigan Medical Center in Ann Arbor, indicate they have developed ways to
achieve savings over a long period and assess the impact.

"Other institutions are implementing cost-focused work restructuring programs
much more rapidly with less employee training, creating a potential danger for
patients who are sicker and leaving hospitals quicker than ever before," says
Ann Greiner, research associate at EPI, a Washington-based think tank.

Among suggestions in the report: Health care workers who are being asked to take
on more responsibilities because other jobs have been eliminated should have
their pay reviewed - and possibly increased.

Donald White, spokesman for the Group Health Association of America, says the
HMO community is developing ways to measure how cost cutting may affect care.

And Bill Erwin, spokesman for the American Hospital Association, says there's no
evidence that industry restructuring has hurt patient care.

"Patient satisfaction has gone up, so that's one indicator of quality," Erwin
says.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 Gannett Company, Inc.


