                              252 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                      April 30, 2002 Tuesday Final Edition

Tech sector urged to give $53M to expand hospital: Cognos chief faces uphill
battle to get funds from struggling technology sector

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

BYLINE: Vito Pilieci

SECTION: City; Pg. B7

LENGTH: 599 words

Ron Zambonini wants the Ottawa business community to contribute $53 million to
expand the Ottawa Hospital.

But many observers feel the Cognos chief executive's timing could not be worse.
With the market for technology products waning and the economy in a trough,
analysts say asking for money from the tech sector is a lot like trying to
squeeze blood from a stone.

"There are more people asking now then we have ever had. (The demands on)
charities right now have got to be at a record high," said Brian Card, president
of the Corporate Research Group. "It is going to be a real challenge to raise
$53 million."

Mr. Zambonini, head of the Ottawa Hospital's fundraising committee says it's
imperative the Ottawa business community make up the funds needed to complete
the hospital's expansion.

He says it is the community's responsibility to support the hospital and the
technology sector should be playing a leading role in raising the necessary
funds. "I want to interest the high-tech community in particular to step up to
the mark here and help the hospital."

But the economic climate is continuing to grow worse. Giants such as JDS
Uniphase Corp. have announced crippling cuts to their workforce and reduced
corporate spending to almost nothing, leaving little hope for Mr. Zambonini's
ambitious financial goals.

"The one thing the technology companies are short of right now is cash," said
Jeffrey Dale, president of the Ottawa Centre for Research and Innovation, a
lobby group representing Ottawa's technology industry. "I wish him all the best,
but it will be a challenge because of the economic times in the tech sector."

Over the past year, the economic slowdown prevented numerous Ottawa technology
startups from attracting the funds they needed to continue operating. Many ended
up going out of business, including Zenastra, Netactive, Sedona, Newlix,
Waterfall Networks and Sybridge.

Longstanding companies such as GSI Lumonics, which has been operating here for
more than 30 years, have been forced to move elsewhere, as customer demand for
product disappeared.

Nortel has cut its workforce from 94,000 people around the world, to 44,000. In
Ottawa, the company went from about 17,000 employees to 8,000.

And now JDS Uniphase Corp. has announced it will need to reduce its workforce by
another 2,000 jobs in addition to the 18,000 it has already cut during the past
year as the company struggles with a collapse in demand for its fibre-optic
components.

Mr. Zambonini admitted that getting the money he needs will "not be a cakewalk".
But if Ottawa is to stay on the leading edge of technology and attracting the
best and brightest minds, then the city must have a "strong and nurturing
community in which to live" and that includes access to a great health care
institution, he said.

He also said it's in the technology companies' best interest to contribute
generously and help drum up the remaining $53 million needed to start the
hospital's expansion.

Mr. Dale agreed. "In the end, if we are going to be a world-class city, we are
going to have to look after our citizens in a world-class way. I'd like to see
some better public-private partnerships start to form."

Mr. Dale said the hospital could look at different ways of trying to raise
funds, aside from straight donations.

He said partnering with different companies around Ottawa and allowing them
access to labs and equipment in exchange for longer-term donations, perhaps over
a period of years, could be one answer to helping the hospital construct its new
facilities.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colour Photo: Bruno Schlumberger, The Ottawa Citizen; Ron Zambonini:
It's in the technology companies' best interest to contribute generously to
start the Ottawa Hospital's expansion.

TYPE: Business

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


