                              256 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                            February 2, 2009 Monday

Economic downturn helps government hospitals retain staff

BYLINE: Ella Lee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 387 words


The serious shortage of doctors and nurses at public hospitals has received some
relief, as medical workers have been seeking job stability and training
opportunities in the public sector.

The Hospital Authority projected that the turnover figure for the approximately
5,000 public doctors would be 5.1 per cent for 2008-09, the lowest in five
financial years.

Ching Wai-kuen,  the authority's chief manager (medical grade), said the
financial meltdown  had had a positive effect on the flow of talent, and the
turnover was expected to drop further to 4 per cent in 2009-10.

"Since the financial tsunami, the number of doctors leaving the Hospital
Authority has slowed  significantly," Dr  Ching said. "Many doctors want to stay
with public hospitals, which offer job stability and training opportunities."

Also, since October,  Hospital Authority figures show that the number of nurses
who have quit has dropped by half, from an average of 60 a month to 30. A total
of 72 nurses joined the authority between October and December, up from only 40
in the same period in 2007.

Only 33 doctors resigned during the first three months of this financial year,
compared with 51 in the same period last year.  The number of consultants or
senior doctors  who quit dropped from 22 to  seven.

Dr Ching said pay rises and  improved contract terms for doctors since 2007 had
also helped retain talent. The authority will continue to open more consultant
posts to keep experienced doctors. There are now 531 consultants  among the
5,057 public doctors.

The authority plans to recruit more than 300 doctors this financial year.

"With an estimated 200 doctors leaving the authority, it means we will have ...
about 100 doctors more in our workforce," Dr Ching said. "This extra manpower
will help us to introduce new services and improve doctors' work hours."

Plastic surgery and urology  are two specialties that have been hit hard by a
shortage of doctors. There are only 20 public plastic-surgery doctors, including
six trainees.

Plastic surgery is a popular service in the private sector, and public doctors
have quit to open private clinics. The ageing population means high demand for
urology services.

Dr Ching said the authority  might face more manpower shortages in a few years
when the number of medical graduates  dropped.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


