                              262 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                           February 28, 2006 Tuesday

FOCUS: IN DEPTH;
Claiming benefits;
Study by the Hospital Association of Southern California touts caregivers'
economic effects.

BYLINE: By BLYTHE BERNHARD , The Orange County Register

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1066 words


H ospitals obviously benefit their communities by providing treatments and
therapies for injuries and illness.

But a new study flips that perspective, showing how Southern California
hospitals are also major contributors to local economies as employers and
consumers of everything from telephone calls to dry cleaning.

Orange County's 32 hospitals and related businesses pitched in $11.5 billion to
the local economy in 2004, or more than 7 percent of the county total, according
to a study released today by the Hospital Association of Southern California.
Overall, Southern California's hospitals represent 12.1 percent of the region's
economic output.

``I do economic impact studies for a living, and going into it I had no idea
that hospitals' share of the economy would be so large,'' said Greg Freeman,
vice president of the Los Angeles County Economic Development Corp., which
conducted the study of more than 200 area hospitals based on government data and
hospital surveys.

The Hospital Association of Southern California funded the study encompassing
six counties in part to demonstrate to health care consumers and elected
officials the benefits of a robust hospital system.

``We are not just providers of care. We are integral to the economic vitality of
these counties,'' said Jim Lott, executive vice president of the hospital
association.

``The purpose of the study is to help people understand why they need to support
their hospitals.''

While some news from the study is positive, including billions of dollars in new
construction projects and thousands of new jobs, other issues raised by the
study point to a deepening health care crisis -- more uninsured patients and a
higher demand for services.

More than half of the hospitals studied lost money in 2004.

``We have to monitor the economic health of hospitals to make sure they're still
there when we need them,'' Freeman said.

(714) 796-6880 or bbernhard@ocregister.com

cw 1 48.1363m;cw 2 49.8931m;hr 0;fr 0;fc 0;lc 0;

Southern California hospitals represent hundreds of thousands of jobs in a
consistently growing industry.

``Even when the economy goes into recession, people don't stop getting sick,''
said Wallace Walrod, vice president of the Orange County Business Council.
``Health services grows 3 to 4 percent a year almost like clockwork.''

The council defines health services as the third largest industry in Orange
County, behind business services and hospitality/tourism.

Hospitals not only contribute to the economy through their employment and
spending, but help lure businesses and residents to an area, Walrod said.

``Businesses want to be in a place where their employees can get good health
care,'' he said. ``Orange County has always been known for a high quality of
life, and health care is one of the major components of quality of life.''

Orange County's hospitals, 2004

Total hospitals 32 Available beds 7,141 Bed occupancy rate 61 percent Outpatient
visits 2,736,258 Average inpatient stay 5 days Hospital-related revenues $11.5
billion

Hospitals directly offer jobs to some 28,000 nurses, janitors and doctors,
roughly the number of people living in Laguna Beach. Other hospital-related jobs
bring that total three times higher.

There are 11 hospitals in Orange County that each support the equivalent of
1,000 full-time jobs or more.

``Overall, we expect employment to continue to increase in this sector,'' said
Freeman, the economic analyst.

Hospital employees and those working in related businesses make up at least 5.5
percent of all workers in the county, according to the study. They earned $4.2
billion in wages, or about 5 percent of the county's total in 2004.

Walrod of the Orange County Business Council also pointed out that those wages
cycle back into the county's economy when employees buy homes and services.

Hospital-related jobs in Orange County, 2004

Hospitals 55,000 Doctors' offices 22,000 Medical labs 1,000 Ambulance services
2,800 Total 80,800

Major construction projects are under way at UCI, Children's, Hoag, St. Joseph
and St. Jude hospitals.

In the next five years, Orange County hospitals will spend an estimated $2.3
billion in construction projects that will create 29,700 full-time jobs. This
marks a four-fold increase over the last five years.

Some hospitals in the region, including UCI, chose to construct new hospital
buildings instead of retrofitting old buildings to fit state earthquake safety
standards. Besides their contributions to the construction industry, hospitals
are major consumers of electricity, water, gas and other utilities. Hospitals
also spend money on everything from dry cleaning to insurance, for a total of
$1.8 billion in purchases.

Supplies -- including medication, office goods and food -- cost hospitals the
most. Many of those purchases are made in Orange County.

mm_city tag with dummy text.

mm_head tag with dummy text.

GENERAL OVERVIEW

CONSTRUCTION AND SPENDING

HOSPITAL JOBS/WAGES

TAX REVENUE

Orange County hospital spending, 2004 (in millions)

Medical supplies, including drugs, food and office supplies $770 Services from
outside vendors, including repairs and maintenance $680 Utilities, including
gas, electric and telephone service $170 Building leases and improvements $100
Liability insurance $80 Total $1.8 billion

Hospitals are a major source of tax revenue for the communities they serve.
Orange County's hospitals and related businesses paid out the second-highest tax
total in all six Southern California counties, after Los Angeles'.

While virtually all of the tax money paid by hospitals goes to the state, the
county did receive $12 million in tax money, some of which went to the Orange
County Transportation Authority for street and freeway improvements.

Orange County cities divvied up another $12 million in sales tax revenue from
hospitals, money that went for everything from parks to police.

The county's hospital employees also represented $177 million in state income
taxes in 2004.

The actual taxes paid by hospitals is more than what is shown in the table,
though how much more isn't certain. The study did not include property, utility,
disability and local taxes in its figures, in part because of different tax
classifications for some hospitals and in part because communities tax at
different rates.

Hospital tax revenue, by county

(in millions)

Los Angeles $1,113 Orange $299 San Bernardino $178 Riverside $96 Ventura $55
Santa Barbara $30

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: QUALITY OF LIFE: Children's Hospital of Orange County is one of the
county's key medical centers. AT WORK: Doctors and nurses scramble to help a
patient having seizures in St. Jude Medical Center's emergency room. BUILDING:
UCI Medical Center is one of the county's hospitals undergoing major
construction. FUNDS: Some tax revenue from hospitals go to the Orange County
Transportation Authority for street improvements. //CHARTS: Orange County's
hospitals, 2004 // Orange County Hospital spending 2004 // Hospital-related jobs
in Orange County, 2004 // Hospital tax revenue, by county (in millions).

