                              261 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Japan Times

                          November 21, 2007, Wednesday

Admission of a medical crisis

LENGTH: 352 words


Medical services are collapsing in many parts of the nation. Doctor shortages
are especially acute in obstetric-gynecological, pediatric and emergency care
departments. It is high time that the government, lawmakers and the public
seriously start discussing how to increase the number of doctors and nurses and
how to improve their working conditions, including securing sufficient budgetary
funds.

A telling statistic in the current crisis is that, in 2006, 667 pregnant women
being transported by ambulance were refused admittance by three or more
hospitals. Also, as many as 1,012 pregnant women had to wait more than 30
minutes in ambulances until a hospital could be found that would accept them.

According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Japan
has two physicians per 1,000 people (as of 2004), almost the lowest among
developed countries. As a result, a Japanese doctor must see more patients than
in other developed countries. Working conditions for hospital doctors in Japan
are harsh, with some doctors on duty for up to 36 hours straight.

At the root of the problem is the attitude of the health ministry and the Japan
Medical Association. Since the 1980s, they have pushed the policy of restraining
quotas for medical schools, believing that there would be too many doctors. The
current situation shows how wrong they were. Their policy must be fundamentally
changed.

The government also should increase remuneration for medical treatment and help
improve working conditions for hospital doctors, although budget problems must
be cleared.

The current medical internship system that started in 2004 is also responsible
for the crisis. Those who have obtained a medical license must intern at
hospitals for two years, but many of them choose hospitals in major cities,
shunning university hospitals. As a result, the latter have had to call back
doctors they had sent to core hospitals in the countryside. Measures must be
devised to assign doctors who have finished internships at urban hospitals to
hospital positions in the countryside for a certain period.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2007 The Japan Times Ltd.


