                              266 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                              May 2, 2009 Saturday
                                  Mich Edition

Hospital feels the pains of the economy

BYLINE: HEIDI PRESCOTT, Tribune Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 360 words


SOUTH BEND - Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center officials said Friday that the
economic downturn is prompting the organization to make salary, schedule and
work force changes.

These changes include:

* An 8 percent reduction to executive pay;

* Salary freezes for all Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center associates;

* A restructuring of its work force; and

* A reduction in work schedules from 80 to 72 hours in certain departments.

Like many hospitals across the country, Saint Joseph Regional "has felt the
impact of the economic downturn with an increasing number of uninsured patients,
and payments from Medicare and Medicaid not keeping pace with expenses,"
hospital officials said in a prepared statement.

"We are taking the steps necessary to put our organization in the strongest
position possible going forward," the release said.

Saint Joseph Regional officials declined to discuss or elaborate further on the
statement and the changes outlined in the release.

But recent economic studies by industry leaders indicated that 50 percent of the
nation's hospitals reported a financial loss in 2008, and that continued at an
increased pace in early 2009.

Just last week, Elkhart General Hospital announced that all hospital employees
would have their salaries reduced - from 4 percent for general staff to 8
percent for executives.

The salary reduction was necessary because of a budget shortfall brought on by a
number of factors. Those factors include Elkhart County's high unemployment rate
and people losing their insurance or being unable to pay for medical care, said
Gregory Lintjer, Elkhart General president.

Elkhart General commenced making staff adjustments on April 24 - one week before
Saint Joseph Regional announced its work force structuring measure. Elkhart
General also has been discussing how expenses can be handled as efficiently as
possible with vendors, contract companies and physicians.

Saint Joseph Regional Hospital is scheduled to open its new $355 million
hospital on Douglas Road in Mishawaka in December. The building is expected to
be completed in October.

Staff writer Heidi Prescott: hprescottsbtinfo.com (574) 235-6070

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2009 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


