                              260 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            January 25, 1993, Monday

Grady's tough act to follow

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Section A; Page 10

LENGTH: 491 words


Robert Johnson leaves his job as Grady Memorial Hospital's executive director
with a list of impressive accomplishments to his credit. But he also leaves
behind a number of challenges that make it critical that the Fulton-DeKalb
Hospital Authority choose his successor wisely.

Mr. Johnson's three-year tenure coincided with tenuous times for public
hospitals across the nation. The skyrocketing cost of health care, the economic
downturn that swelled the ranks of indigent patients, the spread of the AIDS
epidemic, and other factors dramatically increased the burden on
taxpayer-supported hospitals.

Grady certainly did not escape such woes, but Mr. Johnson's leadership helped
keep it on a firmer foundation than many similar facilities now have. He has
sharply increased the hospital's collection of payments for patient services
from private and government sources. This has lowered the percentage of Grady's
operating budget that must be picked up by Fulton and DeKalb counties from 44
percent to 24 percent.

The hospital has ambitious expansion projects under way. About $ 318 million in
work on the main Downtown building will bring long overdue relief for patients
and employees who have endured cramped and antiquated facilities. And the new
AIDS clinic Grady is establishing will ensure the hospital can handle the
expected dramatic increases in its AIDS patient caseload.

But Grady still faces serious problems, some of which flow from those latest
successes. Taxpayers' frustration over higher tax bills have been taken out on
Grady, with complaints that some of its capital improvements are too expensive
or unnecessary. Community opposition has arisen over plans to locate the new
AIDS clinic in Midtown.

And there is the bickering between Grady and the Fulton and DeKalb county
commissions. The fact that the hospital has been made less dependent on the
counties for its operating funds has raised questions about just how independent
Grady can be. It is clear that Mr. Johnson and members of the hospital authority
want more freedom to operate than the county commissions are willing to give.

There have been hopeful signs lately that the dispute can be resolved. Mr.
Johnson has said the friction was not the reason he decided to accept an offer
from the Detroit Medical Center. But surely candidates to fill the top job at
Grady will be aware of the conflict. It could discourage a talented person from
considering the job.

The hospital authority and the county commissions therefore must iron out their
differences quickly and make clear to Grady's next executive director how she or
he will function within the framework of their agreement.

One of the goals in the search for Mr. Johnson's replacement should be finding
someone equally strong as a hospital administrator. He brought professionalism
and innovation to the job. It was what Grady needed when he arrived. It is what
it will need after he is gone.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH930340233

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


