                              265 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Metropolitan Corporate Counsel

                                   March 2009
                               Northeast Edition

Supporting Hospitals: Saving Lives And The Economy, Too

BYLINE: Gary W. HerschmanPeter G. VernieroMembers, Sills Cummis & Gross
P.C.*(*Mr. Herschman is chair of his firm's health and hospital law practice
group. A former member of the N.J. Supreme Court and state attorney general, Mr.
Verniero is also a trustee for a healthcare system in his home county. The views
expressed in this editorial are those of the authors alone.)

SECTION: Pg. 25 Vol. 17 No. 3

LENGTH: 768 words


As policy makers rightly focus on resolving the deepening financial crisis, they
must not forget the value and worth of hospitals - not only their obvious social
worth in terms of maintaining our individual health, but their value in
fostering our economic health as well. The recently signed federal stimulus bill
recognizes the importance of hospitals and healthcare systems by increasing
matching funds for Medicaid, providing investments in healthcare technology
upgrades, and extending healthcare insurance for those who have become
unemployed since September 2008. Although those and other provisions are
helpful, we cannot be lulled into thinking that they are sufficient to address
the burgeoning challenges that many hospitals face.

According to a survey recently released by the New Jersey Hospital Association
(NJHA), 45 percent of the Garden State's hospitals that responded to the survey
have suffered layoffs in 2008; 17 percent have eliminated some aspect of
services; and nearly 72 percent have reported a loss in fundraising and
philanthropy (the lifeblood of any non-profit organization). What's more, six
out of ten hospitals reported a decline in patients who engage in elective
procedures, meaning more and more patients have decided to defer their
healthcare needs - which is both bad for the health of the community and hurtful
to hospitals that are trying to stay afloat amid ever-decreasing cash reserves,
shrinking investment portfolios and tightening revenue margins.

Hospitals also have the unique responsibility of providing so-called charity
care, a requirement that no patient will be turned down for certain treatment or
care because of an inability to pay. Based in large measure on state mandates,
the charity-care requirement is also consistent with a non-profit entity's
charitable purpose. In addition, at least one influential member of Congress has
stated that he may introduce federal legislation that would establish charity
care and community benefit standards and seek accountability for failing to meet
those standards. In a recession, the impact of charity care on hospitals is
magnified. Because of dwindling revenue and reserves, there is less money
available for hospitals to provide services across the board, including charity
care. Moreover, with recession comes unemployment, and with unemployment there
is a greater likelihood that a patient will need to rely on charity care.
Indeed, 80 percent of the hospitals that responded to the NJHA survey reported
an increase in charity care patients.

In New Jersey, there is state funding for charity care, so hospitals are given
some relief. But as a practical matter those funds are available to reimburse
hospitals for only a portion of their charity care expenditures. (Similarly,
Medicaid reimbursements do not fully cover hospitals for the costs of treating
Medicaid patients.) For most hospitals it is not a question of whether there
will be a gap between charity care expenditures and state reimbursement, but
rather a question of the size of such a gap. Some argue that, if the requirement
to provide uncompensated care reaches a level at which a hospital's own
financial viability is put at risk, such mandates could amount to an
unconstitutional taking of property.

Against that backdrop, hospitals strive mightily to contribute to the overall
health of the economy. The NJHA's economic impact report for 2008 reveals that
New Jersey hospitals pumped $18 billion in total expenditures into the economy
and supported nearly 145,000 full-time and part-time positions for employees.
Those employees in turn paid nearly $400 million in state income taxes, not to
mention their individual and family spending on goods and services throughout
the economy. As the NJHA observes in its report, the economic contributions of
hospitals "ripple across New Jersey, providing economic stability to counties
and individual communities statewide. In many towns, the local hospital is the
largest employer, providing untold benefits in jobs and health insurance
benefits, local spending and community health services."

The bottom line is this. In this time of economic uncertainty, as government
focuses on those businesses and industries that are in distress and are too
important to fail, hospitals should be included as one of the top priorities and
supported at all levels. We usually think of hospitals as healing centers. But
they are also employers of significant size and importance whose contributions
to the economy are often overlooked. When hospitals succeed, we all benefit.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

