                              264 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Erie Times-News (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune News Service

                             August 11, 2006 Friday

EDITORIAL: Health care fuels economic bounce

BYLINE: Erie Times-News, Pa.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 573 words


Aug. 11--It's growth, substantial economic growth in one of the Erie region's
most underrated economic engines: health care. So absolutely, the expansion of
Millcreek Community Hospital is an important development for the Erie region in
more ways than one. It is one of a number of such expansions that will bring new
income and jobs. The expansion will help more behavioral health patients and
their families. And the expansion will help the Millcreek hospital serve those
who sometimes lack services.

Millcreek Community will add a fifth floor to its main building, construct a
three-story addition and expand Millcreek Manor, its nursing home. Millcreek
Community will not have to borrow the $10 million needed to pay for this. In an
era when many hospitals outside Erie struggle, Millcreek Community prospers. It
is not alone in the region's health-care industry.

Simply add this project to all the others: Hamot Medical Center is building a
new maternity unit that will occupy its third floor. It also is adding three
stories to an adjacent building, constructing a new generator building,
expanding its outpatient surgery center at 200 State St. and renovating its
Hamot Imaging Center and Sterling Square office building at 3330 Peach St. All
this will cost $21 million. Hamot has spent more than $100 million on projects
since 2000.

Saint Vincent Health Center is constructing a four-story office building and a
parking ramp as part of a $28.2 million project.

Meadville Medical Center will build a $10.3 million cancer center.

The Pennsylvania Soldiers' & Sailors' Home is building a $7.1 million
Alzheimer's unit.

Select Specialty Hospital moved from Hamot in February to the former MetroHealth
Medical/Osteopathic Hospital, 252 W. 11th St. Select spent $3.2 million to
renovate it.

So amid some negative economic patches, here is a bright spot in the Erie
economy. The region's health-care industry remains on the move.

As for Millcreek Community, this hospital fills several needs.

Patients who don't want to go to a large hospital can go to Millcreek Community.
Patients from smaller communities that are losing their own hospitals can come
here.

Consider behavioral health. Millcreek Community began caring for mental-health
patients in 2001, when Hamot announced it was closing its Institute for
Behavioral Health.

"In the past, we have on occasion had to turn (such) patients away, simply
because we didn't have any available beds," said Mary Eckert, Millcreek
Community's chief executive. "The closest place for child and adolescent
patients is in Clarion, and there have been times when they have had to go to
Clarion."

For whatever reason, Millcreek Community tends to be overlooked when the subject
is health care in the Erie region. This hospital deserves more attention. It is
a benefit to Millcreek, to the Erie region -- and to its patients.

And the next time someone asks, with even a hint of negativity in his or her
voice, "Where is economic growth in the Erie region?" the reply is simple. It's
in the health-care industry.

To see more of the Erie Times-News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.GoErie.com. Copyright (c) 2006, Erie Times-News, Pa. Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060811-EI-EDIT-HEALTH-CARE-20060811

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EI


                         Copyright 2006 Erie Times-News


