                              275 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                              June 18, 2007 Monday
                                 State Edition

$12BN BONANZA - Revealed: Iemma's plan to kickstart NSW economy

BYLINE: SIMON BENSON

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 647  words


THE Iemma Government will tomorrow splurge $12billion on capital works and
radically overhaul basic health and education services in a bid to kickstart the
NSW economy.

The Budget will also show NSW is on the brink of a stronger than expected
economic recovery, with Treasury sources revealing: ''The economic outlook is
very positive.''

The first Budget since Morris Iemma's March election victory will turbocharge
the economy through an unprecedented $12 to $12.5 billion to be spent on major
works this year alone.

Stung by accusations the state has been allowed to decay, the Government will
expand a four-year $41.5 billion infrastructure program announced last year by a
year and a further $10 billion -- making it the largest capital works program in
NSW history.

Health will feature through the largest year-on-year increase in capital works,
including $2.4 billion to be spent on new hospitals and upgrades over four
years.

Start-up funding for the construction of a new hospital in Sydney's northwest at
Nepean is also expected in the Budget.

Mr Iemma, in an extensive interview with The Daily Telegraph, promised a radical
departure from tight fisted Budgets of the past.

In the first year of the Budget -- 2007/2008, there will be an increase of up to
$2 billion on what was originally allocated.

Almost half the funding for the larger program will be financed through debt --
a concept considered untenable under the previous administration, which was

Continued Page 2

From Page 1

rigidly focused on reducing the state's debt burden to zero.

In the coming year, $714 million will be quarantined for health capital works --
a 13 per cent increase on last year's budget.

New projects will include;

* $4.5 million to upgrade Ryde Hospital with new wards and an emergency
department;

* $2.1 million for planning new hospitals at Narrabri and Nepean; and

* $66.5 million to improve mental health facilities.

Mr Iemma, promising he would not jeopardise the state's AAA credit rating, told
The Daily Telegraph the Government needed to ''show measurable improvement over
the next four years.

''Tuesday's Budget will see a significant increase in infrastructure over and
above what we have already outlined,'' he said.

''When you take the next four years, it will be a significant increase on what
we have announced.

''This creates jobs and drives economic activity. I want our economy to grow
stronger than it has been.

''When I say I'm about activity, this is one of the levers that State Government
has and infrastructure is a key lever to drive economic activity and deliver
better services.

''The theme of the NSW Budget will be the delivery of services and new
services.''

Mr Iemma said the delivery of those services needed to change.

''We will make more investment in health outside hospitals such as hospitals in
homes, community health centres, community nurses and early intervention,'' he
said. ''We are opening beds ... but if that's all you do the projections are in
30 years the health spend will consume the entire budget. This requires a change
in the way we deliver services.''

Editorial: P22 Iemma interview: P23


Spending on health:

* $714 million for health infrastructure projects this year

* Four-year $2.4 billion program

* A 13 per cent increase on last year's Budget


New projects include:

* $4.5 million to upgrade Ryde Hospital

* $2.1 million for planning new hospitals at Narrabri and Nepean


Funding for election promises:

* $506.3 on major capital works projects already underway across the state,
including:

* $66.5 million to improve mental health facilities

* $56.7 million to redevelop or upgrade rural hospitals and health services at
Batlow, Berrigan, Bombala, Junee, Merriwa, Tingha, Walcha, Warialda, Bingara,
Dunedoo, Guyra, Tottenham and Tullamore

* $37.3 million to continue redevelopment of Royal North Shore Hospital, as part
of the overall $702 million redevelopment project

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


