                              274 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                           February 10, 2009 Tuesday
                               1 - State Edition

Government must abandon the Marj project

BYLINE: MARK HAMILTON

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 562  words


SINCE the publication of my article ``The Royal Adelaide Hospital fights back''
(The Advertiser, 9/12/08), growing public disquiet and debate has emerged
regarding the Government's announced decision to build a new Marjorie
Jackson-Nelson Hospital. New facts have also become apparent.

We have learned the extraordinary fact that the recommendation was developed as
a confidential project by an officer in the Department of Health, and
subsequently adopted by the Government, without any consultation with the public
or the myriad of relevant stakeholders at any stage of the process.

It transpires that after all the proposed expenditure, let alone real economic
cost, a grand total of 120 extra beds would be created, even though these could
be provided at the Royal Adelaide Hospital site as part of an upgrade.

We have now been reminded that no consideration had been given by the Government
to the immeasurable and irreplaceable brand equity built up in the iconic Royal
Adelaide Hospital brand over the past 150 years.

The Royal Adelaide Hospital is a well-recognised, world-class facility with a
long history and reputation as a clinical, treatment, teaching and training
facility providing world-class, cutting-edge medical solutions in a number of
areas, including the craniofacial unit.

What would you say if the owners of Penfolds, another iconic South Australian
brand name, decided to change its name? Madness, I suggest.

It appears the upgrade of the Royal Adelaide Hospital is, in fact, far more
advanced than previously understood - notwithstanding the Rann Government's
apparently unpublicised decision to halt the upgrading project in its tracks in
2001.

In my December article, I estimated the real economic cost to the state of the
new hospital project was between $3.5 billion and $4.5 billion when one took
into account all the costs, including construction (reportedly $1.7 billion),
the loss of the existing hospital investment, the need to provide new
infrastructure in association with the new hospital, the loss of the value of
the existing infrastructure and the cost of the ``free'' public space on which
the proposed new hospital is to be located.

In addition, if the Government's proposal was to proceed, extensive
soil-contamination remediation works would be necessary on both sites - at a
possible cost of $200 million.

Given the Royal Adelaide Hospital's long-term role as a teaching hospital for
the University of Adelaide's medical school, it is also reported that medical
students and staff widely oppose the plan because it would result in the medical
school being moved ``off'' campus - effectively disconnecting medical students
from university life. This would be a serious negative for our state's premier
university.

Given the global financial crisis, now more than ever infrastructure projects
must demonstrate they can deliver long-term economic activity, measured in jobs
and export income. Economists call this the economic multiplier effect of
government expenditure.

This proposed expenditure simply replaces one set of existing infrastructure
with another at huge cost and does not create new jobs or generate any new
economic wealth for the state.

It is time for the Government to acknowledge that it got it wrong and to abandon
this course.

* Mark Hamilton, a commercial solicitor in Adelaide, is a former deputy lord
mayor of Adelaide.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


