                              276 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

               Distributed by Knight/Ridder Tribune News Service

                           February 23, 2006 Thursday

Big hospitals have back-ups, but small clinics flounder

BYLINE: Jeetha D'Silva, The Economic Times, India

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 415 words


Feb. 23--The proposed power cuts could be a rude jolt to the city's healthcare
providers, with nursing homes and small maternity hospitals likely to fare worse
than well-established hospitals.

Hospitals, nursing homes and chemists rely on uninterrupted power supply for
their normal functioning. While most private hospitals have a power back-up, a
majority of the nursing homes and chemists across the city will be impacted by
load-shedding.

"Most of our critical areas need uninterrupted power supply. While our hospital
does have systems to fall back on, it would be difficult for us to rely on these
alternatives for a long duration," said Dr Ravindra V Karanjekar, head of the
Wockhardt Hospital in Mumbai. The hospital at Mulund has been facing some power
cuts recently but its back-up -UPS unit and couple of DG sets -- have helped it
tide over the situation.

"Large-scale load shedding will hit hospitals hard. The functioning of critical
departments will be affected, scheduling of surgeries will be affected and areas
in which the quality of air has to be maintained could be affected," says Dr
Karanjekar. According to him, when there are power cuts, procedures that are not
very critical -- like some diagnostic tests -- are conducted when power supply
is resumed.

While hospitals have some back-up, nursing homes might have a larger problem on
their hands. Of the 1,800 nursing homes in the city, only about 20 percent are
estimated to have some back-up.

According to Dr Lalit Kapoor, chairperson, medico-legal committee of the
Association of Medical Consultants (AMC), members of the AMC have been urged to
invest in a power back up.

"Many nursing homes do have operation theatres and intensive care units which
are sensitive areas and need power supply," Dr Kapoor said.

"Some nursing homes are now investing in UPS but we would like many more to go
for such systems," he added.

Another widely-affected segment will be medical stores. Many medicines are heat
sensitive and need to be stored in a refrigerator. In absence of power for long
periods, these medicines may lose their potency, and may even become harmful.

To see more of The Economic Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://economictimes.indiatimes.com Copyright (c) 2006, The Economic Times,
India Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News. For information on
republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511 (U.S.), (213) 237-4914
(worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060223-ET-HOSPITALS-20060223

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ET


                       Copyright 2006 The Economic Times


