                              270 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                            December 13, 2013 Friday

Hospital mergers allowed to boost investment

LENGTH: 573 words


President Park Geun-hye (fourth from left) speaks at a meeting of government
officials and businesspeople to promote trade and investment at the presidential
office, Friday. (Yonhap News)

The government said it plans to ease regulations and entry barriers on the
medical and education industries as part of its additional measures to vitalize
corporate investment.

After an investment promotion meeting at Cheong Wa Dae on Friday, Deputy Prime
Minister and Finance Minister Hyun Oh-seok said the government would allow
mergers and acquisitions among medical institutions, given the financial
difficulties facing some hospitals.

"In a bid to offer better services to patients and upgrade the industry's
competitiveness, the government has decided to allow a (financially sound)
medical corporation to take over an ailing hospital," the Finance Ministry said
in a statement.

In addition, any hospital will be entitled to own a subsidiary to pave the way
for the launching of medical-related businesses such as medical tourism and
purchases of medical equipment.

"The endorsement of hospitals' ownership of subsidiaries is expected to attract
more foreign capital and vitalize joint investments of hospitals and
conglomerates," said the ministry.

For domestic medical institutions seeking to open in the nation's free economic
zones, policymakers plan to amend the rule that limits the proportion of
expatriate inpatients to 5 percent of the total sickbeds. The upper ceiling for
sickbeds for foreigners would be raised to 12 percent.

Further, medical advertisements in foreign languages, such as English, Chinese
and Japanese, will be allowed in airports, subways, major cities and tourist
spots.

The government, however, has remained undecided over the proposal made by a
group of economic advisers to ease regulations governing the entry of foreign
hospitals into FEZs. They had called for the elimination of the requirement for
foreign hospitals seeking to open in FEZs to have foreign doctors comprise at
least 10 percent of their doctor staffs and to have a foreign chief.

For the education sector, joint venture schools will be allowed in places like
the Jeju Special Self-Governing Province and eight FEZs, including Songdo in
Incheon.

Until now, foreign schools have only been allowed to open and run international
education facilities on their own and have been barred from paying dividends on
accumulated surplus funds.

The government also plans to permit foreign schools to borrow privately held
land to construct auxiliary facilities, such as physical training centers and
auditoriums, and allow schools to set up English-language camps in cooperation
with regional governments.

The ministry said it will submit law revisions to the National Assembly by the
end of the first half of next year to allow the establishment of joint entities
between foreign and local school operators.

Finance Ministry officials said every effort would be made to implement the
changes and revise regulations in a timely manner so they can contribute to the
ongoing economic recovery.

Presiding over the trade promotion meeting, President Park called for the
National Assembly to pass the bill on foreign investment promotion as early as
possible.

Citing recent indices signaling economic recovery, she said "the ordinary people
will suffer more difficulties should (policymakers and lawmakers) fail to make
the best of the opportunity."

By Kim Yon-se (kys@heraldcorp.c

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


