                              281 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                              May 20, 2014 Tuesday

Base to boost partnerships with local hospitals;
Effort will seek to get health care, defense sectors collaborating.;
WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE

BYLINE: By Barrie Barber

SECTION: LOCAL & STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 517 words


Col. Cassie Barlow, WPAFB commander, and Bryan Bucklew, of the Greater Dayton
Area Hospital Association, at a joint press conference.

WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE - The Air Force, the Dayton Development
Coalition and Dayton area hospitals expect to reach an agreement in about a
month that will increase medical partnerships between Wright-Patterson and
medical facilities in the Miami Valley, officials said Monday.

Medical, economic and military officials will explore what those partnerships
might be with the Wright-Patterson Medical Center, and the Air Force Research
Laboratory, including the 711th Human Performance Wing and the U.S. Air Force
School of Aerospace Medicine.

Exact partnership or project details won't be known until the agreement is
final, authorities said. Area hospitals and Wright-Patterson leaders toured the
base on Monday with a scheduled stop at the aerospace medical school.

Budget cuts have caused the Air Force to look at more partnerships with outside
organizations, said Col. Cassie

B. Barlow, commander of the 88th Air Base Wing at Wright-Patterson. Earlier this
year, Wright-Patterson said it would lease seven parcels of land under
enhanced-use leases. A call for proposals is due in May.

"In this time of budget challenges that we've been talking about for quite some
time, it's our need, all of our needs, to make every dollar count," Barlow said
at a joint press conference with hospital and economic officials at
Wright-Patterson. "We believe we can do that with better partnerships with off
-base collaborations."

Wright-Patterson works with 27 diff erent colleges and schools and counts 74
diff erent training affi liation agreements, she said. The Wright-Patterson
Medical Center shares resources with the Dayton and Columbus VA Medical Centers,
for example.

The combined economic impact of the defense and health care sectors in the
Dayton region account for an $11 billion impact and 60,000 jobs, said Jeff
Hoagland, president and chief executive offi cer of the Dayton Development
Coalition.

"Those two sectors do overlap and if we can really get them working together we
can really get this sector growing so much more," Hoagland said. "... We don't
know everything yet, but here we are together working as a team to explore and
uncover a lot more opportunities."

Dayton region medical centers alone account for an $8 billion economic impact
and directly employ 35,000 employees, said Bryan J. Bucklew, president and chief
executive offi cer of the Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association.

"The hospitals are a huge engine of economic development and we think this
partnership is a very good collaborative eff ort," he said. "... There's been a
long history of working relationships between the base and the hospitals. What
we're trying to do is fi gure out the next level and fi gure out the emerging
technologies that are taking place at the base."

Dayton is one of 11 communities in the United States among the largest 100 metro
areas without a university, city or county hospital, he said.

Contact this reporter at 937-225-2363 or email Barrie.Barber@coxinc.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


