                              283 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

            December 21, 1991, SATURDAY, ILLINOIS FIVE STAR Edition

RECESSION ECONOMISTS AT U OF I PREDICT '92 RECOVERY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 405 words


University of Illinois economists predict the state will begin to recover
fromthe recession in 1992, but will not have as many jobs as it once did.  The
Illinois Economic Outlook, produced by researchers at the UI Bureau of Economic
and Business Research, predicts that the Illinois gross state product will
increase to $297 billion in 1992.  That would represent economic growth of 2.2
percent over 1991, when adjusted for inflation.  Although the Illinois economy
fared better than other areas of the country during the recent recession, the UI
economists said virtually no new jobs had been created since late 1990.
Employers will continue to eliminate jobs and reduce operating costs in 1992,
resulting in a reduction of .2 percent in jobs, the economists said.  Associated
Press HOST LIABILITY Court Reinstates Suit Filed In Teen's Death An Illinois
appellate court has ruled that adults who serve alcohol to teen-agers at private
parties may be held responsible for damages for injuries that result.  The
ruling Thursday was the first by an Illinois appeals court to recognize the
legal concept of social host liability for injuries resulting from underage
drinking.  The three-judge Cook County panel's ruling reinstates a lawsuit filed
against a Chicago-area couple by Janice Cravens of Mokena, whose 16-year-old
daughter Joleen was killed in a 1987 car accident.  The lawsuit contends that
David and Rita Inman allowed the car's 15-year-old driver and other teens to
drink during a housewarming party in their New Lenox home. The Inmans denied the
allegations.  Associated Press HOSPITAL COSTS Survey Says Prices Of Services
Soared Average prices at Illinois hospitals soared in 1990, jumping 26 percent,
for example, for a tonsillectomy that includes removal of the adenoids, a
hospital cost watchdog group says.  The annual survey of about 230 hospitals by
the Illinois Health Care Cost Containment Council says the cost of other
services also jumped significantly.  ''The whole health care system in this
country is out of control,'' said Gail Siegel, associate director of the
Coalition for Consumer Rights, another watchdog group. ''The hospitals are not
competing in a healthy way.'' The council's report indicates Illinois patients
are paying more for nearly all outpatient and inpatient treatments and services,
with emergency room visits breaking the trend by remaining about the same.
Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


