                              282 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                           February 21, 2009 Saturday

Briefs

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 507 words


COLUMN: BRIEFS

Partners HealthCare says it

lost $185 million in quarter

BOSTON - Partners HealthCare Inc., New England's largest hospital chain, says it
lost $185 million in the first quarter as the nation's economic downturn bit
into investments.

Partners, the umbrella group for Massachusetts General Hospital, Brigham and
Women's Hospital and some suburban hospitals, announced Thursday it lost $244
million on investments and other financing activities in the quarter that ended
Dec. 31. That was partially offset by a $59 million profit from medical
activities.

Vice President of Finance Peter Markell told The Boston Globe that Partners'
roughly $4.5 billion investment portfolio lost about 10 percent of its value in
the quarter.

Massachusetts Sign

Association elects officers

SHREWSBURY - Joseph M. Hamel, owner of Shrewsbury Signs, has been re-elected
president of the Massachusetts Sign Association, a group of sign shops and sign
shop suppliers.

Sign permit consultant Heather Hopkins Dudko of Permit Allegiance, Worcester,
was elected secretary-treasurer. Andrew Serrato of Serrato Signs LLC, Worcester,
was elected to the board.

The association will host the 10th New England Sign Expo from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
March 5 at the Sturbridge Host Hotel and Conference Center, Sturbridge.

Saint-Gobain selling shares

to shore up its finances

WORCESTER - Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA, Europe's biggest supplier of building
materials, and Lafarge SA, the world's largest cement producer, each said they
will sell 1.5 billion euros ($1.9 billion) in shares to shore up finances eroded
by slowing construction markets. Saint-Gobain slid 17 percent to 23.26 euros.
Net income dropped 7.3 percent last year. The global economic crisis makes the
2010 targets set in 2007 "obsolete," the company said. Lafarge said cost-cutting
initiatives will be extended to help save 200 million euros in 2009. The shares
slipped 1.7 percent to 36.18 euros. Saint-Gobain has operations in Worcester.
(Bloomberg News)

Westboro battery maker

names Fang business adviser

WESTBORO - Lithium-ion battery maker Boston-Power Inc. announced that Max Fang
will serve as business adviser to the company. Mr. Fang founded and serves as
managing director for venture investment firm Maxima Capital Management. He
earned a bachelor of science degree from the Management Science Department at
National Chiao Tung University and an EMBA from National Cheng Chi University.

Official says Bernard Madoff

bought no stocks for 13 years

NEW YORK - Investors wiped out by the Bernard Madoff scandal got more bad news
yesterday: Investigators have confirmed suspicions that the monthly statements
showing the disgraced financier was making stock trades for them were pure
fiction.

"We have no evidence to indicate securities were purchased for customer
accounts" in the past 13 years, said court-appointed trustee Irving Picard at a
packed, town-hall style meeting at U.S. Bankruptcy Court in lower Manhattan.

Picard called the meeting to give the investors a progress report.

From staff and wire service reports

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BOSTON - Partners HealthCare Inc., New England's largest hospital
chain, says it lost $185 million in the first quarter as the nation's economic
downturn bit into investments. Partners, the umbrella group for Massachusetts
General Hospital, Brigham and Women's Hospital and some suburban hospitals,
announced Thursday it lost $244 million on investments and other financing
activities in the quarter that ended Dec. 31. That was partially offset by a $59
million profit from medical activities.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


