                              284 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            June 18, 2014 Wednesday

Wellington County committee agrees to only fund three local hospitals

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: ABOYNE


Lou Maieron isn't happy. And he doesn't think residents of Erin will be happy
either after Wellington County Council's administration, finance and personnel
committee agreed to donate $9.4 million to the three hospitals within its
borders - Groves Memorial in Fergus, Louise Marshall in Mount Forest and
Palmerston and District Hospital in Palmerston.

The committee did not agree to fund hospitals outside Wellington County,
although delegations from Headwaters Health Care in Orangeville and Georgetown
Hospital attended the meeting and made their pitch.

Each of those hospitals was seeking $100,000 from the county based on data that
indicates about four per cent of their emergency department patients are
residents of Wellington County.

Maieron, mayor of Erin and a member of county council, said because of the way
tax assessment works, Erin residents will be footing a disproportionate
percentage of the $9.4 million, which is even harder to swallow given that
because of geography, most Erin residents would attend Orangeville, Georgetown
or Guelph hospitals before any of the other three.

"Is this for all of Wellington County or just for the communities that have
hospitals?" asked Maieron when committee chair John Green opened questions from
the floor. "The question should be, do we fund hospitals that serve our
residents or do we fund hospitals within our borders?"

The real question is, should Wellington County be entertaining funding requests
from hospitals at all?

"Do we have a hospital funding policy?" Maieron asked.

"Yes, we don't fund hospitals," Green answered.

And yet the committee unanimously agreed to give $5.4 million to Groves and
split $4 million between Louise Marshall and Palmerston.

Groves is building a larger hospital on a new site in Aboyne and Louise Marshall
and Palmerston hospitals both need renovations to their emergency departments
and clinical spaces. The province is funding 90 per cent of the capital costs
but expects communities to come up with the balance.

George Bridge, mayor of the Town of Minto and chair of the economic development
committee, said hospitals are an economic driver and losing a hospital,
especially in a small community, would be a huge loss. "Economic development
would slide, there would be an exodus of people," he said. "I look at hospitals
like roads - we need them."

Chris White, mayor of Guelph-Eramosa and warden of Wellington County, said the
county has funded and not funded hospitals over the years, at one time even
funding Guelph General Hospital.

"(Hospital funding) comes and goes. To say this hasn't been vetted is not
correct," White said.

Ken DeHart, treasurer, said how to fund this expenditure will be decided during
2015 budget deliberations. He said he would probably recommend paying the amount
over 20 years and using debt financing to cover the tab.

"There are still unknowns for the 2015 budget process and I would not recommend
funding over a short term," he said.

The matter goes to county council next week on June 26 for ratification.

jshuttleworth@guelphmercury.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

