                              278 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                      Daily Pilot (Costa Mesa California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday

Hoag Hospital plans to lay off 175 employees

BYLINE: Mike Reicher, Daily Pilot, Costa Mesa, Calif.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 402 words


Sept. 21--Hoag Hospital announced plans Tuesday to lay off about 175 employees.

Accounting for about 3.5% of its 5,000-person workforce, the cuts will affect
its hospitals in Newport Beach and Irvine as well as its network of health-care
centers, according to Nina Robinson, vice president of corporate communications.

The layoffs were a result of "the weak economy, high unemployment" and insurance
payment changes, according to a written statement.

None of the hospital's 1,400 physicians will be affected.

Most of the cuts will be among non-clinical staff members, such as medical
billers, administrative assistants and human resources professionals.

Last year, Hoag opened a hospital in Irvine, hiring about 900 people in the
process.

"Today's hard choices will correctly size our organization to the needs of our
community, and allow Hoag to emerge from this challenging economic environment
stronger and more effective," Robinson said in the statement.

Amid the slumping economy, hospitals nationwide are coping with shifting
health-care models and changes in insurance payments, experts say.

Technology has increased outpatient care, prompting declining hospital
admissions. Also, more uninsured people are unable to meet their hospital bills
and Medicare may soon upend its current payment system.

"It turns out that hospitals are not immune to economic downturns," said
Professor Paul Feldstein, who specializes in health-care management at UC
Irvine's Paul Merage School of Business.

One possible insurance change hospitals are planning for is bundling -- the
consolidation of Medicare payments for an episode of care like a heart attack,
Feldstein said.

If the system is adopted, the government would make one payment instead of
separately reimbursing hospitals, doctors and post-hospital caregivers.

"That's making them reevaluate their business model," Feldstein said, moving
away from "getting them in the hospital and keeping them there."

Hoag has recently tried to keep up with the outpatient care trend by opening a
regional network with seven health centers and the hospital in Irvine.

But the added economic pressures accelerated the need to change its structure,
and to shed jobs, according to Hoag's statement.

mike.reicher@latimes.com

Twitter: @mreicher

___ (c)2011 the Daily Pilot (Costa Mesa, Calif.) Visit the Daily Pilot (Costa
Mesa, Calif.) at www.dailypilot.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110921-1DP-Hoag-Hospital-plans-to-lay-off-175-employees-0921-20110921

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1DP


                           Copyright 2011 Daily Pilot


