                              277 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The York Dispatch (Pennsylvania)

                          December 10, 2008 Wednesday

WellSpan not the only hospital with plans on hold

BYLINE: KATHY STEVENS The York Dispatch

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 539 words


WellSpan Health Tuesday joined the ranks of health care facilities nationwide
that have put expansion and renovation projects on hold because of reduced
earnings and the credit crunch stemming from the unstable economy.

WellSpan is financially sound and has been for years, said Barry Sparks, York
Hospital spokesman.

At the same time, its administrators say the uncertain economy dictates caution
in spending matters. That means multi-million dollar renovations, expansions and
new facilities are on hold until WellSpan administrators have a clearer idea of
the economic outlook.

The decision to delay projects is a pre-emptive strike and a prudent move to
ensure the organization's 8,300 employees continue to provide services at York
and Gettysburg hospitals as well as numerous off-site facilities in York and
Adams counties, Sparks said.

Postponed: Projects on hold include a $50 million rehabilitation center on
Monument Road in York Township. WellSpan gained zoning approval for the
110,000-square-foot facility, which would
employ 100 people and house 40 to 50 patients.

Expansion of York Hospital's emergency department also will wait; details of
that project were in the planning phase.

For the past several years, York Hospital has increased its size and services to
better accommodate a growing and aging population. While most -- although not
all -- of that planned expansion is finished, renovations are barely under way
at Gettysburg Hospital, which was slated for a six-phase expansion lasting five
to eight years.

That project would expand the emergency department from 13 to 20 beds; add a new
maternity center, and include changes to the second floor and the addition of a
third and fourth floor to accommodate more patients receiving acute care.

Trends: Sparks said WellSpan has not canceled any projects, but shelved them
until the economy stabilizes.

That move mirrors state and national trends in the health care industry, which
in 2007 provided 45 percent of new private-sector jobs. Hospitals nationwide
employ more than 5 million people, according to an American Hospital Association
report.

The report, "Economic Crisis: Initial Impact on Hospitals," released last month
notes that 56 percent of 736 responding hospitals nationwide have postponed or
will postpone expansion and renovation projects because of increased costs of
borrowing and decreased access to financing.

The report also lists economic impact due to lower admissions and fewer elective
procedures, stemming from rising unemployment and loss of healthcare insurance.
Federal and state budget cutbacks also have raised concern about Medicaid and
Medicare provider payments, which already are underfunded and do not cover
actual hospital costs, according to the report.

Sparks said York Hospital has not seen a decrease in patient admissions,
primarily because York County continues both to grow and its residents continue
to age. That is why WellSpan initiated expansions, he said.

Sparks reiterated the need for caution, but said the demand for service is being
met, although it is on the rise. Because of that, expansions are simply a matter
of time -- and stable financial markets, he said.

-- Reach Kathy Stevens at 505-5437 or kstevens@yorkdispatch.com

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 York Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


