                              279 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 27, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

We'll Need Those 'Excess' Hospital Beds;
Economic Gibberish

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 276 words


To the Editor:

"The Hospital Glut" (Op-Ed, Dec. 13) bears the subheading "Problem: too many
beds. Solution: get rid of them." The article is evidently a contribution to the
effort to develop an affordable health plan. Yet it violates standard economic
wisdom, which says that the larger the supply, the more competition there will
be and the lower the price will drop.

My hospital stays are paid for by an insurance company at a rate of more than
$1,000 a day. This figure contributes to making the cost of health care ruinous,
no matter whether it is paid for personally, by an insurer or by some Clinton
scheme.

Standard economics says that more hospitals and beds would result in greater
competition and greater efficiency, lower costs, lower profits and therefore
lower prices. Yet here is I. Donald Snook Jr. explaining in his article that
less capacity and competition is needed to reduce our health costs. Normal
economic thinking is being turned on its head.

The same argument has been used to explain why a medical specialist now charges
$275 for a first visit, instead of the $100 common a few years ago. Explanation:
it isn't general inflation (which wouldn't account for such a huge increase); it
is too many specialists. Proposed solution: train fewer specialists, so they
will compete more and prices will drop! This makes no sense either.

Is there an economist who can explain why medical care violates the economic
rules that apply to all other economic activity? If so, perhaps he or she could
figure out what to do so our entire population can have affordable care.

ALBERT Z. K. SANDERS
New York, Dec. 16, 1993

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


