                              280 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Albany Herald, Ga.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 16, 2013 Thursday

EDC agrees to letter of support for Phoebe

BYLINE: Carlton Fletcher, The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 515 words


May 16--ALBANY -- The Albany-Dougherty Economic Development Commission board
voted unanimously Wednesday to write a letter in support of Phoebe Putney
Memorial Hospital's purchase of the former Hospital Corporation of America-owned
Palmyra Medical Center, a purchase that is being challenged by the Federal Trade
Commission.

EDC Chairman Jay Smith brought the proposal to the board at its Wednesday
meeting, saying he had been approached by Phoebe officials seeking the letter of
support.

"I believe time is of the essence on this; it needs to be done this week," Smith
said.

Several board members spoke in favor of the request, although board member
Anthony Parker, the president of Albany Technical College, offered a level of
support that stopped short of Smith's recommendation.

"I believe some of us could write letters about our personal positive
experiences at Phoebe, but I don't think we could write letters in support of
the purchase," Parker said.

Board member Milan Patel suggested federal officials would be looking for data
that indicate Phoebe does not have a health care monopoly in the region, a
concern that led the U.S. Supreme Court to overturn by a 9-0 vote earlier court
decisions OKing the purchase. Board members Jim Deal and Richard Crowdis refuted
that approach.

"I don't think we should approach this as supporting (the purchase) from the
legal side," Deal said. "That's what the lawyers are for. Our support should
come from an economic development perspective."

Crowdis, the Dougherty County administrator, said the EDC should concern itself
with economics.

"Our letter should not be technical or data-driven," he said. "We have a mission
to support our large industries. Phoebe is one of the community's economic
engines, and this body should always support its economic engines."

Board member Chris Hatcher also supported Phoebe's request.

"The Economic Development Commission board is about jobs, and (Phoebe) is one of
the largest employers in our community," Hatcher said. "One of the largest
health care companies in America (HCA) didn't want to be here, and we were lucky
to have a buyer (of Palmyra's facilities) right here. This purchase saved about
500 jobs in this region; if it goes the other way we're talking about a
significant loss of jobs and a boarded-up building."

Also at the meeting, the board voted to approve a $30,000 proposal by the
Montreal-based Research on Investment business intelligence firm, which
specializes in facilitating corporate investment site location. EDC President
Ted Clem said three different proposals were presented to his staff, which
recommended accepting the one by ROI.

"Their team specializes in whittling down (business prospects) to a handful of
companies," Clem said. "Their international expertise is outstanding, and
they're not going to give us a cookie-cutter list (of prospects). They'll
compile a list that is specifically geared toward our strengths, and it will be
ours exclusively."

___ (c)2013 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130516-1AH-EDC-agrees-to-letter-of-support-for-Phoebe-0516-20130516

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                                 Copyright 2013


