                              294 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                 March 7, 2002

Rise in Hospital Authority funding fails to tackle deficit

BYLINE: Mary Ann Benitez

SECTION: SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 432 words


The modest rise in health spending was generally welcomed, but a patients'
rights group warned that chronic Hospital Authority budget deficits would be a
prescription for disaster.

Recurrent spending on health will amount to $ 32.4 billion for 2002-03, up 3.6
per cent.

The Hospital Authority will receive funding of $ 29.8 billion, compared with the
previous year's $ 29.3 billion.

However, as hospital fees and charges remain frozen for another year, the
authority will be hard-pressed to make cuts in order to avoid dipping into its
reserves for a second year running. It faces a deficit of $ 225 million for
2001-02, the first time the authority has gone into the red since it was set up
in 1991.

Spokesman for the Hong Kong Patients' Rights Association Tim Pang Hung-cheong
said another budget deficit would have a serious effect on public hospital
services.

"Whether the Hospital Authority can expand its services and keep its service
quality in response to increasing public demand will depend on the authority
needing to have more resources. There is no way they can keep up with this
otherwise," Mr Pang said.

He hoped the Government and the authority could use this year to come up with a
solution that would satisfy legislators and the public.

But legislator Lo Wing-lok, who represents the medical sector, said: "A two per
cent rise in spending for the Hospital Authority is appropriate, as well as a
three per cent budgetary increase for the Department of Health. This indicates
that the Government wants to maintain the standard of services despite the
economic downturn."

Michael Mak Kwok-fung, who represents the health services sector, said: "The
budget is a modest one, giving consideration to the current economic crisis and
hardships suffered by people."

Dr Leung Ka-lau, president of the Public Doctors' Association, said of the
freeze on hospital fees and charges: "If the economy is really so bad, it is
reasonable." He said a modest increase in the Hospital Authority budget was good
in the short term.

Some of the new money for the Hospital Authority will pay for Chinese medicine
outpatient services, 166 new beds, 1,000 additional care assistants to
strengthen extended care service in hospitals, and an intensive rehabilitation
and treatment programme for mental health patients.

The Department of Health will launch an adolescent health programme, a pilot
men's health programme, and develop cervical cancer screening for women.

The department will receive $ 3.7 billion, compared with $ 3.6 billion in 2000
-01.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2002 South China Morning Post Ltd.


