                              292 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                          December 16, 2009 Wednesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

STIMULUS-PROJECT HOSP GARAGE: MORE SPACES, FEWER JOBS

BYLINE: BY MIKE JACCARINO DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SUBURBAN; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 316 words


A BRONX HOSPITAL received close to $20 million in federal stimulus financing
yesterday for a parking garage that will initially result in fewer rather than
more jobs.

St. Barnabas Hospital will use the $19.8 million in tax-free bonds from the
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 to build a five-story, 605-space
self-parking garage on its East Tremont campus.

The new garage will only need about six union workers - rather than the 25 or so
now used at the current aging one.

The New York City Capital Resource Corp., a subsidiary of the city's Economic
Development Corp., approved the financing.

The hospital, which has been trying to build the garage for 25 years, argued
that current hour-long waits for workers to get parking spots have been a
negative factor in recruiting doctors and other staff.

But Bettina Damiani, project director of the non-profit government watchdog Good
Jobs New York, called the project "counterintuitive to the goals of the Recovery
Act."

"It doesn't create new jobs. It doesn't save existing jobs. And it will
eliminate permanent jobs in the long run," she said.

Rep. Jose Serrano (D-South Bronx), who was not involved in the process, said
"The purpose of the economic recovery funds is to create and preserve jobs;
anything less is unacceptable to me."

The job losses will come through Central Parking, a private firm that holds the
parking concession with the hospital.

The parking attendants will likely be transferred to other Central Parking
locations once the current garage is torn down, said hospital spokesman Steve
Clark.

Work on the new $25.7 million garage is due to begin next June, with completion
18 months later.

"There will be 173 people working in the construction of the new garage," said
Clark, "and quite frankly, the future economic feasibility of the hospital will
be dependent on the construction of the new garage."

mjaccarino@nydailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Daily News, L.P.


