                              293 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   December 7, 1988, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

An unfair tax on new homes

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 377 words


   Because everyone benefits from a booming provincial economy, everyone should
pay for the public investments that add to economic growth.

That's how Ontario Treasurer Robert Nixon saw it when he presented his budget
just seven months ago:

"The growth of private sector employment and wealth owes much to this kind of
public support. Major investments in our community schools, hospitals, colleges,
universities and highways have fostered record levels of new business expansion
and modernization."

But now Nixon and Premier David Peterson apparently think that new home buyers
should foot the lion's share of the bill for the new schools and hospitals that
will be needed as the province grows. They are considering a $5,000 levy on new
housing lots to cover the cost of building new schools, and a $3,000 levy to
cover the cost of new hospitals.

That kind of arbitrary tax is patently absurd. Here's why:

* It would make a mockery of the government's stated commitment to make housing
more affordable. By driving up the cost of new housing, the tax would spur the
market to add a hefty premium to the price of existing houses too;

* By making residents in new communities effectively pay for their own
hospitals, the government would contravene the spirit of its medicare
legislation that says the health burden should be assumed by all;

* The province would also undermine almost every principle of taxation by making
"new" the sole criterion for who pays this housing tax. Why should a young
couple pay $8,000 more to live in a new $200,000 bungalow, while a wealthy
family which buys an existing $800,000 house three blocks away pays nothing at
all?

As Harvard economist Richard Musgrave put it:

"The duty to pay taxes, or the power to tax, is among the most tangible of all
links between the citizen and society. The struggle to overcome arbitrariness in
taxation was one of the early objectives of constitutional government; and the
setting of tax maxims provided a means of defining the status of the individual
in the social compact."

Surely, no government that calls itself progressive would dare to make one
social compact with the settled wealthy, and a watered down one with people in
new suburbs.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


