                              289 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               The Jerusalem Post

                           September 4, 2003 Thursday

It's all take and no give

BYLINE: Judy Siegel-Itzkovich

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1124 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Finance Ministry offers no support to Jerusalem's voluntary
hospitals, yet it is quick to tax these institutions. Judy Siegel-Itzkovich
reports


In an annual late-summer ritual, Health Ministry officials make a pilgrimage to
the Treasury, hat in hand, to close the yawning gap between the financial needs
and means of the state-owned hospital system. This is usually preceded by Clalit
Health Service officials entreating the ministry for help in overcoming its own
deficits.

But directors of Jerusalem's hospitals - the Hadassah Medical Organization's two
Hadassah University Hospitals, Shaare Zedek Medical Center and Bikur Holim
Hospital - have no "Big Daddy" to turn to. Their workers are not on the
government payroll; management must pay a hefty 4% employers tax, pension
deductions, malpractice insurance, VAT and other levies that the Treasury covers
for its state hospitals. Established by voluntary organizations decades before
the founding of the state, Jerusalem's voluntary hospitals are forced to turn to
foreign donors to cover development costs.

Thus medical institutions that provide services to more than 10% of the Israeli
population are ignored by the Treasury and told to "schnor" for the money they
need to maintain, expand and improve services.

Three administrators responsible for the capital's hospitals got their
complaints off their chests at a recent session of the Economic Forum - devoted
to "Medical Economics or Economic Medicine?" and chaired by businessman Israel
Isaacs. The hands-off policy is "convenient" for the government, they said, but
they didn't get much satisfaction. Jerusalem has borne the brunt of suicide
bombings and other terror attacks, the Versaille wedding hall collapse and other
catastrophes, they said, and their staffs rush within minutes to their hospitals
without significant compensation for overtime.

"We are at war - a daily war," said Hadassah Medical Organization
director-general Prof. Shlomo Mor-Yosef. "Everyone who works in a Jerusalem
hospital has to have a special soul to treat people who have been through the
worst, but it still has to be run as an economic institution. The government
takes it for granted that we are supported by charity, so it ignores us, even
though we are a major economic force in Jerusalem's economy. At our hospitals
alone, we employ 5,000 people, and have an annual turnover of NIS 1.3 billion,
getting supplies and services from businesses inside and outside Jerusalem. Some
20,000 to 25,000 people are on our Ein Kerem campus alone each day. But the
government doesn't invest a shekel in us."

Due to the economic and security situation, the health funds restrict the number
of patient referrals to Hadassah and other Jerusalem outpatient clinics,
preferring to treat patients if they can in their own clinics. The dearth of
tourists and the reduced number of non-Jerusalemite Israelis who come to
Hadassah for treatment since the beginning of the intifada three years ago have
taken a toll on the institutions, Mor-Yosef added. Health funds delay payments
to hospitals for treating their members, which compounds the hospitals'
financial state. All this has increased deficits, forcing the hospitals to take
bank loans and make deep cuts.

Seventy-five percent of Hadassah's expenses go to cover salaries; so these costs
can't be reduced except by dismissals. Income is also set, as the government
determines the per-diem hospitalization rate, and a few weeks ago the government
slashed this by more than 10% to help the health funds and reduce health costs.
Mor-Yosef added that Hadassah can increase income only marginally by expanding
parking facilities, offering cosmetic surgery, Lasik surgery to eliminate the
need for eyeglasses, and other treatments not included in the basket of health
services, and by turning staffers' research into profitable enterprises.

Shaare Zedek director-general Prof. Jonathan Halevy told the audience - which
included about 100 leading Jerusalem businesspeople, medical administrators and
physicians - that financial resources to cover a basket set in 1994 have become
completely inadequate. The 4.8% health tax cannot keep up with the constantly
rising costs of vitally needed new medications and technologies. The Shaare
Zedek director-general added that the government's refusal to exempt Jerusalem
hospitals from the employers' tax - NIS 24 million a year for Hadassah and NIS
12 million for Shaare Zedek - constitutes a heavy financial burden.

"The government treats us like stepchildren," said Halevy, asking the
influential businesspeople present to put pressure on the government to
eliminate this expense.

Moshe Cohen, Bikur Holim's administrative director, said his hospital is
constantly pressed for money, as the health funds pay late and, when asked for
funds, restrict referrals of patients to Bikur Holim as a kind of "punishment."

Health Minister Dan Naveh, nearly half a year in office, seemed almost to ignore
the Jerusalem hospital administrators' pleas. "Since 1995, all Israeli
governments have given less and less for health. The basket is getting smaller.
Medical research is declining. This is an ongoing crisis that affects every
country in the world," he said.

Naveh expressed satisfaction about his managing to persuade the Treasury to
increase the basket of health services by NIS 60 million instead of giving
nothing. But this sum is for two years (2003 and 2004) and falls well short of
the NIS 250 million annual increases of previous years. Naveh worried that the
economic crisis would promote different levels of health care for the rich and
poor.

Hinting at the Jerusalem hospitals' complaints that they have to raise money
abroad, Naveh said government hospitals are unable to raise money this way.

"The government comprises the 'friends' organizations' of the state hospitals.
They must beg the Treasury for money." The present year has been very difficult
for the health system," said Naveh, who glumly warned that the situation wasn't
likely to improve in 2004. The minister said he hopes to make major reforms by
turning state hospitals into non-profit medical corporations - a proposal that
goes back more than 15 years but has not yet been implemented. But even then,
financially weaker hospitals would be linked with better-off ones.
"Incorporation is not a magic cure."

Jerusalem Mayor Uri Lupolianski commiserated with the hospital administrators
and citizens of the capital - the poorest big city in the country.

"Many Jerusalemites think twice before they go to the doctor," he said, "and
they don't always purchase the medications they're prescribed. Studies have
shown that the poor are sicker than the rich, and they require more expensive
hospitalization. Wouldn't it save in the long term if funds were invested on
prevention of disease? The government must deal with Jerusalem's unique economic
and health problems."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jerusalem's population has doubled since the Hadassah Women's
Zionist Organization built its Ein Kerem campus 40 years ago, so money must be
raised to expand the hospital's emergency department. (Credit: ARiel
Jerozolimski)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2003 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


