                              288 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The York Dispatch (Pennsylvania)

                            January 13, 2009 Tuesday

Memorial Hospital announces job cuts, hiring freeze

BYLINE: KATHY STEVENS -- The York Dispatch

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 584 words


Memorial Hospital announced 32 layoffs and a hiring freeze Monday as a result of
the downturn in the economy in which more patients are unable to pay for
health-care services.

Fewer patients are showing up at the hospital and those who do are having
trouble paying their bills -- meaning the hospital has to trim where it can, a
hospital spokeswoman said.

In addition to the layoffs, 21 positions have not been filled in the past 60
days and the hospital is taking other steps to cut costs, according to
spokeswoman Josette Myers. Memorial employs about 1,000 people at its 100-bed
facility in Spring Garden Township.

Myers said that prior to the last 12 months Memorial experienced heightened
demand in emergency, obstetrics and outpatient services. But since then, patient
volume at Memorial has decreased 6 percent.

It's a problem hospitals have experienced state- and nationwide as the economic
downturn forces would-be patients to tighten purse strings.

Hospitals nationwide have reported a 40 percent drop in admissions, and a
majority of the facilities reported an increase in the proportions of patients
unable to pay for their care, according to Chicago-based American Hospital
Association.

At Memorial, layoffs were "across the board," including greeters and those
providing ancillary services in radiology and patient care departments, Myers
said.

Other reductions: The hospital also is delaying capital expenditures such as the
purchase of new health care equipment and technology. It also will reduce
operating expenses, including advertising and consulting fees.

Myers said Memorial would also close its specialized Wound Care Center at the
facility. Two of the 32 people being laid off worked at the center, she said.

The volume of the center, which serves about 20 patients, does not justify cost
of the technology required. Current patients will be notified and referred to
other such centers nearby, Myers said.

"While Memorial Hospital finds these measures necessary to ensure that it
remains strong and able to provide York County with a choice for quality health
care, it was a very difficult decision," said Sally Dixon, president and CEO of
Memorial. "Our concern today is for the associates who were affected by the
work-force reduction."

Myers did say the hospital would move forward with plans for a replacement
hospital in West Manchester Township, which is slated for completion in 2013.

No layoffs elsewhere: Officials at Hanover and York Hospitals have said there
are no plans to lay off staff.

Pete Krech, vice president of human resources at Hanover Hospital, said the
hospital is being careful about its financial matters and "keeping an eye" on
expenses connected with staff, patients and supplies.

WellSpan Health -- which includes York Hospital -- is in "hiring mode," with 400
job vacancies that officials are working on filling, said spokesman Barry
Sparks.

"There's no hiring freeze, but we're being cautious in replacing people and
adding new positions," he said. "We're being cautious because of the economic
environment."

Last month, WellSpan announced it had put multi-million dollar renovations,
expansions and new facilities on hold until administrators have a clearer idea
of the economic outlook.

Projects on hold include a $50 million rehabilitation center on Monument Road in
York Township and an expansion of York Hospital's emergency department.

- Reach Kathy Stevens at 505-5437 or kstevens@yorkdispatch.com Staff Reporter
Eyana Adah McMillan contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2009 York Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


