                              295 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                              April 2, 2010 Friday

LGH expansion sign of bright future

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 354 words


Lowell General Hospital's decision to move ahead with its ambitious $95 million
expansion should be seen as a positive economic indicator by area residents.

The project is expected to generate $200 million in local economic impact,
creating nearly 400 construction jobs and about 160 new, permanent jobs at the
hospital.

These are welcome positions at a time when many people, including construction
workers, are scrambling to find work. Hospital officials have promised to use as
many local workers and businesses as possible.

The expansion -- which includes enlarging the emergency and trauma centers and
adding more than 100 new beds and three operating rooms -- will allow more area
patients to have their health needs met in Lowell, which should contribute to
reducing the cost of patient care.

The rising cost of health care is a significant concern nationwide. Costs aren't
helped by the habit some patients have developed of having procedures performed
at Boston medical centers. Many of those procedures are routinely done at
community hospitals, such as Lowell General, for considerably lower cost.

"Every time we keep someone in town, we save the system money," Lowell General
President and CEO Norm Deschene explained during an editorial board meeting at
The Sun.

Saving the system money will result in lower costs for patients and, eventually,
in lower insurance costs. Having procedures performed at a nearby community
hospital also helps patients, family members and friends save the time and
aggravation that a lengthy commute to Boston would demand.

Another sign of the country's impending economic recovery is the fact that
Lowell General is expecting no difficulty in floating bonds to help finance the
project. The hospital has also been busy conducting a quiet fundraising campaign
through which it has already raised $6.5 million. A full-fledged campaign is
expected to begin sometime in May.

LGH's decision to push ahead with its expansion will prove a boon to the Greater
Lowell economy and serve to help to reduce health care costs. The Sun considers
the project to be an encouraging sign of the times ahead.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


