                              296 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             April 9, 2009 Thursday
                                  All Editions

14 employees laid off at Ellsworth hospital

BYLINE: MEG HASKELL OF THE NEWS STAFF

SECTION: Pg. B1

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: ELLSWORTH


Maine Coast Memorial Hospital on Wednesday announced 14 employee layoffs and
unspecified reductions in executive compensation, citing backlogged Medicaid
reimbursements and economic hard times.

The 60-bed hospital's vice president for marketing, Kristin Tardiff, said 12
full-time and two part-time employees were laid off Wednesday morning, effective
immediately. The cuts include positions in administration, laboratory and
clinical services, she said.

In addition, another eight positions that are currently vacant will not be
filled, and some of the hospital's top executives, including Chief Executive
Officer Doug Jones, will take a reduction in their compensation packages,
Tardiff said.

Tardiff declined to provide more specific information about the compensation
cuts. In a recent Bangor Daily News survey of CEO compensation at Maine
hospitals, Jones' annual salary and benefits totaled $310,304.

The cuts are expected to save the hospital about $900,000 a year and are needed
to help it weather the general economic downturn, especially given the state of
Maine's failure to keep up to date on payments from MaineCare, the state's
Medicaid program for low-income and disabled residents, Tardiff said. According
to a recent estimate from the Maine Hospital Association, Maine Coast Memorial
Hospital is owed about $7.6 million in Medicaid funds dating back to 2005.

Gov. John Baldacci and the Legislature have pledged to use federal stimulus
funds to pay off a portion of what is owed to Maine hospitals, but the money is
not yet available.

Though the decision to lay off some of its 700 employees was "heart-wrenching,"
Tardiff said that overall Maine Coast Memorial Hospital, the second-largest
employer in Hancock County after The Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor, remains a
"longstanding and stable hospital" that contributes more than $43 million a year
to the local economy.

mhaskell@bangordailynews.net

990-8291

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Bangor Daily News


