                              304 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                              May 17, 2010 Monday

Montgomery County hospitals battle for prize turf

BYLINE: Danielle Ulman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 712  words


Two Montgomery County hospital systems are battling for the right to build the
county's first new hospital in 30 years.

Supporters of a proposed Clarksburg hospital rallied for their cause Monday,
while about a mile away, the group behind a competing Germantown hospital
proposal released an economic impact report supporting its project.

The two hospital systems - Adventist HealthCare System, which seeks to build the
Clarksburg Community Hospital and Holy Cross Hospital, which wants to build a
facility in Germantown - are  vying for approval from the state, but only one
can win.

Each is looking to receive a certificate of need from the Maryland Health Care
Commission to build the first new hospital in Maryland since 1993. Both endeavor
to serve a growing population that lacks nearby service.

"... [F]rom a health standpoint we think we've put [the hospital] in a place
where there is a very, very large population - the largest in the state without
a hospital - and in an area with a lot of people, but not a lot of jobs," said
Kevin Sexton, president and CEO of Holy Cross Hospital.

Based on the economic impact report by economist Anirban Basu, CEO of the
Baltimore-based Sage Policy Group, the Holy Cross Hospital on the Germantown
campus of Montgomery College has the potential to create 5,700 jobs.

The 93-bed hospital would support 1,100 construction jobs statewide and 3,300
hospital jobs over the next 10 to 15 years. It also has the potential to create
2,300 jobs by putting in place the needed infrastructure for the college's
Science & Technology Park to attract new tenants.

The group supporting Adventist's proposed hospital in Clarksburg, which has
spent nearly a decade working with the community on its hospital and medical
campus, said it has not done an economic impact report.

"It doesn't take hiring a consultant to know that the hospital has not only a
direct effect from hiring but a ripple effect on the community. The more
important thing to do is to make sure the work is done well ahead of time to
make sure that you're maximizing the economic benefits," Rob Jepson, associate
vice president for government relations at Adventist HealthCare System, said.

Advocates for the Clarksburg hospital also rallied Monday because of concerns
that the approval of Holy Cross' project would duplicate service of existing
facilities run by Adventist, like an emergency center in Germantown and its
hospital in Gaithersburg.

"There are serious questions if a hospital is located about a mile from there
about the long-term viability of the emergency center in Germantown," Jepson
said. "We think it makes sense to add services incrementally rather than disrupt
or destroy existing services. "

Adventist would build its hospital on a 60-acre parcel of land in Clarksburg off
Interstate 270, serving a growing region that includes Germantown, Damascus and
Urbana, just over the Frederick County border. The property would include an
86-bed hospital, a skilled nursing-care center, physician offices and an
outpatient facility.

The state is expected to make its decision in early fall, said Pamela Barclay,
director of the Maryland Health Care Commission's Center for Hospital Services.

On Thursday, the commission will meet with both hospital groups to discuss
procedures for an evidentiary hearing on the proposals, when the commission
would examine issues such as access to care, the need for the project, cost
effectiveness of the alternatives and financial viability, Barclay said.

The commission has asked for input from other state agencies, including the
Health Services Cost Review Commission, which regulates the rates Maryland's
hospitals can charge for services. In a Friday memo from the commission, its
staff said it has concerns about the financial viability of both projects.

"The impending health care and economic environment, coupled with the hospitals'
attempt to finance both a new stand-alone hospital plus a major planned capital
project, presents challenges that are well beyond the realistic ability of the
applicant hospitals," the staff said.

"Therefore, it is the opinion of the HSCRC staff that neither hospital can
prudently and successfully undertake the financing, construction, and successful
operation of a new facility at this time. "

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

