                              299 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                           September 18, 2012 Tuesday

Whither MRP?

BYLINE: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 721  words


The government was supposed to publish the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) of 15
essential commodities in Nepal Gazette Tuesday and the MRP violators would have
come under the ambit of the Black Marketing Act, but it has failed to do so. It
is essential to publish the price list to implement the programme. In any case,
the MRP debate is escalating with some for it and some against. Critics argue
that the government's MRP program promotes carteling and is unbecoming of an
open or mixed economy. Under the circumstances, it is questionable as to whether
MRP would ensure a fair price of the essential commodities. In fact, critics
argue that the MRP would actually serve the interests of the unscrupulous
traders by permitting them to keep the price of the essentials high. Having the
MRP would only make it easier to raise the prices unnaturally. There is general
agreement to the fact that the implementation aspect of the MRP is going to be
difficult. The authorities responsible for enforcing the MRP should be working
overtime and be closely monitoring the market. They should also have the
authority to penalize the offenders on the spot for effectiveness.

What we know is that much of the price rise is due to non-economic factors. The
price of essential commodities has risen because of bandhs and strikes that have
had a telling effect on the production of essential goods and in their
transportation. The price rise can be attributed to them as well as the
prevailing political scenario which is not favourable for economic growth, and
on the other hand which is pushing up the prices of the essentials which the
impoverished people of the country are finding hard to bear. The MRP was
supposed to relieve the burden of the consumers, particularly now that the
festive seasons are fast approaching. Instead, the declaration of the MRP seems
to have backfired. So it is not strange for the consumer activists to term the
move as being a mere publicity stunt. The move is also accused of being against
the open market operations, and furthermore it is also accused of being based on
false price now that the present economic model of the country has changed.

However, there has been a demand for the MRP since long for the consumers have
felt that they had been cheated. It was even imposed six times during the
Panchayat period which had a regressive regime. However, nothing of that sort
has happened since 1982. The world is now moving towards an open economy and the
government's marketing controlling policy should be seen in this light. If
anything, the MRP would allow unscrupulous traders to profit unfairly for the
prices put in the MRP appears to be on the high side benefiting the traders and
allowing for profiteering. Since the maximum retail price has yet to be
published in the Gazette and the slow process is taking place in this regard, it
appears that even the government is not enthusiastic about it and it is taking
its time to enforce the MRP. However, things as they are, it is high time the
government came up with some innovative schemes that would really provide relief
to the consumers reeling from unfair market price hike.

Ward off infection

That the Paropakar Maternity Hospital did not provide services for the third day
in a row is indeed a matter of serious concern. The hospital was closed as lab
tests found infections in the operation theatres and the post operation wards,
among other places. Several patients became seriously ill from the infections
which required the maternity hospital to close its services and refer the
patients to other hospitals. Its services are provided cheaply in the hospital
and most of the patients who are impoverished are hard put to afford the charges
of other hospitals, particularly those of the expensive private hospitals. This
has left them in a lurch. How the operation theatres and other departments were
infected should be thoroughly investigated. The authorities were supposed to
sterilize the operation theatres every three months. Apparently, this had not
been done properly.

The hospital should do all it can to prevent dangerous infections by sterilizing
their equipment. Meanwhile, the hospital management should be held accountable
for this fiasco and everything possible should be done to see that such
incidents are not repeated in the future.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


