                              302 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            October 11, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Group to pitch hospital to state ;
 Officials visit capital to tout Tenet's plan at Scripps.

BYLINE: By SUSAN SALISBURY Palm Beach Post Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL & BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 643 words


A high-powered group of local government and business officials plans to present
its case today in Tallahassee for a north county hospital on The Scripps
Research Institute's campus.

Tenet Florida wants to build an 80-bed academic and clinical research hospital
on county-owned land off Donald Ross Road in Palm Beach Gardens in partnership
with Scripps. Tenet would sublease from Scripps.

Palm Beach County Assistant Administrator Shannon LaRocque said the group has a
one-hour meeting scheduled with Elizabeth Dudek, who heads the Florida Agency
for Health Care Administration. AHCA permission is required for new hospitals.

"It is important to enforce the concept with respect to it is not just a
hospital, it is an academic medical research center," LaRocque said.

Tenet spokeswoman Shelly Weiss said the group will outline the project and
preview the Certificate of Need application to be submitted this week.

The meeting with AHCA is standard practice for health care companies, Weiss
said.

Jupiter Medical Center Chief Executive OfficerJohn Couris, who plans to
challenge the application, said he met with Dudek in September. He sees Tenet's
plans as a "market grab."

Couris said that Palm Beach County already has too many hospital beds, an
opinion supported by Treasure Coast Health Council data that showed occupancy
rates of seven area hospitals. From June 2010 to June 2011 they ranged from 32.2
percent for Good Samaritan Medical Center to 77.9 percent for Jupiter Medical
Center.

"My point is very simple, and we haven't wavered. We do not need 80 beds put in
a new location," Couris said.

Tenet officials have said the 80 beds would come from three of its existing
hospitals in the region: St. Mary's, Palm Beach Gardens and Good Samaritan
medical centers.

LaRocque said she wants to educate Dudek about the vision of local and state
officials to transform the county with large investments in bioscience and
developing 8 million square feet devoted to it.

"We are still working hard to develop that vision. It was always understood we
would have an academic medical research center," LaRocque said.

Between the Max Planck Florida Institute and Scripps, the county and state have
invested close to $1 billion, LaRocque said, adding, "It was never just about
Scripps."

Others scheduled to attend include Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center CEO Mike
Cowling; Harry Orf, Scripps vice president for scientific operations and
chemistry professor; Florida Atlantic University President Mary Jane Saunders;
and nursing home entrepreneur Elizabeth Fago.

The county's Office of Economic Development predicted the hospital would have an
economic impact of $402 million over the first five years, create 250
construction jobs for two years and once completed, employ 250 to 300 people.

Kelly Smallridge, president and CEO of the Business Development Board of Palm
Beach County, said Monday that the BDB has not taken a position on the hospital
yet because it just received the economic impact study Thursday.

"I really would like to see that there is a compromise or agreement between all
parties involved," Smallridge said.

However, the BDB endorses the concept, she said.

Couris said the economic impact study did not take into account the impact a new
hospital might have on other hospitals.

There is only one license type for acute care hospitals, and there is no
separate category for research or teaching hospitals. Existing hospitals could
work with Scripps, as Jupiter Medical Center is already doing, he said.

"We are ready, willing and able to work with Scripps. We support the
biosciences," Couris said.

Jupiter Medical and other hospitals in the district have 21 days to respond to
the application. The state has until Dec. 9 to rule.

Whoever is on the losing end typically goes to court, Couris said. The process
could take two to three years.

~susan_salisbury@pbpost.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


