                              297 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     June 17, 1999, Thursday, Metro Edition

BUSINESS IN BRIEF;
 ATLANTA;
 Study: Hospitals packing more economic impact

BYLINE: From staff and wire reports

SOURCE: Constitution

SECTION: Business; Pg. 8E

LENGTH: 430 words

Georgia's hospitals had a $ 25.6 billion impact on the state's economy in 1997,
up more than $ 1 billion from the year before, according to a Georgia State
University report released Wednesday. The impact figure combined direct hospital
spending with the ripple effect of those expenditures, plus economic
contributions from households with members employed directly or indirectly by
hospitals. Georgia hospitals and health systems employ more than 130,000. The
1997 figures are the latest available from the state. The report was compiled by
the Economic Forecasting Center at Georgia State and commissioned by GHA, an
association of Georgia hospitals. GHA's president, Joe Parker, noted that the
state's hospitals have endured Medicaid cuts and are now dealing with an
estimated $ 1.9 billion reduction in Medicare spending over five years.

Southern launching new bid for Cajun Electric
Southern Co. and a rival bidder for Cajun Electric Power Cooperative will revive
competing plans to buy the bankrupt electric utility next week following the
failure of a settlement proposal. Southern and partner Northern States Power Co.
had accepted the settlement proposal that would have allowed them to buy the
assets of the Louisiana wholesale cooperative for $ 975 million. Southwestern
Electric Power of Baton Rouge, La., declined to say whether it had accepted the
plan, which would have allowed the rival bidder to buy and resell some of
Cajun's power. A mediator said three of 21 parties to the 3-year-old bankruptcy
case had rejected his proposal but declined to name them. A judge will consider
renewed proposals from the two rival bidders Tuesday.

TECHNOLOGY
Amazon.com teams with auction house
Amazon.com and Sotheby's said Wednesday they're teaming up to sell sports
memorabilia, coins and other collectibles on a new site called sothebys.
amazon.com. Amazon.com also announced a $ 45 million investment in Sotheby's.

ALSO NOTEWORTHY
Intertape Polymer Group of Canada said it will close its Augusta bag plant by
September, affecting 89 employees. Thirty will lose their jobs immediately.  ...
Rowe Cos. agreed to acquire Atlanta-based Storehouse Inc. furniture stores for $
12 million in cash. ...  The San Francisco Chronicle, one of the country's last
family-owned newspapers , went on the block Wednesday along with other Chronicle
Publishing Co. holdings --- a package worth an estimated $ 2 billion. ... Cable
mogul Paul G. Allen will make a $ 100 million investment in Oxygen Media, the
start-up cable and Internet company devoted to women.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 The Atlanta Constitution


