                              300 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                             May 2, 2012 Wednesday
                                  WEB Edition

Endangering Pa.'s health and prosperity

BYLINE: By Carolyn F. Scanlan

SECTION: NEWS; P-com Opinion; Pg. WEB

LENGTH: 525 words



In proposing his state budget for the coming fiscal year, Gov. Corbett
emphasized the need to 'sort through the must-haves and the nice-to-haves, and
compress government into its core functions. ...&rdquo; He went on to note, 'If
we believe in society, we must accept that we have a duty to care for and
protect those among us who cannot fend for themselves.&rdquo;

Sadly, though, the governor's budget proposal does not match this rhetoric. In
fact, his spending plan would weaken the health-care safety net for the most
vulnerable among us.

By cutting funding for community-based services for those who have health
conditions that prevent them from working or obtaining health insurance, for
example, the budget would force more people to go without care or turn to
hospital emergency rooms for the care they need.

The commonwealth's hospitals are already accepting the responsibility to care
for people without health coverage every day. They are providing $310 million
worth of uncompensated medical care in Southeastern Pennsylvania every year.

Repeated cuts

Under the governor's budget, Pennsylvania hospitals would face a $146 million
cut in Medicaid reimbursements next year, even though the current rates amount
to 17 percent less than the cost of the care they are providing. By cutting
these payments for low-income patients, the budget would undermine all
Pennsylvanians' access to health care. Hospitals will be less able to absorb
increases in uncovered care and therefore to sustain the services other patients
count on.

This budget proposal comes on top of the governor's current-year austerity
measures, which reduced payments to hospitals for obstetric, neonatal, burn, and
trauma care. The state funding cuts also would compound a likely 2 percent
decrease in Medicare hospital payments as a result of an impasse over the
federal budget deficit in Congress. And yet another $9 billion in payment
reductions are expected to be absorbed by Pennsylvania hospitals due to federal
deficit reduction and the health-care reform law.

Economic threat

All these reductions in payments to hospitals also jeopardize another of the
governor's stated priorities: creating 'the kind of jobs that produce real
prosperity.&rdquo; Hospitals and health care have been among the state's most
stable sectors for employment, even throughout the recent recession. In
Southeastern Pennsylvania, hospitals support one of every 10 jobs and generate
nearly $30 billion a year in economic activity. As of last year, however, nearly
a third of the region's hospitals were losing money.

To sustain Pennsylvania's fragile economic recovery and to serve those who need
health care, the state budget should protect hospital payments, not reduce them
further. The legislature should reject the governor's proposed budget and craft
a plan that actually achieves his very worthy stated goals: to protect the
economy as well as those who cannot fend for themselves.

Carolyn F. Scanlan is president and chief executive officer of the Hospital and
Healthsystem Association of Pennsylvania.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


