                              305 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        Tribune-Review (Greensburg, PA)

                           February 24, 2005 Thursday

Hospital reports financial, personal growth

BYLINE: Michael Cope

LENGTH: 463 words


Administrators at Highlands Hospital in Connellsville reported institutional and
economic growth Wednesday during an annual meeting with the board of directors.

Michelle Cunningham, chief executive officer, said an influx of new physicians
and health groups will continue to increase patient admissions throughout the
next fiscal year.

The expanded staff at Highlands Hospital includes Dr. Rachel Fasson, a graduate
of Connellsville Area Senior High School, who will begin scheduling patients in
September.

"We are really excited about (Fasson) because she is a local girl with ties to
the community," Cunningham said. "She will be a nice addition to our medical
staff."

Additions to the emergency room staff include Dr. Murty Ganti, director of the
department, and Dr. David Lemonick, a staff physician who returned to Highlands
Hospital after 12 years of working at other area hospitals.

Psychiatric Care Systems Inc., led by Dr. Oscar Urrea, is the hospital's new
behavioral psychology group, and the Pittsburgh Heart Group will assume control
of cardiology.

According to John Andursky, chief financial officer, the added physicians and
medical groups are a direct contributor to the hospital's increase of patient
admission, which is up 7 percent from last year to 2,930. The increase reflects
an 11.9 percent jump in surgical admissions.

"Inpatient volumes continue to grow as a result of additions to the medical
staff," he said.

The hospital also received 14,475 emergency room admissions last year, which is
up 5 percent.

Andursky also highlighted the economic impact of the hospital and its 350
employees on Connellsville and surrounding areas. Highlands Hospital spends a
total of $13 million for salaries, benefits and staff services, which translates
into $27,192,000 of local spending, according to the U.S. Department of
Commerce.

"With other spending factors included, the total benefit to the region's economy
is $51,169,000," he said.

Cunningham also announced the addition of new lab equipment to Highlands
Hospital, including two general chemical analyzers and an immunology analyzer.
The fitness center received three new exercise devices funded by proceeds from
the 15th annual Highlands Hospital Golf Outing. The fund-raiser also paid for
televisions in the emergency room.

New services provided by the fitness center include reflexology and various
styles of massage.

"If any (doctors) have a patient who needs stress relieved, they can refer them
to the fitness center," Cunningham said.

Upcoming benefits for the hospital are scheduled for May 26, the annual Francis
"Bud" Murphy Memorial Race; and Aug.15, the 16th annual Highlands Hospital Golf
Outing. This year, the outing will pay for new patient beds that include scales
and other special functions.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2005 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


