                              313 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                              July 19, 2010 Monday
                                 Mersey Edition

Shortlist of bidders for new Royal Hospital revealed

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 327 words


A SHORTLIST of bidders vying to build the new pounds 451m Royal Liverpool
Hospital has ben unveiled by health officials.

They announced three companies will be going through to the next stage in the
building process.

The shortlisted bidders are Balfour Beatty, The Hospital Company and Horizon.

Chief executive Tony Bell said: "We are delighted to have such a strong group of
bidders and are looking forward to working with them.

"It is very important for us to make sure we identify the best-possible
construction partner, so the people of Merseyside and beyond have a new hospital
of which they can be proud."

Over the next few months, the bidders will work on their plans with the Trust.

Within a year, the hospital will have chosen a preferred bidder for the new
hospital.

Approval will then be gained from officials at the Department of Health and
local NHS partners.

It is expected that work will begin on the new hospital in 2012.

The project would create a brand new hospital with single, en-suite rooms
throughout, a garden the size of Albert Dock and a separate Accident and
Emergency entrance.

The project was put in jeopardy after the coalition Government announced it was
reviewing all plans approved by the Labour administration since January.

It was feared bosses would have to wait until October before any final decision
was made.

But last month Danny Alexander, the Lib-Dem Treasury chief secretary, announced
it would go ahead.

Andrew Lansley later said officials believed a new Royal would prompt economic
growth in the city.

He said: "This was a project which was viable and it was a necessity from the
point of view of the NHS trust.

"This hospital is clearly one which can make economic growth, and this is an
opportunity to go beyond what is currently here."

He added: "The Royal Liverpool Hospital is a place where we can have leading
science, along with leading engineering, and that is important for economic
growth."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2010 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


