                              311 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Financial Post (Toronto, Canada)

                     July 29, 1997, Tuesday, DAILY EDITION

An early start needed to learn economic A-B-Cs

SECTION: SECTION 1, NEWS; Pg. 18, Opinion

LENGTH: 479 words


The Ontario government's decision to close about a dozen hospitals in
Metropolitan Toronto has fomented so much public anger that provincial Health
Minister Jim Wilson now has a bodyguard. Clearly, Wilson's opponents are not
calmly considering the economic backdrop to the closings -- the province's need
to reorganize its health-care operations, both to contain costs and provide
better service. Ontario is way behind most other provinces on hospital
restructuring, but it's an issue fraught with emotion.

What's the answer to getting a more sensible public debate on this and other
controversial policy issues? The Canadian Foundation for Economic Education says
it would help if our school system taught economics to all students at an early
age. Then, as adults, they might exhibit more rationality.

There is certainly a whole world of economic misunderstanding out there. The
issue of government deficits, for example, has tended to stultify the popular
mind. Most governments are now cutting spending, but by necessity, not because
of wide public pressure to do so. Yet there are still high-pitched voices
calling for ''the maintenance of a caring society'' by spending and borrowing
more. If these economic Luddites had a better base for understanding the
consequences of ballooning deficits, they'd realize that interest payments on
too-high government debt could consume most of the funds they want to spend on
''a caring society.''

Business is also calamitously misunderstood. Many Canadians are outraged, for
example, by the $1 billion or more of annual profit earned by some big Canadian
banks. But few critics seem to understand that the size of the profit must be
related to the size of the bank -- it takes at least $18 billion of equity to
make $1 billion of profit. NDP politicians also howl about the billions of tax
dollars that big businesses allegedly owe to Ottawa. For evidence, they point to
''deferred taxes'' on corporate balance sheets, not realizing this entry has
nothing to do with taxes owing.

In most Canadian school systems, economics is an optional subject at the end of
secondary school. The Canadian Foundation for Economic Education believes basic
economics should be taught as early as elementary school. Of course, it would be
laughable to try teaching the Laffer Curve to eight-year-olds. But they could be
taught some basics about how to manage pocket money, and at an older age how to
examine a family's finances. These subjects needn't even be taught separately.
Economic fundamentals could be imparted through less intimidating subjects such
as mathematics and social studies.

To be sure, wider-based economic education won't calm every protester who is
angry at a hospital closing or a cut in some other government program, but it
could help bring some much-needed reason and balance to public debates.


LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                       Copyright 1997 Financial Post Ltd.


