                              322 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                               Market Rasen Mail

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Would a national centre for rural health and care help recruit NHS staff?

LENGTH: 295  words


The trust behind hospitals throughout Lincolnshire is to use the county's rural
nature as a selling point in a fresh recruitment drive.

United Lincolnshire Hospitals NHS Trust (ULHT) has partnered with Lincolnshire
Economic Action Partnership (LEAP) to work towards creating a national centre
for rural health and care.

David Rossington, from LEAP, a body which pursues economic development
initiatives, said: "This is a big and exciting initiative.

"Lincolnshire is not only one of the biggest rural areas in England, it also has
one of the largest and most dispersed rural populations."

ULHT says rural areas suffer in terms of recruitment as new staff can choose to
work for bigger hospitals. It has vacancies for 318 nurses, 38 consultants and
92 for other grades of doctor.

The centre will aim to help overcome staffing challenges by promoting the
benefits of working in rural hospitals.

ULHT and LEAP have commissioned research led by Rose Regeneration, an economic
development business which works with communities and businesses, as part of
this process.

Chief executive of ULHT Jan Sobieraj said: "Lincolnshire has the potential to
build on its rural assets.

"While there are similar national and international initiatives to tackle
workforce issues, particularly in rural areas, there are no well-known centres
that bring together a range of disciplines and business opportunities around the
provision of rural-based health and care."

"We are working closely with healthcare providers, local authorities, the
Lincoln Institute for Health and businesses to understand what the centre could
achieve."

Mr Rossington said: "We recognise the challenges this centre is seeking to
tackle and how rural can be turned into a strength in the recruitment and
retention of staff."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MMRP


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


