                              327 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                            March 2, 2016 Wednesday

All economic indicators belie government claims: Elahi

BYLINE: M RAFIQUE GORAYA

SECTION: Vol. 52 No. 62

LENGTH: 559  words


Pakistan Muslim League (PML) senior central leader and former Deputy Prime
Minister, Chaudhry Parvez Elahi has said that every claim of govt about economic
growth has proved false and all economic indicators are going against the
government.

He was talking to party leaders regarding reorganisation and to the journalists
at his residence. He said "foreign debt in the present rulers' tenure has
already doubled to the record level of $66 billion whereas during our tenure
Pakistan was the only Asian country which had succeeded in getting out of
shackles of the World Bank after repaying all its debt. Every Pakistani is under
debt of Rs0.1 million, Nawaz Sharif has even placed coming generations of
Pakistan under debt", he added.

He said even foreign investment has been reduced to half as compared to
Q-league's tenure. Last year only $2.6 billion foreign investment was made.
According to the Economic Survey Report growth rate of present govt is only 4.2
per cent which was 7.8 per cent in 2007, today dollar is Rs106 whereas it was
Rs61 in 2007, poverty and unemployment have increased so much that the govt has
stopped publishing ratio in the Economic Survey Report which was 60 per cent in
Survey Report 2014. It was even less than 20 per cent in 2007 during our tenure
when 10 million people had crossed poverty line.

Responding to a question regarding oil prices, Chaudhry Parvez Elahi said during
our tenure oil prices in the international had risen to record level but we kept
price hike under control; today despite record reduction in oil prices, price
hike is increasing further, as such the govt claim is just a white lie that
economic indicators are going in its favour.

About new report of Transparency International, he said journalists know that
Adil Gilani is their personal servant and these reports are prepared at Raiwind.
Describing Health Card scheme as a bigger drama than Mobile Heath Unit, Chaudhry
Parvez Elahi questioned as to where were Mobile Health Unit, Sasti Roti and
other show off schemes? He alleged that PML_N leaders intend to shower favours
on the private hospitals of N-Leaguers because if they give Health Card to the
govt hospitals then neither medicines will be available nor bed because they are
advertising to lease out failed govt hospitals on contract.

He said out of Rs24 billion allocated to health sector in the provincial budget
only Rs3 billion have been spent so far. Lahore High Court has remarked that the
Punjab Govt is not paying any attention to health sector; entire funds are being
spent on Orange Line train.

He said all mega health sector projects which his government had started had
been scrapped, about four thousand patients had expired due to Wazirabad
Cardiology Hospital being continuously non-functional, free medicines are not
being provided in govt hospitals. He said so much so that donations are being
asked for 1122, Shahbaz has not held any meeting regarding rescue service after
2010, heart patients get one year late date from Punjab Institute of Cardiology,
four children are lying on one bed in Children Hospital, neither incubators nor
ventilators are available in the hospital, Describing the party's reorganisation
campaign as quite satisfactory, Chaudhry Parvez Elahi said that circumstances
are changing speedily, people will return to the fold of PML-Q with motorway
speed.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


