                              328 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Philadelphia Inquirer

                    September 18, 2005 Sunday CITY-D EDITION

A $4 billion growth spurt;
Hospitals, a vital economic force, have stopped downsizing and started huge
expansions.

BYLINE: By Josh Goldstein; Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E01

LENGTH: 1262 words


Construction cranes tower over West Philadelphia, where Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia is in the midst of a $1.2 billion expansion. In Chester County, a
building across from Paoli Memorial Hospital has been demolished in preparation
for the construction of a new wing. And in South Jersey, Virtua Health is
preparing to build a $300 million hospital on Route 73.

After more than a decade of closures and consolidation, area hospitals are
experiencing a building boom. In all, more than $4 billion is pouring into
projects across the region.

Their total cost is more than twice the combined bill for the Convention Center
(including its planned expansion), the National Constitution Center, and the
Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts.

In some cases, the boom reflects the added market power of some of the region's
best-known names in health care, as other institutions have struggled to
survive. Even as Children's Hospital has won clinical acclaim and financial
success, Medical College of Pennsylvania Hospital, in the city's East Fall's
neighborhood, closed this spring after years of financial turmoil.

But a more powerful force is also at work. As the first wave of baby boomers
begins to retire, many hospitals in the region are expanding to cope with an
anticipated surge in patients. Whether it's new hips, cancer care, or heart
surgery, the over-55 crowd needs more care.

Besides construction jobs, the building boom promises to add thousands of
permanent, well-paying jobs to the health-care sector, which already serves as a
pillar of the region's economy.

"It is a tremendously positive part of our economy, one that is really the
engine for growth in the city and the region," said City Commerce Director
Stephanie Naidoff, of hospitals and health care.

Growth in the hospital sector also attracts other businesses to the region,
including drug companies, Naidoff noted.

The academic medical centers have the scientists, clinicians and patients that
help lure pharmaceutical companies to the region to tap their expertise and
ability to conduct clinical trials.

Children's Hospital is a prime example. When construction is completed in 2012,
it expects to have added 50 hospital beds to its current 390, increased its
operating budget $465 million a year and hired nearly 3,000 full-time workers.
To make room for more patient care, it announced last week that it would shift
300 administrative workers to offices in Center City.

Among the planned improvements:

A new cardiac-care center that will include an intensive-care unit and
noninvasive monitoring of heart patients;

Expanded and modernized research laboratories; and

A cancer-care unit with radiation-therapy facilities and a proton-therapy center
being developed jointly with the University of Pennsylvania Health System.

While health care is a key area of economic strength for the region, some
economists caution that there are inherent limits on the sector.

Most patients served by hospitals - and the money to pay for their care - come
from the area. Moreover, academic medical centers, such as those that dominate
the Philadelphia area, cost more.

"To become an exporter of health care you have to become more and more
specialized and expensive," said Alan Sager, a professor of health economics at
Boston University. The high cost of such super-specialized care "hits home at
everyone who needs or pays for it."

Still, with the decades-long decline of manufacturing, many view health care and
related life-sciences businesses as the region's best hope for sustainable
growth.

Area hospitals draw billions in federal dollars to the region from Medicare and
Medicaid as well as funding for medical education and research.

And in Philadelphia, where high taxes and other barriers to business make it
difficult for many companies, nonprofit organizations can flourish in the city,
said Steven M. Altschuler, president and chief executive officer of Children's
Hospital. "That is why hospitals and universities are critical to the economy of
the city and the entire region."

Health care and education are linked here through the doctors who staff the
medical centers and simultaneously serve as faculty at the five area medical
schools.

In the eight-county region, health care - anchored by the hospitals - is the
largest employer with 375,666 workers or nearly 15 percent of all the
nongovernment jobs here, according 2002 economic data from the U.S. Census
Bureau.

In many area communities, hospitals are the largest employers. They are often a
key source of business for other companies, from those that provide supplies and
other direct support to those such as dry cleaners, restaurants and coffee shops
that health-care workers frequent.

A significant amount of a hospital's spending stays in the area. Between 70
percent and 80 percent of the $1 billion Children's Hospital spends on its
operations each year goes directly into the local economy in the form of wages,
supplies and services, Altschuler estimates.

Although many hospitals are nonprofits, the income taxes paid by workers and
sales taxes by the institutions swell state and local coffers.

Philadelphia's total tax revenue derived from the activities of Children's
Hospital alone should grow from $27.1 million this year to $35.2 million in
2012. The state should see its tax revenue related to the hospital expand from
$73.5 million in 2005 to $111.4 million in 2012, according to an economic impact
assessment commissioned by Children's Hospital.

Additional money flows from Children's Hospital - and other academic medical
institutions - into the local economy from the research activities of affiliated
doctors and scientists.

The University of Pennsylvania alone attracted $464.1 million from the National
Institutes of Health last year - a significant part of the nearly $1 billion the
government sent to the region for funding medical research.

But how big can the health sector grow?

"Ultimately the question is, can the rest of the economy support the continued
growth in the hospital sector?" said Steven Foreman, a health-care economist at
Robert Morris University near Pittsburgh.

"Health-care spending - whether by Medicare, Medicaid or commercial insurance -
is paid for by workers and employers through insurance premiums and tax
dollars," Foreman said. With the current round of hospital expansion "you are
committing the community 10 years from now to bearing the burden of the costs
related to these expenditures."

After the closure or conversion of 15 hospitals in the last decade, however,
some view the expansion of area hospitals and health systems as a boon.

"Health care is one of the very few sectors in this region that competes on a
global basis, and I would argue that this sector is critical to the economic
social vitality of this region," said Andrew Wigglesworth, president of the
Delaware Valley Healthcare Council, which represents local hospitals.

Philadelphia boosters also say that world-reknowned institutions such as
Children's Hospital, the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, and Fox
Chase Cancer Center boost the reputation and appeal of the entire region.

"There is also a more indirect quality-of-life factor that is important,"
Naidoff said. "Having such an influential and impressive sector that is growing
and presents opportunities for high-paying jobs makes the entire region more
attractive."

Contact staff writer Josh Goldstein at 215-854-4733 or jgoldstein@phillynews.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2005 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


