                              329 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                             August 24, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Experts weigh in on medical school's job, economic effects

BYLINE: Mary Ann Roser maroser@statesman.com American-Statesman Staff

SECTION: MAIN; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 849 words


Is a forecast of 15,000 jobs and $2 billion in economic activity a year too
sunny for a medical school, teaching hospital and research facility in Austin?
Or is it on the money?

State Sen. Kirk Watson has touted those numbers for much of the past year and
spotlighted them at a news conference Thursday, releasing a six-page report
prepared by Jon Hockenyos, president of an economic analysis and consulting firm
in Austin. Hockenyos said his research is the genesis of those numbers, and he
came up with them about two years ago.

"We have the opportunity to truly be a contender ... in competition with regions
from Houston to Hong Kong," Watson, D-Austin, said at Austin Community College's
Eastview campus. He was referring to the biotechnology and life-science
industries - which can include pharmaceutical and medical device firms - that he
expects to spin off from a medical school in Austin.

But economic development experts said having a medical school, teaching hospital
and research center is no guarantee that Austin would see that amount of new
jobs and economic benefit.

"It depends on the size of the medical school and teaching hospital" and how
much public funding they attract for research, said Ross DeVol, chief research
officer at the Milken Institute, a Santa Monica, Calif.-based company that does
a variety of economic analyses. "It does take decades to have that type of
return on a medical school and teaching hospital."

Joe Cortright, president of Portland, Ore.-based Impresa, which specializes in
regional economic analysis, innovation and industry clusters, thinks the public
should take the numbers Watson trumpets with a heavy dose of skepticism. Most of
the nation's largest cities have a medical school, teaching hospital and
research facility, but only nine areas have sparked enough economic growth to
become biotechnology/life-science hubs, he said. They are Boston; Los Angeles;
New York; Philadelphia; Raleigh-Durham, N.C.; San Diego; San Francisco; Seattle;
and Washington/Baltimore.

"These nine areas account for more than three-fifths of all (National Institutes
of Health) spending on research and for slightly less than two-thirds of all
biotechnology-related patents," a 2002 report he co-wrote says.

"Austin is coming awful late to this dance," he said Thursday.

Hockenyos, who attended the news conference but didn't speak to the crowd, said
he acknowledges it could take 15 to 20 years for the economic benefits he
estimates to be realized.

But, he added, "I think this is the greatest economic development thing in this
community in a long time."

His report quotes a Milken Institute document that says Seattle and Austin
appear poised to be contenders for biotechnology hubs. Based on that, the report
says a medical complex in Austin could spin off life-science industries that
contribute "$340 million in direct new annual activity and about 2,100 new
permanent jobs."

When those jobs are added to new jobs from a medical school, teaching hospital
and research facility, Hockenyos anticipates that 6,900 jobs would be created
and $1 billion in economic activity would result. Further, his report says,
those jobs would create a ripple effect in the community that would ultimately
produce $2 billion in economic activity and 15,400 jobs.

The 8,900 jobs that are not medical or life science-related would be all the
additional workers in the community, from waiters to carpenters to store clerks,
Hockenyos said. Sixty percent of the 15,400 jobs would not require a bachelor's
degree, he said.

The average salary for all jobs, from doctors to waitresses, would be $58,770,
Hockenyos said.

It's not unreasonable that a top medical school could produce 15,000 jobs or $2
billion in economic activity, said Eric Dickerson, managing director and senior
practice leader over health care at the search firm Kaye/Bassman International
in Dallas.

"I can see where those numbers could be realistic, but it's not going to be
overnight," said Dickerson, who studies health care staffing and does
recruiting. Dickerson and DeVol said that although it takes many factors to be
successful, they see strong potential in Austin. It has the resources of the
University of Texas, an entrepreneurial spirit and some research structure in
place.

Those are among the reasons the Milken Institute had cited Austin as a
biotechnology contender, DeVol said.

"It doesn't have the success of growing companies ... and the missing element to
my experience has been the absence of a medical school," DeVol said. "You can't
have a life science center without a medical school."

The Hockenyos study was funded in part by a group Watson helped form to promote
the medical school, HealthyATX. A consultant to HealthyATX said the Seton
Healthcare Family, which plans to build the new teaching hospital, contributed
the bulk of the money for the study.

But Seton executive Greg Hartman said that although Seton has paid for other
work by Hockenyos, the study released Thursday was not one of those projects.

Hockenyos declined to say how much he was paid for his work.

Contact Mary Ann Roser at 445-3619

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 The Austin American-Statesman
                              All Rights Reserved


