                              326 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           November 20, 2004 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Why our hospitals replace fees with queues;
GITTINS ON SATURDAY

BYLINE: ROSS GITTINS. Ross Gittins is the Herald's Economics Editor.

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 852 words


The waiting lists for elective surgery in public hospitals aren't an unfortunate
stuff-up that we're working to fix, they're a design feature of Medicare and
will be with us for the duration.

Some people are shocked when they hear me say that, but to anyone who's studied
a little economics, it's a statement of the obvious. Indeed, you need only to
have absorbed the very first lesson.

State politicians always seek to give us the impression that waiting lists - or,
more meaningfully, waiting times - are an evil they're struggling to overcome
(especially around election time). And if the government's incapable of fixing
the problem, the opposition's sure it can do the trick.

The doctors' lobby groups give us the impression that waiting lists could be
quickly eliminated if only the pollies weren't so mingy and would spend just a
few million more on our hard-pressed public hospitals.

Because many doctors are surprisingly weak on economics (I know from the letters
they send me), they seek to explain waiting lists in terms of too few operating
theatres or too few of particular kinds of surgeons (just so long as the latter
can be portrayed as the product of government tightfistedness, not the college
of surgeons seeking to bolster surgeons' fees by restricting supply).

But while these factors may play a part in the problem, they don't go to its
heart. At its heart it's an instance of what economists call "the economic
problem".

As you learn on day one of an economics course, the economic problem is that our
wants are infinite, but our means of satisfying those wants - our resources -
are finite. That's true for the individual, but also for society.

The whole point of economics is to help the community deal with this "problem of
scarcity" - there just isn't enough land, labour or capital (or, as we've come
to realise, clean air, clean water or biodiversity) in the world to do all the
things we'd like to do.

It's this comparative scarcity that gives resources their price. Only if
something is infinitely available (such as air to breath, as we used to imagine)
does it come without price. And the price of something, no matter how high, is
the right price when it accurately reflects that item's "scarcity value".

It's because resources are scarce relative to all the uses we'd like to put them
to that we have one of the bedrock concepts of economics: "opportunity cost".
Everything we do has an opportunity cost because the resources we use to do one
thing are no longer available to be used to do anything else.

So the opportunity cost of that one thing is the value of the next most
desirable thing you could have done with the resources used.

Economists' primary contribution to society is to help it in its eternal battle
with the problem of scarcity - that is, help it find ways to satisfy as many
wants as possible from the limited resources available. Help it get more bang
for its buck.

Economists' obsession with scarcity explains their obsession with prices
(because prices are meant to reflect relative scarcity) and their obsession with
productivity (finding ways to extract more output from unchanged inputs of
resources) and efficiency (eliminating waste in the use of resources).

OK, back to hospital waiting lists. The thing that makes economists uneasy about
Medicare is its promise of "free" public hospital treatment to all comers. If
something's free it's bound to be used to excess, to be used wastefully.

By charging a price you avoid wastefulness by rationing the availability of the
resources being used. By using price-to-ration access, you ensure that only
people who would really value something will stump up the money to buy it. (But
what if they really want it but simply can't afford it? Economic efficiency's
answer is: tough luck.)

The point is that, because resources are scarce, they have to be rationed one
way or another. And if you don't ration by price, you ration by queue.

If access to public hospitals really was free, state governments would be
writing an open cheque for each of their hospitals. Spending on hospitals would
grow even more rapidly than it already does.

To cover this ever-expanding cost, governments would have either to keep cutting
spending in other areas or keep raising taxes. Because they're most reluctant to
do either, they set a limit on how much they're prepared to spend on public
hospitals each year - a limit economists call "the budget constraint" - and make
everyone wait their turn for elective (non-urgent) surgery.

This gives priority to people with life-threatening conditions who need
operations. And it doesn't just delay everyone's elective surgery. It probably
also causes there to be less surgery than otherwise because some people look at
the queue and don't bother, while some people in the last months of their life
die before they get to the head of the queue.

So waiting lists are deliberate strategy to limit the growth in government
spending on health care. They exist in almost every other country and it's
impossible to imagine a time when governments will cease using them as a crude
way to limit public spending.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


