                              330 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            January 5, 1998, Monday

A healthy prognosis; Healthcare targets Asia

BYLINE: By KATHY LIPARI in Sydney

LENGTH: 382 words


MAYNE Nickless's HealthCare of Australia is mounting an aggressive

drive into the troubled Asian region with plans to quadruple its

investment and become the largest operator in Indonesia.

The managing director of Health Care of Australia, Dr Barry Catchlove,

said yesterday the recent turmoil had opened a number of doors for the

company and would provide opportunities to accelerate its plans.

"We aim to be the biggest private health care operators in Indonesia

within two years and we are also seeking opportunities in India and

the Philippines," Dr Catchlove said.

"The demand for health care in Asia is not likely to be significantly

affected by the recent economic crisis."

The group a division of Mayne Nickless currently has a 250-bed

hospital in Jakarta, a further three hospitals under construction in

Jakarta and Surabaya and another in India through joint venture

partnerships.

About $50 million has been invested in the region to date and Dr

Catchlove said this will be boosted to at least $200 million over the

next four to five years.

He said the turbulent conditions which have seen the Indonesian rupiah

and other Asian currencies fall through the floor in recent times,

would not affect the group and its future projects.

"We have thoroughly reviewed it and the devaluation of the rupiah

obviously has some impact on the value of the dividends we

repatriate," Dr Catchlove said. "However, at the moment on the

construction side we have hedged our financing so we are not overly

concerned."

According to Dr Catchlove the troubled conditions would enable HCA to

capitalise on opportunities.

"Up until now we have not been able to compete in terms of

acquisitions," he said. "If you go back to 1987 when there was a

crash here the people that were able to capitalise on the misfortune

that affected others did very well."

He believed it would still be two to three years before Indonesia and

other Asian countries returned to the economic growth they were

achieving 12 months ago.

HCA is Australia's largest private health concern and the world's

sixth-largest with 35 hospitals, 3570 beds and sales of $720 million.

HCA expects its sales to reach $1.5 billion with Asia contributing 22

per cent of revenue by 2002.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1998 Nationwide News Pty Limited


