                              331 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                            February 2, 2009 Monday

Hospitals hit by downturn

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 440 words


The global recession has driven more than half of wealthy foreign patients
seeking medical care in upscale hospitals out of Thailand, a Bangkok seminar was
told yesterday.

The crisis has also prompted those hospitals to lay off nurses and medical
personnel, said Assoc Prof Piya Natewichien, who represented highend hospitals
at the seminar.

Many luxury hospitals have closed down emergency units to save costs, he said.
However, good management and effective adjustments would make these hospitals
still capable of running their business with minimum risk of shutting down their
operations.

Luxury hospitals at all levels had generated about Bt400 billion each year
through their services for rich foreign patients especially those from the
Middle East, he said.

These patients have sought medical treatment in other counties where the costs
were lower, including India.

The luxury hospitals in Thailand affected most are those designated as Grade A,
because their main source of revenue comes from Arabian patients, while those
designated as Grades B and C have been less affected, because most of their
patients are rich Thais.

Many welloff local patients have also turned to using the services of Grade B
and C hospitals in light of their lower costs.

Wiroj na Ranong, a researcher at the Thailand Development Research Institute,
said local upmarket hospitals would face such a crisis for at least six more
months. And by then, more rich patients will still be seeking fivestar treatment
but not automatically in Thailand, but elsewhere, because they also feel the
pinch of the economic downturn in their countries.

He said the crisis would further prompt middleclass or rich people to seek
treatment in state hospitals - a practice he urged the government to pay special
attention to.

He suggested government hospitals halt their future costly projects and seek
perhead subsidies to treat more patients while the economic situation had not
improved.

Dr Uachart Kanjanaphithak said reductions of medical staff were needed but would
not be practised automatically in the first place. He said other options like
cutting their work hours or duties would be better than making them redundant.

Dr Winai Sawasdiworn, secretarygeneral of the National Health Security Office,
said the gloomy economy had prompted people to save their money for medical care
instead of spending it on everyday life.

He called for a better public health system and welfare benefits, which would
encourage people to spend regularly after they became confident that saving up
for emergency treatment was not needed as much when good stateprovided medical
services were available.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


