                              338 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Washington Times-Herald (Indiana)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           February 25, 2017 Saturday

Hospital opens CORE center downtown

BYLINE: Mike Grant, Washington Times-Herald, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 862 words


Feb. 25--An old retail building in downtown Washington is now a gleaming new
home for rehabilitation, chiropractic and orthopedic services provided by
Daviess Community Hospital.

City, county, economic development, state and hospital officials joined with
hospital staff to cut the ribbon on the new CORE (chiropractic, orthopedic,
rehabilitative excellence) Center on Friday afternoon.

"This is a wonderful addition to the city and the county and it's great that it
is on Main Street," said Washington Mayor Joe Wellman. "It is kind of a
continued revitalization of our Main Street between what has been done with the
theater and this project and the work that has been done up and down the street
has been amazing."

The 18,250 square foot facility will join together several related services and
double the space for rehab offered by the hospital.

"The combination is important," said Daviess Community Hospital CEO David
Bixler. "It enhances the patient experience. We know this facility will be
successful because we have a great team that provides great care."

The $5 million facility includes newly-developed programs, and new equipment,
like a state of the art rehabilitation pool, underwater treadmill and onsite
state-of-the-art x-ray imaging services that officials say will improve the care
for patients.

"We have new services we are are offering here," said Bixler. "Patient privacy
has been enhanced. We have so many quality therapists. Now they have a quality
facility to work in. We have a therapy pool here that we didn't have at the
hospital that's going to be a tremendous benefit for some of our patients. We
know this will be successful. We have a great team that gives great care."

The building was formerly the Tin Lantern, a second hand store. The Daviess
County Economic Development Corporation purchased the building, stripped it down
to the studs and rebuilt it to give the community an improved downtown and
better medical facilities. It also offers a potential attraction to bring new
business and industry to the area, by improving the quality of life, officials
say.

"In any rural community the quality and strength of the medical facilities play
a part in economic development," said President of the Daviess County Economic
Development Corporation Ron Arnold. "That is especially true with larger
corporations. It you want to attract talent, then you need quality health care.
Our goal is to see Main Street become a health and wellness corridor. This
helps. We already have a dentist, yoga studio and chiropractor on Main Street.
We are looking to add more. High-performance health care delivery and economic
development must be joined at the hip for Indiana to advance."

In conjunction with the opening of the CORE center, the EDC, with the help of
the city and county, also demolished some old buildings, created an adjoining
parking lot, a small pocket park and walkway that connects to downtown.

"This is part of an overall effort to improve downtown," said Arnold. "We got
rid of rundown properties and enhanced the parking for the theater and Knights
of Columbus and the CORE Center. We couldn't be happier with the end result and
the user. This shows that Daviess County and Washington knows how to get things
done."

And by getting things done, the city has managed to enhance its Main Street area
with a service that will draw people from all over the region.

"For our citizens now we have a first class modern facility for rehabilitation
and services," said Mayor Wellman. "It's also growing to draw people from the
county and the counties around us who come to Washington for orthopedic and
chiropractic and rehab services."

"The hospital wants to be more than just a place to go when you get sick," added
Bixler. "We think it is real important, and we are here to be a major partner in
our community, and we see this as an opportunity to be that. From an economic
development standpoint, adding this to the downtown is a big plus. Businesses
coming in look at your downtown to see what it looks like when they are looking
at moving a business here and bringing families to be a part of your community."

Officials point out that many communities that have lost their hospitals and
medical facilities are now struggling to develop. The CORE center is expected to
be a big part in getting people interested and involved in Washington.

"It is very gratifying to see this go from a rundown secondhand store to a new
facility for our hospital," said Mayor Wellman. "Wellness is our future. Staying
healthy is what this is about. This is an investment in our community and this
will bring more young people to Washington."

And while the downtown facility might be the crowning new jewel for development
now, hospital officials say they have more plans to enhance facilities and
services in the future.

"We're excited about this project and hopefully it is the start of many others
that are coming," said Bixler. "We have a number of things on the drawing board
that we're excited about."

___ (c)2017 Washington Times-Herald (Washington, Ind.) Visit Washington
Times-Herald (Washington, Ind.) at washtimesherald.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170225-WH-Hospital-opens-CORE-center-downtown-0225-20170225

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WH


                     Copyright 2017 Washington Times-Herald


