                              333 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                           December 3, 2011 Saturday

Overseas workers queue for health job

BYLINE:  Bianca Clare

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 448  words

HOSPITAL FACTS AND FIGURES

 The $150 million Ramsay Health owned private hospital will open with 200 beds
in 2013 with 700 staff and 250 construction jobs

The co-located public hospital will open with 450 beds, growing to 738 by 2021
with 3500 staff and 11,000 construction-related jobs

The private hospital will have single rooms with ensuites with a view to the
hinterland and Lake Kawana

Hospital specialities: orthopaedics, urology, ear, nose and throat, general
surgery, oncology, general and respiratory medicine and day chemotherapy - a
total of eight chairs

IT is still two years before the new private hospital at Kawana opens but
already about 400 people from across the globe are lining up for a job.

The Ramsay Health Care project signals the start of a health and construction
job's bonanza for the Sunshine Coast.

An estimated 15,000 jobs will be generated between now and the opening of the
co-located Sunshine Coast University Hospital and Skills, Academic and Research
Centre in 2016.

Ramsay Health Queensland state operations manager Lloyd Hill said as well as
interest from existing Coast healthcare nurses and specialists, more than 150
applications have been received from outside the region.

"This includes interstate - Sydney, Melbourne and Perth and internationally as
far as Canada, India, Ireland and the United Kingdom.

"We knew that there would be a lot of interest but even we have been astounded
by the number and quality of applications that have been received in a short
period of time and with limited advertising.

Mr Hill said the hospital workforce would serve as a springboard to enliven the
local economy.

"When it opens in December, 2013 the hospital will employ over 700 staff from a
range of disciplines and generate nearly $90 million in new economic activity
for the area," he said.

Mr Hill said the positive effect would be beyond the realm of healthcare, with
the large number of doctors, nurses, allied health, support staff and their
families providing a multiplier effect on nearby housing, restaurants and retail
businesses.

"The economic activity of the hospital will extend well beyond the hospital
walls," he said.

"It will have a trickle-down effect spreading outward to hospital manufacturers,
suppliers, local florists, linen companies and other firms that serve as the
lifeblood of Ramsay private hospitals."

Site preparation work on the private hospital began on the new hospital in
September.

Full construction work is on target to commence in the new year.

The $150 million private hospital will have an initial capacity of 200 beds, six
operating theatres, a day surgery centre, a day chemotherapy unit and an
eight-bed intensive care unit.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


