                              336 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Americus Times Recorder (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 24, 2009 Tuesday

Hospital employees informed of layoffs with letter

BYLINE: Becky Holland, Americus Times Recorder, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 592 words


Feb. 24--AMERICUS -- Sumter Regional Hospital East (SRH) employees were
notified, according to an e-mail that the Times-Recorder received from Troy
Hammett, the hospital's vice president of finance and chief financial officer,
at the request of David Seagraves, president/CEO of SRH, via a letter regarding
Friday's layoffs at the hospital.

The letter, signed by Seagraves, is dated Feb. 20, 2009, and reads as follows.

"Dear Fellow Sumter Regional Employee: It is with great disappointment and
sadness that I must share with you the news that we must again adjust our
staffing through the elimination of a number of positions across our
organization. These reductions are unfortunately a necessary step in order to
bring our staffing levels into closer alignment with the actual patient volumes
we are experiencing at SRH East. Also contributing to this action is our need to
minimize the adverse financial impact the current economic recession is having
on our organization. As I know you must realize, the recession that plagues our
state and nation has had a detrimental impact on our local economy and hospital
as well. We are not alone in this regard. A recent statewide survey determined
that the economic downturn has caused over 60 percent of Georgia's hospitals to
cut staff or consider it with more than a third having reduced services or they
are contemplating such a move. We will all have to do even more with less in
response to these troubling economic times."

Seagraves continued on in this letter to explain the reason behind the
elimination.

"As a result, today we are eliminating a number of full-time and part-time
positions with scheduled work hours being reduced for still other positions.
Affected employees are being notified today and we will assist those who will be
leaving our employment during this difficult transition. They will be allowed to
work their scheduled hours the remainder of this week, provided with severance
packages and certain employee benefits, and given access to free counseling. In
addition, Phoebe Putney Health System, our proposed strategic partner, has
agreed to take applications from SRH employees whose jobs are being eliminated
in Americus. The fact that this additional reduction in force is a necessary
step in our continuing efforts to restore SRH to a stable financial footing does
not make this action any easier. We have been on an extremely challenging path
of recovery since the tornado devastated our hospital and medical community
almost two years ago and now on top of that we are also dealing with the effects
of an economic recession that is impacting our community, our state and our
nation. At this most difficult time I want you to know how much the Board and I
continue to appreciate and value your contributions and your dedication to our
patients."

The letter was signed, "Sincerely, David H. Seagraves, President & CEO."

A number of employees from the hospital, when asked about the letter, including
some in the administrative offices, said they had not seen the letter.

The Times-Recorder will continue to provide information regarding SRH.

To see more of the Americus Times Recorder, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.americustimesrecorder.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Americus Times
Recorder, Ga. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090224-AF-Hospital-employees-informed-of-layoffs-with-letter-0224

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AF


                                 Copyright 2009


