                              334 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             January 5, 1998 Monday
                                  Late Edition

Health Care Australia sees opportunities in ailing Asia

BYLINE: Geesche Jacobsen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 476 words


Health Care of Australia, the private health-care arm of Mayne Nickless, is
considering doubling its investment in Asia because of opportunities arising
from the Asian crisis, the company's managing director, Dr Barry Catchlove, said
yesterday.

The company already has $50 million invested in the region and had planned to
increase that to $100 million in the next two to three years - but would
consider a further doubling of investment to around $200 million, Dr Catchlove
said.

"If the right opportunities presented [themselves] and they were attractive in
terms of price, I don't think the Mayne Nickless board would be concerned if we
doubled our level of investment in the Asian area," he said.

While asset prices had fallen as a result of the Asian crisis, increasing the
attractiveness of investment, demand for private health-care facilities by the
growing Asian middle classes should remain largely unaffected by the crisis.

The current crisis had restricted the capacity of Asian governments to fund
public hospital development, Dr Catchlove said. Governments throughout Asia were
encouraging the private sector to meet the growing demand for health-care
services.

"The demand for health care in Asia is not likely to be significantly affected
by the recent economic crisis," Dr Catchlove said.

HCA and its joint venture partners operate a 250-bed hospital in Jakarta, with
three more Indonesian hospitals under construction. HCA is developing another
private hospital in India and is investigating opportunities in the Philippines.

It announced late last year it had created an executive team to further the
expansion of HCA into an international health-care group.

He said the fall in asset values after the economic crisis had made it possible
to buy existing hospitals, not just develop new facilities.

"Assets that six months ago were priced at prohibitively high levels are now
looking a lot more attractive," he said.

Some Asian investors had overextended themselves and needed to sell existing
hospitals, and HCA would now be able to compete with them.

"Our experience was we could never compete with Asian investors because they
were always prepared to pay a great deal more than we were, because they always
put a greater store on the potential growth in the land value," he said.

He said the company had not paid too much for previous assets in the region,
because it was using land owned by joint venture partners.

"We have got confidence in the economies that we're investing in long term,"
said Dr Catchlove.

The crisis in Asia was providing similar opportunities for "prudent investors"
as the stockmarket crash had provided in 1987, he said.

"The current crisis in Asia should be viewed as part of the normal economic
cycle and demonstrates that Asian countries are subject to the same sort of
economic cycles as industrialised Western countries."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: HCA and its partners run a hospital in Jakarta, and are building
three more in Indonesia. Picture: GILLIANNE TEDDER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 1998 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


