                              332 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                            April 23, 2008 Wednesday

FEZ hospitals to be allowed to run hotels

LENGTH: 350 words


Hospitals in free economic zones will be allowed to run hotels and international
conference facilities as subsidiary businesses, officials said yesterday.

The Ministry of Knowledge Economy said that a revised Designation and Operation
of the Free Economic Zone Act has been drawn up to allow foreign investors to
establish subsidiaries in the hospitality and tourism industries and operate
international conference facilities.

Although the act was revised last year to allow hospitals in free economic zones
to establish subsidiaries, the type of businesses that hospitals would be
allowed to operate was included. Last year, the bill was also eased to allow
businesses more than 50 percent owned by foreign investors to establish
hospitals in FEZs.

Before the bill was revised, only foreign investors were allowed to operate
hospitals in the country's three free economic zones. The three are in Incheon,
Busan/Jinhae and the Gwangyang Bay area. In addition to the three existing
zones, the government is working on designating three more FEZs, one in Daegu or
Gyeongsang Province, one in Gyeonggi or the Chungcheong provinces, and one in
North Jeolla Province.

The Ministry of Knowledge Economy officials said that the change would not only
help residents of surrounding areas to use the facilities, but also attract
medical tourists to the country.

In addition, the revised bill includes the criteria for building casinos in the
free economic zones. According to the new regulations, an investor looking to
build a casino must operate at least three businesses in the hospitality
industry, including hotels, and have invested more than $300 million before
applying for a license to run a casino. The applicant must also have received an
investment-grade or higher rating from at least two credit rating companies or
from a global credit rating firm.

Other changes to the regulations include delegating some of the authority to the
head of a local government, including licensing new plans and changes to
existing plans concerning areas less than 450,000 square meters.

By Choi He-suk

(cheesuk@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2008 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


