                              337 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                           November 06, 2008 Thursday
                                   e1 Edition

Medi-Clinic to keep expanding

BYLINE: Samantha Enslin-Payne Durban

SECTION: BUSINESS REPORT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 298 words


Medi-Clinic is proceeding with new hospitals and upgrades to existing facilities
despite the global economic slowdown.

Louis Alberts, the chief executive, said yesterday: "All expansion projects have
been re-evaluated and those selected for the coming year will go ahead as
scheduled."

He said it was prudent in the current economic climate to reassess capital
spending, but no project had been cancelled. The group would spend R606 million
in South Africa, R32 million in the Middle East and R235 million in Switzerland.

Projects under way in South Africa include the Cape Gate Medi-Clinic in
Kraaifontein, a R278 million hospital with 140 beds. Construction is due for
completion in 2010. The Hermanus Medi-Clinic will be expanded and there are
projects at the Panorama, Sandton and Morningside Medi-Clinics.

Offshore the group commissioned its new City Hospital in Dubai following the
acquisition last October of Swiss hospital group Hirslanden.

Yesterday Medi-Clinic reported a 12 percent decline in earnings to R334 million
for the six months to September due to higher finance charges relating to the
Hirslanden acquisition.

Revenue rose 132 percent to R7.5 billion and operating profit 118 percent to
R1.2 billion, but finance costs of R724 million damped the performance. The
half-year results were not comparable with a year earlier, due to the Hirslanden
purchase.

Group chairman Edwin Hertzog said the decrease in earnings was no surprise.

Hirslanden had performed beyond expectations and bade well for its offshore
growth potential, the group said.

Lizelle Wentzel, a healthcare analyst at Frost & Sullivan, said Medi-Clinic's
offshore operations were becoming increasingly important, with Hirslanden
contributing just less than half of its revenue.

The shares were unchanged at R17.10.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                 Copyright 2008 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


