                              346 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                           November 9, 2016 Wednesday

A local example that state, feds should follow Agreement between Winfield,
hospital shows compromise key to government success

BYLINE: The, Daily Herald Editorial Board

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 414 words


With one of the most contentious election campaigns now in the rearview mirror,
it's heartening to read about government working and compromises reached.

That's the back story for an award the village of Winfield received from the
DuPage Mayors and Managers Conference.

As reported by the Daily Herald's Robert Sanchez, Winfield won the conference's
2016 "Best Innovation" award for an agreement it reached with Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital to provide a yearly $900,000 grant over the
next five years to compensate Winfield for the services it provided the
tax-exempt institution.

The agreement, reached at the end of last year, came after much back and forth
between the village and hospital. In the end, the two agreed on a number between
the $1.4 million sought by Winfield officials and the $500,000 offered by CDH.

"This could pave the way for how municipalities can work with large nonprofit
institutions in the future to help defray costs and generate additional revenue
for their residents," said Mark Baloga, executive director of the conference, of
the "payment in lieu of taxes" agreement that is one of the first in Illinois.

"Our collaboration with the village of Winfield is designed to encourage
economic development while stimulating the village's economy," CDH President
Brian Lemon said in December.

Winfield Village President Erik Spande concurred after receiving the award: "Our
compromise demonstrates that municipalities can work collaboratively with large,
tax-exempt entities to help pay for essential public services and investments in
road maintenance, economic development, public safety and technology."

How refreshing that the two entities -- clearly each side needs the other --
figured out a way to work together. It's an art that is sorely lacking at all
levels of government.

Imagine if our next president could work with the House and Senate in a way
where compromise is reached. It would help douse the flames of dissension that
permeate politics in America today.

Imagine if Gov. Rauner and Speaker Madigan could work together in a way that
moved Illinois into a much healthier financial position, protecting the most
vulnerable while also changing its spendthrift ways.

Yes, Winfield and CDH reaching agreement is not as momentous as a federal
immigration policy change or a state-backed pension-plan compromise, but it does
show on a local level what can be achieved when two sides cement a working
relationship for the betterment of the public.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Central DuPage Hospital on Winfield Road offers world-class medical
care and is now part of Northwestern Medicine. Daily Herald file photo
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a
$500,000 annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help
the village improve its economic health. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000
grant, but the village is seeking a larger amount. Paul
Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage hospital offers world class
medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a $500,000
annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help the village
improve its economic health. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has
offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the village is seeking a
larger amount. Daily Herald file photo On Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are
scheduled to consider a "motion to approve a multiyear donation agreement" with
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital. Paul
Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage hospital offers world class
medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to provide Winfield a $500,000
annual grant to support projects that benefit the community and help the village
improve its economic health. On Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are scheduled
to consider a "motion to approve a multiyear donation agreement" with
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital. Northwestern Medicine Central
DuPage Hospital has offered to give Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the
village is seeking a larger amount. Daily Herald file photo Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000 grant over each
of the next five years to help pay for police, road maintenance and other
services. Paul Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Central DuPage Hospital offers
world class medical care in Winfield's own backyard. Daily Herald file photo
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000
grant over each of the next five years to help pay for police, road maintenance
and other services. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital is offering to
provide Winfield a $500,000 annual grant to support projects that benefit the
community and help the village improve its economic health. Northwestern
Medicine Central DuPage Hospital will give Winfield a $900,000 annual grant over
each of the next five years, Village President Erik Spande said, to help
reimburse the village for police protection, road maintenance and other
services. Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital has offered to give
Winfield a yearly $500,000 grant, but the village is seeking a larger amount. On
Wednesday night, Winfield trustees are scheduled to consider a "motion to
approve a multiyear donation agreement" with Northwestern Medicine Central
DuPage Hospital. Paul Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Winfield will receive a
$900,000 annual grant over each of the next five years from Northwest Central
DuPage Hospital. Daily Herald file photo Winfield has won an innovation award
for an agreement that has Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital giving
the town a $900,000 annual grant over each of the next five years. Daily Herald
file photo Winfield has won an innovation award for an agreement that has
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital giving the town a $900,000 annual
grant over each of the next five years. Paul Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital and leaders in Winfield found an
innovative way to compensate the village for services provided to the tax-exempt
institution. Paul Michna/pmichna@dailyherald.com Northwestern Medicine Central
DuPage Hospital and leaders in Winfield found an innovative way to compensate
the village for services provided to the tax-exempt institution. Daily Herald
file photo Winfield has won an innovation award for an agreement that has
Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital giving the town a $900,000 annual
grant over each of the next five years. Central DuPage hospital offers world
class medical care in Winfield's own backyard.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.


