                              348 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           The Australian (Australia)

                             October 5, 2007 Friday
                           All-round Country Edition

Rudd vows to reform 'finance-crippling' health - ELECTION 2007

BYLINE: Matthew Franklin, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 564  words


KEVIN Rudd has warned that failing to reform the health system urgently will
cripple state government finances and shackle the nation's economic growth.

The Opposition Leader yesterday invoked the reformist spirit of the Hawke and
Keating Labor governments, vowing that if elected he would slash wastage and
duplication between state and federal governments, freeing up billions of
taxpayer dollars.

Mr Rudd also promised to fund more medical training places at universities.

His comments came as a new Australian Institute of Health and Welfare report
showed the commonwealth had reduced its share of public hospital spending
relative to states over the past decade.

Health has taken a central place in political campaigning this week as Mr Rudd
visited public hospitals across the nation to promote his stick-and-carrot plan
to offer $2 billion in grants to states to lift health services or face the
possibility of a commonwealth takeover.

As the tour hit Sydney yesterday, Mr Rudd told a meeting of the Australian
Business Economists that healthcare must be seen as both an economic and social
policy challenge.

''If we do not reform the system, if we don't tackle the preventative health
challenge, if we don't deal with the dysfunctional interaction between the
commonwealth and the states, then the economic consequences for Australia will
be significant,'' he said. ''We'll face higher taxes, deteriorating services and
lower workforce participation.

''The consequences for Australian state budgets will be crippling as the public
health dollar consumes a greater and greater proportion of budgets overall.''

He said poor co-ordination between governments meant public hospital accident
and emergency departments were spending $110 million a year treating
non-emergency cases, which if treated by general practitioners would cost only
$30million.

About 2300 people were in public hospital beds costing $967 a day when they
should be in nursing homes at $100 a day.

A Labor government would eliminate duplication and blame-shifting, saving
taxpayers $900million a year, he said. ''I don't think all the problems lie with
the commonwealth; the states must also accept their responsibility for system
failures.''

Earlier, at Liverpool Hospital in Sydney's west, Mr Rudd promised a Labor
government would find the money to train more doctors after auditing the need
for more doctors and the number of medical students now in training.

The AIHW report, released today, says the federal Government has cut its share
of public hospital funding by 10 per cent over the past decade.

While the actual amount the Government spends on public hospitals has increased
from $5billion to $10 billion over the past decade, it now contributes far less
than the states, which give almost $12 billion.

The report shows the federal Government's share of public hospital funding fell
from 45 per cent to 41 per cent between 1995-96 and 2005-06, while the states'
share rose from 46 per cent to 51 per cent.

A spokeswoman for health Minister Tony Abbott said the commonwealth spent almost
twice as much on health as the state and territories combined, taking into
account its spending on Medicare and medicines as well as its public hospital
funding.

''In 2005-06, commonwealth health spending was $37.2 billion compared to state
and territory funding of $21.7 billion,'' the spokeswoman said.

Nicola Roxon -- Page 12

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


