                              342 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                            Crain's Detroit Business

                                 June 23, 1997

BRINGING HEALTH TO HEALTH CARE

SECTION: Opinion; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 627 words


We've lost count of the legal twists and turns in a business-led fight against
the quest of area hospitals to build new hospitals in growing suburbs.

The Economic Alliance for Michigan, a coalition of business and labor interests,
is usually at the head of the pack, supporting state regulators as they battle
to block hospital applications for construction certificates of need.

The alliance, which includes the Big Three, objects to building hospitals if
empty beds and underused hospitals exist nearby. Why? Because they'll eventually
pick up the tab through fees for their employees' health care services.

The two fights now under review concern a plan by Pontiac Osteopathic Hospital
to build a 112-bed hospital in Clarkston and a 1989 request by Providence
Hospital to build a 200-bed hospital in Novi.

The projects have received a tentative go-ahead from the courts, but more legal
wrangling will have to play out before these dated proposals can clear
regulatory hurdles.

We continue to support state oversight that determines whether an ''unmet'' need
exists to support hospital construction. State regulators decided in 1984 that
no new hospital capacity was needed in Oakland County. Even with population
growth, the shift to outpatient treatment supports that decision.

Understandably, individual hospitals may wish to follow population shifts to
gain or retain market share. But health care, unlike most industries, has a
peculiar market characteristic: Traditional supply-and-demand rules don't apply.
Paying for treatment involves complicated funding structures that combine
private, employer-paid insurance and government-financed Medicare and Medicaid.
Hospitals can charge Medicaid and health insurers capital pass-throughs on top
of fees for medical services to recoup construction costs.

In an interview on Page 37, Pontiac Osteopathic's new CEO, Patrick Lamberti,
says the certificate-of-need process is outdated. Managed care is pushing
medicine into doctor clinics and outpatient facilities and out of the hospitals.
He says POH may not even use its new certificate in Clarkston.  While we agree
that the market is increasingly determining hospital construction, only 20
percent of the Michigan market is under the managed-care umbrella, by the
Economic Alliance's own estimate, compared with more than 50 percent in many
major cities. Also, Southeast Michigan has a high number of managed-care plans
owned entirely or partly by hospitals. What incentive do those plans have in
lobbying against unneeded new construction by their owners?

But we'd like to remind the Economic Alliance: Curbing the growth of health care
costs involves more than blocking hospital construction. Southeast Michigan has
higher-than-average costs because the automakers and others have set a high
standard in negotiating benefits for their unionized employees.  Only in the
past year have the automakers introduced meaningful incentives to push employees
into HMOs and managed care.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 Crain Communications Inc.


