                              349 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            November 11, 2011 Friday
                                 First Edition

KPMG beefs up its health team

BYLINE: Emma Connors

SECTION: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 473 words


KPMG's economics team has poached Henry Cutler, who led the health economics and
social policy team at Access Economics for four years, just as health funding
reforms gather steam. Access was acquired by KPMG's competitor Deloitte in
March. Dr Cutler quit in August and joined KPMG in September.

The loss couldn't have come at a worse time for Deloitte. Hospitals and state
health departments are hanging out a "help wanted" sign as funding reforms
gather steam and consultancies are scrambling to meet demand.

Other recent KPMG recruits include Stephen Gillett, who worked on the
introduction of activity-based funding for hospitals in Hong Kong, and Sue
Collins, who ran 44 hospitals at private health provider Healthscope.

Industry expertise was "the ticket to play" with healthcare customers, Deloitte
national leader life sciences and healthcare, Alan Eckstein, said. Deloitte
might have lost Dr Cutler, but Access Economics, as the largest health economics
practice in the country, had boosted Deloitte's $60 million health sector
practice substantially - it's growing at about 20 per cent a year, Mr Eckstein
said. KPMG is looking for another 10 health professionals to join its health
practice. The firm recently won a tender from the NSW government to do a health
check on its health area districts to determine how ready they are for next
July, when public hospital funds go from being delivered in unallocated "blocks"
to a form of activity-based funding where dollars are linked to diagnostic
related groups.

This is the pointy end of commonwealth health reforms. By mid next year the
Independent Hospital Pricing Authority (IHPA) will set an efficient price for
each hospital procedure and this will guide the funds directed by state and
Commonwealth governments to public hospitals.

Activity-based funding is already in use in South Australia and Victoria, and
the commonwealth has mined the ranks of those with experience in its use to
oversee the transition.

KPMG's lead partner for healthcare, Shane Solomon, for example, was a top health
bureaucrat in Victoria before introducing activity-based funding to Hong Kong
hospitals, and is the chair elect of IHPA. The deputy chair will be Jim Birch,
Ernst & Young's lead health partner and former chief executive of the SA health
department. PwC partner John Walsh is the deputy chair of the National Health
Performance Authority.

Holding these dual roles is both a plus and a minus for firms. KPMG has already
been ruled out of some jobs because of Mr Solomon's position with IHPA - it
cannot work on anything that would be submitted to the new pricing authority,
for example.

While work on coding a national system continues, even hospitals located in
those states already familiar with activity-based funding will have to make
changes to work with the new national funding program.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: KPMG's Shane Solomon, chair elect of the IHPA. Photo: Jim Rice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2011 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


