                              360 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             March 1, 2012 Thursday
                                  ML2 Edition

Six counties in 60 seconds

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 659 words


No deal on hospital tax breaks:

Talks between hospital leaders and consumer advocates have ended in Springfield
without an agreement on a legal standard for hospital property tax exemptions.
Illinois Hospital Association spokesman Danny Chun says the meeting lasted two
hours and was "productive and cordial." Chun says the hospital association wants
talks to continue. But others say talks have failed. They are calling for Gov.
Pat Quinn to stick to his Thursday deadline and authorize more rulings on
hospital tax exemptions. Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle pressed
Quinn to direct the Department of Revenue to resume considering whether
hospitals should be granted or denied tax-exempt status following a 2010
Illinois Supreme Court ruling. The Department of Revenue decides which
institutions are eligible for tax exemptions.

Emanuel touts economic plan:

Saying the city has been mired in a "lost decade," Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel
unveiled a plan he contends is designed to revitalize the metropolitan area's
economy. Emanuel on Wednesday accepted a blueprint called "A Plan for Economic
Growth and Jobs," which was developed by World Business Chicago, the city's
economic development agency. The study promotes 10 goals, among them speeding up
growth in advanced manufacturing, becoming more competitive in transportation,
making the city more attractive as a center for business services and
headquarters, and making it more attractive as a tourist destination. While the
60-page report has lofty goals, it stops short of proposing initiatives. Emanuel
says the city must take bold action and promote the city's strengths to avoid
another decade of lost economic opportunity.

Wanted man arrested:

A 65-year-old man wanted for a 1996 killing outside a Chicago pool hall has been
arrested in California.

The FBI says Giovanni Spiller was arrested last week outside of his home in
Hemet, Calif., and is awaiting extradition to Illinois. Authorities say Spiller
was charged with the killing in December 1996, but fled the following year. He's
believed to have traveled to the Philippines, among other places. Agents found
Spiller after receiving a tip he was living in California, where he was
allegedly using a fake name. The Chicago Tribune reports the tipster called the
FBI after seeing a story about fugitives that featured Spiller.

Ammo tax, guns registry?

An Illinois House committee has approved legislation requiring registration of
handguns and creating a new tax on ammunition. Both bills passed 7-4 Wednesday
and now go to the House floor. Lobbyist Todd Vandermyde of the National Rifle
Association opposes both measures. He says requiring handgun registration would
cost money for law-abiding citizens without affecting people who have guns
illegally. But Democratic Rep. Will Davis of Homewood says registration would
help police track guns that were purchased legally but later sold and used in a
crime. Vandermyde also argued it would be unconstitutional to tax ammunition.
The sponsor disagreed, however. Democratic Rep. Kelly Cassidy of Chicago says a
2 percent tax would raise money for trauma centers in high-crime areas.

Feds push for immigration law:

A federal official is trying to undo part of a controversial Cook County
ordinance that prohibits the jail from notifying them when suspected illegal
immigrants are poised to complete their sentences or post bail. The Chicago
Tribune reports that Immigration and Customs Enforcement Director John Morton
has sent a letter to Cook County Board President Tony Preckwinkle. Morton is
offering to pay the cost of holding inmates until federal agents can pick them
up for deportation proceedings. Morton is a vocal critic of the county
ordinance. The letter follows a suggestion earlier this year by Cook County
Sheriff Tom Dart. Dart runs the jail and has suggested tweaking the ordinance so
that he could alert immigration officials when a violent offender is about to be
freed.

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Paddock Publications, Inc.


