                              355 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                      May 20, 1999, Thursday, Home Edition

Partners for Tomorrow gets a shot in the arm;
 County hospital CEO drafted to lend expertise to local economic initiative.

BYLINE: Peter Scott, Staff

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: Rockdale Extra; Pg. 1JR

LENGTH: 301 words

The man Rockdale counts on to make sure the sick receive proper care has been
asked to monitor the county's economic development.

Nelson E. Toebbe, president and chief executive officer of Rockdale Hospital and
Health System Inc., has been named board chairman of Partners for Tomorrow,
Rockdale County's economic initiative.

As head of the county's hospital, Toebbe managed the 107-bed acute care
facility, home health services, two medical plazas and an after-hours immediate
care center. As head of Partners, he is expected to provide leadership and
vision for growth and economic development in Rockdale, where 43 of the nation's
Fortune 500 companies are located in Conyers.

"We are working to bring new business to the area, but we are also dedicated to
making our existing businesses more successful," said Toebbe.

"Our definition of economic development is very broad," said Toebbe. "We are
also focused on quality of life issues and helping shape our community for the
next generation through leadership, visioning and collaborative efforts."

Toebbe replaces Pete Cornell, who left the economic development group to return
to work in New Jersey.

Partners was founded in 1997 to recruit new businesses to Conyers and Rockdale
County, retain and expand existing businesses and to address county's existing
and future labor and infrastructure needs. More than $ 1.8 million was raised by
local businesses to make the economic venture possible.

Besides Toebbe, four new members have been added to Partners' governing board.
They are: Guy Dabbs, president of Main Street Bank and chairman of the Conyers
Rockdale Chamber of Commerce; Patricia "Pat" Klink, district manager for AT[T]
Glenn Sears, branch manger at John Deere Company; and Danny Stone, manager for
Snapping Shoals EMC.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Nelson Toebbe: "Our definition of economic development
is very broad."

                    Copyright 1999 The Atlanta Constitution


