                              354 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 30, 2017 Monday

Shift to tighter physician-hospital integration is more complex than expected

LENGTH: 842  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 More physicians are contracting with hospitals through different types of
agreements, but the shift to tighter physician-hospital integration is more
complex than expected, according to new research from Rice University's Baker
Institute for Public Policy.





 The Affordable Care Act and changing economic conditions have encouraged an
increase in the integration of physicians with hospitals, or the level of
contractual control hospitals have with physicians. Current research has focused
on the overall trend of tighter integration, but it has not examined the more
granular level of how hospitals transition between integration forms according
to the study's authors.



 The paper, "The Integration and De-integration of Physicians and Hospitals Over
Time," examines trends in physician-hospital integration at 4,727 hospitals
using the 2008-2013 American Hospital Association annual survey data. It
designates four forms of integration based on the type of contractual
relationship a hospital has with physicians from least to most tightly
integrated: independent practice associations, open physician-hospital
organizations, closed physician-hospital organizations and fully integrated
organizations. The paper was co-authored by Marah Short, associate director of
the Baker Institute's Center for Health and Biosciences; Vivian Ho, the chair in
health economics at the institute and director of the Center for Health and
Biosciences; and Ayse McCracken, president of eNNOVATE Health Ventures.



 The researchers examined the overall changes in the number and percentage of
hospitals engaged in varying forms of physician-hospital integration and the
transitions between these integration forms by hospitals over time. Between 2008
and 2013, the share of hospitals with physicians on salary rose from 44 to 55
percent of all facilities. Looser forms of physician-hospital integration, such
as joint contractual networks with managed care organizations, decreased in
prominence, they found. In all, the authors found 1,525 hospital integration
form transitions reflecting a change in the integration form of 1,445 hospitals
between 2008 and 2013. They found 599 cases in which a hospital switched from no
integration to some form of integration between years. The form of integration
with the greatest change is the fully integrated hospitals category, with 710
transitions to fully integrated organization agreements. A majority of this
growth comes from the 550 hospitals changing from no integration to a fully
integrated organization.



 However, the aggregate shift toward tighter integration masks the fact that
many hospitals de-integrated or shifted to less tightly integrated physician-
hospital relationships during this time period, the authors said. Although the
number of hospitals reporting no integration declined by only 110 facilities
between 2008 and 2013, there were 489 cases between these two years in which a
hospital de-integrated.



 "During the time period studied, the optimal direction for hospital-physician
integration wasn't clear for either hospitals or physicians," said Ho, who is
also a professor of economics at Rice and a professor of medicine at Baylor. "It
appears that many hospitals that chose to integrate then de-integrated by 2013."




 The authors elaborated on the complexity of the overall shift to tighter
physician-hospital integration. "When physicians seek hospital employment, they
may expect little change in the way their businesses operate, but shifts in
decision-making authority, transparency, electronic health records and practice
management systems and HR policies affecting practice staff are among the
challenges physicians have to face after integrating with a hospital," McCracken
said.



 Future studies that distinguish between integration types are essential for
setting policies that foster integrated care to improve quality and lower costs,
instead of raising prices and harming patient welfare, the researchers said.
Loose forms of integration that generate more managed care contracts and provide
administrative services could increase utilization and expenditures, with no
improvement in quality or lower costs. Achieving these latter two goals is
likely only with tighter integration, which has features similar to those of
Accountable Care Organizations (ACO) and medical homes, they said.



 "A hospital seeking to participate as a Medicare ACO must build relationships
with primary care physicians (PCP) and will have better control of hospital
referrals if these PCPs are hospital employees," Short said. "Physician groups
that lack the financial and technical expertise to adopt electronic health
records that have increasingly become necessary to obtain higher reimbursements
by public and private payers will be the likeliest source of integration in the
future."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


