                              352 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Business Times Singapore

                             June 15, 2006 Thursday

Keppel taps into China's healthcare market;
Consortium to provide consultancy services to hospital

BYLINE: Crystal Neo

SECTION: SINGAPORE COMPANIES

LENGTH: 509  words


KEPPEL Facilities Management and Operations Pte Ltd (KFMO), part of diversified
Keppel Corp, will head a consortium to provide facilities management, healthcare
and hospital management and consultancy as well as healthcare personnel training
services to Linyi People's Hospital in Shandong, China.

View Keppel's press release

Goh Hai Kok, general manager of KFMO, said the contract marks its first foray
into China's burgeoning healthcare market.

The healthcare management consortium - which includes Alexandra Hospital and SGP
International Management Academy (SIMA) - is the first healthcare-related
alliance supported by International Enterprise (IE) Singapore's International
Partners (iPartners) Programme. Such a move will allow the consortium to seek
opportunities in other hospitals in Shandong before extending the rest of their
services to the rest of China.

Mr Goh said as a leading provider of facilities management services to
healthcare organisations in Singapore, KFMO wants the venture with Linyi
People's Hospital to become a showcase of world-class healthcare standards for
hospitals in China and provide a foothold in the vast market.

'Only 4 per cent of hospitals in China are privately managed at present. As the
Chinese government restructures the government hospitals, this will present
opportunities for the joint venture to offer its services to hospitals in the
rest of China,' he said.

This was one of the joint-venture contracts/MOUs signed at yesterday's 11th
meeting of the Singapore-Shandong Business Council (SSBC), a body to strengthen
economic ties between Singapore and the Chinese province.

The other MOUs signed were between SIMA and Linyi People's Hospital of China;
Singapore Media Academy (SMA) and Qingdao Omnipresent Co Ltd; Singapore Business
Federation (SBF) and the Department of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation of
Shandong Province of China; as well as the Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce
and Industry and the Department of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation of
Shandong Province of China.

Singapore's Minister of State for Trade and Industry, Lee Yi Shyan, co-chaired
the council meeting for the first time with Shandong Vice-Governor Sun Shoupu.
Mr Lee recently took over from Chan Soo Sen as co-chairman of SSBC.

At yesterday's meeting, the latest SSBC workplan - which emphasised
environmental engineering - was also revealed.

The council identified industrial waste water treatment, solid waste disposal
treatment and sea water desalination as potential areas that Singapore companies
could explore for investment or collaboration.

Mr Lee explained: 'In this area, I think, so far on average, only 40 per cent of
waste water is treated before they discharge into the environment. If they want
a sustainable development, they have to raise this target to 60 per cent, 80 per
cent and so on . . . These are all the kind of areas, projects that Singapore
firms can look forward to.'

Singapore is now Shandong's seventh largest foreign investor with about $1US.8
billion worth of projects invested to date.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


