                              358 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 April 24, 2002

Building work started on RNI site

BYLINE: C. Dennier

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 335 words


Clive Dennier WORK has started on the redevelopment of the Royal Northern
Infirmary site in Inverness to improve hospital facilities and create a new
residential development.

Morrison Construction, in conjunction with the RNI redevelopment, is also
constructing a new 15,000sq-ft office building for the Highland Primary Care NHS
Trust, at Inverness Retail and Business Park.

The building firm is working closely with the Highland Primary Care NHS Trust
and Inverness Retail & Business Park to deliver the developments.

The trust, who owned the whole of the RNI site, sold off the six-acre housing
development site to assist funding the GBP 2.7million hospital project.

This will involve the renovation of part of the existing hospital buildings as
well as the construction of a new community wing within the grounds being
retained by the trust.

Relocate The new hospital facilities and the new office building will be
complete in autumn 2002, at which time the trust will relocate their office
function to Inverness Retail & Business Park and Morrison will begin work on the
GBP 10million residential development.

The 147 new homes will comprise a mix of one, two and three-bedroom apartments
and three, four and five-bedroom detached houses.

The development will be situated within the grounds of the existing hospital and
will include the main listed buildings.

A new access road will be formed from Bishop's Road.

Iain Logue, Morrison's Highland director, says: "We are delighted to be involved
in the delivery of all three component parts involved in this development which
has ultimately enabled the trust to provide a new hospital facility and relocate
their administrative function to modern purpose built offices." Mr Logue
continued: "This is a rare opportunity for us to renovate a building which is
familiar to many people in the Highlands.  It really is a magnificent setting
for quality homes and hospital facilities in the city centre with open views
across the river."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal


