                              359 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                  Toronto Star

                     July 5, 2001 Thursday Ontario Edition

'Pancake' approach will leave research flat

BYLINE: David Crane

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E02

LENGTH: 735 words

OUR MEMBERS of Parliament are unhappy with the success of the University of
Toronto and its associated teaching hospitals in developing the capacity to
become an international centre for research and development excellence, and they
want to do something to slow it down.

In a recent report, MPs on the House of Commons Committee on Industry, Science
and Technology complain that the University of Toronto has received more funding
for research infrastructure from the Canada Foundation for Innovation than
universities in Atlantic Canada, Saskatchewan and Manitoba combined. They also
make it clear that's a bad thing.

Aside from the MPs' statement being factually incorrect, what this report really
shows is that our MPs have a "pancake" mentality.

This term comes from a leading Swedish think tank that, in a report this year,
rejected what it called the "pancake" approach to economic development, where
economic activity is spread evenly across a country. That approach, it said,
means nothing happens anywhere.

Instead, it said, "we believe in a vision of Sweden with 'spots' of high
economic activity well dispersed across the country." These "spots" are called
clusters.

This should be Canada's approach as well building centres of excellence with the
critical mass to produce significant research results, serve as a magnet for
talent and investment, and create economic activity.

Our goal should be "spots," not a pancake.

Much of Canada's past effort to promote innovation has been badly compromised by
this reluctance to accept that much of Canada's innovative strength will
inevitably be concentrated in a small number of centres.

This critical mass is essential if serious research is to be sustained.

In their report, the MPs take some nasty digs at the Canada Foundation for
Innovation, which was established by the federal government in 1997 to help fund
research and development infrastructure at universities, research hospitals and
other non-profit research institutes.

The foundation receives applications, subjects them to a peer review by Canadian
and international experts and typically provides 40 per cent of the needed
funding. The rest comes from provincial governments, universities and the
private sector.

The foundation makes its decisions at arm's length from government, as an
independent body, to avoid political favouritism.

The MPs come close to accusing the foundation of improper behaviour because the
University of Toronto and its associated research hospitals have been so
successful at submitting winning proposals.

Terming the university's success "disturbing," the MPs say "this inequity" is
"symptomatic of the arm's-length structure of the (foundation) from government"
and promise to review the independence of the foundation.

The University of Toronto and associated research hospitals have received 14.5
per cent of the foundation's awards. That proportion is in line with their share
of research grants from the three federal research-granting councils.

The MPs do not offer a shred of evidence of favouritism in the foundation's
awards. Moreover, do we really want Industry Minister Brian Tobin or any other
politician determining who receives grants?

It's not just the Canada Foundation for Innovation's record of awarding
significant grants to the University of Toronto that the MPs are attacking.
Their underlying message is that Canada's small universities should have a much
bigger share of research awards, including the federal government's new research
chairs.

Left out of this calculation are other programs, such as Ottawa's $300 million
Atlantic Innovation Fund, or the decision that 12 per cent of research chairs
must go to small universities.

There's no doubt there are good researchers in our smaller universities. And the
Canada Foundation for Innovation, the research chairs panel and other grants
bodies have looked for ways to support research excellence in small
universities.

But there's a real question of how many serious research centres a country of
Canada's size can afford, especially when total funding is far less than is
needed.

Instead of whining about Toronto's success, MPs should cheer its record of
building up a major centre of research capacity and talent in North America.

But if you have a pancake mentality, as the MPs do, then it stands to reason
you'd be unhappy.


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


