                              368 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Images (India)

                            April 27, 2013 Saturday

World Veterinary Day-2013 observed at Lalmandi

LENGTH: 478 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, April 27 -- SR Minister of State for Animal and Sheep Husbandry,
Agriculture, Horticulture and Floriculture Nazir Ahmed Gurezi Saturday
inaugurated Small Ruminant Hospital at Lal Mandi Srinagar under Centrally
Sponsored Scheme ESVHD on the occasion of World Veterinary Day. The function was
organized by the department of Sheep Husbandry Kashmir division.

Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said that the hospital will serve the
small ruminant sheep and goat population of district Srinagar. The hospital will
be equipped with modern healthcare facilities to cater the emerging needs of the
healthy livestock. He said such hospitals have also been constructed in other
districts of the State.

Gurezi said that the hospital has Ultra Sonography (USG) facilities for the
livestock to detect different ailments and pregnancy, which is first of its kind
in the State.

The Minister emphasized for introducing the latest technology in all productive
sectors like agriculture, horticulture, floriculture and livestock to increase
the socio-economic conditions of the farming community. He said that this is key
source to ensure the economic growth of the state in general and farming
community in particular as agriculture is the back bone of the State economy. He
stressed for artificial insemination and dosing besides conducting random tests
of all drugs so as to ensure quality medicare facilities for the livestock.

The Minister directed the officers and officials to work with utmost zeal and
dedication. He said dedicated officials will be rewarded while as erring
officials will be seriously dealt with.

The Minister called for launching of awareness campaign at block levels to aware
the farmers and breeders about the latest techniques and the schemes meant for
the welfare of the sheep and cattle rearers. He called for organizing cattle
shows and vaccination day in the state.

Responding to the demands, Gurezi said that the directions have been issued to
the concerned for filling up of the vacancies under promotion quota in all
categories including Class-IV categories within two months. He said that
creation of 200 Veterinary doctor posts is under active consideration of the
government. He also said that the matter with regard to confirmation of doctors
in Animal and Sheep Husbandry departments has been taken up with the Public
Service Commission and orders in this regard would be issued soon.

Secretary, Animal and Sheep Husbandry Mushtaq Ahmad Bukhari also spoke on the
occasion and threw light on importance of World Veterinary Day.

Directors of Animal and Sheep Husbandry department of Kashmir and retired
Directors also spoke on the occasion. Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Kashmir Images. For any query with respect to this article or
any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Kashmir Images
                              All Rights Reserved


