                              364 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                            August 21, 2014 Thursday

'Eds and meds' strengthen Baltimore's credit

BYLINE: Alissa Gulin

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 646  words


Baltimore was one of three U.S. cities singled out by Moody's Investors Service
Inc. as "primary examples" of how universities and hospitals can contribute to
economic vitality and help strengthen cities' credit ratings.

Moody's explored the impact of institutions such as Johns Hopkins Health System
and the University of Maryland, Baltimore, in a note released Monday titled:
"Prominent 'Eds and Meds' Bolster Northeast Cities. "

"As the manufacturing and trade sectors shrank along the eastern seaboard in the
last 50 years," the note reads, "hospitals and universities gradually expanded
and became the new economic anchor of some older cities, effectively propping up
local economies that would have otherwise declined far more sharply. "

The "Eds and Meds" sectors represent 21.5 percent of combined total employment
in the three cities, according to the report, compared to the national average
of 15.4 percent.

The numerous "large and well-respected institutions" are reliable sources of
employment during both economic growth periods and recessions, the report said.
Moody's analysts predict employment in the health care and higher education
sectors will outperform total national job growth by at least 0.5 percent over
the next decade.

"The stability and growth" of employment in those two sectors distinguishes them
from "the volatility of most other sectors, especially construction, financial
services and manufacturing," the report says. "The large presence of these
sectors explains why Baltimore, Boston and Philadelphia fared far better in job
stability than the U.S. as a whole during the severe 2008-2009 crisis period. "

Although hospitals and universities are typically exempt from property tax,
these institutions do produce some degree of direct economic benefit to their
cities, the report said, such as revenue from building permit fees and income
tax on employees.

The report went into more detail about the indirect economic benefits, such as
private biotechnology or medical device startups that result from research
partnerships between universities and hospitals. That activity helps make the
city stronger in critical hotbed industries like pharmaceutical development,
analysts wrote.

However, the report cautioned that eds and meds are not a panacea for cities.
The two sectors face ongoing "economic, technological and regulatory challenges
that are more significant than in the past," the analysts wrote.

Moody analysts anticipate limited revenue growth for both universities and
nonprofit hospitals, due to factors like increased competition among colleges
and less grant funding available for medical research.

Constraints on revenue growth is a primary reason behind analysts' negative
outlooks for both sectors.

But there is good news. Moody says the "standout" medical and educational
institutions in Baltimore -- with Johns Hopkins at the top of the list, as the
country's No. 1 recipient of funding from the National Institutes of Health --
will be most likely to adapt to the changing environment.

Hopkins and other hospitals and universities have maintained high credit rating
due to their diverse revenue streams, favorable global reputations, broad donor
support, strong leadership and solid balance sheets, analysts wrote.

Despite comparable concentrations of these high-performing institutions,
Baltimore, Boston and Philadelphia have different credit profiles. Boston comes
out on top, boasting the highest credit rating awarded by Moody's: Aaa stable.

Baltimore is second, with a rating of Aa2 stable, which means the city's bonds
are "high quality and subject to very low credit risk. " That rating was
assigned in July.

Philadelphia was assigned a slightly lower, though still good rating of A2
stable.

http://www.mddailyrecord.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from this
resource.

© 2014 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

