                              365 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                              May 10, 2009 Sunday

Service Sector Promotion

LENGTH: 489 words


The Lee Myung-bak administration announced a plan to beef up the nation's
service sector on Friday. It is fourth of its kind since the government began to
take measures to raise the competitiveness of the sector. But the service
industries have shown few signs of improvement despite a series of support
packages.

No one can oppose such packages because the service sector is key to the
nation's economic recovery. It is natural for the nation to put more stress on
the promotion of the sector to reduce its heavy reliance on exports. Especially,
the nation is required to boost domestic demand to offset the fallout from the
global financial and economic crisis.

It is not easy to produce successful results from the government packages.
Previous governments had repeatedly come up with a set of measures for the
sector since the country was hit hard by the 1997-98 Asian financial meltdown.
But, the nation has made little progress in implementing such measures.

In short, policymakers have been long on words but short on action. Since the
start of the new millennium, the government has sought to allow hospitals to
become profit-seeking entities and enable foreigners to open their schools more
freely in free economic zones here. But these measures have only proven to be
hollow slogans.

The Lee government's new service sector support program is focused on nine
areas, including broadcasting, design and logistics. Its top priorities are
unequivocally placed on medical service and education. The measures include
plans to allow medical foundations to issue hospital bonds to attract more
operational funds. Foreigners will also be able to open hospitals in free
economic zones.

But, the government has delayed making a decision until October over whether to
allow hospitals to turn themselves into profit-seeking organizations because of
persistent objections from trade unions and civic groups. It goes without saying
that the medical service sector should serve the goal of public health care.
But, it is also necessary for hospitals to increase their competitiveness and
upgrade their medical services through profit-seeking activities.

In the education field, the government has decided to ease regulations to
promote the creation of foreign elementary, middle and high schools in free
economic zones. But, it is disappointing that the government plans to allow
those foreign schools to recruit Korean students within 30 percent of their
enrollment quotas. The percentage is seen as too much for local students,
raising concerns that only children from wealthy Korean families might attend
foreign schools.

The nation's service sector only accounts for 57 percent of the nation's gross
domestic product (GDP), lower than the 72-percent average of the 30 members of
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The government
should no longer pay lip services to raise the percentage and ensure sustainable
growth.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2009 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


