                              369 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      April 26, 2017 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

US Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Report 2017 - Research and
Markets

LENGTH: 408  words


April 26 -- Research and Markets has announced the addition of the "US Hospitals
and Outpatient Care Centers Market Report 2017" report to their offering.

The USA had the highest GDP in the world worth about $18 trillion accounting for
24% in $73 trillion global GDP. The healthcare system in the USA lacks
uniformity in terms of facilities as well as insurance coverage. This coupled
with high administrative and infrastructural cost results in unequal access to
private healthcare and some of the world's highest insurance premiums. The
American Hospital Association (AHA) is a major healthcare association in the USA
that comprises different hospitals and healthcare networks. It has network of
around 5,000 hospitals and 43,000 individuals.

Hospitals and outpatient centers are medical facilities that provide diagnostic
and medical treatment to patients with a wide range of medical conditions.
Outpatient care centers offer medical care or treatment that does not require
any overnight stay in a hospital or medical facility.

Key Topics Covered:

1. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Characteristics

2. USA's Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market

3. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Global Context

4. Porters Five Force Model

5. PESTLE Analysis

6. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Segmentation

7. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Regional and Country Analysis

8. Global Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Comparison with Macro
Economic Factors

9. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Comparison with Macro Economic
Factor Across Countries

10. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Indicators Comparison

11. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Competitive Landscape

12. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Customer Information

13. Key Mergers and Acquisitions in The Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers
Market

14. Hospitals and Outpatient Care Centers Market Trends and Strategies

15. Market Background: Global Healthcare Market

16. Appendix

Companies Mentioned

* National Health Service

* Kaiser Permanente

* Davita

* Mayo Clinic Scottsdale AZ

* Johns Hopkins Medicine

* Clevel Clinic

* M D Anderson Cancer Center

* Memorial Sloan Kettering

* Cancer Center

* University Of Maryland Medical Center

* St. Jude Children's Research Hospital

For more information about this report visit
http://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/bcdlcl/us_hospitals_and

Source: Research and Markets

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


