                              362 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 12, 1999, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: KIPS BAY;
Bellevue Neighbors See a Rush to Develop

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

SECTION: Section 14;   Page 10;   Column 3;   The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 425 words


Bellevue Hospital Center's neighbors are denouncing the way the city is calling
for ideas to develop part of the center's campus, including the historic former
psychiatric ward.

Last month, the Economic Development Corporation asked for plans to be submitted
by Dec. 22 for a 3.5-acre site on the northern edge of the campus. The land,
between 28th and 30th Streets and from First Avenue to Franklin D. Roosevelt
Drive, includes an 850-bed men's shelter that was once the psychiatric building.

Some neighbors fear that the city may award a contract without requiring
detailed proposals from developers. They say that the Dec. 22 deadline does not
give many developers enough time to come up with plans, and leaves no room for
opinions from neighboring residents.

"You would think they would have come and asked what the community thinks should
go in there," said Edward Rubin, chairman of the Community Board 6 land use
committee.  "But they didn't."

On Thursday, the community board unanimously approved a resolution urging the
city to adopt a two-stage process asking for detailed proposals before choosing
a developer. The resolution also calls for city agencies to recommend uses for
the site, and demands that the city accept board comment at all stages and
preserve the psychiatric building's exterior.

The nine-story building, built in 1936, is listed as a historic site on state
and federal registers, but has received no such city designation.  Bellevue
moved its psychiatric services into another building about 15 years ago.

Last year, Mayor Giuliani announced that the men's shelter would be shut down
because a children's ward was being built nearby. City officials said it was too
early to tell when the shelter would be closed or where the men would go.

In its call for ideas, the Economic Development Corporation suggests that any
development should preserve the historic nature of the former psychiatric
building. The agency can award a contract after reviewing the proposals.

As for the community board's criticisms, Michael Carey, corporation president,
said, "This is not a ramrod process by any means."

"I don't see any reason why people can't put together a proposal very quickly,"
he said, adding that he expects to receive six to eight designs.

One New Jersey developer, Castle Senior Living, wants to build a 150-unit
residence for assisted living.

"With bureaucracy the way it is," said Stanley Diamond, the company chairman,
"I'd like to get rolling on this as soon as possible."
   EDWARD WONG

http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


