                              374 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                November 4, 2002

Talk to spell out fears of economic malaise

BYLINE: John Thomson

SECTION: News; Business; Economy; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 433 words


Fears of a growing economic malaise affecting the Banff and Macduff areas will
be spelled out this week to Aberdeenshire Council's top official. Chief
executive Alan Campbell has accepted an invitation to meet the business
community at Banff and Macduff to hear their concerns.

He is likely to be encouraged to explain what the local authority can do to help
reverse the decline.

Banff councillor John Cox has been involved in arranging the talks, which will
be held on Wednesday.

He said: "The business community is very concerned about the downturn in the
local economy, part of which has come about with a transfer of council jobs out
of the area.

"There's also the impact of the closure of Ladysbridge Hospital, the problems
affecting the fishing industry and the general slowdown in the local economy.

"It would appear, meanwhile, that the council is addressing similar problems in
other parts of Aberdeenshire." Ladysbridge Hospital is due to close next spring
as part of the Government's care in the community policy for people with
learning disabilities.

Patient numbers have been reduced over the last 15 years and today there are
only about 80 beds used.

While some hospital staff have been relocated, councillors in the Banff area are
concerned at the economic impact of the impending closure.

The exact number of people who will be made redundant is not yet known but there
are concerns that even a small number of unemployed people is a problem for the
area to absorb.

Mr Cox said controversy over the closure of toilets and the number of derelict
buildings in the area were also symptoms of the economic stagnation.

He said a number of high- profile council jobs had disappeared from the Banff
area since Aberdeenshire Council was formed.

Mr Cox claimed that although Aberdeenshire was set up with a decentralised
structure, decisions were made centrally. He said this meant local areas had
very little influence on tackling problems such as economic wellbeing and the
area committee was little more than a glorified planning committee.

Mr Cox said: "I think Aberdeenshire Council has a role to play in the social
welfare of communities.

"The business people will be telling Mr Campbell about day-to-day issues and
they hope he can come up with suggestions for regenerating the economy.

"As chief executive, he has a responsibility to ensure there is consistency in
supply and service of all council facilities throughout Aberdeenshire." Mr
Campbell's meeting with the business community will be held at County Hall on
Wednesday morning.

Caption:

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal


