                              377 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                            January 11, 2013 Friday

Hospitals to cure the Coast

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 444  words



HIGHLIGHT: The economic benefits will drive growth


THE Sunshine Coast's property industry could be one of Australia's best
performing areas in the next 10 to 15 years, according to industry insiders.

With economic drivers such as the public and private hospitals under
construction in Kawana, the Sunshine Coast can expect to see significant growth
for the region, they claim.

Investor Property's Mal Cayley said the Coast's property industry should see the
start of an improvement this year after the post-global financial crisis
depressed market.

"I believe 2013 and 2014 are significant years for change for the Sunshine Coast
and I think it will be the beginning of a protracted upswing in specific parts
of the Coast," Mr Cayley said.

"Places like Brightwater, Maroochydore and that belt south of Maroochy River to
Caloundra will see significant growth over the next 10 to 15 years.

"My call is this area of the Sunshine Coast in and around the hospital will be
one of the best performing areas in Australia."

Mr Cayley said with economic development picking up there had been much spending
in the construction industry and it should continue to improve.

"A lot of people might have been working away for big dollars in the mines, but
there will be more incentive to stay and work here," he said.

"We'll see a whole new group of workers to work in and around the private
hospital from this year and over 2014-15 we will see an increasing volume of
construction that will be associated with that and ancillary hospital services.

"From 2016, even though the construction work will die off on the hospital
project, it's all the new jobs that will start flowing from there with the
hospital and the university, and then all the retail and the other things that
come as a result."

He also said the number of people expected to move to the Sunshine Coast as a
direct result of the hospitals was much higher than originally anticipated and
its flow-on affect would boost the region's economy.

"Thousands of people are coming to the Sunshine Coast to work, but if you think
about those thousands of jobs in those two hospitals, there are 3500 direct
jobs," he said.

"If we're talking about 3500 coming, we're actually talking about 9000 because
they are bringing their families and their children.

"So you must think about the implications that will have on retail, housing,
schooling, child care and car sales.

"It is the flow-through economic benefit of something as significant as this
that is hard to put a number on today and it's only just begun."

MAL CAYLEY'S BEST BUYS

 Anywhere near the new hospitals at Kawana

Brightwater

Maroochydore

Between Caloundra and Maroochy River

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2013 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


