                              372 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                         The Gympie Times (Queensland)

                           November 10, 2009 Tuesday

1500 rally over delay on our Coast hospital

BYLINE:  Arthur Gorrie

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 305  words



HIGHLIGHT: 'Beds needed right now'


PREMIER Anna Bligh, along with her deputy and Health Minister Paul Lucas, were
not there on Sunday, when 1500 people marched in protest at the latest
postponement of our region's long-promised Sunshine Coast University Hospital.

This was the hospital, which Gympie people would have expected to be using by
2014, but has now been postponed to 2016.

Our two top State leaders were joined in their absence by hoardes of other
elected representatives.

However Sunshine Coast councillor Ted Hungerford, Opposition health spokesman
and Caloundra MP Mark McArdle, his predecessor and Maroochydore MP Fiona
Simpson, and Kawana, Glasshouse and Buderim MPs Jarrod Bleijie, Andrew Powell
and Steve Dickson were noted as welcome

attendees.

To chants of "hospital delay, no way!" protesters marched along Innovation
Parkway to a field near to the proposed site of the promised 450-bed hospital on
Kawana Way, Butinya. While there, they tied 450 yellow ribbons - one for each
bed in the promised hospital - to a fence at the hospital site.

They made it loud and clear that Sunshine Coast and Gympie people are not
prepared to remain silent in the face of postponement of the much-needed
facility.

More than 22,00 people have so far signed a petition to try and force the
government to bring forward construction of the hospital.

The $1.57 billion facility was postponed early this year, in response to the
financial crisis-led economic downturn.

Noosa-based doctor Richard Pearson told the crowd it was imperative the new
hospital open on its originally scheduled date.

"Our conviction is that 500 new hospital beds are needed right now on the
Sunshine Coast," he said.

Mr Lucas issued a statement saying the government was well aware of community
concerns on the Sunshine Coast and saying its plan to purchase private beds
would deliver results sooner.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GGT


                    Copyright 2009 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


