                              371 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                           February 5, 2009 Thursday
                                  Main Edition

Survey: Recession hits hospitals hard;
Day-to-day operating expenses a strain

BYLINE: ANDY MILLER; Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 468 words


The recession has left a deep gash in Georgia's hospital industry, a new survey
shows.

The downturn has caused 60 percent of Georgia's hospitals to cut staff or
consider it, and more than one-third to reduce services or contemplate such a
move, according to a survey of 63 hospitals and health systems by the Georgia
Hospital Association.

And about 60 percent of hospitals say the economy and low payments from the
Medicaid insurance program have affected their ability to meet day-to-day
operating expenses.

The survey was conducted in mid-January to gauge the impact of the economic
downturn on the state's hospitals. Because health systems have multiple
hospitals, GHA speculated that the survey responses represent at least half of
the 174 acute-care hospitals in the state.

The results mirror those of national hospital surveys. Individual hospitals in
metro Atlanta recently have reported increases in uninsured patients, coupled
with major losses from investments.

Release of the survey comes at the same time the Georgia General Assembly is
considering Gov. Sonny Perdue's proposal to levy a tax on hospital revenues. The
tax would help fill a shortfall in Medicaid and fund a statewide trauma care
network.

GHA, which opposes the tax, said the survey shows that hospitals are not
recession-proof.

Joe Parker, GHA president, said Wednesday that it's the worst economic climate
he has seen in more than 30 years in the hospital industry. "Hospitals are
walking the same financial tightrope as other American businesses," he said. "We
are having to do the same thing that other businesses do, bringing our costs
under control to match the revenues."

Among other survey findings:

* Nearly three of four hospitals have experienced increases in bad debt and
charity care since October.

* About half have experienced declines in elective procedures, often the most
profitable service for hospitals.

* Almost three of four hospitals are postponing or reconsidering capital
expenditures, such as information technology.

* More than half have seen a decline in charitable contributions.

Survey respondent Ty Cobb Healthcare System, which operates hospitals in Royston
and Hartwell, has seen its bad debt and charity care rise as people have lost
jobs.

"The unemployment rate in our area is pushing 10 percent," said Chuck Adams, CEO
of the Ty Cobb system. "We're seeing people with insurance not able to pay their
deductible."

The Ty Cobb system has consolidated some hospital services and has frozen hiring
and capital expenditures. The credit crunch, meanwhile, has delayed the system's
plan to build a new hospital to replace the other two.

Adams added that the Ty Cobb hospitals lost money in 2008, and the system's
investment income plunged 33 percent. "We'll have to do everything it takes to
stay in business," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2009 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


