                              370 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                           October 17, 2015 Saturday

'Solve haze through innovation'

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 353 words


MALACCA: Researchers here have been called on to come up with new innovations to
reduce the impact of haze in the country.

Deputy Science, Technology and Innovation Minister Datuk Dr Abu Bakar Mohamad
Diah said the transboundary haze, which is a recurring issue in the country
yearly, should be solved scientifically through new innovations.

"Local researchers who have the expertise in developing products in the field of
environment should not miss the opportunity to apply for InnoFund funding from
us."

Under the InnoFund scheme, researchers will be given a quantum of up to
RM500,000 for each project for the development or improvement of new or existing
products, processes or services with elements of innovation that must have
economic value and improve the societal wellbeing of the community.

Abu was commenting on the call by Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak, who
urged local and foreign scientists to gather and find solutions to the haze
problem, which has plagued the country for 18 years.

Najib also requested science advisers to find ways to prevent peat fires,
whether deliberate or due to climate change, as the findings could be raised in
the upcoming Asean Summit and Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting.

Earlier, Abu witnessed the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU)
between Pantai Hospital Ayer Keroh (PHAK) and Universiti Teknikal Malaysia
Melaka (UTeM) in Ayer Keroh, here, yesterday.

The MoU will see UTeM introducing software to the hospital to improve patient
management system and reduce the dependency of patients on hospital staffs in
the long run.

PHAK chief executive officer Michael E.C. Wong said Pantai Hospital Ayer Keroh
would be the pioneer hospital to use the software before it was introduced to 13
other Pantai hospitals nationwide, as well as other Pantai and Gleneagles
hospitals worldwide.

UTeM Vice-Chancellor Professor Datuk Dr Shahrin Sahib said the signing of the
MoU created new dynamics in the health industry, where technologies produced by
universities were being introduced in healthcare institutions to improve the
delivery of healthcare services.

( END )

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2015 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad
                              All Rights Reserved


