                              375 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                  May 15, 2002

Hospital appeals ruling of racial discrimination

BYLINE: By NUALA HAUGHEY, Social and Racial Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 430 words


One of the State's biggest hospitals, St James's in Dublin, has lodged an appeal
against a ruling that it discriminated against a Malaysian doctor on racial
grounds.

The Labour Court will hear the appeal on May 29th, following a ruling last
December by the Office of the Director of Equality Investigations that the
hospital discriminated against a former intern, Dr Bennet Eng (26).

The director's office held that it was unlawful for Dr Eng to work as an intern
without a basic salary when Irish intern colleagues working alongside him were
in salaried positions.

Dr Eng, a graduate of Trinity College Dublin, worked for nine months in 2000 and
2001 as an unpaid intern in St James's.

A specific number of funded intern posts are available to medical graduates
every year in St James's, as well as the State's other main hospitals.

If the number of graduates in a given year exceeds the number of funded posts on
offer, the remaining doctors are allocated unpaid intern positions.

However, priority for funded posts is given to Irish doctors or those from the
European Economic Area, the 12 EU states and Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein,
with non-EEA graduates displaced from paid posts to make way for EEA graduates.

In Dr Eng's case, an EU graduate who was ranked lower than him on merit was
allocated a paid internship post.

The hospital had contended that this system was justified, as it was obliged
under employment law to offer paid intern jobs to EEA nationals who do not
require work permits, before offering them to non-EEA nationals who do.

It also maintained that this system was necessary to meet the requirements of
the Treaty of Rome, which provides for equal treatment for workers within the
EEA.

The equality officer ruled that the treaty did not oblige employers to
discriminate against non-EU nationals and that national law governed the rights
and entitlements of third-country nationals resident here.

A spokesman for the hospital said yesterday it was seeking a Labour Court
determination due to "the apparent conflict between provisions in the Employment
Equality Act and the work permit system".

The hospital contends that its recruitment practices are "wholly compliant" with
existing employment laws, he said, stressing its track record as an equal
opportunities employer with a multi-ethnic workforce.

In his submission to the Labour Court, Dr Eng contends that the existing work
permit rules are unlawful and undermine the Employment Equality Act, as they
oblige employers to discriminate against non-nationals.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2002 The Irish Times


