                              383 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                              June 25, 2010 Friday
                                  2ND Edition

Health secretary backsRoyal...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 308 words


HEALTH secretary Andrew Lansley revealed why the government gave the go-ahead to
rebuilding the Royal Liverpool Hospital.

Mr Lansley visited Liverpool just a week after it was announced the pounds 451m
project was removed from ministers' spending cuts hit list.

He said officials believed a new Royal would prompt economic growth in the city.

After meeting senior officials at the hospital he told the ECHO: "This was a
project which was viable and it was a necessity from the point of view of the
NHS trust.

"If they did not have a new building the on ly alternative was to have a major
refurbishment which would have been immensely disruptive and time-consuming.

"Looking at the projects which had been approved since the start of the year, we
had to see which were value for money and needed to go ahead.

"This hospital is clearly one which can make economic growth and this is an
opportunity to go beyond what is currently here. The Royal Liverpool Hospital is
a place where we can have leading science, along with leading engineering, and
that is important for economic growth."

Royal chief executive Tony Bell said: "We were delighted to welcome the
secretary of state to the Royal and talk to him about our plans for the new
hospital which he confirmed last week.

"The new Royal will be a great boost for the city's vision, providing not only a
world-class hospital but a biocampus which will bring together academia,
industry and healthcare into a major health science research hub."

Mr Lansley would not be drawn on whether Alder Hey children's hospital would
secure its own funding.

He said: "I have recently been to Alder Hey and they are proceeding with their
plans. They are not asking me for approval.

"I understand how much people value the care they get at Alder Hey and some of
the difficulties the staff are working with."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SUPPORT: Andrew Lansley visited the Royal where he met, above, Tony
Bell and Judith Greensmith Pictures: GAVIN TRAFFORD

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


