                              384 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                   New Orleans CityBusiness (New Orleans, LA)

                                 June 29, 2009

Commentary: Delays for teaching hospital slow economic pulse

BYLINE: Mark Singletary

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 727  words


New Orleans wants to build an economic base around the health care industry.
That strategy for economic growth has served many rebounding economies quite
well and it could work well for us.

Often referred to as the biomedical corridor, plans have been laid to
reconstruct a new teaching hospital owned by the Louisiana State University
System. The hospital site will be adjacent to LSU's medical school and a new
Veterans Affairs hospital.

All the preliminary drawings are complete, but plans are still bubbling in the
caldron that is our state government.

The hospital site remains controversial. Many feel renovating the existing
Charity hospital would be a faster and much more friendly use of the
historically significant building. LSU and, more importantly, Gov. Bobby Jindal
want to build a new facility, and until very recently the state was pushing to
make the new hospital happen.

But in a surprising announcement last week, Louisiana Commissioner of
Administration Angele Davis said there will be no more land purchases for the
new University Medical Center in New Orleans until LSU can reach a compromise on
the hospital's governance with the other schools involved.

Does this mean the new teaching hospital planned for Mid-City is dead or at
least on life support? Who knows? And who is in charge?

According to a CityBusiness report last week, the LSU Board of Supervisors
approved a governance structure that provides the state school with more seats
on the nonprofit board that will run the medical facility, altering a proposal
Jindal's administration brokered recently involving LSU, Tulane and Xavier
universities.

LSU leaders have plans for an 11-member board with five representatives for the
school, while the governor's proposal outlines a board with 12 members,
including four LSU seats.

"The governance structure is a critical step toward developing a financing model
for the new facility," Davis said in a prepared statement. "There remains no
agreement on the proposed governing structure and it is critical that we make an
intensified effort to reach an agreement before the state acts to purchase the
property. "

Everyone seems to want in on the planning.

Earlier this month, Louisiana House Speaker Jim Tucker, R-Algiers, introduced
and then abandoned a bill that would have drastically changed the hospital's
board structure. He apparently thought earlier memos of understanding among LSU,
the state and several participating colleges needed to be set aside and his
guidance was necessary. Or maybe he was just trying to force a final decision.

Again, who knows?

All the while, we are depending on the federal government to continue with its
plan to build a new VA hospital in the same neighborhood.

There are no indications any of the local rancor has affected VA plans - yet.

We have no way of knowing whether there is any timidity inside the VA's
construction plans. But who would blame them if they begin to question the
decision to spend hundreds of millions here while uncertainties continue to
swirl around the LSU teaching hospital.

A new teaching hospital, tied to some form of charity-based health care system,
is the key component to any real biomedical complex in downtown New Orleans. All
of the indecision and lack of progress puts this fundamental economic
development plan at risk.

There are many questions about any successful strategy that could possibly add
thousands of jobs for downtown New Orleans. The best questions don't involve who
sits on the governing board or who has veto power.

There are work force issues every participant in the health care site will have
to answer. How do we train and recruit nurses, technicians and maintenance staff
for the hospitals and teaching facilities? If the state's leadership is this
wishy-washy on who sits on the board of directors, imagine the fights when it
comes down to who gets to train the nurses and lab technicians needed for the
new facilities to operate efficiently.

Every college and technical center will want to participate in the training
programs. Now it looks as though any participation by any training center might
yield another round of bickering over who's in charge.

Sadly, all too often, it looks like no one is in charge, and that's led us to
where we are right now, caught between what might be and what could be.

Not exactly a great place for our biomedical future.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

