                              34 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                            October 14, 2016 Friday

BDMS eyes centres to treat disease

LENGTH: 340  words


Phyathai Hospital Group and Paolo Hospital Group, subsidiaries of a SET-listed
Bangkok Dusit Medical Services Plc (BDMS), seek to capitalise on the
fast-growing Asean economies by investing more in specialised disease treatment
centres, says Att Thongtang, the group's chief executive.

"This year, the growth in the hospital sector remains robust despite the
economic slowdown. The number of Thai patients is still growing and the number
of foreign patients is growing even faster, especially from our Asean
neighbours," said Mr Att.

The group operates nine hospitals: Phyathai 1 Hospital, Phyathai 2 Hospital,
Phyathai 3 Hospital, Phyathai Hospital Nawamin, Phyathai Sriracha Hospital,
Paolo Hospital Phaholyothin, Paolo Hospital Samutprakarn, Paolo Hospital
Chokchai 4 and Paolo Hospital Rangsit.

Mr Att said the groups expect double-digit growth in regional patients this
year.

"Rising purchasing power from high economic growth in Asean countries and
improving connectivity between countries in the region help make transportation
from those countries to Thailand easier," said Mr Att.

He said the group's strategy is to develop specialised services and treatment by
investing more in "Centres of Excellence" within the hospitals.

Phyathai 1 Hospital has a specialised brain-related centre, while Phyathai 2
Hospital has centres for heart and bone-related diseases and a Women's Centre.

He declined to reveal the investment budget of the two hospital groups for next
year. However, he said the groups will invest more in building facilities,
high-technology equipment and specialists to support rising number of patients.

Regarding BDMS's 10.8 billion-baht deal to buy Nai Lert Park Hotel and turn it
into a holistic service medical centre, Mr Att said it is a very good strategy
to expand into preventive medical services.

Mr Att said most of leading wellness centers in other country do not have
hospital chains to support the wellness centres. However, BDMS aimed to use this
chain to be as its advantage to differentiate itself from competitors.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved


