                              382 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Indian Banking News

                    September 19, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

S&P Dow Jones Indices: Annual Growth Rates Remain Stable in July 2013 According
to the S&P Healthcare Economic Indices

LENGTH: 637  words


New Delhi, Sept. 19 -- Data released today by S&P Dow Jones Indices for the S&P
Healthcare Economic Composite Index indicates that the average per capita cost
of healthcare services covered by commercial insurance and Medicare programs
increased by 3.06% over the 12-months ending July 2013, remaining flat at the
level recorded in June.



Four of the nine S&P Healthcare Economic Indices showed the same annual growth
rates for July 2013 as for June 2013. They were the Composite Index, the
Medicare Index, the Commercial Index and the Hospital Medicare Index. As
measured by the S&P Healthcare Economic Commercial Index, healthcare costs
covered by commercial insurance plans rose by 4.15% in July. Annual growth rates
in Medicare costs increased by 1.40% in July, according to the S&P Healthcare
Economic Medicare Index. The Hospital Medicare Index's growth rate recorded
2.29% in July. These indices' growth rates remain flat from June to July.

The Hospital Index's growth rate posted 2.30% in July, up from 2.10% reported in
June. The Hospital Commercial annual growth rate was 2.30% in July, up from
1.94% recorded in June.

The Professional Services Index annual growth rate hit a recent low of 3.70% in
July; it was down from 3.93%  posted in June. The Professional Services
Commercial Index decelerated to 5.77% in July, down from 6.10% reported last
month. The Professional Services Medicare annual growth rate hit a new low of
-0.26% in July, down from -0.23% recorded in June. This is the only index of the
nine headline indices that remains in the negative territory.

"Since last summer we saw health care cost growth rates dropping and now they
are stabilized near recent levels for most of the indices.  The indices' growth
rates are among the lowest since the indices' start date in 2005. Four of the
nine headline indices' annual rates remained flat between June and July," says
David M. Blitzer, Chairman of the Index Committee at S&P Dow Jones Indices. "The
annual growth rate for the S&P Healthcare Composite Index was 3.06%, the annual
growth rate for the Commercial Index was 4.15%, and for the Medicare Index was
1.40%.

"The Hospital Index posted a 2.30% annual growth rate in July; it accelerated by
20 basis points since last month. The Hospital Medicare Index remained flat at
2.29% since June. The Hospital Commercial Index posted a 2.30% annual rate,
accelerating by 36 basis points. It has the highest acceleration among the
healthcare indices covered.

"The Professional Services Index annual growth rate hit a recent low of 3.70% in
July, 23 basis points down from the last month. The Professional Services
Medicare Index growth rate hit a new low of -0.26% in July, three basis point
down from June. It has the lowest annual growth rate among our healthcare
indices and remains the only negative one. The Professional Services Commercial
Index posted a 5.77% rate in July, 33 basis points down from its June value. It
remained the highest among the healthcare indices we cover."

The S&P Healthcare Economic Indices estimate the per capita change in revenues
accrued each month by hospital and professional services facilities for services
provided to patients covered under traditional Medicare and commercial health
insurance programs in the U.S. The annual growth rates are determined by
calculating a percent change of the 12-month moving averages of the monthly
index levels versus the same month of the prior year.

The S&P Healthcare Economic Composite Index is a weighted average of the S&P
Healthcare Economic Commercial Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Medicare
Index.  Alternatively, it is a weighted average of the S&P Healthcare Economic
Hospital Index and the S&P Healthcare Economic Professional Services Index, as
each of these indices has the analogous Commercial and Medicare component.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


