                              381 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                      Monterey County Herald (California)

                           October 16, 2014 Thursday

Monterey County hospitals have $1.6 billion impact, study says

BYLINE: By Phillip Molnar pmolnar@montereyherald.com @PhillipMolnar on Twitter

SECTION: LOCAL; Business; Health

LENGTH: 551 words


Clarification: The money earned by hospitals from patients is net revenue, not
profits. An earlier version of this story may have been unclear.

MONTEREY &GT;&GT; Monterey County hospitals have an annual economic impact of
$1.6 billion, according to a report released Thursday.

The first study from the nonprofit Hospital Council of Northern and Central
California looked at direct spending, local purchases and employee spending.

It used mainly 2012 and '13 numbers but adjusted for inflation.

The four county hospitals have 3,648 full-time employees and a combined annual
payroll of $359.6 million.

The hospitals made $935 million in net patient revenue in 2012.

Community Hospital of the Monterey Peninsula made $395 million from patient
revenue, the most of the county's four hospitals.

George L. Mee Memorial Hospital in King City, which along with Community
Hospital is a nonprofit, made $59 million.

The two public Salinas hospitals, Natividad Medical Center and Salinas Valley
Memorial, earned $306 million and $173 million, respectively.

The results of the study were revealed Thursday at the Higher Education and
Research Leadership Summit at the Monterey Marriott. There were about 100 people
in attendance.

Council regional vice-president Jo Coffaro said the high cost of health care is
largely offset by economic impacts locally. However, she said costs need to come
down.

"Hospitals are actively wanting to lower the cost of health care. We have to be
able to survive," she said. "We agree (costs are) high and we're doing all we
can to lower the costs."

On the plus side, she said technology was helping keep costs down.

Individuals and hospitals both feel the burden of rising costs, said Laura Zehm,
chief financial officer of Community Hospital.

"Medical care comes at a cost to everyone," she said. ". . . It is also
important the community keep that in mind and we work together to manage that
resource very efficiently."

Kelly O'Keefe, the interim CFO of Natividad, said the study proved hospitals are
more than just places to help sick people.

"We provide a rich source of high-paying jobs for graduates of our high schools,
community colleges, universities," he said. ". . . Individuals who want to stay
in this particular area, we provide opportunities."

Much of the study focused on what the council referred to as the "Monterey Bay
Region," which was made up of Monterey, San Benito and Santa Cruz counties.

Some of the findings for the three-county area were:

Health care services are the second largest private industry, making up 16
percent of the employment base. Agriculture is first.

From 2002 to 2012, the industry grew 14.6 percent as the rest of private
industry reduced 0.4 percent.

Employment is expected to grow by about 20 percent by 2020.

Health care workers in this region earn 2 percent more than health care workers
in the rest of California.

There are 5,576 full-time workers making a total of $601.5 million in wages. The
average annual earnings were $107,879 per person.

Annual tax revenues for the city, county and state government are "at least"
$126.8 million. That includes property, sales and personal income taxes of
employees.

Hospital construction projects over the next five years are expected to net $140
million in spending.

Phillip Molnar can be reached at 726-4361.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Hospital Council of Northern and Central California's economic
report on Monterey Bay region hospitals was released Thursday morning at the
Monterey Marriott. From left are Laura Zehm, CFO of Community Hospital of the
Monterey Peninsula; Britt Ellis, CSU Monterey Bay dean; Lex Smith, Mee Memorial
Hospital CEO; and Kelly O'Keefe, Natividad Medical Center interim CFO. (Phillip
Molnar - Monterey Herald)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 The Monterey County Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


