                              385 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                      Northern Territory News (Australia)

                           November 14, 2009 Saturday
                                  1 - Edition

Our hospitals failing

SECTION: SATURDAY NEWS EXTRA; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 794 words


A NEW report confirms what we all already knew, public hospital waiting times
far exceed acceptable levels. And Territory hospitals fare worst than most. GREG
LINDSAY and ROGER BATE report

MAUREEN Watts' mother and both her grandfathers had bowel cancer. So when the
63-year-old Territorian started to feel ill, she became concerned. When she went
to the Royal Darwin Hospital for a colonoscopy, though, she was told that the
wait would be at least eight months.

This is hardly surprising.

A new report from the Australian Medical Association shows waiting times are far
exceeding acceptable levels.

The median wait for hip surgery in an Australian public hospital is nearly three
months. For cataract surgery, it's over two months. In the Australian Capital
Territory, the median waiting time for elective surgery is 72 days. Major public
hospitals throughout Australia are bursting at the seams with bed occupancy
rates of well over 100 per cent a daily occurrence.

A new study from the Legatum Institute -- an international development think
tank based in London -- shows these kinds of inefficiencies are hurting
Australia's prosperity.

Legatum just released its annual rankings of world prosperity. Australia came in
an impressive sixth out of 104 countries surveyed -- the top five are all small
Northern European countries with populations of less than 10 million.

Researchers found that while Australia is very strong on the economic
fundamentals required for long-term growth, problems in the healthcare system
are keeping Australia from reaching its full potential, in terms of both
economic progress and quality

of life.

Australia's stunning economic growth over the past few decades is largely
attributable to the government's decision to free up the economy.

In the early 1980s, regulators started scaling back the tariffs, quotas, and
other protectionist measures established during the Great Depression.

Now, Australia has strong trade relationships with all the world's economic
superpowers. Indeed, the total value of commodity exports in 2009 is expected to
top $160 billion, despite the reduction in world demand. Fully half (47 per
cent) of those exports are going to North Asia, and about a fifth to America.

Consequently, Australia has weathered the global economic turmoil better than
virtually any other country. National unemployment has remained relatively low,
at 5.8 per cent since June. And GDP increased by 0.6 per cent in the last
quarter -- the fastest rate among all advanced economies.

Australia's school system has also played a strong role in its prosperity.

The Legatum Index puts this country sixth in its education sub-category.

The Federal Government has established a strong national curriculum and made
primary and secondary school financing a priority. And just last year, the
government spent an estimated $6.5b on forward-looking school improvement
initiatives, including establishing trade-school centres, running teacher
training programs, and subsidising student laptops and other equipment.

Yet the nation's ailing healthcare system continues to undermine Australian
prosperity. It ranked a lowly 21st in this sub-category, behind countries like
Singapore, Spain, and the Czech Republic.

Australia lags behind on a number of important healthcare indicators. It's 28th
in infant mortality. It's 47th for number of doctors per capita. And on
available hospital beds, estimates put Australia behind Slovakia and Hungary.

Overcrowding and inefficiency has compromised patient safety. A new study from
the Queensland University of Technology shows that $1b annually is lost due to
hospital-acquired infections. Medical errors cost an estimated $1-2b annually,
with half of

these errors classified as ``potentially preventable''.

These healthcare problems are draining billions from the Australian economy,
both directly by taking money away from players in the health sector and
indirectly by compromising worker health and undermining productivity.

The Legatum Prosperity Index reflects that Australia is very strong in many
areas crucial to long-term economic growth. Placing sixth out of over 100
countries is an impressive feat. The Government's moves to cultivate individual
freedom and economic competition have led to wealth and well-being. Australians
are among the most prosperous populations on the planet.

But the country's health sector is in need of significant improvement. Cutting
away waste and improving quality in health care would go a long way toward
making Australia even stronger.

GREG LINDSAY is the executive director of the Centre for Independent Studies in
Sydney.

ROGER BATE is the Legatum Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute in
Washington, DC. The 2009 Legatum Prosperity Index is available at
www.prosperity.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NTN


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


