                              380 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     Hickory Daily Record (North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 17, 2009 Friday

Hospital expansion moves ahead, in phases

BYLINE: Dee Henry, Hickory Daily Record, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 541 words


Jul. 17--HICKORY -- The planned $70 million expansion of Catawba Valley Medical
Center will continue, but will be broken into phases rather than being done at
one time.

The first phase, which will focus on the Surgical Suite and is estimated to cost
$25 million, will begin next month and be financed through incentives available
to the county through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.

"A good thing about this project is the debt will be repaid with revenues from
the hospital's operation and won't be on the citizens in the county to repay the
debt," said David Boone, chief financial officer for CVMC.

Boone and Tony Rose, CVMC president, will request the county allow the use of
Build America Bonds and Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds to fund the
first phase of the project. The request is slated for the board of
commissioner's regular meeting Monday, July 20.

Both types of bonds give refunds on the interest incurred on loans. County
Finance Director Rodney Miller said the plan is to put two-thirds of the $25
million under Build America Bonds, which will give 35 percent credit on the
interest on the loan. The remaining one-third will be put under an Economic
Recovery Zone Bond, which gives a 45 percent rebate on the interest.

Miller said Catawba County qualifies for the Economic Recovery Zone Bonds due to
its high unemployment rate, 15.4 percent as of June 26.

The first phase, set to begin in August, is expected to last three to four
years, Rose said. The work will include three new operating rooms added onto the
existing operating room suite, followed by renovations to the existing operating
rooms.

According to information from the hospital, at least 12 operating rooms will be
operational at all times during the work period so no delays or impact to the
surgery schedule should occur.

All new operating rooms will be at least 600 square feet, large enough to
accommodate modern and future technology.

A feature of the new Surgical Suite will be a sterile core, offering separate
entrances for patients and staff. Other areas will be designated for
decontamination, equipment storage, anesthesia, offices and a break room.

Rose said the second phase of the project will be dedicated to a central energy
plant, and upgrade for when the planned tower, Phase 3, goes operational.

Hospital staff had hoped to break ground for the project in January and had
planned to issue a hospital revenue bond to finance it. However, the state of
the credit market resulted in the recommendation to break the project into
phases. Future phases of the project will be considered as more affordable fixed
rate credit becomes available.

A resolution to approach the county commissioners for the funding was approved
by the CVMC board of trustees June 22.

The hospital was constructed about 40 years ago.

To see more of the Hickory Daily Record or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.hickoryrecord.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Hickory Daily Record, N.C.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090717-HI-Hospital-expansion-moves-ahead-in-phases-0717

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HI


                      Copyright 2009 Hickory Daily Record


