                              388 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday

Foreign doctors allowed in Incheon FEZ

LENGTH: 542 words


Decision by Health Ministry hints at introduction of for-profit hospitals

The government has recently allowed foreign medical doctors, dentists and nurses
to work at foreign medical facilities to be established in Incheon Free Economic
Zone, but not at non-profit hospitals.

Only doctors who have been trained in Korea are allowed to work outside free
economic zones.

The move is an indication that the Ministry of Health and Welfare will allow the
establishment of for-profit hospitals in FEZs.

According to the ministry Wednesday, it revised the rules on condition of the
approval of foreign medical licenses on Aug. 22, which take effect only by
public notice, to allow foreign medical doctors, dentists and nurses to work in
such medical facilities in the Incheon Free Economic Zone as long as their
certificates are proven to be genuine.

Ministry officials explained that the conditions have been specified upon
request from the IFEZ operators, who were concerned that Songdo, the main place
of the IFEZ, has yet managed to attract any foreign investors in the medical
field.

Medical tourism is seen as a growth opportunity by President Lee Myung-bak's
administration.

"Recently, a consortium of multinational investors has taken Songdo into
consideration but said the relevant rules are too vague," a ministry official
said.

"So, we had to specify some qualification and approval process to facilitate the
process. The content of the public notice was modeled after the Jeju free
economic zone, where details about the establishment of for-profit hospitals
have been drawn up in 2008," he said, adding that there had been "minor"
opposition from doctors but the overall reaction was rather calm.

However opposition from Jeju residents has meant that no for-profit hospitals
have been set up there.

Civic groups argue that profit-oriented hospitals will polarize medical services
between those for the wealthy and those for the poor.

In Korea, individual schools, religious groups and other non-profit
organizations are allowed to run hospitals as nonprofit organizations. Though
the law strictly limits the location of profit-oriented hospitals, which can
only be established by foreign investors or joint ventures with foreign
investors, to six free economic zones set up to draw foreign investment,
opponents argue that for-profit hospitals will have a strong impact on the wider
Korean medical system.

The Korean Federation of Medical Groups for Health Rights estimates that the
establishment of for-profit hospitals will increase medical bills by 20 percent
because unnecessary tests will be provided to patients. They also say that high
salaries offered to doctors by large commercial hospitals will lure skillful
doctors from non-profit ones where they currently work. Such public concern has
hindered the government from pushing the program even inside the IFEZs.

On Wednesday, the government reaffirmed that no profit-oriented hospitals will
be allowed inside Korean territory except for the designated zones.

"However, in the IFEZ, it is a totally different story. In order to induce
foreign patients to choose Korea over other destinations, we will ease some
regulations and give more perks to the investors," a ministry official said.

By Bae Ji-sook (

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


