                              386 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 30, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

WEEK IN BUSINESS;
LEADING INDICATORS PAINT ROSIER PICTURE

BYLINE: By Merrill Perlman

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 893 words


Economic signals are improving, but still show some weakness. Leading
indicators, down for two months, rose seven-tenths of 1 percent in May, helped
by new orders for consumer and industrial goods. Coming on top of the ''flash''
estimate that the economy is growing at a 3.1 percent rate in the second
quarter, the report indicated that most of the past year's sluggishness is gone.
Durable goods orders rose 4.1 percent in May; without the military category,
though, the gain would have been 1.1 percent.

On the negative side, the merchandise trade deficit rose to $12.7 billion in
May, the second-highest ever. And despite the improving economy, the number of
delinquent mortgages was at a record in the first quarter. Some economists
believe the dismal performance in trade could overshadow falling interest rates
and lead the economy into another downturn.

The linkup of I.B.M. and MCI could open a new era in telecommunications
competition and deregulation. In buying 18 percent of MCI, with an option for up
to 30 percent, I.B.M. gains access to a worldwide telecommunications network to
link its computers. MCI gets the financial backing and broad technical knowledge
it needs. But the deal probably means that some of the smaller long-distance
telephone companies will be muscled aside. One competitor, Satellite Business
Systems, an I.B.M. venture, will be absorbed by MCI.

A.T.&T. gained new footholds in the computer market. It reached an agreement to
allow its computers to communicate with I.B.M.'s machines, and the National
Security Agency said it would buy up to $946 million of its minicomputers.

The shift at American Express could mean a new direction for the travel and
financial services giant. Sanford I. Weill will leave as president. Mr. Weill
headed Shearson when it was acquired by American Express and continued to build
American Express's banking arm via other acquisitions, including Lehman
Brothers. Mr. Weill said he wanted to find something else to build. Analysts
speculated he was disappointed that his attempts to buy out the Fireman's Fund,
American Express's insurance division, failed. Mr. Weill's replacement, Lewis V.
Gerstner Jr., has been credited with infusing life into the company'stravel
operations. He must now balance American Express's financial and travel
operations in turbulent markets.

Baxter Travenol's offer for American Hospital is appearing less friendly, and a
tender offer could be in the offing. The big health-care and drug company
originally offered $3.7 billion for American Hospital, saying the bid was
friendly. When American Hospital chose to stay with its planned stock swap with
the Hospital Corporation of America, Baxter guaranteed all shareholders $50 in
cash or stock. But American Hospital is unconvinced. Analysts are puzzled,
noting that the Hospital Corporation deal is worth about $35 a share and that
Baxter's operations would make a better fit.

Stocks hit records on Thursday on news that Congress was discussing budget cuts.
The Dow gained again Friday in lackluster trading, to close at a record
1,335.24, up 10.76 for the week. Bond prices regained some ground as the
Treasury finished mini-refunding, and on the news of a $1.5 billion fall in the
money supply.

The failure of a Chinatown bank caused resentment and confusion in New York's
Chinese community. The bank's branches will reopen as offices of the Hongkong
and Shanghai Banking Corporation, but the status of $49 million in deposits
remained in doubt. Investigators are examining whether some bank officers sold
certificates, described as insured certificates of deposit, that were never
entered on the bank's books.

Arco's chief executive and president, William F. Kieschnick, will retire in
October and will be succeeded by Lodwrick M. Cook. Mr. Kieschnick said he waited
to leave until he was sure Arco's $4 billion restructuring program was well on
its way.

President Reagan's tax plan came under more fire. The nonpartisan Congressional
Budget Office said the revisions would mean lower revenues over 15 years; the
President has said it would be ''revenue neutral'' over five years. And, said
the Fed chairman, Paul A. Volcker, the provisions for business investment are
not sufficient.

Lyle Gramley is resigning from the Federal Reserve Board. Mr. Gramley had been a
stong ally of Mr. Volcker, the Fed chairman, who is often at odds with the
President on monetary policy. With the expected departure of Charles Partee in
January, the President will have an opportunity to appoint a majority of the
board.

A former reporter and two others were found guilty of fraud for trading on
information that was to appear in the reporter's column in The Wall Street
Journal. The former reporter, R. Foster Winans; his roommate, David J.
Carpenter; and a stockbroker, Kenneth P. Felis, plan to appeal.

India refused to join a consolidated suit against Union Carbide for the Bhopal
tragedy. A Federal judge ordered the consolidation, and dozens of American
attorneys joined the suit.

Miscellanea. Lilco was fined $1.35 billion for mismanaging the construction of
its Shoreham nuclear plant. Lilco said it would appeal. . . . Enserch is writing
down its assets by $225 million in the second quarter. . . . Cleveland Electric
Illumination and Toledo Edison are merging, the first utility merger in years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph of leading economic indicators (Commerce Department); Drawing

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


