                              390 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         Morning Star (Wilmington, NC)

                           November 28, 2000, Tuesday

REGION BRIEFS

SECTION: Local/State; Pg. 2B

LENGTH: 612 words


REBUILD AFTER FLOYD

Communities get fed money

The U.S. Department of Commerce has made $ 55.8 million in Economic Development
Administration funding available to help communities recover from Hurricane
Floyd and other disasters.

Communities can use the money for planning assistance, construction grants,
revolving loan funds and other ways of helping businesses recover and get people
back to work. Of the $ 55.8 million, $ 49.9 is for communities affected by
Hurricane Floyd, and $ 5.9 million is for victims of other recent disasters.

Communities interested in tapping the funds should contact the Economic
Development Administration's regional office in Atlanta, (404) 730-3002. William
Day Jr. is the director of the multi-state region, which includes North
Carolina.

NATIONAL HEALTH BOARD

Atkinson appointed

Bill Atkinson, president of New Hanover Health Network, which includes New
Hanover Regional Medical Center, has been appointed to a national health care
policy board.

The American Hospital Association appointed Dr. Atkinson to its Regional Policy
Board 3, which covers the Southeastern United States, including North Carolina.

He will represent health care systems on the board, which meets three times a
year to discuss policy issues and alternatives. The American Hospital
Association uses the regional board's recommendations and analyses in its policy
discussions.

Dr. Atkinson, who joined New Hanover Regional Medical Center in October 1997,
was appointed to a term that begins in Jan. 1 and expires Dec. 31, 2004.

Since Dr. Atkinson took over as president of New Hanover Regional Medical
Center, the hospital bought Cape Fear Hospital, agreed to manage Pender Memorial
Hospital and took over a county-run ambulance system.

SATURDAY EVENING

Wonders of sky on display

The rings of Saturn. Cloud bands on Jupiter. Mountains and craters on the moon.

All of these heavenly delights and more will be on display as the Cape Fear
Astronomical Society sets up its telescopes for a public viewing starting at
twilight Saturday and continuing until about 10:30 p.m. at New Hanover High
School's East Campus, the former Snipes Elementary School, at Chestnut and 21st
streets.

The Society asks that visitors park on the street so the school's parking lot
can remain relatively dark for viewing. If it's overcast or rainy, the viewing
will be rescheduled.

For information, call Ronnie Hawes at 762-1033.

DOT MEETING DEC. 7

Public invited to comment

The N.C. Department of Transportation will hold a public meeting from 2 to 4
p.m. Dec. 7 in the New Hanover County Commissioners planning room, 24 N. Third
St.

The meeting will give the public the opportunity to comment on the department's
Draft 2002-08 Transportation Improvement Program, or TIP.

The TIP outlines the transportation projects planned for the next seven years.

For more information, call the Transportation Department toll free at (877)
DOT-4YOU.

BRIGHT IDEAS

2 Topsail High teachers honored

The Jones-Onslow Electric Membership Corp. has awarded a $ 1,000 Pender County
Bright Ideas Grant to Amy Stuart and Judy Dietz, English teachers at Topsail
High School.

The grant will be used to start a literary magazine. Students now have no forum
to formally share their writing with each other and the community. The magazine
will be produced in the spring semester creative writing and poetry classes.

The classes will create monthly preview magazines and a full-length booklet at
the end of the school year.

The magazine will include creative nonfiction, fiction, poetry and artwork by
students, faculty, parents and community members.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Wilmington Star-News, Inc.


