                              393 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             April 18, 2016 Monday

Florida: Orlando EDC to Honor Lars Houmann and Randy Berridge at Annual Award
Dinner

LENGTH: 520 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Tallahassee: Orlando Economic Development Commossion, The State of Florida has
issued the following news release:



   The Orlando Economic Development Commission (EDC) will host the 2016 James B.
Greene Annual Award dinner on Tuesday, May 17, 2016 from 6 to 9 p.m. at the
Hyatt Regency Orlando located at 9801 International Drive.





 Lars Houmann, President and CEO of the Florida Division of Adventist Health
System is the 2016 recipient of the James B. Greene Award, the highest honor
bestowed by the EDC to a local community leader. The 2016 Chairman's Award will
be given to Randy Berridge, President of the Florida High Tech Corridor Council.




 The James B. Greene Award, first presented in 1990, recognizes an individual
whose work has contributed substantially to the economic prosperity of the
region. The EDC Chairman's Award, first presented in 2007, recognizes a
long-term contributor to the work of the Orlando EDC.



 "Both Lars and Randy have been important community collaborators and their
incredible influence over the years has helped shape Orlando into what it is
today - a thriving region with diverse opportunities for individuals, businesses
and organizations," said Orlando EDC Board Chair David Fuller. "The EDC is
pleased to bestow upon them this great honor and I am proud to name them the
2016 James B. Greene and Chairman's awards winners."



 Houmann first joined Florida Hospital in 1993 and served as CEO since 2006. He
was responsible for major hospital expansion projects including Florida Hospital
Celebration Health and Florida Hospital for Women. While Houmann's career has
been spent entirely in hospital administration, his experience ranges from small
community hospitals to multi-hospital systems and large teaching hospitals in
Massachusetts, California and Arizona. Through his leadership at Florida
Hospital, it has been named the top hospital in Florida and among the best in
the country by U.S. News and World Report. He volunteers and supports community
organizations including the American Heart Association, Shepherd's Hope Clinics,
American Diabetes Association, United Global Outreach, and the Seventh-day
Adventist Church.



 Berridge has held the position of president of the Florida High Tech Corridor
Council since its formation in 1996. He also serves as president of the Berridge
Consulting Group, Inc. and as an advisory board member for SunTrust Bank, N.A.
and the UCF Business Incubation Program.



 The James B. Greene Annual Award dinner is attended by hundreds of Orlando
region business and community leaders. This year's event will feature the Boy
Scouts of America color guard and performance of the National Anthem by the
Orlando Repertory Theatre Power Chords. The price for an individual EDC investor
is $245, non-investors is $265 or $2,300 for a corporate table of 10 (plus tax).
More information is available online at http://OrlandoEDC.com/JBG. For questions
or to RSVP, send an e-mail to Events@OrlandoEDC.com or call 407.719.7159 ext.
246.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact:
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


