                              397 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Express-Star (Chickasha, Oklahoma)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           September 1, 2015 Tuesday

City approves EDC grant to give hospital gust of fresh air

BYLINE: James Bright, The Express-Star, Chickasha, Okla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 416 words


Sept. 01--Grady Memorial Hospital will receive up to $532,000 from the City of
Chickasha to help fix issues found in the facility's operating room during an
inspection last month.

The council voted 9-0 in a special meeting Monday night to approve the action.

The hospital announced Aug. 19 that it will be closing its operating rooms for
an estimated 45 days to make repairs to the 30-year-old air conditioning system,
following an audit from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).

Mayor Hank Ross said Chickasha was the only major city in the county with the
funds to help out the hospital.

"We will pull the funds from non-essential road projects," Ross said.

Grady Memorial CEO Warren Kean Spellman said he has not received a final written
report on the operating room's problems, but did receive an oral prognosis
following the survey.

The grant money came from projects earmarked in the EDC budget that either got
taken care of in another way or from projects that were no longer necessary
expenditures, Economic Development Director Christy Elkins said.

Duncan Regional Hospital and Norman Regional HealthPlex have granted GMH
physicians emergency privileges to continue to care for patients affected by the
temporary closure.

"Norman and Duncan, in particular, they reached out to make sure our patients
are being served," Ross said. "We have some great practitioners. They're
dedicated. This is just a financial obstacle that has to be resolved."

While 45 days is still the plan, Spellman said Monday that time period could be
significantly extended.

"What the people from other facilities that have gone through this are telling
me is 45 days is optimistic," Spellman said. "What we're learning is that the
regulatory progress is time consuming. With other facilities, it's been multiple
months."

Spellman said the EDC grant will help speed up the process by ensuring the funds
are available. Christy Elkins, director of the Chickasha EDC, said it is
important to support the hospital because of what it provides in terms of
economic growth.

"On top of losing the 450 or so jobs, you can't recruit any new businesses
without a hospital," Elkins said. "We want to provide this grant not only to
save the current jobs, but also in order to bring new jobs and businesses to the
community. The hospital is key to economic development."

___ (c)2015 The Express-Star (Chickasha, Okla.) Visit The Express-Star
(Chickasha, Okla.) at chickashanews.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150901-XE-City-approves-EDC-grant-to-give-hospital
-gust-of-fresh-air-0901-20150901

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XE


                        Copyright 2015 The Express-Star


