                              391 of 994 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright © 2008, American Health Lawyers Association. All
                               rights reserved.
                     Journal of Health & Life Sciences Law

                                  April, 2008

                 Vol. 1, No. 3, J. Health & Life Sci. L. Pg. 39

LENGTH: 14816 words

SUMMARY: ABSTRACT: Investments by physicians in specialty hospitals, ambulatory
surgery centers, and other competing facilities have caused many full-service
acute care hospitals a great deal of concern. These full-service hospitals
believe they are at a disadvantage in competing against such centers because
physician-investors allegedly can "pre-select" profitable patients. Full-service
hospitals have reacted in a variety of ways, including adopting economic
credentialing policies. Physician-owned centers often view these policies as
anti-competitive and seek relief under the antitrust laws. Hospitals attempt to
defend these actions on the grounds that they prevent what economists call
"free-riding." A key element of this defense is whether pre-selection is
occurring and whether the hospital has sufficient evidence of pre-selection to
justify the conduct under the antitrust laws.

TITLE: ARTICLE: Can Preventing Diversion of Profitable Patients Justify
Hospitals' Economic Credentialing Under the Antitrust Laws?

AUTHOR: MARK L. MATTIOLI, Esquire, is a partner in the Business Law and
Litigation Department of Post & Schell, P.C. in Philadelphia, PA. He
concentrates his commercial litigation practice in the areas of health law and
antitrust litigation, including price fixing, monopolies, staff privilege
disputes, and class action antitrust litigation. He also counsels healthcare
clients on joint venture relationships, exclusive contracting, and economic
credentialing. He has written and spoken on a wide variety of topics, including
antitrust law, health law, the false claims act, and aviation law. Contact him
via email at mmattioli@postschell.com.

TEXT:

   ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING AND ANTITRUST LAW

Introduction

   The current trend of physician investment in specialty hospitals, ambulatory
surgery centers (ASCs), and other competing facilities has concerned many
full-service acute care hospitals. At the center of this concern is the fear
that physician-owned centers will siphon off lucrative patients from the
full-service hospitals. These full-service hospitals believe that they already
are operating at a disadvantage in competing with physician-owned centers due to
low reimbursement by the government and private payors for many services.
Full-service hospitals have reacted to the competition in a variety of ways, but
primarily through developing economic credentialing policies, which physicians
often view as anti-competitive. This article examines the antitrust
justifications cited by full-service hospitals in defense of these policies,
namely that they are designed to prevent unfair competition through physician
pre-selection of patients. Economists label this type of justification as
protection from "free-riding." n1



   n1 The term "free-riding" is an economic term of art, and not intended as a
pejorative term. It is defined as a consumer or producer that does not pay for a
nonexclusive good on the hope that others will pay for it. See ROBERT S. PINDYCK
AND DANIEL L. RUBINFELD, MICROECONOMICS at 668 (6th Edition, Prentice Hall,
2005).

   This article will focus on the most controversial of the approaches, conflict
of interest policies, discussing the pro-competitive justifications offered by
hospitals for such policies (i.e., prevention of pre-selection and its
theoretical underpinnings as they relate to antitrust doctrine). First, however,
we must define economic credentialing and explore the antitrust issues facing
hospitals that adopt such policies.

   Overview: What Is Economic Credentialing?

   The generic term "economic credentialing" connotes many different types of
policies. In its simplest form, economic credentialing can be defined as the use
of any criteria not directly related to clinical competency in determining
whether to grant medical staff membership and clinical privileges to a physician
or healthcare provider. n2 These considerations may include the business goals
of the hospital, utilization of hospital resources by physicians, and other
financial considerations, such as whether the physician competes with the
hospital or affiliates with a competing facility. What distinguishes economic
credentialing from typical medical staff credentialing is that economic
credentialing considerations are not based upon quality of care, professional
conduct, or other competency-based criteria.



   n2 AMA Policy H230.975 (economic credentialing), available at
www.ama-assn.org/ama1/pub/upload/mm/475/811.doc.

   Elements of economic credentialing are not new; they have been around for
many years. Indeed, at least one court has viewed manpower or medical staff
development plans that limit the number of physicians allowed to practice in a
given specialty based upon the anticipated needs of the community as a form of
economic credentialing. n3 Although such plans had economic motivation in that
they sought to limit over-utilization of hospital resources, they were bottomed
upon concerns that over-utilization would result in poor quality.



   n3 See Davis v. Morristown Mem'l Hosp., 254 A.2d 125 (Ch. Div. 1969) (closing
of obstetrics department to new applicants was an appropriate exercise of
hospital discretion).

   Economic credentialing policies tended to change toward "pure" economic
credentialing policies in the 1990s, as hospitals placed more emphasis on
physician profitability and resource utilization. Pure economic credentialing
policies were, and remain, highly controversial, especially among physicians.
These policies looked at and examined whether the physician was bringing
"profitable" cases to the hospital. Although many hospitals contemplated such
policies, few actually took steps to adopt them. Given the highly charged
political nature of the policies and the difficulty in policing their legitimate
application, hospitals have not widely adopted these pure economic policies.

   Physician competition and its relation to economic credentialing

   To a greater degree than in most business relationships, the hospital/
physician dynamic is one of cooperation and competition. Indeed, a major
challenge for any hospital administrator is to maintain the delicate balance
between the economic viability of the hospital and a workable relationship with
the medical staff. n4 To the hospital, these two goals can appear mutually
exclusive, especially when physicians seek to expand beyond the traditional
realm of professional services and compete directly with the acute care hospital
by offering services previously viewed as hospital-only services. There are
multiple well-publicized cases in which physicians seeking to open competing
specialty hospitals claim that competition was necessary because the physicians
could provide higher quality services at a lower cost. n5



   n4 Robert Berenson, Paul Ginsburg & Jessica May, Hospital-Physician
Relations: Cooperation, Competition, or Separation?, 26 HEALTH AFFAIRS WEB
EXCLUSIVE W31, W33 (December 5, 2006) (hospital competition with physicians
identified as one of the top three pressures facing the hospital).


   n5 There is some support to refute this assumption. See Robert Bereson,
Gloria Bazzoli and Melanie Au, Do Specialty Hospitals Promote Price Competition
?, CENTER FOR STUDYING HEALTH SYSTEM CHANGE, ISSUE BRIEF NO. 103 (January 2006)
(concluding that specialty hospitals do not lower costs for services).

   In addition, many physicians are investing in competing ambulatory surgery
centers. n6 Full-service acute care hospitals continue to be concerned with
competition by ASCs and perceive them as infringing upon their turf. Most
importantly, hospitals believe that physician investors will attempt to leverage
their relationships with patients to pre-select high-paying and profitable cases
for their facilities, while simultaneously directing all free and
low-reimbursement patients to the hospital.



   n6 New ASCs are increasing at alarming rates as more procedures can be
performed safely in such centers. Additionally, many physicians are offering CT
scans in their offices. Robert. A. Bereson, Thomas Bodenheimer & Hoangmai Pham,
Specialty-Service Lines: Salvos in the New Medical Arms Race, 25 HEALTH AFFAIRS
w377, w341 (published online December 5, 2006, 10.1377/hlthaff.25.w337).

Role of cost-shifting as influencing credentialing policy

   Hospitals must offer a wide variety of services to patients. Some services
will not be profitable, while others will. Moreover, the profitability of a
particular service may depend upon the identity of the payor. Overall, a
hospital must balance profitable services with non-profitable services to remain
financially viable. If the balance tips towards unprofitable payors or services,
the hospital will find itself in a difficult financial position. This process of
offsetting unprofitable services with the profitable ones is sometimes referred
to as cost-shifting. The inability to cost-shift is at the center of the
economic credentialing debate. Hospitals argue that when physicians siphon off
lucrative patients, the hospital cannot then offset the unprofitable services
against profitable ones. Physicians, the hospitals claim, have the ability to
pre-select profitable patients, an ability the hospital does not possess.

   This perceived ability to pre-select patients based upon reimbursement
potential is a source of considerable anxiety for hospitals, because they rely
upon a broad mix of payer types to maintain financial stability. n7
Specifically, full-service hospitals complain that they are saddled with a
larger percentage of charity cases for which they will receive no reimbursement,
complicating further their financial condition. n8 Unfortunately, due to cuts in
governmental programs, hospitals often are forced to subsidize indigent and
governmental program care with more lucrative payments from private insurers. n9
This cost-shifting has been a major concern for private insurers attracted to
the potential for more favorable rates from physician-owned centers, which treat
fewer Medicaid patients and may rely less on cost-shifting subsidies. n10



   n7 Stacey Burling, Surgical Centers' Growth Criticized, PHILA. INQUIRER, Nov.
20, 2007, at D1 (Hospital and Health-System Association of Pennsylvania notes
that outpatient centers siphon off healthiest, best-insured patients, making it
hard for hospital to make a profit).


   n8 The CMS Final Report found that acute care hospitals provided a
substantially higher amount of charity care than did specialty hospitals. U.S.
DEPT. HEALTH & HUMAN SERV., FINAL REPORT TO THE CONGRESS & STRATEGIC &
IMPLEMENTING PLAN, 52 n.79 (Aug. 9, 2006). [hereinafter CMS Report].


   n9 See Allen Dobson, Joan DaVanzo and Namrata Sen, The Cost-Shift Payment
Hydraulic: Foundation, History and Implications, 25 HEALTH AFFAIRS 22 (2006).
According to the authors, "the cost-shifting dynamic places hospitals in the
unenviable position of playing the role of private-sector tax collectors, to
maintain their financial solvency." The authors conclude that the inability to
cost shift likely will result in the demise of many hospitals and services
currently provided by acute care hospitals.


   n10 The CMS Report also concluded that physician-owned specialty hospitals
served a lower percentage of Medicaid patients than were served by acute care
hospitals. CMS Report, supra note 8, at 12.

   Hence, the perceived inability to cost shift becomes a focal point of the
economic credentialing controversy. As discussed below, hospital conflict
policies are largely designed to prevent and/or punish this perceived
pre-selection of patients. Hospitals may attempt to use a variety of different
mechanisms to obtain this goal, some cooperative and some coercive.

Hospital responses to pre-selection: cooperative and coercive polices

   The first reaction by hospitals facing competition from ASCs and other
physician-owned entities often is to attempt to partner with the physicians in a
joint venture. The idea behind this is that the hospital will run the facility
while the physicians continue to provide professional services and receive some
profit from the technical services by way of the joint venture. In these joint
ventures, the hospital's and physicians' goals are aligned. In fact, according
to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Report on specialty
hospitals, this lack of alignment causes physicians to open specialty hospitals:


        We believe that closer alignment of physician and hospital
     incentives has the potential to reduce physicians' motivation for
     creating specialty hospitals and to improve patient outcomes and the
     efficiency of care delivery. Current Medicare payment systems often
     put physicians and hospitals at cross purposes. For example, under the
     physician fee schedule, a physician has an incentive to provide a
     large quantity of services to maximize revenue while, under the DRG
     prospective payment system, a hospital is incented to conserve
     resources to maximize its profit. n11





   n11 CMS Report, supra note 8, at 64.

   Where a joint venture with physicians is not an option, acute care hospitals
have reacted to the competition by employing economic means, such as exclusive
contracting with providers, in an attempt to prevent physicians from entering
these new markets. In antitrust parlance, the hospital attempts to create
economic barriers to entry. n12 Finally, when none of the above options are
viable, but a hospital feels threatened economically, it may attempt to create
economic credentialing policies that prohibit physicians with financial
interests in competing facilities from maintaining or acquiring medical staff
privileges at the acute care hospital. This is often a last step and carries its
own economic disadvantages, not to mention significant political hospital
-physician relationship ramifications.



   n12 See, e.g., Rome Ambulatory Surgical Ctr. v. Rome Mem'l Hosp., 349 F.
Supp. 2d 389 (N.D.N.Y. 2004) (Surgery center alleged, among other things, that
hospital attempted to stifle competition from surgery center by contracting,
exclusively, with third-party insurers).

   At one end of the economic credentialing spectrum are policies that prohibit
physicians who are either employed by, or have ownership interests in, competing
facilities from holding board positions or leadership positions on the acute
care hospital's medical staff. These types of policies can be justified on the
grounds that the physician may have a mixed allegiance, and may not make
decisions in the best interest of the hospital. Physician investors may have an
independent personal stake in the eventual decision, which may influence their
judgment. n13 For example, if a medical staff is considering approval of a new
procedure similar to one presently provided by other specialists, those
specialists may be disinclined to approve the new procedure out of a purely
economic motivation. In this case, the physician's judgment of what is best for
the hospital is clouded by his or her economic motivations. These types of
policies are typically very low risk from an antitrust standpoint.



   n13 The AMA, which has strenuously opposed economic credentialing, has not
opposed the concept that physicians with competing business interests should not
hold hospital positions where their financial interests may conflict. Letter
from Michael D. Maves, M.D., MBA to Janet Rehnquist, Office of Inspector Gen. 2,
(Feb. 6, 2003), available at
www.ama-assn.org/ama1/pub/upload/mm/395/rev_oig_comments.pdf.

   At the far end of the continuum are policies that prevent physicians with
conflicting financial interests from obtaining or maintaining medical staff
membership at the acute care hospital. Along the continuum are policies that
deny certain prerogatives to physicians holding financial interests in competing
facilities, such as obtaining unassigned emergency room referrals or being
included on a rotational list for unassigned diagnostic services.

Conflict of interest policies as a mechanism to prevent pre-selection

   Of all the economic credentialing policies along the continuum, conflict
policies have generated the most controversy. These conflict of interest
policies mandate denial of medical staff appointment where the practitioner,
directly or indirectly, acquires or holds an ownership or investment interest in
a competing facility. n14 In some cases, the policy may allow some limited
competition--such as allowing the physician to provide radiology services in his
or her office--but prevent the physician from becoming an investor in a
specialty hospital or ambulatory surgery center. Often, however, these policies
define broadly what constitutes a conflicting interest. For example, in Baptist
Health v. Murphy, n15 direct ownership was defined by the hospital policy as an
ownership interest by the practitioner or the practitioner's immediate family.
Further, indirect ownership was defined as a situation where "between the
practitioner (or the practitioner's immediate family member) and the competing
hospital there exists an unbroken chain of any number of persons or entities
having ownership or investment interest between them." n16



   n14 See, e.g., J. Marks & J. Matchinski, Recent Developments in Health Care
Law: Conflicts Credentialing: Hospitals and the Use of Financial Considerations
to Make Medical Staffing Decisions, 31 WM. MITCHEKK L. REV. 1009 (2005).


   n15 Baptist Health v. Murphy, 226 S.W. 3d 800 (Ark. 2006) (granting
preliminary injunction to prevent implementation of conflict criteria).


   n16 Id. at 805 n.1.

   The rationale for conflict policies is the belief that the physicians are
able to compete unfairly because they have the ability to pre-select which
patients will be treated at their own facilities, directing unprofitable
patients to the full-service hospital. A full-service hospital, however, cannot
discriminate against patients based upon type of insurance or whether the
patient has an ability to pay.

   Conflict policies are premised upon the argument that physicians do steer
patients to entities in which they have financial interests. It is this
presumption that drives the adoption of most economic conflict credentialing
policies. The problem for the hospital is that this presumption is not easily
proven or rebutted. A common argument made by acute care hospitals seeking to
adopt conflict policies is that they cannot wait for actual proof of physician
pre-selection to materialize, as by the time such proof does materialize, the
hospital will be in a dire financial situation. Nevertheless, the accuracy of
this critical presumption determines whether the hospital's conduct is justified
under the antitrust laws.

   As discussed above, conflict policies are adopted as a last resort by those
acute care hospitals that do not have other means or incentives to prevent
physicians from opening competing facilities. For a conflict policy to be
effective, however, physicians must not have a viable alternative to the
hospital. Otherwise, barring collusion among hospitals, physicians would simply
shift their practices to a different hospital. Accordingly, economic
credentialing policies tend to alter the competitive landscape and prevent
physician entry into some markets. From an antitrust perspective, it is this
lack of feasible alternatives, necessary for the success of a economic conflict
credentialing policy, that creates the most significant antitrust risk for a
hospital.

Antitrust Overview: Claims of Improper Economic Credentialing

   To put the pre-selection argument in an antitrust context, it is first
necessary to examine the theories utilized by physician-plaintiffs to challenge
conflict policies under the antitrust laws. Physicians and other investors in
ambulatory surgery centers and specialty hospitals may cite antitrust laws to
challenge conflict of interest policies. These physicians typically will allege
that the policy is an improper restraint of trade under Sherman Act Section One,
or that the hospital has monopolized or is attempting to monopolize the market
for the particular service in violation of Section Two of the Sherman Antitrust
Act.

   Multiple physicians have resorted to the federal antitrust laws when
challenging credentialing decisions because of the potential threat of treble
damages and collecting attorneys' fees from the hospital. Often, these claims
are dismissed on summary judgment because the hospital is immune from damages
under the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986. n17 In most cases, where
the issue is one of competence, the courts will not second guess the clinical
decision of the hospital as to the physician's competency or professional
conduct. Nevertheless, the courts may be more willing to become involved in
privileging decisions that are economic in nature. n18



   n17 Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. § 11111(a).


   n18 Gordon v. Lewistown Hosp., 423 F.3d 184 (3d Cir. 2005) (ophthalmologist
whose privileges were terminated for disruptive behavior alleged, among other
things, that hospital retaliated against him because of his plans to open a
competing outpatient surgery center), cert. denied, 126 S. Ct. 1777 (2006).

   A typical plaintiff contends that the hospital conspired with other members
of the medical staff to boycott the physician and/or the affiliated surgery
center in violation of Section One of the Sherman Act. This conspiracy,
depending on the circumstances, may occur when competitor physicians influence
adoption of the hospital medical staff credentialing policy, or when the
hospital conspires with other physicians to prevent them from providing services
at the plaintiff's physician center. For example, the physician investor may
claim, as in Gordon, that the hospital conspired with anesthesiologists to
prevent them from providing services at the plaintiff's surgery center.
Additionally, plaintiffs may claim that the hospital has tied the provision of
surgical services to the provision of professional services, also in violation
of Section One. Finally, such physicians may claim that the hospital is
attempting to monopolize the market or has engaged in a refusal to deal in
violation of Section Two of the Sherman Act.

   In response, the hospital may contend that the policy has rational
pro-competitive justifications, and moreover, does not harm competition. For
example, the hospital may contend that it is designed to prevent physicians from
siphoning off lucrative patients that otherwise would be lost to the
freestanding facility. In antitrust terms, the policy is claimed to prevent
"free-riding" by the physician investors.

   Claims under Section One of the Sherman Act

   As discussed above, a physician threatened with having his or her privileges
revoked as the result of a conflict of interest policy, or a physician whose
center has been excluded may potentially challenge the action under Section One
of the Sherman Act. These physicians will allege some type of concerted group
boycott whereby the hospital coerced other physicians on staff not to utilize
the plaintiff's facility. Section One of the Sherman Act prohibits contracts,
agreements, and conspiracies in restraint of trade, and it is invoked frequently
in staff-privilege antitrust disputes. n19



   n19 15 U.S.C. § 1 (2007).

   To state a claim under Section One, a plaintiff must establish:

        1. concerted action (two or more persons or entities have
     conspired, combined, or contracted with each other);

        2. injury to competition within relevant product and geographic
     markets;

        3. the objects of the challenged conduct pursuant to the concerted
     action were illegal; and

        4. the plaintiff sustained injury as a proximate result of the
     concerted action. n20





   n20 Petruzzi's IGA Supermarkets, Inc. v. Darling-Delaware Co., 998 F.2d 1224,
1229 (3d Cir.), cert. denied, 144 S. Ct. 554 (1993).

   Accordingly, Section One concerns itself only with "concerted" activity--two
or more separate economic persons or entities acting together to restrain
competition.

Concerted action

   First, a plaintiff challenging an economic credentialing policy under Section
One must prove that two or more separate individuals or entities that are
legally capable of conspiring agreed to do something illegal under the Sherman
Act. Such claims are predicated upon an allegation that the hospital conspired
with individual members of the medical staff to remove or harm the
plaintiff-physician. In many cases, the plaintiff-physician will allege that a
competitor physician was economically motivated to remove the physician from
practicing at the hospital with the hope that he or she would capture the ousted
physician's patients. In addition, where the hospital also is involved in a
joint venture with other physicians, such as in a surgery center that competes
with the plaintiff's ambulatory center, this fact may establish the requisite
concerted action under Section One.

   In many cases, however, the hospital will have adopted the economic
credentialing policy unilaterally. n21 In these cases, it may be more difficult
to establish concerted action. Nevertheless, a theory sometimes advanced by
physician-plaintiffs is that the physician subject to the policy is a "coerced"
co-conspirator, thereby satisfying the concerted action element of Section One.
n22 In Gordon v. Lewistown Hospital, n23 for example, the plaintiff
ophthalmologist alleged that the defendant hospital attempted to tie the
provision of inpatient ophthalmological surgery to an ophthalmologist affiliated
with the Geisinger Health Plan. As part of the conspiracy, the plaintiff alleged
that the hospital imposed onerous conditions that had the effect of preventing
him from disclosing truthful information to his patients about the quality of
care provided by the competing ophthalmologist. The court denied the hospital's
motion for summary judgment, holding that the agreement between the physician
and the hospital could constitute an "agreement" for purposes of Section One.
n24 Although not expressly stated, the court in essence held that the plaintiff
was a coerced co-conspirator.



   n21 To the extent that the hospital medical staff is involved in developing
economic credentialing policies, such involvement may give rise to a claim that
the hospital conspired with its medical staff. Inasmuch as economic
credentialing policies are outside the traditional medical competency realm
typically delegated to the medical staff, the intracorporate immunity doctrine
may not apply. See Oksanen v. Page Memorial Hosp., 945 F.2d 696, 703 (4th Cir.
1991) (en banc), cert. denied, 117 L. Ed. 2d 137 (1992); Weiss v. York Hosp.,
745 F.2d 786, 817 (3d Cir. 1984).


   n22 See Areeda, 6 ANTITRUST LAW 1404b ("The precedents are numerous that a §
1 conspiracy arises when an unwilling dealer, to avoid termination by his
supplier, promises to buy a second commodity, to deal exclusively, or to
restrict resales.") See also Gordon v. Lewistown Hosp., 272 F. Supp. 2d 393
(M.D. Pa. 2003) (Conditions of reappointment between hospital and disruptive
physician created a "contract" to satisfy the concerted action requirement under
Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Act), aff'd, 423 F.3d 184 (3d Cir. 2005),
cert. denied, 126 S. Ct. 1777 (2006).


   n23 Gordon, 272 F. Supp. 2d 393.


   n24 Id. at 417.

Effects on competition

   If the aggrieved physician can establish concerted action, he or she next
must establish that the economic credentialing policy unreasonably restrains
trade as opposed to affecting the physician's business. n25 To this end, the
antitrust laws recognize that competition is often a fierce battle between
rivals for the hearts and minds of consumers that can lead to the demise of
competitors. n26



   n25 Spectrum Sports, Inc. v. McQuillan, 506 U.S. 447, 458 (1993) ("The law
directs itself not against conduct which is competitive, even severely so, but
against conduct which unfairly tends to destroy competition itself. It does so
not out of solicitude for private concerns but out of concern for the public
interest.").


   n26 Seagood Trading Corp. v. Jerrico, Inc., 924 F.2d 1555, 1573 (11th Cir.
1991).

   Accordingly, Section One claims are analyzed under two frameworks: those that
are presumptive, or "per se," violations, and those that fall under the "rule of
reason," where the court must consider the totality of the circumstances to
determine whether the conduct violates the antitrust laws. Per se antitrust
violations include horizontal price fixing, market allocations, some forms of
group boycotts, and some forms of tying. n27 If the court deems conduct per se
violative of Section One, the defendant is not permitted to explain its reasons
for the conduct. It is exceedingly rare for a healthcare-related antitrust case
to be analyzed as a per se violation. n28



   n27 See ABA, I-I ANTITRUST LAW DEVELOPMENTS § B(3)(a) (5th ed.).


   n28 Weiss v. York Hospital, 745 F.2d 786 (3d Cir. 1984), cert. denied, 105 S.
Ct. 1777 (1985) (group boycott by hospitals to prevent osteopathic physicians
from obtaining medical staff membership).

   Most healthcare antitrust cases are analyzed under the rule of reason. Under
this analysis, the burden is on the plaintiff to establish that the alleged
conduct affects competition. This can be demonstrated directly by establishing
that the defendant's actions have a direct effect on price or output, n29 or
indirectly by demonstrating that the defendant has market power, i.e., the power
to raise price above competitive levels. n30 Although there is no precise
definition of what constitutes market power, courts will look to a variety of
factors, such as the relative market shares of the participants; n31 the nature
of the restraint (i.e., whether it has the potential to increase price, reduce
output, and lessen quality); n32 and the purpose for the restraint. Given
Congress's belief that concerted action is more dangerous than unilateral
action, the test for whether conduct violates Section One is more fluid.



   n29 For example, a plaintiff challenging an economic credentialing policy may
argue that hospital efforts to thwart competing ambulatory centers contribute to
a backlog of cases. This backlog, they may argue, results in additional
bargaining power for the hospital, which can leverage it in its negotiations
with private payors. To date, however, these arguments have not been made
successfully in the healthcare antitrust setting. Nevertheless, a pricing
analysis comparing pre- and post-merger prices charged by hospitals to MCOs was
utilized in In re Evanston Northwestern Healthcare Corp., Opinion of the
Commission, FTC File No. 011 0234, Docket No. 9315 (Aug. 6, 2007), available at
www.ftc.gov/os/adjpro/d9315/070806opinion.pdf.


   n30 FTC v. Ind. Fed'n of Dentists, 476 U.S. 447 (1986) (full market analysis
not required if the plaintiff can show direct effects on competition). Compare
Cal. Dental Ass'n v. FTC, 526 U.S. 756 (1999).


   n31 See, e.g., Oltz v. Saint Peter's Cmty. Hosp., 861 F.2d 1440 (9th Cir.
1988) (market share of 85 percent). A lesser market share is needed under
Section One than is required under Section Two monopolization claims. Reazin v.
Blue Cross & Blue Shield, Inc., 899 F.2d 951 (10th Cir. 1990) (market power
under Section One and Monopoly power under Section Two differ only in degree, as
monopoly power is thought of as "substantial" market power).


   n32 See, e.g., State Oil Co. v. Khan, 522 U.S. 3 (1997) (courts look at a
variety of factors including specific information about the relevant business,
its condition before and after the restraint, and the restraint's history,
nature, and effect).

   Finally, and important to the court's analysis of hospital reactions to
physician competition, in rule of reason cases, the hospital may present
evidence of its legitimate business justifications for the policy. These
justifications must further the competitive process and not themselves stifle
competition. Justifications that have been accepted by the courts include
increasing efficiencies and the prevention of free-riding. n33 However, the
prevention of pre-selection (free-riding) by physicians probably is cited the
most by hospitals adopting conflicts policies.



   n33 These issues are discussed in detail in this article, infra, in the
section titled "Justification for Pre-Selection Recognized Under the Sherman
Act."

   Claims under Section Two of the Sherman Act

   Most claims challenging conflicts policies will be brought under Section Two
of the Sherman Act. Section Two prohibits the illegal formation or maintenance
of monopolies, as well as attempts to monopolize and conspiracies to monopolize.
n34 Unlike under Section One, however, a hospital's unilateral activity can
violate Section Two--under Section Two, the plaintiff need not establish that
the hospital conspired with any other person or entity. For this reason, Section
Two may be, from a plaintiff's perspective, a better mechanism to challenge
conflict policies. Nevertheless, proof of a Section Two violation requires
showing that the defendant possesses monopoly power, or that the hospital has a
dangerous probability of obtaining monopoly power. Monopoly power under Section
Two is more difficult to establish than market power under Section One. n35



   n34 15 U.S.C. § 2 (2007).


   n35 Reazin, 899 F.2d at 966-67.

   Typical Section Two theories include attempts to monopolize, refusals to
deal, and allegations that a hospital engaged in exclusionary contracting
practices with payors to drive the plaintiff from the market. n36 The use of
payor contracts to attempt to monopolize the market is exemplified in Cascade
Health Solutions v. PeaceHealth. n37 There, the defendant (PeaceHealth) gave
discounts to managed care plans in exchange for the plans' agreement to use the
defendant exclusively for primary, secondary, and tertiary care services. n38 In
the attempt to monopolize claim, the plaintiff alleged that these bundled
discounts constituted predatory conduct in violation of Section Two of the
Sherman Act. n39



   n36 For example, in Surgical Care Ctr. of Hammond, L.C. v. Hosp. Serv. Dist.
No. 1, 309 F.3d 836 (5th Cir. La. 2002), the plaintiff outpatient surgical
facility argued that a hospital attempted to monopolize the outpatient surgical
market by entering into exclusive contracts with managed care organizations,
offering steep discounts if the organizations used the hospital's outpatient
services instead of the plaintiff's facility.


   n37 Cascade Health Solutions v. PeaceHealth, 502 F.3d 895 (9th Cir. Or.
2007).


   n38 Id. at § IA.


   n39 Id. at § IIA. A jury found for the plaintiff. The verdict was reversed on
appeal. There, the Ninth Circuit found that the bundled contracts could not be
considered predatory unless the defendant priced the services below cost.

   The most typical and direct challenges to conflicts policies allege that the
hospital is attempting to monopolize the market. Attempt to monopolize claims
involve three elements:

        1. predatory or anticompetitive conduct,

        2. a specific intent to monopolize, and

        3. a dangerous probability of achieving monopoly power. n40





   n40 Spectrum Sports v. McQuillan, 506 U.S. 447, 456 (1993). Although there
are no hard rules, market shares of less than 30 percent typically are deemed
insufficient, while shares of greater that 50 percent usually are sufficient to
sustain an attempt to monopolize claim. M & M Med. Supplies & Serv., Inc. v.
Pleasant Valley Hosp., 981 F.2d 160, 168 (4th Cir. W. Va. 1992), cert. denied,
508 U.S. 972 (1993).

   Section Two does not prohibit monopolies. Rather, it prohibits the unlawful
acquisition or maintenance of monopoly power. Thus, conduct alleged to violate
Section Two must be analyzed similar to a Section One rule of reason claim,
where the pro-competitive justifications are balanced against the
anticompetitive effects. The question here often becomes whether the proffered
pro-competitive justification is pretextual. As discussed above, hospitals
typically rely on the notion that conflicts policies prevent improper
pre-selection of lucrative patients. The validity of the justification depends
on whether this proposition is accurate. n41



   n41 See infra, section titled "Application of the Defense to Hospital
Reactions to Physician Competition."

   Case examples: Rome Ambulatory Surgical Center and Heartland Hospital

   Examination of antitrust litigation by specialty hospitals and ambulatory
surgery centers will exemplify how a hospitals' proffered procompetitive
justification applies. Two cases, Rome Ambulatory Surgical Center v. Rome
Memorial Hospital n42 and Heartland Surgical Specialty Hospital v. Midwest
Division, Inc., n43 exemplify the types of antitrust cases brought by physician
investors against hospitals that have adopted strategies to stop patient
pre-selection.



   n42 Rome Ambulatory Surgical Ctr., LLC v. Rome Mem'l Hosp., Inc., 349 F.
Supp. 2d 389 (N.D.N.Y. 2004).


   n43 Heartland Surgical Specialty Hosp., LLC v. Midwest Div., Inc., No.
05-2164-MLB (D. Kan. Oct. 1, 2007).

   One of the leading cases in this context is Rome Ambulatory Surgical Center
v. Rome Memorial Hospital. n44 There, a physician-owned ambulatory surgery
center filed an antitrust action against a hospital, contending that the
hospital conspired to drive the ASC out of the market for ambulatory surgery
services in Rome, N.Y. Among other things, the center contended that the
hospital engaged in a pattern of anticompetitive activity designed to prevent
competition by entering into exclusive contracts with health plans, intimidating
surgeons from using the surgery center, threatening to withhold privileges from
physicians who used the center, and inducing a group of physicians to refer to
the defendant hospital exclusively. n45



   n44 Rome Ambulatory Surgical Ctr., 349 F. Supp. 2d at 389.


   n45 Id. at 397.

   Additionally, the plaintiff challenged a defendant-hospital bylaw provision
allowing the medical staff to consider "the nature and extent of ownership ...
interest held by the applicant ... in any health care facility which is in
direct competition with the hospital" when determining whether to grant
physician staff privileges. The hospital defended on the grounds that the
plaintiff-investor physicians used the competing facility to refer profitable
procedures to their facility, while referring unprofitable cases to the
hospital.

   The federal trial court ruled that the plaintiff's tying claims, alleging
that the defendant required third-party payors to exclusively contract for
outpatient surgery as a condition for contracting for inpatient services, were
flawed. n46 In so ruling, the court found no evidence of forcing. In addition,
the court dismissed several of the plaintiff's other claims. n47



   n46 Id. at 408.


   n47 Id. at 411-17.

   The court, however, allowed the plaintiff's Section One exclusive contracting
claim to proceed to trial. There, the plaintiff alleged that the defendant-
hospital foreclosed a large percentage of the insured outpatient surgery market
such that it denied the plaintiff the opportunity to compete. Denying the motion
for summary judgment, the court rejected the hospital's argument that it was
merely protecting its turf. n48



   n48 Id. at 410-11.

   The court also refused to dismiss the plaintiff's attempt to monopolize
claim, finding sufficient predatory conduct based on the hospital intimidating
referral sources and entering into exclusive contracts. n49 At issue was a bylaw
provision that would have allowed the hospital to revoke the medical staff
membership and clinical privileges of physicians who competed with the hospital.
Although the hospital never utilized the bylaw provision, the court held that
the threat could be viewed as predatory. The court also allowed the conspiracy
to monopolize claim to proceed to trial. n50



   n49 Id. at 417.


   n50 Id at 422. The case was settled before trial. See also Little Rock
Cardiology Clinic, P.A. v. Baptist Health, Civil Action No. 4-06-cv-1594,
Amended Complaint (E.D. Ark., December 5, 2006). Plaintiff, a specialty
cardiology hospital owned by physician investors, alleged that defendant
hospital conspired with an insurer to exclude them from the market, and
developed an "economic credentialing" policy to prevent competition.

   Although not a case involving conflict policies, Heartland Hospital
exemplifies how hospitals may use managed care contracting to thwart competition
by a specialty hospital. In this case, the court found the hospital's proffered
justification pretextual. n51 The plaintiff, a physicianowned specialty hospital
providing orthopaedic, neurological, plastic, and general surgery, as well as
pain management services, filed an antitrust suit against a number of insurers,
systems, and hospitals under both Sections One and Two of the Sherman Antitrust
Act. After what the court deemed "contentious" discovery that resulted in more
than two dozen separate discovery orders, the remaining defendants, Aetna,
Coventry, HCA Midwest, St. Luke's, Shawnee Mission, and Carondelet, moved for
summary judgment. n52



   n51 Heartland Surgical Specialty Hospital, LLC v. Midwest Division, Inc., No.
05-2164-MLB (D. Kan. Oct. 1, 2007).


   n52 United, Cigna, Blue Cross, Humana, and North Kansas City Hospital settled
with the plaintiff and were dismissed from the case. Id. at 5.

   The plaintiff claimed that the defendant hospitals conspired with the managed
care organizations to prevent it from obtaining managed care contracts. Without
these contracts, it argued, it could not effectively compete. n53 The court
aptly characterized the dispute as follows:

        [T]his case ultimately involves the proper place of physician-owned
     healthcare ventures in the broad landscape of United States
     healthcare. Both sides insist they solely possess the moral high
     ground. Heartland contends that physician ownership yields higher
     quality care at a lower cost; that physicianowned facilities are
     better able to react to new ideas and patient needs; and that patients
     appreciate the convenience of smaller facilities with increased
     nursing care and patient amenities. Defendants contend that
     physician-owned healthcare ventures "cherrypick" the best patients,
     leaving traditional hospitals with costly obligations such as
     emergency and uninsured care; that physician-owned healthcare ventures
     increase the overall cost of healthcare; and that physician-owned
     facilities are unable to respond to the emergent situations of their
     patients in the same manner as a general hospital. Neither side can
     make a colorable argument that the parties' profits is not a central
     factor in their dispute. n54





   n53 Id. at 6.


   n54 Id. at 6-7.

   A central focus of the case was a "network configuration" clause insisted
upon by the defendant hospitals. Under this clause, the managed care
organization had to obtain the approval of the contracted hospital before
allowing a new facility into the network. n55 With regard to the agreement
between Coventry and HCA, the network configuration clause initially was placed
in the contract in 2003, and it was continued in subsequent agreements. The
provision automatically increased HCA's fees by 10 percent if Coventry included
a new facility on its panel without HCA's consent. n56 Admittedly, there was no
real justification by HCA for the provision--it was intended as "punitive" if
Coventry admitted "niche" providers to the network. Importantly, the clause did
not apply to facilities where a hospital was at least a 50 percent owner. n57
Accordingly, it was targeted exclusively at physicianowned facilities.



   n55 Id. at 20.


   n56 Id. at 22.


   n57 Id. at 43.

   Other hospitals and managed care organizations had similar agreements. The
plaintiff alleged that the hospitals conspired among themselves and with the
managed care organizations to boycott the plaintiff. The proffered justification
for the clauses was that it was in each hospital's independent interest to
restrict the number of competitors that may contract with the MCO. The court
rejected this justification as pretextual, arguing that the hospitals'
willingness to include competitors who were majority-owned by other hospitals
effectively nullified the proposed rationale. n58



   n58 Id. at 94.

   Finding sufficient issues of fact, such as dinners hosted by one of the
hospitals where the topic of competition with specialty hospitals was discussed,
n59 the court denied summary judgment in favor of the defendants. Notably absent
from the court's lengthy discussion is any argument developing the concept that
network configuration clauses were designed to prohibit potential siphoning-off
of lucrative patients by physician investors. A potential basis to differentiate
between facilities that are majority-owned by full-service hospitals versus
physician-owned centers is the notion that the majority-owned centers compete
with the same impediments and are therefore not at a competitive advantage due
to their ability to steer patients. n60



   n59 Id. at 54-56.


   n60 Payors also may use exclusive contracts to prevent competition. In Reazin
v. Blue Cross & Blue Shield of Kan., 899 F.2d 951 (10th Cir. 1990), the
defendant-insurer was found to have conspired with other area hospitals to
exclude the plaintiffs' hospitals from its network. The plaintiffs contended
that Blue Cross sought to prevent the plaintiffs from gaining a foot-hold in the
health care financing market. Id. at 965. See also Abraham v. Intermountain
Health Care, Inc., 461 F.3d 1249 (10th Cir. 2006) (optometrists alleged that
managed care organization conspired with ophthalmologists).

   What these two cases make clear is that where a hospital has engaged in
conduct that, at least facially, has the purpose of preventing competition by
specialty hospitals or ambulatory surgery centers, the court will examine the
proffered justification very carefully to determine whether the true purpose is
to enhance some pro-competitive goal--or whether the intent is to stifle
competition.

Justifications for Pre-Selection Recognized Under the Sherman Act

   We will next explore the types of pro-competitive justifications courts have
allowed, with a special emphasis on those justifications that seek to prevent
seemingly unfair competition by rivals.

   If a plaintiff can prove that an economic/conflict credentialing policy has
an effect on competition, the burden then shifts to the defendant to establish a
pro-competitive justification for the conduct. Even where the defendant
establishes a legitimate pro-competitive justification, the plaintiff may
respond that a less restrictive restraint could have satisfied the
pro-competitive rationale, as this article will address later.

   The courts have accepted only pro-competitive justifications that enhance the
competitive process. Often, hospitals and other providers seek to justify
facially anticompetitive policies on the grounds of social welfare. For example,
some proponents of economic credentialing policies argue that the polices are
pro-competitive because they prevent the hospital from being eliminated from the
marketplace, which would result in the loss of charitable care and of community
services not provided by specialty hospitals. These social welfare arguments
have not fared well with the courts, especially the United States Supreme Court.
n61 The antitrust laws are designed to promote the competitive process and are
blind to the choices actually made by consumers, whether good or bad:

        The argument is, in essence that an unrestrained market in which
     consumers are given access to the information they believe to be
     relevant to their choices will lead them to make unwise and even
     dangerous choices. Such an argument amounts to nothing less than a
     frontal assault on the basic policy of the Sherman Act. n62





   n61 See Nat'l Soc. of Prof'l Engrs. v. United States, 435 U.S. 679 (1978).


   n62 FTC v. Ind. Fed'n of Dentists, 476 U.S. 447 (1986).

   Rather, appropriate pro-competitive defenses include creating administrative
efficiencies, n63 increasing quality, n64 making available new products or
services that would not have been available but for the alleged restraint,
mitigating market imperfections or curing asymmetries in information, n65 and
preventing free-riding.



   n63 Jefferson Parish Hosp. Dist. No. 2 v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2, 43-44 (1984).


   n64 See Wilk v. Am. Med. Ass'n, 895 F.2d 352 (7th Cir. 1990) (AMA's policy
discouraging medical doctors from working with chiropractors did not promote
quality).


   n65 Cal. Dental Ass'n v. FTC, 526 U.S. 756 (1999). There, the court held that
the Dental Association's policy of restricting advertising was necessary to
avoid deceptive or misleading advertising by dentists. Rejecting the proffered
abbreviated "quick look" analysis advanced by the F.T.C., the Court focused on
the unique characteristics of the market for dental services, finding that in
markets for professional services, there is often an asymmetry of information
between the consumers and providers, increasing the risks of misleading
advertising. Restricting difficult-to-verify claims about quality, according to
the Court, could have a pro-competitive effect, making an abbreviated rule of
reason analysis inappropriate.

   Prevention of free-riding as a pro-competitive justification

   When hospitals discuss the concept of physician pre-selection of patients as
justification for conflict of interest credentialing policies, in antitrust
terms, they are alleging that the physicians are engaging in a form of
"free-riding" that the conflict policy appropriately is designed to prevent.
Free-riding prevention is a well-established economic justification for
seemingly anticompetitive conduct under the antitrust laws. The doctrine appears
in a number of contexts, in both Section One and Section Two Sherman Act cases.
In summary, a firm invokes the defense to justify a policy adopted to prevent a
competitor from benefiting from the firm's work. Presently, the doctrine has not
been offered as a defense in any reported healthcare antitrust cases. Rather, it
has been invoked primarily in manufacturer/dealer cases.

   A few examples in this context will illustrate the doctrine. A classic
example appears in Continental T.V. v. GTE Sylvania. n66 There, the United
States Supreme Court held that a manufacturer lawfully prohibiting its
franchised retailers from selling Sylvania televisions outside of their
geographic franchised area was appropriate because: the prohibition promoted
interbrand competition; it allowed the manufacturer to obtain efficiencies in
distribution; and it prevented potential free-riding by discount dealers. Stated
the Court:

        For example, new manufacturers and manufacturers entering new
     markets can use the restrictions in order to induce competent and
     aggressive retailers to make the kind of investment of capital and
     labor that is often required in the distribution of products unknown
     to the consumer. Established manufacturers can use them to induce
     retailers to engage in promotional activities or to provide service
     and repair facilities necessary to the efficient marketing of their
     products. Service and repair are vital for many products, such as
     automobiles and major household appliances. The availability and
     quality of such services affect a manufacturer's goodwill and the
     competitiveness of his product. Because of market imperfections such
     as the so-called "free rider" effect, these services might not be
     provided by retailers in a purely competitive situation, despite the
     fact that each retailer's benefit would be greater if all provided the
     services than if none did. n67





   n66 Cont'l T.V. v. GTE Sylvania, 433 U.S. 36 (1977).


   n67 Id. at 55.

   The doctrine is designed to prevent one competitor from taking unfair
advantage of the work of another competitor. The focus is on prevention of
unfair competition, where one competitor benefits by obtaining a service from
the other for which it does not have to pay.

   An example of how the federal government allows firms to protect themselves
from free-riding in another context is found in the patent laws, which prevent
competitors from taking advantage of the research of another firm. n68 Assume it
costs a pharmaceutical manufacturer $ 20,000,000 to bring a new drug to market.
If another firm reverse engineers the drug and sells it in competition with the
developing company, the copying company would benefit from the research and
marketing of the developing company without incurring any research costs. As a
result, the copying company could undercut the developing company's price,
making it less likely that the developing company would bring new products to
market in the future.



   n68 35 U.S.C. §§ 100-376 et seq.

   The patent laws prevent this free-riding by granting the developing company
the exclusive use of the product for the life of the patent. This enables the
developing company to recoup its research expenses and stimulates competitors to
create new products. In the absence of patent protection, an atmosphere where
firms simply wait to copy a rival's product, instead of innovating, would
prevail.

   Often, the prevention of free-riding is proffered as a justification for
exclusive dealing policies in the Sherman Act Section Two context. n69 In the
classic free-riding situation, a manufacturer provides subsidies to a dealer to
use in promoting the manufacturer's products, creating opportunities for
free-riding that may be classified in one of three ways. n70 In Type One, the
manufacturer may provide subsidies (such as display fixtures or training)
directly to the dealer with the intent that the subsidies be used to promote the
manufacturer's own products. If these subsidies are used by the dealer to
promote the other manufacturers' products, the dealer has engaged in a classic
form of free-riding. The dealer is only incentivized to free-ride, however, if
it makes more profit on the sale of the other manufacturer's goods.



   n69 See, e.g., H.P. Marvel, Exclusive Dealing, 25 J.L. & ECON. 1 (1982).


   n70 See Benjamin Klein & Andres V. Lerner, The Expanded Economics of
Free-Riding: How Exclusive Dealing Prevents Free-Riding and Creates Undivided
Loyalty, 74 ANTITRUST L.J. 473 (2007) (discussing the economic theory of various
forms of free-riding).

   Type Two free-riding may occur where the manufacturer pays the dealer for
promoting the manufacturer's products. If the dealer uses the payments to
promote other manufacturers' products, then the dealer has engaged in a form of
free-riding. As described by Klien and Lerner, this type of free-riding may
occur where the profit to be earned by the dealer from promoting the
manufacturer's product is significantly less than the profit to be earned by the
manufacturer. n71 In these cases, the dealer has less incentive to promote the
product because there is less of a benefit. This occurs, in large part, because
the dealer's profit from promoting the manufacturer's product is offset by the
resulting loss of sales of other manufacturers' products. The manufacturer in
question, however, does not have such an offsetting loss, because the sales of
its product likely will reduce the sales of competing manufacturers. n72



   n71 Id. at 486.


   n72 Kline and Lerner describe this process as "cannibalization" of dealer
sales. Id. at 489.

   Type Three free-riding occurs where the dealer refuses to provide promotional
services that have been paid for by the manufacturer. Unlike the first two
scenarios, the dealer is not using the subsidies to promote competing products.
n73 Rather, it is simply refusing to provide the service for which the
manufacturer has already paid. This form of free-riding may be the least
intuitive. Free-riding occurs here because the dealer is receiving the subsidy,
but not expending any resources to promote the goods. n74



   n73 Id. at 502.


   n74 The form of the subsidy may vary, including providing the dealer with an
exclusive franchise or imposing a vertical pricing structure. Id.

   Application of the free-riding doctrine to healthcare relationships

   Similar principles apply in the hospital/physician relationship. In this
context, however, the physician stands in the role of the dealer, the hospital
assumes the role of the manufacturer, and patients stand in the role of the
customers.

   Type One: Medical education, electronic medical records, etc.

   In a classic Type One free-riding arrangement, the manufacturer provides
materials to the dealer to use to promote the manufacturer's products. In
healthcare, of course, payment of subsidies to induce a physician to refer is
prohibited under the federal Anti-kickback Statute. n75



   n75 See United States v. Greber, 760 F.2d 68 (3d Cir. 1985) (remuneration is
illegal if any purpose of the payment is to induce referrals).

   Nevertheless, an analogy applies if we think in terms of materials that
enhance quality for patients, as opposed to limiting the analysis to pure
economic inducements. Often, a hospital will provide medical training to its
physicians so that physicians can offer new services to patients, and to
enhance, overall, the quality of care. An additional variable not found in
traditional dealer/manufacturer cases is that the physician may compete with the
hospital for the provision of certain services, further incentivizing the
physician (i.e., the dealer in our previous example) to promote alternative
services. In such cases, the physician receiving the training and/or other
materials from the hospital to promote and enhance the quality of care at the
hospital is using the training and services to promote the competing services,
for example, of an ambulatory surgery center. Despite the fact that the
physician may not be promoting one service over another outwardly, this is a
classic example of Type One free-riding.

   In the dealer/manufacturer context, exclusivity policies may effectively
force dealers to promote the manufacturer's products and prohibit the dealer
from promoting competing products even if promoting the products would be more
profitable to the dealer. In the hospital context, forcing the physician to
utilize the hospital for all services would serve a similar function.

   There may be additional forms of potential Type One free-riding if the
hospital supplies computer equipment for physicians to use for implementing a
comprehensive electronic medical records system. Again, the focus here is on
enhanced quality. To the extent that the physician can utilize the system to
benefit his or her own patients and thereby promote the services of the
physician's competing facility, the physician may be able to engage in classic
Type One free-riding.

Type Two: Physician referral lists and advertising

   As discussed above, Type Two free-riding occurs where the manufacturer
provides subsidies to the dealer to use to promote the manufacturer's product.
If these subsidies are redirected to promote other more profitable products,
then the dealer has engaged in free-riding. Again, because hospitals cannot
offer payments directly to physicians for promoting hospital services, the
process must be somewhat different. Although a hospital does not provide direct
advertising subsidies, most hospitals do assist physicians with advertising. For
example, it is not uncommon for a hospital to maintain a website with extensive
information on the services offered, as well as a directory of physicians on
staff.

   In addition, most hospitals produce newsletters and engage in various
community activities that spotlight community physicians and provide, in a
sense, a form of advertising subsidy to the physicians. While this is not like
providing money to physicians for marketing the services of the hospital, the
purpose of these promotions is to induce favorable patient opinions regarding
the hospital and the physicians on staff. If physicians are allowed to utilize
these efforts to promote their own competing centers, then the physician is
engaging in free-riding behavior. Again, there is an additional consideration in
that the physician may be competing directly with the hospital for services.
Hence, the physician has a real incentive to promote his or her own
free-standing center over the hospital because such services will, in many
cases, be more profitable.

Type Three: Failing to promote services

   The third type of classic free-riding occurs when the dealer receives
subsidies from the manufacturer to promote the goods of the manufacturer but
simply refuses to provide the promotion services. Once again, this type of
classic free-riding may be applicable in the physician/hospital relationship as
well.

   To the extent that the physician accepts promotional subsidies from the
hospital but refuses to promote the hospital's service, under the model
articulated by Klien and Lerner, a form of free-riding has occurred. This type
of free-riding, however, is not the primary concern of economic credentialing
policies, which are directed at the deliberate steering of patients to the
physicians' own centers. Nevertheless, one can argue that physicians who have a
competing interest in a freestanding center can engage in free-riding even if
they do not actively promote their centers.

   Assume for example that the hospital assists its physicians with the
production of advertising to be used at local malls and community events. n76
Although the promotional material likely will promote the services of the
physician, its true purpose is to promote the hospital in terms of goodwill and
reputation. Because physicians are the gatekeepers for hospital services, much
the same as dealers are gatekeepers for a manufacturer's products, one can argue
that the promotional material constitutes a subsidy to the physicians for
promoting hospital services. If the physician does not promote the hospital
services, this could be an example of Type Three free-riding.



   n76 We will ignore, for purposes of this example, whether the subsidies
violate the Anti-Kickback Act.

   When does prevention of free-riding cross the line into suppression of
competition?

   Unlike other pro-competitive justifications, such as enhancing efficiencies,
policies designed to prevent free-riding tend to resemble efforts to thwart, and
not enhance, the competitive environment. In this regard, they tend to prohibit
others from acting in a certain way as opposed to offering a new product or
service. As such, there is a fine line between legitimate efforts to prevent
free-riding and the outright suppression of competition.

   Most policies designed to prevent free-riding have, by their very nature,
restrictive elements that in some way thwart open competition. The difference
between a justification that advances competition and a justification that
prevents legitimate competition is one of degree. Outwardly, both appear to
thwart competition. Therefore, conflict credentialing policies often appear, at
least to physicians, to be inherently anticompetitive, making them a target for
antitrust challenge.

   At this point, it may be helpful to explore antitrust cases in other industry
sectors that discuss the free-riding defense to determine when such conduct
crosses the line into anticompetitive conduct. An example of the legitimate
prevention of free-riding can be found in Rothery Storage and Van Company v.
Atlas Van Lines. n77 Former carrier agents of Atlas Van Lines alleged that when
Atlas terminated their agency contracts for performing independent interstate
moves, doing so constituted horizontal price fixing, an unreasonable restraint
on trade because the carriers were forced to utilize Atlas's rates for
interstate shipments. Atlas argued that the terminations were an effort to
prevent free-riding by the carrier agents, who were competing with Atlas for
some interstate moves and using Atlas equipment, thereby causing Atlas to be
liable for any damage. Additionally, Atlas's national image (i.e., goodwill)
attracted customers to the carrier agents. The court concluded that the
carriers' use of Atlas's equipment and name for independent business constituted
a subsidization of the carriers' independent business. The court accepted this
free-riding defense and upheld Atlas's policy. n78



   n77 Rothery Storage & Van Co. v. Atlas Van Lines, Inc., 792 F.2d 210 (D.C.
Cir. 1986).


   n78 Id. at 221-22. See also Morris Commc'ns. Corp. v. PGA Tour, Inc., 235 F.
Supp. 2d 1269 (M.D. Fla. 2002).

   Where there is an opportunity to force the competitor to pay for the services
being provided, however, the defense has failed. Such an example is found in
Chicago Professional Sports v. WGN Continental Broad-casting Company, n79 where
the plaintiffs challenged a National Basketball Association (NBA) telecast
requirement that limited the number of games authorized stations were permitted
to telecast nationally. The WGN network telecasted Chicago Bulls games
nationally in violation of the rule prohibiting superstations from telecasting
more than 20 games and in violation of the rule prohibiting WGN from telecasting
games in competition with NBC or TNT. When plaintiffs WGN and the Bulls
challenged the rule, the NBA contended that the rule prohibited free-riding.
According to the NBA, the networks NBC and TNT advertised the NBA on other
shows. The limit on broadcasts by superstations such as WGN, according to the
NBA, allowed the NBA to revenue share and "prop up" less competitive teams,
thereby enhancing the league. It argued that the plaintiffs were "free-riding"
on the league's efforts to compete with other sports. The court rejected the
free-riding argument, holding that the league could require that the Bulls pay
for such additional use, as was done by the Major League Baseball Association.
n80



   n79 Chi. Prof'l Sports Ltd. P'ship v. Nat'l Basketball Ass'n, 961 F.2d 667
(7th Cir. 1992).


   n80 Id. at 675.

   Other companies have invoked the free rider defense to prevent a competitor
from taking advantage of advertising expenditures, n81 to prevent limited
service mail order retailers from free-riding on the full level of services
provided by other distributors, n82 and to prevent competitors from taking
advantage of another competitor's efficiencies to help market its own products.
n83 Notably, where a court deems the defense pretextual and the defendant cannot
justify its practice, the court has rejected the defense. United States v.
Dentsply International n84 exemplifies this type of case. There, the United
States Department of Justice alleged that defendant Dentsply's policy of
exclusivity violated Section Two of the Sherman Act. Dentsply sold artificial
teeth to dealers, who in turn sold the teeth and other items to dental
laboratories. Dentsply's policy mandated that its dealers sell only Dentsply
artificial teeth, prohibiting the dealers from selling competing artificial
teeth. In defense of its policy, Dentsply argued that it ensured that the
dealers effectively promoted Dentsply products. n85 The court rejected this
proffered pro-competitive justification as pretextual in that the defendant was
not able to offer any evidence to support this justification. n86 Hence, it is
not enough to allege free-riding. Rather, the court will require specific proof
to justify the pro-competitive aspects of the conduct.



   n81 The Movies of Tarzana v. Pac. Theatres, Inc., 828 F.2d 1395 (9th Cir.
1987).


   n82 H.L. Hayden Co. v. Siemens Med. Sys., Inc., 879 F.2d 1005 (2d Cir. 1989).


   n83 Seagood Trading Corp. v. Jerrico, Inc., 924 F.2d 1555 (11th Cir. 1991).


   n84 United States v. Dentsply Int'l, Inc., 399 F.3d 181 (3d Cir. 2005), cert.
denied, 126 S. Ct. 1023 (2006).


   n85 Id. at 184. Dentsply enjoyed a market share of between 75 percent and 80
percent. Id.


   n86 Id. at 196-97.

Application of the Defense to Hospital Reactions to Physician Competition

   We will next examine how the prevention of the free-rider problem may be
applied to policies designed to prevent physician pre-selection. In antitrust
terms, what hospitals are most concerned about is the ability of physicians to
pre-select patients by sending low pay patients to the hospital. In most cases,
hospitals fear that competition from physicians is unfair for a variety of
reasons. First, hospitals believe that physicians affirmatively pre-select
patients referred either to the hospital or to their owned facilities. Second,
many hospitals believe it is unfair for physicians to utilize the goodwill and
prestige of a hospital to market their own facilities. Finally, hospitals are
concerned that they serve as a referral source for patients later steered to the
physician's facility. To determine the validity of these arguments, the
underlying assumptions must be tested.

   Pre-selection of patients by physicians with favorable reimbursement

   Acute care hospitals contend that smaller specialty hospitals that do not
provide the full panoply of services are able to compete more favorably in terms
of pricing. Some studies suggest that development of specialty hospitals does
not result in lower prices but, to the contrary, results in higher prices. n87
These factors, they argue, result in a detriment to the community because they
potentially render the acute care hospital unable to support charitable
missions. n88



   n87 Robert Berenson, Gloria Bazzoli, and Melanie Au, Do Specialty Hospitals
Promote Price Competition?, CENTER FOR IMPROVING HEALTH SYSTEM CHANGE ISSUE
BRIEF, NO. 103 (January 2006). The authors state that general hospitals have
responded to the loss of profits by increasing prices in areas with less
competition. Overall, payors believed that competition did not lower prices
because specialty hospitals did not compete over enough service lines. Id. at 2.
See also Stacy Burling, NJ Ruling Threatens Surgery Centers, PHILA. INQUIRER,
DEC. 13, 2007 at C1 (insurer claims that physician owned surgery centers drive
up costs through self-referrals).


   n88 Nevertheless, some researchers have concluded that when considering taxes
paid and charitable care provided, specialty hospitals provide more of a
community benefit. See Leslie Greenwald, Jerry Cromwell, Walter Adamache,
Shulmit Bernard, Edward Drozd, Elisabeth Root, and Kelly Devers, Specialty
Versus Community Hospitals: Referrals, Quality and Community Benefits, 25 HEALTH
AFFAIRS 106 (2006).

   From an economic standpoint, a system where the physician refers patients to
the hospital and the hospital provides the full panoply of patient services
results in mutual free-riding by the physician and the hospital. In an optimum
economic environment, the hospital would pay for the referral and the physician
would pay for the right to practice at the hospital. n89 As discussed,
free-riding cannot occur when a hospital can charge for the services provided.
Unfortunately, hospitals are unable to charge physicians for the right to
practice at the hospital.



   n89 David A. Argue, An Economic Model of Competition Between General
Hospitals and Physician-owned Specialty Facilities, 20 ANTITRUST HEALTH CARE
CHRON. (July 2006).

   A hospital's primary concern when a physician holds a financial interest in a
competing facility is that the physician will pre-select the more lucrative
patients. n90 Acute care hospitals argue that this ability to pre-select
patients is a form of unfair competition. In antitrust terminology, there is an
asymmetry of information between the patient and the physician. Patients lack
information regarding the type of medical services that they require and
frequently are unable to determine the best facility at which to obtain
services. Accordingly, patients depend upon the recommendations of their
physicians. n91



   n90 This trend has been described as "favorable selection." For example, if a
facility is to receive a fixed level of reimbursement, as for example through a
DRG, a more complex patient will be less profitable to treat. Physicians with
ownership interests in competing specialty hospitals do tend to refer less
severe, and therefore more profitable, patients to the facilities in which they
have a financial interest. See Greenwald et al., Specialty Versus Community
Hospitals: Referrals, Quality and Community Benefits, supra note 88.


   n91 Jeffrey Stensland and Ariel Winter, Do Physician-Owned Cardiac Hospitals
Increase Utilization?, 25 HEALTH AFFAIRS 119 (2006) (discussing asymmetry of
information between patients and physicians as a potential cause of
over-utilization).

   The real concern from an antitrust standpoint is that the physician may be
able to free-ride on the hospital's inability to turn away patients, regardless
of reimbursement. In this regard, due to EMTALA, tax, and state law
requirements, a hospital typically cannot turn away a patient who is not
profitable or cannot pay. n92 Indeed, even in a non-emergent situation, any
hospital that refuses to treat patients based on reimbursement likely would be
faced with potential loss of not-for-profit status. Moreover, the political and
public relations ramifications likely would be more than any hospital would want
to endure.



   n92 By some estimates, uncompensated care and community service costs may
amount to as much as $ 80 to $ 95 billion per year. See Bruce Valadeck, Paying
for Hospitals' Community Service, 25 HEALTH AFFAIRS 34 (2006).

   In addition to the legal and public relations ramifications, hospitals are in
the business of providing care to patients. Although every not-for-profit
hospital hopes to have some positive margin at the end of the year, a hospital's
mission to the community is its primary objective. Thus, the very mindset of
most hospitals would preclude turning away patients.

   A physician who can shift unprofitable patients to the acute care hospital
effectively is acting as a free-rider by obtaining a free service from the
hospital. This inability to prevent free-riding is more acute in the healthcare
setting than in other service industries.

   The problem is compounded because it is difficult to determine why an
individual patient is referred to the acute care hospital versus the physician's
free-standing specialty hospital or ASC. The physician naturally will argue that
case referrals are made not on economic grounds, but upon the particular needs
of the patient. As such, it would be natural to see more complex patients
treated at the full-service hospital, with relatively straightforward cases
treated in the physician's facility. n93 Moreover, to the extent that cases are
more complex, there may be additional costs of medical-legal liability risks
that the physician owner is able to shift to the hospital. n94 Therefore, it is
extremely difficult to determine the reasons for a particular referral.



   n93 Furthermore, the argument can be made that it is more costly to care for
low-income Medicare beneficiaries than other beneficiaries. Thus, the ability to
pre-select patients may pose a double detriment to acute care hospitals both in
terms of overall reimbursement (usually fixed in Medicare) and the fact that
these patients are more costly to treat. See Bruce Valedeck, Paying for
Hospital's Community Service, 25 HEALTH AFFAIRS 34 (2006).


   n94 See Jean Mitchell, Effects of Physician-Owned Limited-Service Hosptials:
Evidence from Arizona, HEALTH AFFAIRS (Web Exclusive) W5-481 (October 24, 2006).

   Nevertheless, it is only through balancing profitable cases with numerous
unprofitable cases that a community hospital can survive economically. n95
Removing profitable cases and forcing the hospital to accept non-profitable
cases places the hospital on a financial slope toward imminent financial
disaster. n96 In these instances, the hospital will argue that conflict policies
are justified to prevent inappropriate free-riding by the physicians.



   n95 See Allen Dobson, Joan DaVanzo, and Namrata Sen, The Cost-Shift Payment
Hydraulic: Foundation, History and Implications, 25 HEALTH AFFAIRS 22 (2006).


   n96 In Memorial Hermann Healthcare System v. Stealth, L.P., Civil Action No.
4:07-cv-1914 (S.D. Tex., June 8, 2007), a hospital filed a declaratory judgment
action against a defunct specialty hospital. The specialty hospital had been
sued by its investors alleging that it was mismanaged. In defending against the
allegations, the specialty hospital contended that it was put out of business by
Memorial Hermann Healthcare System. Memorial Hermann Healthcare filed the
declaratory action to prevent the defendant from alleging that the plaintiff
acted anti-competitively. In the complaint, the plaintiff-hospital alleges that
specialty hospitals engage in cherry-picking, and that the specialty hospital
was not successful because of the conflicts of the physician investors. The case
was dismissed on September 6, 2007.

   Goodwill/referral source free-riding

   A second argument that full-service hospitals may raise in support of the
free-riding defense in economic credentialing cases is that physicians who
utilize the hospital as a referral source are free-riding on the good will and
reputation of the facility. n97 This argument is most prevalent where the
physician receives unassigned call patients from the hospital. In these cases,
the patient initially may have contacted the hospital because of the hospital's
reputation for a particular service or overall reputation. Indeed, many patients
do not understand that physicians are independent from the hospital; many
believe that the physicians are employed by the hospital. Thus, these patients
assume the physician to be of the same quality as the hospital. If the patient
views the hospital as providing high quality care, he or she may regard the
physicians practicing at the facility likewise.



   n97 Greenwald et al., supra note 88, state that many physicians who have
ownership interest in competing facilities also take call in community
hospitals.

   Even if the physician does not compete with the hospital directly, many
economic credentialing policies prohibit physicians employed by competing
hospitals from practicing at the hospital or being placed on unassigned call
lists. Again, such policies tend to protect against the Type Three goodwill
free-riding described above. If a patient is unassigned, he or she probably
decided to contact the hospital based upon the perception as a superior
hospital. n98 There was some intangible reason for the initial contact. If the
patient is then diverted to another facility, that competing facility has taken
advantage of the initial goodwill and reputation of the first facility. This
type of free-riding is very difficult to measure. In fact, the alternative of
prohibiting physicians from taking call may place the hospital in a position
where it is understaffed.



   n98 This assumes that a patient contacted a referral line operated by the
hospital or presented in the hospital's emergency room for a non-emergent
complaint. It is likewise conceivable that the initial condition that brought
the patient to the emergency room was a true emergency, but that the condition
was stabilized, allowing subsequent care to be provided elsewhere.

   Issues of proof

   As discussed above, under a rule of reason analysis under Section One, or to
justify the practice under Section Two, the physician first must prove that the
policy has anticompetitive effects. Next, the hospital may attempt to establish
that the policy furthers the hospital's legitimate pro-competitive objectives,
including the prevention of free-riding. Even if a hospital is successful in
establishing its pro-competitive justification, the physician still may attempt
to establish that the policy is overbroad in that the anticompetitive aspects of
the policy spill over beyond the stated purpose. Thus, two issues must be
addressed: (1) Is pre-selection occurring? and (2) Does the economic
credentialing policy appropriately address the problem?

Is pre-selection occurring?

   Although it is easy to speculate that a physician's ownership interest in a
competing facility will result in the diversion of patients to the competing
facility, proving it is difficult for a variety of reasons. The first challenge
is that many economic credentialing policies are prospective in nature. In other
words, they seek to avoid future pre-selection.

   Full-service hospitals frequently attempt to justify economic credentialing
policies or exclusivity by citing the rumor that a physician is building a
competing center--if the hospital waits until the center is built and patients
are diverted, the damage already will have been done. The problem with these
prospective policies is that they are inherently speculative. Nevertheless,
these concerns cannot be dismissed easily as there is some empirical research to
support such claims. n99



   n99 For examples of such policies, see Robin L. Nagele, Practice Resource:
Model Conflict of Interest Policies, 38 JOURNAL HEALTH L. 353 (2005).

   For example, in a recent study of Arizona cardiac hospitals, researchers
found that physician owners treated a higher percentage of patients with
generous insurance coverage, but a lower percentage of patients enrolled in less
lucrative HMO-type plans. n100 The study also showed that physician owners
tended to refer cases of lower severity to their centers, whereas there was no
difference in the comorbidity of patients referred by non-owners to acute care
hospitals versus specialty heart hospitals. n101



   n100 Mitchell, supra note 94, at W5-486.


   n101 Id. at W5-485.

   Further, research by economists William Lynk and Carina Longley on the
effects of new physician-owned surgery centers also suggest that opening such
centers decreases referrals. n102 In their study, the authors examined the
effects of the opening of surgery centers in Louisiana and South Dakota. The
authors concluded that, in Louisiana, outpatient procedures at the acute care
facility dropped considerably after the opening of the surgery center. The data
reflected an expected decrease in referrals to the acute care hospital by
physician investors, while referrals by non-investors to the acute care hospital
remained steady. n103 Previously, the physician-investors had been the largest
referrers to the acute care facility. The authors identified a marked change in
referral patterns, thereby adding support to hospitals' fears of declining
referrals.



   n102 William J. Lynk and Carina S. Longley, The Effect of Physician-Owned
Surgicenters on Hospital Outpatient Surgery, 21 HEALTH AFFAIRS 215 (2002).


   n103 Id. at 217.

   In South Dakota, although there was limited data, the authors concluded that
the decline in referrals was even more pronounced. After the surgery center
opened in South Dakota, referrals to the hospital fell by 77 percent, and volume
fell from an average of 78 procedures per month to approximately 18 cases per
month. n104



   n104 Id. at 218.

   In the context of an antitrust challenge, the economists concluded:

        These two cases may shed some preliminary light on two
     considerations that often come up in the antitrust assessment of such
     events. One is a standard hypothesis in favor of such ASCs that their
     main effect on incumbent hospitals is a competitive reduction in
     price, but on balance not a large loss of hospital outpatient surgery
     volume. Contrary to that hypothesis, our examples show a substantial
     loss of hospital volume. The second consideration is whether any such
     shift of outpatient surgery volume reflects an across-the-board
     response by physicians generally, presumably because the new ASC is a
     clinically superior facility. Our observation in Louisiana is that the
     volume shift was largely confined to physician-investors who had a
     financial interest in the ASC. n105





   n105 Id. at 219.

   Even assuming that a hospital could establish, conclusively, that a physician
diverted a large proportion of free or low-pay cases to the hospital, the
physician likely would argue that such referrals were made for medical, not
economic, reasons. Indeed, without a case-by-case analysis of the particular
circumstances of each patient, as well as an analysis of the patients treated at
the physician-controlled center, the physician's argument would be difficult to
refute. Thus, unless the physician is willing to make patient records available
for review, proof of actual free-riding may be difficult to develop outside of a
litigation context. Hence, while pre-selection may very well occur, it is
difficult to prove.

Does the policy appropriately address the problem?

   The final issue that a hospital must address is whether the conflict or
exclusion policy actually prevents pre-selection by physicians. Moreover, if the
policy does address pre-selection, are there less restrictive means that could
address the problem? Typically, these two issues are intertwined.

   Assume that a group of orthopedic surgeons plans to open a competing surgery
center to perform some outpatient procedures. The hospital reacts to these plans
by adopting a policy prohibiting the renewal of the privileges of any physician
associated with the group. The surgeons, naturally, will claim that the policy
is anticompetitive and designed to restrain trade or perpetuate a monopoly of
orthopedic surgical services.

   If the reasoning behind the economic credentialing policy is to prohibit
referral free-riding whereby the physician is using the hospital as a feeder,
the question that must be asked is whether the surgery center patients are being
steered from the hospital. If not, then the physicians will argue that the
policy really does not cure the free-rider problem it professes to cure. In
other words, if the patients are self-referring to the physician's surgery
center, referral free-riding may not be occurring.

   On the other hand, if the hospital is concerned that the physicians are
sending free and low-reimbursement outpatient surgery patients to the hospital,
it may be able to identify change in the reimbursement mix of the patients
referred to the hospital. In this situation, the policy may be more restrictive,
because the free-riding that it purports to stop is not happening.

   Additionally, policies that outwardly deny staff privileges to physicians
with competing interests are subject to claims of being overbroad. If, for
example, the purpose of the policy is to prevent the type of referral
free-riding whereby the patient enters the system as an unassigned patient
through the hospital's emergency room department and is diverted to the
physician's surgery center, a policy prohibiting the competing physician from
being placed on the unassigned call list may address the issue in a less
restrictive fashion.

   The difficulty is defining the type of free-riding that the hospital is
attempting to prevent. In many cases, the full-service hospital is unsure what
it expects to achieve, and accordingly, the goals of the policies are
ill-defined from a business and antitrust standpoint. Simply wanting to prevent
competition is not an appropriate antitrust justification for an economic
credentialing policy. n106



   n106 See Nat'l Soc'y of Prof'l Eng'rs. v. United States, 435 U.S. 679 (1978)
(wanting to avoid competition is never a pro-competitive justification).

Conclusion

   Economic credentialing policies designed to prevent physician preselection
raise considerable antitrust issues for acute care hospitals. Even where they
lack market power, hospitals may find themselves subject to claims by physicians
or the government that they are attempting to create a monopoly. Hospitals
considering such policies must explore carefully the reasons for adopting
economic credentialing policies. Where there is a legitimate risk of
pre-selection, an economic credentialing policy may be warranted. Nevertheless,
a hospital must define the nature of the pre-selection problem and have
documentation proving that pre-selection is likely to occur. This proof may be
evidence of actual pre-selection seen in other service lines, such as evidence
that referral patterns have changed after a physician has opened a competing
center. Even then, the proof may be difficult to assemble, because the hospital
may not have access to the full level of information from the free-standing
center to fully evaluate differences in the types of patients referred to that
center versus the hospital.

   Finally, the full-service hospital must be able to articulate a coherent
business justification for why turning cases away makes pro-competitive sense
and cannot be construed simply as predatory conduct. Policies that are a last
resort, rather than an initial threat, are more likely to withstand antitrust
challenge.

REFERENCE: CITATION: Mark L. Mattioli, Can Preventing Diversion of Profitable
Patients Justify Hospitals' Economic Credentialing Under the Antitrust Laws?, J.
HEALTH & LIFE SCI. L., April 2008, at 39. (c) 2008 American Health Lawyers
Association. All rights reserved.


