                              389 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 12, 2009 Sunday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Trinity medical center opening delayed to 2011

BYLINE: CARL ORTH, The Suncoast News

SECTION: PASCO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 537 words


Despite recession, construction crews make progress on hospital.

By CARL ORTH

The Suncoast News

TRINITY - The opening date for Medical Center of Trinity continues to slip
because of the recession, despite steady progress by construction crews.

The new hospital, which will replace Community Hospital of New Port Richey, now
has a projected opening date of 2011, spokeswoman Mary Sommise said.

"The current economic downturn has impacted the construction schedule," the
hospital said in a news release. "Some contracts such as dry wall and mechanical
have been released in anticipation of a potential timetable slowdown and will be
renegotiated at the appropriate time."

Groundbreaking at the 55-acre site along S.R. 54 near Little Road, in the
then-booming Trinity area, took place in May 2006. Optimism abounded at the time
to open the $195 million hospital by June 2008.

Much has changed since construction started during the economic boom in Pasco
County in 2006.

"Not a single one of us anticipated the slowdown in the housing market," Kathryn
Gillette, chief executive officer of Community Hospital, said last year, as the
effects of the collapse in the Florida housing market were becoming increasingly
apparent.

Community Hospital has been weathering the economic storm, Sommise reported last
week. "Our volumes are strong and up from last year, but the number of uninsured
or underinsured is increasing."

Remodeled sections of Community provide a sneak peek of the Trinity facility,
the first hospital in Pasco that will feature all private rooms. The Spine and
Joint Care Center officially opened in January 2007 at Community. The orthopedic
unit has 16 private rooms and amenities reminiscent of a hotel.

The first new hospital to be built in the area in 20 years is licensed for 236
beds. University Community Health opened Long Term Acute Care Hospital at
Connerton in March.

The new long-term care hospital is on 38 acres in the Connerton community off
U.S. 41, about nine miles north of State Road 54.

Another hospital is planned for Wesley Chapel. The new hospital will be a joint
venture between Adventist Health System and University Community Health, which
plan to build an 80-bed medical center just north of State Road 56 and Bruce B.
Downs Boulevard.

Medical Center of Trinity's five-story hospital tower will have an attached
three-story medical office building. For a preview, go to www.medicalcenter
trinity.com.

Crews should complete the first-floor concrete slab soon, according to the
advisory from Sommise. Concrete slabs are now being completed for the second,
third and fourth floors.

Metal decking is about half complete.

Interior walls are being laid out on the first, second and third floors.

Electrical, mechanical and underground plumbing work is finished.

Rainwater leaders, part of a roof-to-ground stormwater drainage system, are
being installed as areas become available, in preparation for roof installation.

Photo credit: Suncoast News photo by ERIC HORCHY

Photo: The shell of Medical Center of Trinity is taking shape, even though the
opening date for the new hospital has been delayed to 2011.

Copyright © 2009, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Times Publishing Company


