                              35 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 1, 2014 Friday

Pennsylvania: Corbett Administration Announces the Release of Economic Growth
Initiative Grant to The Children's Home of Pittsburgh Project

LENGTH: 851  words

DATELINE: Harrisburg


The Keystone State, The State of Pennsylvania issue the following news release:

Governor Tom Corbett today announced the award of a $1.5 million Economic Growth
Initiative grant to The Children's Home of Pittsburgh for the expansion of the
Pediatric Specialty Hospital.  The Pediatric Specialty Hospital expansion
project will benefit the neighborhoods of Bloomfield, Friendship, Garfield, and
Lawrenceville.

"The specialty health services offered by The Children's Home of Pittsburgh are
providing much needed care to children who may not otherwise get it," Gov.
Corbett said. "By partnering with The Children's Home, we can increase access to
quality, affordable care."

Since 2007, the annual number of patients served has been steadily increasing
and since 2011, patient numbers have grown by more than 50 percent. The
expansion of the Pediatric Specialty Hospital will add clinical space in order
to provide greater access to healthcare for vulnerable pediatric patients, and
to provide greater facility flexibility. Fourteen private hospital rooms in two
new units will provide space for the child's family to stay in the room, as well
as a communal kitchen and sitting area for families and patients to utilize
throughout their hospital stay.

The Pediatric Specialty Hospital is unique in its holistic, family-centered
medical care. This expansion will provide more flexibility to the Pediatric
Specialty Hospital, while enabling the hospital to expand the unduplicated
services it provides as a bridge for pediatric patients transitioning from
hospitals to home.

"The Children's Home of Pittsburgh is grateful to Governor Corbett and his team
for their support of this necessary expansion of the Pediatric Specialty
Hospital," said CEO Pamela Schanwald. "The Children's Home's programs were borne
out of community need, and continue to adapt in order to best serve the changing
needs of the children and families in our region. This expansion will nearly
double the Pediatric Specialty Hospital's capacity to serve vulnerable patients,
as well as continue to contribute to the economic growth of our neighborhood by
adding new jobs."

The expansion of the Pediatric Specialty Hospital is in-line with larger trends
both in healthcare and in Pittsburgh. There is a burgeoning trend in healthcare
towards home healthcare, as it is a less restrictive setting and less expensive
than high-tech tertiary care hospitals. The Pediatric Specialty Hospital blends
the hospital and home healthcare model into a cost-effective home-like hospital
that assists patients in the transition to home. The second trend in healthcare
is to expand services available to pediatric patients to mirror the wide range
available to adults. The Pediatric Specialty Hospital is a sub-acute hospital
setting, which while currently uncommon in pediatrics, is a very common option
for adults transitioning from tertiary care hospital to home.

"Children are a unique patient population," Gov. Corbett said.  "It's not only
about the type of care they receive but also about how they receive it. The care
that The Children's Home of Pittsburgh will be able to provide through this
expansion will produce better outcomes for these patients and their families."

In 2012, Corbett reformed the state's method of funding Redevelopment Assistance
Capital Program with a significant redesign, making the process more transparent
and objective.  Projects are now selected based upon their job-creation
potential, their economic impact, as well as their viability and construction
readiness.

Prior to Corbett taking office, the state's spending and borrowing for capital
redevelopment assistance had become unsustainable for the state and its
taxpayers, growing from $400 million in 1986 to slightly more than $4 billion in
2010.  Corbett also said that the program had strayed considerably from its
intended purpose of encouraging and assisting job growth through regional
economic development projects.

Last round, the Corbett administration announced 58 new Economic Growth
Initiative grants, totaling more than $133 million. The announced projects are
expected to create more than 45,000 jobs in 24 counties across the state.

To ensure the commonwealth can continue supporting Economic Growth Initiative
grants, Corbett continued to urge the state legislature to enact meaningful
pension reform and address the current pension system's $50 billion debt.
Ballooning pension costs, which consume approximately 60 cents of every new
dollar of general fund revenues, detract from the commonwealth's ability to
invest in economic development and projects that spur job creation.

"Every dollar saved through pension reform is an opportunity to support more
Economic Growth Initiative grants that build a stronger Pennsylvania," said Gov.
Corbett. "Doing nothing to fix our pension crisis fails our families throughout
Allegheny County and the state."

For more information on the program, visit the Budget Office online at
www.budget.state.pa.usand select the Redevelopment Assistance Capital Program
link.

For more information please visit: http://www.pa.gov

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


