                              402 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           November 29, 1990 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

PRINCE HENRY HOSPITAL FACING A SLOW, CRUEL DEATH, SAYS CARR

BYLINE: LUIS M. GARCIA

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 510 words


One of Sydney's best-known public hospitals, the Prince Henry Hospital at Little
Bay, will be starved of money over the next few years and allowed to die a
"slow, cruel and lingering death", according to the Leader of the Opposition, Mr
Carr.

Mr Carr's prediction follows a decision by the State Government to abandon a
$200 million plan to transfer the hospital to a new site in Randwick.

The ambitious plan, unveiled with great fanfare more than two years ago by the
Minister for Health, Mr Collins, would have involved the sale of the Little Bay
land.

The money raised from the sale would then be used to fund much of the cost of
the transfer.

But Mr Collins confirmed yesterday that the plan had been abandoned by the
Government because the downturn in the property market would have made it
difficult, if not impossible, to sell the land.

He said he had asked his department to find some money to upgrade the
dilapidated buildings at Prince Henry, although he declined to say how much this
would cost.

Earlier estimates had placed the cost of upgrading the hospital, which is one of
the oldest in NSW, at between $5 million and $20 million.

"It is most unfortunate that economic circumstances in Australia have changed so
much since the proposal was first announced," Mr Collins said.

"Delays in preparation of the proposal have made the plans unworkable in the
current economic climate (but) I can assure staff that refurbishment money will
be found for existing facilities at the hospital.

"The Premier has also indicated that at some future date, given an improved
economic climate, it is possible that the transfer of Prince Henry may be
revived."

But he warned that the Government's health funding priorities would continue to
be the relocation of the Children's Hospital from Camperdown to Westmead, and
the upgrading to teaching hospital status of Liverpool and Nepean hospitals.

Mr Carr said he did not expect the Government to allocate adequate funds to
ensure that Prince Henry's buildings were properly upgraded and its medical
services maintained.

He predicted that most of the hospital's specialist units, including its
neurological, renal and coronary grafting units, would be transferred to other
hospitals in the eastern suburbs.

This would result in the dismembering of the hospital, increased uncertainty and
poor staff morale.

"Senior medical staff at the hospital have complained that at the present rate
of deterioration, facilities at Prince Henry will not last 10 years," he said.

"Even at the height of the property market there was not enough money to be made
from the sale of the Prince Henry site to redevelop the hospital at Randwick in
the way the Government was seeking."

The Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at the University of NSW, Professor Darty
Glover, and the chairman of the Eastern Sydney Area Health Service board, Lady
Susan Street, issued a joint statement last night expressing disappointment at
the Government's decision.

Professor Glover said the planned transfer would have been the best option for
the clinical needs of the State.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1990 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


