                              405 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                             March 16, 2009 Monday
                                 First Edition

Fate of Bulli Hospital;
your say

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 51

LENGTH: 552 words


Fate of Bulli Hospital

How do you know when politicians are telling you a lie? Their lips move.

A classic example of this is the announcement by the Illawarra health boss that
ophthalmology services undertaken at Bulli Hospital will be moved to
Shellharbour Hospital - a decision totally opposite to Minister John Della
Bosca's assurances in 2008 of a status quo on services at Bulli Hospital.

Despite representing an essential component of the South Eastern Sydney and
Illawarra Area Health Service, Bulli Hospital has been systematically and
deliberately starved of government funding.

Quality patient care has relied upon the hard work of voluntary auxiliaries and
the goodwill of the community to provide the dedicated hospital staff with the
funding for equipment that is essential to their task.

In November 2008, at the commissioning service of the new chapel at Bulli
Hospital, the bureaucrats waffled on about their personal commitment to the
hospital.

I would suggest more than one of those volunteers in attendance would have been
thinking, "Why a chapel when it is patient care that requires more funding?"

I guess the bureaucrats believed then and now that the new chapel will provide
an ideal venue to administer the Last Rites for Bulli Hospital.

Barry Swan, Balgownie.

Keep mall closed

According to an article in the Mercury (March 12), there is an economic study
that "proves" opening up Crown St Mall to traffic will improve the economics of
the merchants.

The claim is that the administrators have ignored this apparent economic study
by sending a final decision on the mall to the Government Architect.

Hopefully, this economic study is a public document which all may analyse before
the Government makes the final decision.

City mall management do not appear to know of the study.

It will be interesting to see if this study qualitatively measured consumer
growth if the merchants were to increase their funding of entertainment and
special events to encourage people to come to the mall.

That is, if the merchants want economic viability then they should accept the
responsibility for growth rather than depending on the government sector and
scarce ratepayer dollars to bail them out.

It is disturbing to see merchants' reluctance to address publicly this events
option, and quantitatively measure it against ratepayer money being used to give
them something they do not want - traffic in the mall.

IBC et al - you need to be engaging the community rather than always extracting
dollars out of ratepayer and resident pockets.

Ray Robinson, Corrimal.

Concerns over trust

I refer to the article in the Mercury (February 20), stating that NSW Lands
Minister Tony Kelly has prevented the Kiama council delegate from being a member
of the Killalea State Park Trust.

This is a matter of concern as the trust should represent all sections of the
community.

Killalea is a large and significant piece of coastal land.

It encompasses many fine natural features and should be preserved.

As the suburbs continue to expand, conserving land for recreation and habitat
protection is vital.

The National Parks Association Illawarra Branch supports the many community
members who are against the development (as outlined on the Department of Lands
website).

Dirk Stuber, President, National Parks Association Illawarra Branch, Mt Keira.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2009 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


