                              404 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                       The Daily Reporter (Milwaukee, WI)

                            February 17, 2003 Monday

Hospital construction tied to health costs

BYLINE: Jeremy Harrell

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 914 words


A state legislator has once again suggested limiting building projects at
hospitals to deal with rising health-care costs, but construction and medical
industry groups said the idea is misplaced.

Reprising an unsuccessful fight he led last year, Sen. Russ Decker, D-Schofield,
said the Legislature should consider establishing state-controlled mechanisms to
curb spending on capital projects at hospitals. He pointed to statistics showing
that profits at hospitals in north central Wisconsin rose dramatically in 2001,
as did the price inpatients pay per day.

State hospitals posted profits of $614.4 million, up more than $200 million from
2000, said Decker, a member of the Legislature's Joint Finance Committee. The
average daily rate for a hospital stay also rose by $266 to $2,508, he said.

"When you've got these huge profits, why do rates go up?" Decker said, adding
that his proposal last year to place a moratorium on hospital construction came
at the suggestions of hospital officials.

Decker's position comes as little surprise to Michael Fabishak, executive vice
president of the Associated General Contractors of Greater Milwaukee. He said he
anticipated this would happen as lawmakers try to contend with rising insurance
premiums and the strain higher costs place on the state budget.

But hospital construction is also one of the few industry market sectors
experiencing any kind of growth, Fabishak said. Manufacturing is in a slump, and
the state building program is in a holding pattern following a decision last
month to freeze projects not under contract, he said.

Restraining hospital projects would be an unwise move, given lawmakers'
declarations to spur economic growth, Fabishak said.

"The only thing that has any legs is hospital construction," he said. "Now you
have legislators looking at that when the link to overall (health-care) costs
has not been proven. Purely from the point of view of economic development, if
hospital construction is corralled unnecessarily, that will have a huge impact
on the construction industry and dig the hole deeper."

By the numbers

Eric Borgerding, vice president of government affairs with the Wisconsin
Hospital Association, said Decker's conclusions start from faulty premises. For
instance, construction costs account for 5 percent to 6 percent of an average
hospital's operating budget while labor constitutes 50 percent to 60 percent, to
say nothing of prescription drugs and equipment costs, which are rising steeply,
he said.

Borgerding also said Decker's profit figures show hospitals' "gross margins,"
which include intake from snack bars, parking ramps, philanthropic gifts and
interest earnings on endowments. Profits solely from patient care average about
5 percent statewide. He said that is consistent with national statistics, has
marginal effect on insurance premiums and is necessary "to maintain a quality
operation."

Moreover, the larger profit margins Decker cites don't consider how the hospital
reinvests that money, Borgerding said. Most of that money goes into facilities
and services other than inpatient care - such as nursing homes and hospices -
and those services "simply don't make any money," he said.

Two of the hospitals Decker singled out - Rusk County Memorial in Ladysmith and
Memorial Health Center in Medford - heavily subsidize their nursing homes and
other community services from their gross margins, Borgerding said.

"Sen. Decker, with all due respect, uses the most inaccurate data the state
collects to make his point," he said. "He's saying that health-insurance
premiums are being driven by profits, and that's simply not the case. Ladysmith
and Medford have nursing homes that would close without those profits."

Hazy future

Decker said he wouldn't again propose the construction moratorium. But he said
he does plan to introduce a measure that would either re-establish the state
Hospital Rate Setting Commission, which disbanded in 1987, set up a capital
expenditure restraint program with the state Public Service Commission or both.

In either case, Decker said the objective is to tie patient rates to inflation.
If a hospital wanted to build a project or buy more than $1 million in
equipment, it would need state approval if the result of the project or purchase
would increase inpatient rates beyond the rate of inflation.

"We're trying to slow this down and not compromise anyone's quality of care,"
Decker said. "The question I always put to the hospital association is, 'Why
don't they come up with their own idea if they don't like my proposal to rein in
health-care costs?'"

Fabishak said Decker and any other legislator who proposes something similar
have good intentions. But singling out the struggling construction industry
makes little sense in light of the state's slow economic growth and because
building has little effect on overall medical costs, he said.

"The bottom line is that there are so many pressures put on hospitals that have
nothing to do with bricks and mortar," Fabishak said.

Hospital construction totaled more than $600 million in 2001, up from an annual
average of between $300 million and $400 million, according to the AGC of
Wisconsin. Using the 2.2 multiplier effect AGC implements to calculate ancillary
economic impacts from construction, hospital building accounted for $1.4 billion
in economic activity in 2001.

Jeremy Harrell can be reached at 608-260-8570.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Government activity

                      Copyright 2003 Dolan Media Newswires
                                All Rights Reserved


