                              36 of 994 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 1994 The Detroit College of Law Review
                         Detroit College of Law Review

                                  Winter, 1994

                            1994 Det. C.L. Rev. 1179

LENGTH: 18201 words

ARTICLE: CAUGHT IN THE CROSSFIRE: ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING IN THE HEALTH CARE WAR

NAME: Jane C. Taber* and Janna P. King**

BIO:



   * Jane C. Taber is a partner in the Dallas office of the firm Gardere &
Wynne, L.L.P. She obtained her J.D. (1982) and B.S. (1979) from Louisiana State
University. Ms. Taber is experienced in the representation of providers and
companies in state and federal health law issues as well as insurance matters.
Her practice emphasizes the corporate and regulatory aspects of health law and
advice to clients on legal compliance with federal and state law.

   ** Janna P. King is a senior attorney for Beverly Enterprises, Inc. of Ft.
Smith, Arkansas. She obtained her J.D. from Memphis State University in 1991 and
her B.S. from Mid-America College in 1977. Prior to serving as in-house counsel,
Ms. King was in private practice specializing in corporate and regulatory health
law. Her current practice specialty area is that of corporate health law with
particular emphasis in the area of managed care.

 TEXT:
 [*1179]   [*1180]  INTRODUCTION

   In today's rapidly changing health care environment, hospitals have been
placed in the combat zone of market crossfire, replete with economic and quality
of care arsenals. This crossfire is particularly evident in the area of granting
or denying staff privileges.  n1 In its most basic terms, an individual
physician who is permitted to admit patients to a given hospital is deemed to
have "privileges" at the hospital.  n2 The process whereby privileges are
granted is referred to as "credentialing."  n3 Once granted, a physician's
hospital privileges are further evaluated and renewed every two years through
the hospital's credentialing process.  n4

   In years past, credentialing's sole focus was that of evaluating a
physician's clinical competence. Recently, however, health care entities,
particularly hospitals, have begun to move toward a review process whereby
physician competency is measured, not only on the basis of clinical performance,
but also on the basis of how a physician's practice affects the financial
position of both the patient and the hospital.  n5 This movement was spurred by
numerous market forces, including rising labor costs, technological advances,
increased government regulation, increased patient and societal demands, as
[*1181]  well as changes in reimbursement policies.  n6 In response to such
forces, hospitals have altered both external and internal operations, seeking to
achieve a balance between economic concerns and patient care. Reaching such a
balance is made more difficult since, oftentimes, the needs and demands of
society differ from those of individual patients. From a societal perspective,
attainment of affordable health care is currently of utmost importance, yet,
from an individual perspective, patients are unwilling to yield quality of care
to realize financial benefits. This dichotomy is the driving force behind health
care reform and resulting innovations in the area of physician credentialing.

   Undoubtedly, as health care reform continues to gain momentum, hospitals must
become increasingly more competitive in efforts to attract and maintain
clinically competent and fiscally prudent medical staff physicians. The granting
of medical staff privileges to a physician with inferior clinical skills or
inefficient practice skills may place the hospital in the nebulous position of
being a moving target amid the health care battle, particularly in the area of
malpractice suits and reimbursement losses.  n7 In light of this "target"
mentality, it is now critical for hospitals to minimize the potential for
liability based upon the negligent acts of physicians affiliated with the
hospital. Hospitals must achieve this feat, however, in a cost-effective manner.
As a result, hospitals are faced with the difficult challenge of evaluating the
overall competence, expertise and, arguably, efficiency of physicians seeking
staff privileges. This is achieved through a process referred to as physician
credentialing.

   This Article presents a general discussion of a hospital's duty of care,
physician credentialing, theories of liability associated with physician
credentialing and credentialing mechanisms. This Article places particular
emphasis on the controversial mechanism of economic credentialing and
recommendations as to effective and meaningful incorporation of economic
credentialing criteria into the credentialing process.

   I. DEFINITION

   The steadfast premise behind physician credentialing is that of ensuring the
competency of physicians who are granted staff privileges,  [*1182]  which will
result in a higher standard of patient care. This, in theory, results in
economic savings to the hospital and ultimately to the patient. In its most
basic form, physician credentialing constitutes a clinical evaluation of
physicians seeking hospital staff privileges. There is no question that poor
quality patient care negatively impacts a hospital's bottom line financial
position. By contrast, increased physician competency undoubtedly results in
greater patient satisfaction, a reduction in malpractice lawsuits and an
increase in patient volume, all of which positively impact the economic
condition of the hospital. It may be argued that a clinical credentialing
process, whereby only clinically proficient physicians are granted privileges,
inherently provides an indirect economic benefit to the hospital. Yet many
hospitals feel this "end result" cost savings is not sufficient to place the
hospital in an economically competitive position. Thus, many hospitals have
extended the credentialing process to include both clinical and economic
evaluation components designed to identify cost efficient and clinically
competent physicians which will result in a direct economic benefit to the
hospital. In doing so, physician competency is determined based upon an
evaluation formula consisting of clinical and economic criteria, each considered
as a separate evaluation component.  n8

   Proponents of this combined approach assert that its use is crucial to a
hospital's economic survival. Regardless of the credentialing approach selected
by a hospital, physician competency may only be accurately determined through
the development of appropriate evaluation criteria, notwithstanding the use of
clinical or economic factors. Clearly, in establishing evaluation criteria in
today's health care market place, the issue of economics cannot be entirely
omitted from the credentialing process. The question then becomes: to what
degree may economic factors be considered in the credentialing process.

   II. DUTY OF DUE CARE

   As a general starting point, a hospital owes a duty to its patients to use
due care in the selection and retention of physicians to whom medical staff
privileges are given. Failure to do so may render the hospital liable to
patients for the negligent actions of physicians  [*1183]  providing services
within the hospital.  n9 This premise was first recognized in the seminal case
of Darling v. Charleston Community Memorial Hospital.  n10 Prior to Darling,
physicians were considered to be independent contractors and hospitals were
construed to be mere buildings in which physician independent contractors
rendered services.  n11 Accordingly, hospitals owed no duty to the patient since
the hospital did not undertake to treat patients, but undertook, instead, simply
to provide physical facilities in which medical services were rendered by
independent physicians.  n12

   The Darling court dispelled this notion by imposing hospital liability in
circumstances involving privileges granted by a hospital to an incompetent
physician.  n13 In conjunction with the Darling holding, not all states have
case law addressing the imposition of hospital liability in physician
credentialing decisions under similar fact situations. Even so, the overwhelming
judicial trend of holding hospitals liable in the credentialing arena is based
upon liability under general common law corporate liability arguments. The
collective impact of state and common law in the area of a hospital's duty of
care to its patients, which has resulted in the increased liability of hospitals
for a physician's negligent acts, has led to dramatic changes in the nature and
scope of the physician credentialing process.

   III. HISTORICAL OVERVIEW OF PHYSICIAN CREDENTIALING

   American health care reform dates back to the early 20th Century.  n14
Initially, reform measures were realized through state medical licensure boards.
n15 In response to the creation of state licensure boards and the concerted
professional actions of the American College of Surgeons, Congress enacted the
Hospital Survey and Construction Act, commonly referred to as the "Hill-Burton
Act."  n16

   The Hill-Burton Act was implemented for the purpose of subsidizing  [*1184]
hospital construction in medically underserved areas.  n17 States receiving
Hill-Burton funds were statutorily required to have a hospital licensure law in
effect.  n18 With the assistance of a federally-developed model licensing bill,
within one year after the passage of the Hill-Burton Act every state had
implemented some form of hospital licensure law.  n19 While it is beyond the
scope of this Article to compare and contrast the variations among state
licensure laws, a fundamental concept implicit in the licensure laws of all
fifty states is that of requiring the "adoption of medical staff bylaws,
physician appointment procedures, classification of staff membership,
depart-mentalization, and periodic meetings to review clinical work."  n20

   In 1952, following the enactment of the Hill-Burton Act, a private
organization named the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals ("JCAHO")
n21 assumed primary responsibility of hospital accreditation functions. Shortly
thereafter, JCAHO implemented "requirements for medical staff review of
physician members' clinical experiences."  n22 These requirements, as set forth
in the JCAHO accreditation manual ("Accreditation Manual"), provide guidelines
regarding the physician credentialing process.  n23 Notably, JCAHO accreditation
is not mandatory, but absence of JCAHO accreditation will result in a hospital's
inability to receive Medicare payments. In view of the hospital provider's need
to access Medicare funds, JCAHO accreditation, while voluntary in theory, is, in
practice, oftentimes a necessary prerequisite to the success and longevity of a
hospital in today's competitive and cost-driven health care environment.

   Pursuant to JCAHO requirements, hospitals must establish appropriate means to
review physicians in conjunction with the granting of hospital privileges. In
other words, hospitals must establish a physician credentialing process. The
general JCAHO framework for  [*1185]  physician credentialing sets forth the
parameters as to how hospital physician credentialing is to be conducted.  n24
The framework, as found in the Accreditation Manual, contains identifiable
standards to be used in the selection and retention of medical staff.

   The Accreditation Manual requires that hospitals establish an organized
medical staff charged with overall responsibility for ensuring: (i) quality
professional services; (ii) that said services are provided by individuals with
clinical privileges; (iii) accountability to the governing body; and (iv)
establishment of a mechanism to assure that all individuals with clinical
privileges provide services within the scope of individual clinical privileges
granted.  n25 The Accreditation Manual further requires that the medical staff
develop and adopt bylaws, rules and regulations to establish a framework for
selfgovernance of medical staff activities and accountability to the hospital's
governing body.  n26 JCAHO accreditation standards expressly require that a
process for granting and denying clinical privileges be described in the medical
staff bylaws, rules and regulations, and that the process be implemented by the
medical staff.  n27 Finally, the Accreditation Manual requires the establishment
of processes for reappointment to the medical staff and reappraisal of clinical
privileges.  n28 These processes must be fully described in the medical staff
bylaws, rules and regulations, and must be implemented by the medical staff.
n29

   In accordance with the JCAHO framework, the ultimate responsibility for
physician credentialing is placed upon the hospital board as the governing body
of a hospital.  n30 In fulfilling this responsibility, hospitals are required to
establish both corporate and medical staff bylaws containing, among other
things, a description of the medical staff credentialing and reappointment
process.  n31 The bylaws typically delegate a portion of the credentialing
process to the medical staff and/or its various committees (collectively,
"Medical Staff"), who, in turn, make staff appointment and retention
recommendations to the hospital board.  n32 In making such recommendations, the
Medical  [*1186]  Staff utilizes preset physician evaluation criteria. Many
hospitals ascribe to usage of credentialing criteria which may include economic
performance factors, provided, however, that such factors relate to the
hospital's traditional objective of rendering quality patient care in a
financially prudent manner.  n33 Undoubtedly, a review process consisting of
both clinical and financial measures falls within a board's standard objectives
of ensuring quality patient care and serving as fiscal fiduciary.  n34

   It must be recognized that, while the hospital board is ultimately
responsible for reviewing the professional qualifications and competence of
physicians providing services to patients in the hospital, the board is not a
"guarantor" of medical treatment.  n35 Instead, the hospital board fulfills its
due care/credentialing obligation upon establishment of a meaningful mechanism
through which reasonable efforts may be made to ensure that only those
physicians with recognized professional competence render medical treatment to
patients within the hospital.  n36

   In determining a hospital's due care/credentialing obligation, courts have
consistently held that hospitals need only exercise "reasonable" care when
credentialing and supervising staff physicians.  n37 As a result, the hospital
must establish an adequate credentialing process to limit negligent
credentialing exposure. For the most part, courts have afforded substantial
discretion to hospitals with regards to decisions to grant medical staff
privileges, so long as the hospital's identifiable purpose in making
credentialing decisions is that of the enhancement of the quality of care.  n38
This discretionary approach was articulated by the Fifth Circuit in Sosa v.
Board of Managers.  n39  [*1187]  In proffering such discretion, the Sosa court
recognized the need to afford the hospital board great leeway in establishing
physician standards, limited, however, to standards relevant to the objectives
and operations of the hospital.  n40

   IV. PHYSICIAN EVALUATION

   In general, there are three primary means for evaluating the competency of
physicians. First, state licensing boards determine whether a physician has the
minimum level of clinical expertise and competence to practice medicine.  n41
The state licensure process centers upon passage of an examination. Upon an
applicant's passing the examination and completing state licensure requirements,
a medical license is issued by the state licensure board. State licensure
provides the hospital with initial evidence of physician competency or the first
tier of a physician's evaluation. Building on licensure, board certification by
the American Medical Association presents a second tier of substantiation that a
given physician has reached a higher level of competence in a specific practice
field, over and above the initial level of state licensure.  n42 Finally, the
third tier of physician evaluation is accomplished by the individual hospital
through the physician credentialing process.  n43

   In conjunction with the credentialing process, the hospital reviews the
competence of a physician for the purpose of granting and retaining a
physician's hospital privileges and, in doing so, reviews the first two criteria
discussed above. Generally, this entails a review process to determine if a
given physician performs the quality and standard of work desired by the
hospital. Specifically, hospitals are free to establish the specific standards
and criteria used to determine if privileges are granted to a physician.  n44
Most hospitals' credentialing criteria, however, include an examination of the
following standards: (i) references; (ii) prior malpractice actions brought
against the physician; and (iii) licensure and board certification.  n45 Beyond
the above-referenced criteria, hospitals routinely  [*1188]  utilize national
accreditation standards, state hospital licensing statutes and regional practice
standards in developing credentialing criteria.  n46

   V. THEORIES OF LIABILITY ASSOCIATED WITH PHYSICIAN CREDENTIALING

   Upon successful completion of the credentialing process a physician is
granted hospital privileges. While the granting of hospital privileges does not,
in and of itself, render the physician an employee of the hospital, the
negligent actions of a physician providing medical services to patients within
the hospital may, in turn, be imputed to the hospital. Further, failure to grant
a physician privileges may, in some circumstances, result in an imposition of
hospital liability. In conjunction with physician credentialing, hospital
liability may be imposed via two primary avenues: liability to the patient and
liability to the physician.

A. Liability to the Patient

   A hospital patient who suffers damages as a result of a physician's negligent
treatment may successfully assert a cause of action against both the physician
and the hospital if it is determined that the hospital breached its duty to the
patient to use due care in the selection and retention of the physician.  n47
Under the auspices of this 'due care' obligation, hospitals have been found
liable for negligence, infliction of emotional distress and intentional torts,
depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case.  n48 Summarily,
liability to the patient has been premised on four legal theories, each of which
may be successfully used to establish a cause of action by a patient against a
hospital based on the hospital's grant of physician staff privileges despite
some flaw in the physician's skill or competence to practice medicine.

    [*1189]  1. Respondeat Superior

   Respondeat superior in the health care field denotes a legal theory commonly
used by a patient to impose liability on the hospital for the negligent acts of
a physician. The theory entails the fundamental concept of an employer's
responsibility for actions of its employees undertaken within the scope of
employment. Under the respondeat superior theory, a hospital is liable for the
negligence of a staff physician based upon the employment relationship between
the physician and the hospital. To succeed on this theory, a patient/plaintiff
must prove: (i) the physician committed malpractice; (ii) the existence of an
employer-employee relationship between the physician and the hospital; and (iii)
the physician was acting in the scope of employment in administering treatment.
n49 Not surprisingly, the key issue in efforts to prevail under the respondeat
superior theory is that of establishing that the physician is an employee of the
hospital.  n50

   When faced with an employee determination in the health care context, the
Texas Court of Appeals, in Hunte v. Hinkley,  n51 held that, in the absence of
an employer/employee relationship, a health care clinic could not be held liable
for the actions of a physician providing services at the clinic because the
clinic had no control over the physician's practice of medicine.  n52 The Hunte
court found that the evidence presented established an independent contractor
relationship through which the physician performed services at the clinic.  n53
The court held that, in the absence of an employer/employee relationship, the
respondeat superior theory must fail. Accordingly, hospitals may only be found
liable under the theory of respondeat superior when the physician in question is
an employee of the hospital.  n54

   Not surprisingly, the pivotal respondeat superior inquiry oftentimes becomes
that of an "employment" determination. In the clearest of  [*1190]  cases, staff
physicians who receive a salary and benefits from the hospital are identifiable
employees and present a vehicle through which the hospital may be found liable.
Moving down the spectrum, however, other physician/hospital relationships
present a more difficult inquiry as to the nature of the relationship. This
increased difficultly is often due to the presence of both employment and
independent contractor relationship aspects. In such cases, state law factors,
as well as factors set forth by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"),  n55
provide guidance for making an employment determination.

   An employment determination analysis involves dissemination of the nature and
tenor of the relationship in question. In formulating an employment analysis
involving a physician and a hospital, relevant factors indicative of an
employment relationship include the degree of control exercised over the
physician, type of payment and the manner in which the medical services are
rendered to the patient.  n56 Specifically, if a physician is paid based upon
how many patients visit the hospital rather than his individual services, an
employment relationship may be deemed to exist.  n57 Additionally, physicians
who are not free to choose their patients may also be deemed agents or employees
of a hospital.  n58 Further, when a hospital exercises substantial "control"
over a physician, an agency or a potential employment relationship may be found
to exist.

   The element of control is a highly determinative factor, as recognized by
both state law and the IRS.  n59 It is the element of control, rather than the
named status of the relationship, which frequently leads the courts to construe
the relationship as an employment relationship. For example, the District of
Columbia Circuit Court of Appeals, in Scheier v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan,
n60  [*1191]  held a hospital liable under the theory of respondeat superior, in
circumstances in which a physician identified as an independent contractor
committed malpractice.  n61 In Scheier, a cardiologist was called in by a staff
physician to assist on a case. In treating the patient, the cardiologist
committed malpractice. The court found Kaiser liable notwithstanding the
independent contractor status of the cardiologist.  n62 The court's holding was
based on the element of control.  n63 Kaiser had the power to call in and
dismiss the consulting physician, and the court determined that this control
formed the necessary link from the cardiologist to Kaiser.  n64 Further, the
Scheier court found the services rendered by the cardiologist were part of
Kaiser's duty owed to the patient to provide adequate health care services.  n65

   2. Ostensible Agency

   A second theory that may be asserted by a patient against a hospital is that
of ostensible agency.  n66 Ostensible agency is closely related to respondeat
superior, with one significant difference. Under the ostensible agency theory,
the element of "employment" is not required.  n67 Instead, in health care cases
the point of inquiry is whether the physician in question was held out as an
agent of the hospital.  n68 This theory of liability was addressed in McClellan
v. Health Maintenance Organization.  n69 McClellan involved a malpractice claim
asserted on behalf of the estate of a deceased member of an independent practice
association model health maintenance organization ("HMO").  n70 The McClellan
court based its finding on the following facts: (i) the physician was held out
to be the agent of the HMO; (ii) the HMO represented to its subscribers that its
primary care physicians were carefully screened, fully qualified, and  [*1192]
competent to render needed care; (iii) the physician was not properly screened,
evaluated or qualified to render needed care; and (iv) as a result of the
physician's incompetency, needed tests were not performed and needed specialty
assistance was not procured, ultimately resulting in the death of the
subscriber.  n71 Typically, an ostensible agency inquiry may successfully be
asserted if: (i) the patient looked to the hospital rather than the physician
for care; (ii) the patient reasonably perceived an employment relationship by
and between the physician and the hospital; and (iii) the hospital represented
itself as having an employment relationship with the physician.  n72

   The basic rationale behind the ostensible agency theory is that of the
"apparent" employment nature of the relationship. If the hospital in question
has created the reasonable impression in the patient's mind that the physician
works for the hospital, an apparent or agency relationship, and the
corresponding liability associated with the relationship, will be found to
exist.  n73

   3. Negligent Credentialing

   A third theory of liability which may be asserted by a patient against a
hospital is that of negligent credentialing. Negligent credentialing is
applicable when a patient is able to prove that the hospital did not exercise
reasonable care in either the selection or retention of its physicians.  n74 The
theory of negligent credentialing does not focus on the nature of the
relationship between the hospital and the physician. Instead, the theory of
negligent credentialing is premised upon a recognition that any physician who
practices medicine at a hospital should be adequately reviewed and effectively
credentialed prior to being permitted to treat a hospital patient.  n75

   In Johnson v. Misericordia Community Hospital,  n76 the patient/plaintiff
brought suit against the hospital alleging that the hospital's failure to
properly credential a physician constituted a  [*1193]  breach of the hospital's
duty of care owed to its patients.  n77 In presenting the case, the plaintiff's
evidence established the following failures of the hospital's credentialing
process: (i) failure to obtain a completed medical staff application; (ii)
failure to document the physician's appointment to the medical staff; and (iii)
failure to investigate the physician's competency before granting privileges.
n78 Extended to its full effect, the underlying concept behind Misericordia and
the theory of negligent credentialing is the assumption that, if adequate
credentialing had been implemented and effectuated, the hospital would have
discovered the physician's incompetence and, upon doing so, should not have
allowed the physician to treat patients within the hospital.

   4. Breach of Contract

   Liability may be asserted by a patient against a hospital based upon a breach
of contract theory.  n79 It must be noted, however, that the breach of contract
theory in the patient/hospital context is relatively new and has not been
extensively examined by the courts. The success of this theory is dependant upon
the plaintiff's establishing that the defendant hospital promised a certain
level of care and subsequently failed to provide such level of care.  n80 Among
those cases that have addressed the proper application of a breach of contract
theory in a patient treatment scenario is McClellan v. Health Maintenance
Organization.  n81 In McClellan, the plaintiff asserted hospital liability based
upon both the ostensible agency theory and the hospital's breach of a
contractual relationship with the patient to provide reasonably competent
medical care, the breach of which led to the patient's death.  n82 The McClellan
court found the breach of contract argument sufficiently strong to overcome a
demurrer.  n83 A Missouri Court of Appeals similarly found liability of a HMO
based on physician malpractice in a case entitled Stelmach v. Physicians
[*1194]  Multispecialty Group, Inc.  n84 In Stelmach, the HMO was contractually
obligated to provide medical services to the patient and, in so doing, referred
the patient to the physician. In view of the HMO's contractual obligation, the
patient's failure to receive adequate medical services constituted a breach of
contract for which the HMO was liable.  n85 Extension of this reasoning beyond
an HMO to the area of hospital liability may be based upon the hospital's
contractual obligation to provide medical care to patients and its implicit
obligation to the patient to ensure that such medical care is competently
rendered.

B. Liability to the Physician

   The second avenue of hospital liability is that of liability to a physician
who has been denied hospital privileges. A physician who has been denied staff
privileges as a result of the credentialing process or, alternatively, as a
result of the absence of a meaningful credentialing process may assert a cause
of action against the hospital. Physician directed litigation against a hospital
based upon a denial of medical staff privileges typically centers upon state and
federal antitrust claims, due process claims, denial of fair hearing process
claims, federal employment claims and/or Medicare fraud and abuse claims.

   1. Due Process

   In the area of hospital liability to a physician, litigation frequently
centers upon a physician's assertion of the denial of proper hearings, which
results in a denial of staff privileges or a revocation of staff privileges: in
other words, a due process claim.  n86 The Fourteenth Amendment of the United
States Constitution forbids any state to "deprive any person of life, liberty,
or property, without due process of law."  n87 Beyond the protection afforded by
the United States  [*1195]  Constitution, state constitutions also contain due
process provisions.  n88 The combined state and federal concepts of due process
protection require that a judicial or administrative hearing follow legally
established due process procedures.  n89 In so doing, the requisite elements of:
(i) notice; (ii) hearing; and (iii) impartial adjudication must be present in
the credentialing process if it is to withstand an applicable due process
challenge.  n90 A hospital's failure to afford these procedural safeguards may
result in the imposition of liability.

   The first prong of a due process claim is contingent upon establishing the
existence of "life, liberty, or property" interests. A physician does not have
an unqualified right to practice medicine, but does have a "liberty interest"
which has been construed to include the right to engage in his chosen
occupation.  n91 Generally, such a liberty interest cannot be deprived absent
adequate procedural due process. In Christhilf v. Annapolis Emergency Hospital,
n92 a physician's staff privileges were terminated prior to his receipt of a
fair hearing process.  n93 In addressing the due process claim, the Christhilf
court held that the physician had a constitutionally protected property interest
in his continued employment, as well as a liberty interest in his professional
reputation.

   The second prong of a due process analysis concerns the existence of "state
action."  n94 In the case of a public hospital, the receipt of government funds
and the government operation of the hospital comprise the state action component
of a due process claim.  n95 Therefore, a public hospital which is "owned,
maintained and operated" by a governmental entity may be found liable under a
due process theory if a physician is wrongfully excluded from performing
services at a public hospital in circumstances in which the hospital acted
arbitrarily or unreasonably.  n96 Private hospitals, on the other hand, have
traditionally enjoyed a due process safety zone in the form  [*1196]  of
absolute discretion in selecting and retaining medical staff physicians.  n97

   This safety zone was, historically, deemed an inherent consequence of the
absence of state action in a due process challenge. In recent years, however,
state action has been found to exist in some private hospital cases, based upon
the hospital's receipt of Hill-Burton, Medicare or Medicaid funds, which,
arguably, provide sufficient governmental involvement with the hospital so as to
create state action. While this argument may be asserted, courts are extremely
reticent to find state action based solely upon a private hospital's receipt of
government funds.  n98 Instead, when faced with a private hospital due process
claim, courts have typically applied theories of fiduciary duty, fair process
and contract law rather than due process.

   2. Antitrust

   Throughout the last decade there has been an increase in the number of
lawsuits filed by physicians who have been denied hospital privileges or whose
hospital privileges have been revoked.  n99 Frequently, these suits are based
upon alleged violations of §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act.  n100 Section 1 of the
Sherman Act provides that "every contract . . . or conspiracy, in restraint of
trade or commerce . . . is declared to be illegal . . . ."  n101

   In determining the scope of § 1 of the Sherman Act, the United States Supreme
Court recognized early on that the § 1 "every contract" language could not be
read literally, as all contracts by their very nature impose restraints on the
contracting parties.  n102 Accordingly, the Supreme Court looked to the intent
behind the Sherman Act to determine the scope of the § 1 ban. The Supreme Court
found the intent behind § 1 to be that of a ban of unreasonable restraints of
trade.  n103 When again faced with the issue of the scope of § 1, the  [*1197]
Supreme Court adopted the "rule of reason" test for evaluating Sherman Act
restraint of trade claims.  n104 Unfortunately, however, the rule of reason test
was ambiguous, overly broad and its analysis was very time consuming. Not
surprisingly, therefore, the Court adopted a per se antitrust rule of illegality
that may be applied in § 1 cases.  n105

   A physician-asserted antitrust suit oftentimes alleges a conspiracy of the
credentialing committee to restrain trade and wrongfully exclude the physician
from the health care market.  n106 The 1984 keynote medical staff antitrust
decision in Weiss v. York Hospital,  n107 recognized the capability of medical
staff members to conspire with each other in the credentialing process in
violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act. In Weiss, the Third Circuit found that a
medical staff's refusal to deal with an osteopathic physician constituted a
group boycott and was, therefore, a per se violation of the Sherman Act.  n108
In the course of its Sherman Act analysis, the Weiss court addressed each of the
major elements of a § 1 Sherman Act violation in the credentialing process as
follows: (i) existence of a contract; (ii) combination or conspiracy; (iii)
restraint of trade; and (iv) effect on interstate commerce.  n109 Application of
the § 1 elements to the Weiss facts resulted in the Third Circuit Court's
holding that the medical staff's boycott actions were in violation of the
Sherman Act.  n110

   Section 2 of the Sherman Act provides that "every person who shall
monopolize, or attempt to monopolize, or combine or conspire with any other
person or persons, to monopolize any part of the trade or commerce . . . shall
be deemed guilty of a felony."  n111 The combined effect of §§ 1 and 2 of the
Sherman Act in the health care  [*1198]  context is that of potential litigation
based upon general allegations of illegal tying arrangements, group boycotts,
unlawful exclusive dealing arrangements, and monopolization.

   While antitrust actions involving excluded physicians have increased in
recent years, physician antitrust actions have, for the most part, been
unsuccessful.  n112 This is due in large part to the overall reluctance of the
courts to review physician exclusion antitrust claims under a per se antitrust
analysis.  n113 Instead, the majority of courts have applied the antitrust "rule
of reason" analysis in cases involving an excluded physician.  n114 In rule of
reason cases brought by excluded physicians, it is somewhat difficult for
plaintiff physicians to establish the requisite element of an adverse effect on
competition.  n115

   In Hassan v. Independent Practice Associates,  n116 a rule of reason analysis
was applied to a § 1 Sherman Act price fixing challenge brought by an excluded
physician.  n117 Hassan involved an independent practice association ("IPA")
wholly owned by the individual physicians comprising it; one of whom was
terminated after the IPA determined he was overutilizing laboratory tests.  n118
In finding for the defendant, the Hassan court determined that the physician's
exclusion, based on cost containment factors, was justified and in full concert
with the IPA's practice philosophy.  n119 Prior to reaching such a conclusion,
the Hassan court refused to apply the per se rule because the function of
establishing price was a reasonable and necessary function of the IPA.  n120
Instead, the Hassan court applied the rule of reason analysis and found no
antitrust violation due to the plaintiff's failure to assert anti-competitive
effects.  n121 It is important to note that, under a rule of reason analysis,
economic factors may justify actions that would otherwise be construed as
anticompetitive based on the notion of enhanced efficiency.

    [*1199]  When faced with an antitrust claim asserted by a physician, the
most common hospital defense is that of state law compliance. In asserting such
a defense, hospitals frequently take the position that the credentialing process
which ultimately led to the physician's exclusion was mandated by state law.
Accordingly, hospital's assert that federal antitrust law is inapplicable based
upon the "state action" doctrine.  n122 In response to this argument, the United
States Supreme Court, in California Retail Liquor Dealers Ass'n v. Midcal
Aluminum, Inc.,  n123 created a two-part test to analyze the state action
defense to federal antitrust claims. The test is as follows: (i) the conduct in
question must be clearly articulated and affirmatively exercised as state
policy; and (ii) the policy must be actively supervised by the state.  n124

   The Supreme Court later applied the two-part test, in the peer review
context, in the case of Patrick v. Burget.  n125 In Patrick, Dr. Patrick filed
suit against the clinic, alleging antitrust violations based on the existence of
an unlawful review process which was allegedly implemented to reduce competition
rather than improve patient care. In response to Dr. Patrick's claim, the
defendant clinic asserted the state action doctrine. In finding for the
plaintiff, the Court held that application of the state action doctrine is
contingent upon the state's exercise of "ultimate control" over the conduct in
question, which the Court found lacking in Patrick.  n126 Application of the
Patrick rationale to future antitrust cases may reduce the hospital defendant's
chances of prevailing under a state action defense to a federal antitrust claim.

   3. Health Care Quality Improvement Act

   In years past, hospital efforts to comply with state law in the area of peer
review and credentialing were jeopardized by the threat of antitrust claims
associated with physician credentialing. Physicians, faced with the threat of
antitrust liability, were reluctant to participate in the peer review process.
The absence of needed physician participation substantially weakened the
credentialing process. In response to antitrust liability concerns due to the
antitrust/state action  [*1200]  tug of war in the health care field, Congress
enacted the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 ("HCQIA").  n127 Under
HCQIA, a limited federal immunity is afforded the peer review process as a
shield against antitrust actions.  n128 Simply stated, the HCQIA shield provides
federal immunity, limited to monetary damages, to good faith participants of the
peer review process. The legislative intent upon which HCQIA was based is that
of encouraging physician participation in the peer review process by reducing
antitrust liability concerns, which in turn ensures the identification of
incompetent physicians.  n129 To fall within the HCQIA safety zone, certain
statutory criteria  n130 must be satisfied, which are as follows: (i) the
medical review in question must constitute a "professional review action," made
by a "professional review body;" (ii) with intent and belief of furthering
quality patient care; and (iii) the review must be factually based,
appropriately reported, and evolve from a fair process.  n131

   As a result of HCQIA, adopting states have armed physicians and hospitals
with a shield in the context of credentialing antitrust battles. Still, HCQIA
was not enacted to circumvent antitrust laws and the HCQIA safety net does not
provide a complete "no fire zone" for antitrust attacks resulting from
credentialing decisions.  n132 Therefore, antitrust actions remain a viable
avenue through which hospital liability may be imposed.

   4. Federal Employment Status

   A third theory of liability that may be asserted by a physician is that of a
violation of a federal employment statute.  n133 Specifically, the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act ("ADEA"),  n134 Americans With Disabilities Act
("ADA"),  n135 § 1981 of the 1866 Civil Rights Act,  n136 and Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964 ("Title  [*1201]  VII")  n137 provide an impetus for
potential claims by hospital employees for discriminatory practices in hiring or
employment decisions. The question then becomes whether the federal employment
statutes apply to decisions regarding the granting or denial of hospital staff
privileges to physicians.

   A cursory review of pertinent federal employment statutes may render an
initial determination that none of the statutes are applicable to medical staff
privilege decisions, as physicians are not typically employees of the hospital.
n138 Closer review and analysis of the federal statutes, however, require
further inquiry into the relationship of a hospital to the physician, due to the
difficulty of identifying the nature of the relationship between the physician
and the hospital. Arguably, hospital-based physicians may be considered
employees of the hospital. In making such an argument, application of statutory
and common law employee/employer factors, as well as the factors recognized by
the IRS,  n139 may result in a finding of an employment relationship. Of
particular importance in the analysis of a physician-hospital relationship are
the elements of the hospital's: (i) control over the work place; (ii) provision
of facilities and personnel; and (iii) absence of other meaningful sources of
revenue.  n140 The combined effect of such factors may be a judicial
determination of an employment relationship between the physician and the
hospital.

   Beyond the employment analysis, courts have begun to extend the requirements
of Title VII to a hospital's denial or restriction of physician privileges.
n141 In so doing, the Eleventh Circuit, in Pardazi v. Cullman Medical Center,
n142 reversed a lower court summary judgment action and held that Title VII may
extend to a claim that a hospital defendant has interfered with an individual
physician's employment relationship with another entity.  n143 In Pardazi, the
physician was not an employee of the defendant hospital.  n144 The lower court
found this to be compelling and denied relief under Title VII on the basis of
the same.  n145 The Eleventh  [*1202]  Circuit disagreed and, in so doing, held
that Title VII protection extends to circumstances involving a defendant's
interference with the plaintiff's employment relationship with a third party.
n146 Other courts, however, have refused to extend Title VII to circumstances
involving a physician who is not directly employed by a hospital.  n147

   As to application of ADEA claims and ADA claims, hospitals may be forced to
defend ADEA and/or ADA physician claims in the context of the physician
application, review and credentialing process. Due to the relative infancy of
these statutes, application of ADA and ADEA to the credentialing arena is
presently unclear. It is clear, however, that hospitals may take precautionary
measures to reduce potential liability under these types of claims by careful
drafting of medical staff application documents and bylaws, particularly in the
areas of age limitations, physical and mental prerequisites, and disclosure of
personal information.  n148 In view of the current state of disagreement over
appropriate application of federal employment statutes to physician
credentialing matters, federal employment claims by physicians will likely
increase. In any event, federal employment statutes may, in all likelihood, be
deemed applicable in some physician hospital relationships, depending upon the
nature and tenor of the arrangement and the facts and circumstances of the
claim.

   5. Medicare Fraud and Abuse

   A final theory of liability that may be asserted by an excluded physician is
that of a violation of the Social Security Act provisions, commonly referred to
as the Medicare Fraud and Abuse Statute ("Fraud and Abuse Statute").  n149 An
extremely broad application of the Fraud and Abuse Statute prohibition to the
physician credentialing process may result in a prohibition of a hospital's
consideration of economic factors in the review process. The basis for such an
argument is that economic criteria constitute a subterfuge form of payment for
physician referrals or a request for physician referrals, both of which
contravene the intent and purpose of the Medicare system. In the case of
Virginia Radiology Associates v.  [*1203]  Culpepper,  n150 a group of
radiologists brought suit against a hospital for terminating their services. The
radiologists asserted a Fraud and Abuse Statute violation, alleging they were
required to purchase unnecessary and illusory services in order to retain their
arrangement with the hospital.  n151 In future cases, this theory of liability
will most likely not prevail, as it: (i) involves an overly broad interpretation
of the Fraud and Abuse statute; (ii) does not pose the potential abuse sought to
be corrected by the statute; and (iii) fails to account for the legal and
justifiable extension of economic criteria to the overall assessment of
physician competency.

   VI. CREDENTIALING MECHANISMS

   While the general credentialing framework has been established by JCAHO,
applicable state statutes and case law, the specific credentialing process must
be developed by each individual hospital.  n152 In establishing an effective
credentialing process, various credentialing mechanisms may be utilized.
Depending upon the individual needs and characteristics of a given hospital,
various types of credentialing mechanisms may be incorporated into the
hospital's credentialing process to ensure that the hospital grants staff
privileges to only competent physicians. Among the credentialing mechanisms
warranting examination are: (i) application credentialing; (ii) primary
credentialing; (iii) secondary credentialing; and (iv) economic credentialing.
n153

   In assessing the feasibility of any credentialing mechanism, the hospital's
ability to accurately and effectively gather and utilize pertinent layers of
data is crucial. The specific data may be of a clinical nature, economic nature,
or both. Further, if an economic credentialing process is desired, the hospital
must devise a means by which the clinical and financial data are merged. In any
credentialing process, the initial layer of clinical data typically includes the
procurement of information about an applicant's education, medical training and
experience, work history, personal references and malpractice coverage.  n154

    [*1204]  Heightened layer clinical data involves procurement of clinical
information encroaching economic review. Examples of this layer include quality
assurance, utilization review and resource management information. Finally, an
additional layer of economic data that may be utilized in the credentialing
process is that of pure economic data. This layer includes, but is not limited
to, information regarding malpractice exposure, number of hospital admissions,
diagnosis related group ("DRG") profiles, and laboratory/service utilization.
n155 Regardless of the credentialing mechanism selected, the success and
effectiveness of its use are largely dependent upon the identification of clear
and concise criteria and corresponding data sources. Only then may the
credentialing process render effective physician staffing decisions.

A. Application Credentialing

   Application credentialing in and of itself does not adequately protect a
hospital from liability because it entails only minimal information and does not
involve any independent research by the hospital to ensure that the information
provided on the application is true and complete.  n156 Instead, this process
involves the sole requirement of completion and submission of an application. If
a physician completes and submits an application, he is automatically granted
hospital privileges.

B. Primary Credentialing

   Primary credentialing is a commonly used credentialing mechanism consisting
of an independent evaluation methodology. Under the mechanism of primary
credentialing, the hospital from whom privileges are sought gathers specific
data and evaluation information, such as proof of licensure, board
certification, malpractice coverage and professional training, and subsequently
conducts an independent evaluation based on the data to ensure that a physician
is competent to practice medicine at the hospital.  n157 This method, when
properly  [*1205]  implemented, affords a heightened degree of protection to the
hospital as opposed to the application credentialing process.

C. Secondary Credentialing

   Secondary credentialing involves research and review conducted by a hospital
which is part of a larger provider network.  n158 In other words, secondary
credentialing relies upon a secondary review source. Members of a health care
network rely on other members' research and review of prospective physicians
rather than conducting an independent investigation. Instead, upon establishment
of privileges in one member hospital, an applicant will automatically be granted
privileges in any other network entity to which he applies without any further
evaluation.  n159 This process presents substantial areas of liability exposure
in that, if the primary hospital fails to conduct adequate research and
investigation, the secondary hospital may be held liable for negligent
credentialing.  n160

D. Economic Credentialing

   The final credentialing mechanism, referred to as economic credentialing, is
a controversial avenue through which hospitals endeavor to determine whether a
physician has the proper credentials to join a medical staff. This credentialing
mechanism represents a concerted effort to homogenize the competing forces of
economics and quality of care. Economic credentialing stems from a hospital's
need to balance high quality patient care and profitability. In its most basic
form, the driving forces of quality assurance and fiscal performance have been
incorporated into a single process referred to as economic credentialing.
Economic credentialing is, however, in reality, both a process and an end
result. This is so, in that it represents the hospital's ability to track and
analyze patient care, at least, in part, from an economic perspective and, in so
doing, provides an overall evaluation of physician competency.

   In some respects, economic credentialing may be deemed an "audit" of a
physician's worth to the hospital, yet in other respects it may be deemed a
viable method of determining physician competence. It is this chameleon nature
of economic credentialing that has  [*1206]  resulted in heated debate and
controversy as to its use in physician credentialing. In its most comprehensive
sense, there are two forms of economic credentialing. The first form will be
referred to, herein, as hybrid credentialing and the second as pure economic
credentialing.

   1. Hybrid Economic Credentialing

   Proponents of economic credentialing, who characterize the process as a form
of physician evaluation that entails economic criteria coupled with more
traditional clinical practice evaluations, advocate the form of economic
credentialing referred to, herein, as hybrid economic credentialing.  n161
Hybrid credentialing represents an endeavor to merge the fiscal with the
clinical aspects of a physician's practice. When the hybrid approach to economic
credentialing is taken, economic factors are considered based upon the premise
that quality of care and finances cannot be separately evaluated. Instead, it is
only when quality and economic factors are collectively and jointly reviewed
that a true assessment of a physician's competency may be made. Hybrid
credentialing attempts to unite identifiable aspects of a physician's fiscal
practices with pertinent aspects of his or her clinical expertise in an effort
to evaluate the physician's overall competency. Examples of economic factors
that may be incorporated into a hybrid credentialing process are malpractice
risk exposure, number and type of hospital admissions, the number of patient
intensive care unit ("I.C.U.") days, patient length of stay, outpatient services
utilization, resource utilization, use of ancillary services and laboratory
tests, DRG profiles, utilization review factors, and the physician's payor
profile.  n162

   The relevancy of economic factors and linkage to clinical factors in the form
of hybrid credentialing was addressed in Knapp v. Palos Community Hospital,
n163 when a group of physicians challenged revocation of staff privileges. The
hospital's defense centered upon its effective use of quality assurance reviews
depicting the physicians' overutilization practices, as evidenced by excessive
use of lung scans, diagnostic tests, pacemakers, medications, and pulmonary
[*1207]  angiograms.  n164 The hospital's decision was due, at least in part, to
its consideration of economic criteria, specifically, that the plaintiff
physicians' costs exceeded those of other staff members by thirty-one percent.
n165 In finding for the hospital, the Knapp court found excessive costs to be
"symptomatic of quality" and, thus, relevant in the credentialing and review
process.  n166

   Similarly, the New Jersey case of Edelman v. John F. Kennedy Memorial
Hospital  n167 upheld the hospital's credentialing decision which resulted in
denial of physician reappointment. In Edelman, the hospital presented evidence
in the form of utilization review data which demonstrated inappropriate and
costly patient lengths of stay as well as excessive use of unnecessary
diagnostic tests.  n168 In finding for the defendant hospital, the court found
the hospital's decision to have been a legitimate operational function of the
hospital.  n169 Both Knapp and Edelman are indicative of the deference and
leniency afforded hospitals under the auspices of judicial interpretation and
application of hybrid credentialing.

   Undoubtedly, there are problematic aspects of hybrid credentialing. While it
does appear that hospitals may expand credentialing criteria from purely
clinical factors to include economic factors, the permitted scope of such
extension is unclear. What is clear is that, prior to being able to withstand
judicial scrutiny, many hospitals will be forced to appropriately revise
corporate and medical staff bylaws, incorporating the terms and process
associated with the hospital's hybrid credentialing process. The hospital must
then undertake the hybrid credentialing process in full accord with the bylaws.
Stated simply, as a proactive measure, economic criteria should: (i) be
pertinent to the specific hospital's operation and exigencies; (ii) be
incorporated into the hybrid credentialing process; (iii) be reasonably related
to the hospital's operational objective; and (iv) be rationally linked to a
physician's clinical performance.  n170 Further, hospitals  [*1208]  must
carefully and consistently utilize the economic data in compliance with internal
policies and procedures.

   In seeking to attain a proactive posture in conjunction with physician
credentialing decisions, hospitals may invest in physician profile software
packages designed to measure physician economic performance. Effective use of
such programs would likely strengthen the hospital's justification of its use of
economic data in conjunction with its hybrid credentialing process.  n171 Still
further, economic criteria utilized in a hybrid credentialing process must be
specific and precise enough so as to provide a physician with adequate notice
regarding acceptable standards of performance and conduct. Overly broad or vague
standards may be judicially construed as arbitrary and thereby unable to
withstand challenge. In summary, the hybrid credentialing process, under which
relevant cost and quality factors are collectively reviewed in a reasonable,
orderly and clear credentialing process, will likely be afforded continued
judicial deference in upcoming cases.

   2. Pure Economic Credentialing

   By contrast, the more extreme position of economic credentialing may be
characterized as an economic measure, devoid of patient care concerns.  n172
This position of sole economic focus will be referred to herein as "pure"
economic credentialing. Pure economic credentialing represents a review process
based on identifiable financial components of a physician's practice, considered
separate and apart from clinical expertise.  n173 Simply stated, under a pure
economic credentialing approach, physicians are evaluated for appointment or
reappointment based solely on financial performance or profitability thresholds.
n174 A pure economic credentialing evaluation does not involve review of the
physician's clinical qualifications, abilities or feats. Instead, pure economic
credentialing focuses on the physician's economic worth to a hospital.  n175 A
pure economic  [*1209]  review process looks to the hospital's financial "bottom
line" and does not consider qualitative criteria such as a physician's medical
training, expertise and clinical experience.  n176

   This single focus approach to physician credentialing is driven by economic
factors devoid of an overlay of clinical criteria. Examples of pure economic
factors include data as to: whether the physician is making a profit on patient
services, the type and demographics of admitted patients, the percentage of
physician profit by reimbursement type, the physician percentage of market
share, and the physician payor profile.  n177 Not surprisingly, this form of
economic credentialing has many critics. Many fear its use may result in an
evaluation process under which a physician's clinical abilities, if considered
at all, may be secondary to that of economics. Proponents of pure economic
credentialing, however, suggest that such an approach will not diminish quality
of care because quality physicians will also be cost efficient physicians.  n178
Thus, in theory, a pure economic credentialing process that identifies fiscally
irresponsible physicians will concurrently result in identification of
clinically inferior physicians.  n179

   In pure economic credentialing cases, the pivotal case of Rosenblum v.
Tallahassee Regional Medical Center  n180 has been construed to be the "first
judicial approval of pure economic credentialing."  n181 In Rosenblum, the trial
court upheld the hospital's credentialing decision which resulted in a cardiac
surgeon's denial of privileges.  n182 The basis of the hospital's decision was
economic in nature because the physician was head of the cardiology department
at a competing hospital, an economic issue the court found compelling in
evaluating the validity of the hospital's credentialing process.  n183 As a
result, the Rosenblum court upheld the hospital's denial of privileges based
solely on an economic conflict of interest. In so doing, the court determined
that the hospital's decision reflected a valid economic basis of evaluation in
light of the physician's  [*1210]  serving as program chair at a competing
hospital. It must be noted, however, that Rosenblum has limited precedential
value since it is a lower court opinion and was dependent in large part on
Florida statutory law granting wide hospital board discretion.  n184

   In evaluating issues pertaining to pure economic credentialing, one pure
economic credentialing method, referred to as exclusive contracting, has been
the source of substantial controversy. The concept of exclusive contracting
entails an arrangement, whereby the hospital enters into exclusive contracts for
specified hospital services, such as radiology or pathology.  n185 While the
primary hospital objective of exclusive contracting is typically that of
quality, its use further ensures that only cost-effective specialists will
render services in the specified practice area.

   The noteworthy case of Belmar v. Cipolla  n186 presents a judicial
examination of the use of an exclusive contract arrangement in the hospital
context. In Belmar, an exclusive contract arrangement between an anesthesia
group and the hospital was challenged by two excluded anesthesiologists based
upon alleged violations of state public policy and antitrust laws.  n187 When
faced with such claims, the New Jersey Supreme Court entertained the inquiry of
whether the actions of the hospital were in the public's interest.  n188 In so
doing, the Belmar court balanced the public's interest with the need to afford
the hospital discretion in its management and operation of the hospital. Upon
balancing public interest with managerial discretion, the Belmar court
determined that the hospital's actions were reasonable and appropriate.  n189 As
to the antitrust claim, the physicians asserted that the exclusive contract
arrangement constituted an illegal tying arrangement, in violation of New Jersey
antitrust law.  n190 The court held that the evidence presented was insufficient
to establish an antitrust violation under a rule of reason analysis and,
therefore, rejected the physicians' claims.

   In looking at the ability of exclusive contract arrangements to withstand
judicial scrutiny, those cases that have failed to withstand  [*1211]  the same
have generally involved clear violations of the contract in question or the
medical staff bylaws.  n191 Thus, successful physician challenges to exclusive
contracts have turned on impingements of the rights of excluded physicians, not
on the invalidity of economic criteria in the credentialing process. In any
event, at present, hospitals may enter into exclusive contract arrangements,
reasonably incorporating economic and quality of care considerations, without
undue fear of liability based upon use of the same.

   VII. RECOMMENDATIONS AS TO THE USE OF ECONOMIC CREDENTIALING

   In light of its single focus nature, pure economic credentialing may fail to
adequately evaluate a physician's level of competence and may increase the
hospital's liability exposure. By contrast, the more effective credentialing
evaluation process consists of a qualitative analysis with an overlay of an
economic evaluation. This hybrid form of economic credentialing evaluates a
physician's clinical skills and professional expertise from an economic
perspective  n192 and subsequently enables the reviewers to observe the quality
of an applicant's work from a fiscal standpoint. Effective application of this
approach enables the hospital to hire physicians who will likely be economically
advantageous to the health care facility. As a result, both the hospital and the
patient realize initial cost savings and the hospital's liability exposure is
minimized which results in further savings.

   Arguably, the end result of hybrid credentialing is that of protecting the
interests of the hospital, the individual physician and the patients. With
regards to the hospital's interests, hybrid credentialing may be used as a means
to diminish the hospital's fiscal challenges due to reimbursement losses and
budget constraints. In this vein, a vital aspect of the fiduciary duty of the
board of a hospital is to ensure that the hospital remains fiscally viable.
n193 An effective way to ensure  [*1212]  that hospitals maintain fiscal
integrity is to monitor the financial performance of each physician providing
services therein. Because hospitals are typically given wide latitude for
establishing a credentialing process, credentials committees should effectively
be able to establish guidelines for processing physician privilege applications
and conduct corresponding physician reviews that include economic factors.
Hospital interests are further protected under hybrid credentialing as a result
of the development of a meaningful evaluation process which effectively
precludes incompetent physicians from rendering medical services within the
hospital, thereby reducing malpractice claims and increasing patient
satisfaction.

   By protecting the interests of the physician, hybrid credentialing permits
consideration of all pertinent aspects of a physician's clinical capabilities
and patient practices, including those of an economic nature. Factors considered
by the hospital in the review process constitute "physician evaluation
criteria." Hospitals using hybrid credentialing must explicitly incorporate both
the physician evaluation criteria and the administrative process associated with
credentialing into the corporate and medical bylaws. This, in turn, provides
clear guidance to the physician as to his procedural and administrative rights
and as to the hospital's expectations of the physician.

   Finally, the patient's interests are protected due to the development of
verifiable, fair, and concise clinical and economic criteria, resulting in the
procurement and retention of competent physicians, which in turn results in
enhanced patient care and increased patient satisfaction. The interests of
patients are further enhanced by a comprehensive physician credentialing process
which excludes costly, unnecessary and inappropriate physician practices which
are ultimately passed on to the hospital consumer.

   CONCLUSION

   Today's hospitals are frequently caught in the inevitable crossfire between
the need for economic survival and the need to provide top quality patient care.
In attempting to correlate the two forces, the process of physician
credentialing has been used as an effort to balance the forces of economics and
quality of care. Physician credentialing has been achieved through application,
primary, secondary and economic credentialing processes. While each of the
credentialing methods has been the subject of debate, economic credentialing has
generated substantial controversy within the medical community.

    [*1213]  Economic credentialing is particularly difficult to understand and
apply in the physician credentialing process, as there is no generally
recognized definition of the term "economic credentialing." Summarily, economic
credentialing refers to two different approaches to the physician evaluation
process. First, pure economic credentialing refers to a system that evaluates
physicians based on pure financial factors which form the evaluation basis of
the hospital credentialing process. Under this approach, relevant data includes
per patient profit level, patient demographics and reimbursement profiles.
Further, under a pure economic credentialing approach, a physician may be
required to satisfy a preset profit threshold prior to obtaining hospital
privileges.

   The second form of economic credentialing, referred to as hybrid
credentialing, involves a two layer physician evaluation consisting of an
economic layer and a clinical layer. The two layers collectively serve to
provide a combined evaluation depicting a physician's overall competency.
Advocates of the two layer approach of hybrid credentialing maintain that
consideration of a physician's financial practices are justified because
economic practices affect both the physician's and the hospital's ability to
render quality patient care. Under a hybrid credentialing process, certain
economic factors are reviewed, considered and factored into the overall
evaluation process, but only in the context of conducting a comprehensive
physician appraisal.  n194

   While neither form of economic credentialing is without merit, hybrid
economic credentialing affords greater protection to all interested parties over
that of pure economic credentialing. Hybrid credentialing incorporates economic
factors into the review process only in the realm of a physician's total
practice. Effective incorporation of economic factors into the physician
credentialing process represents a viable means through which the needs of the
patient may be correlated with the available economic resources of the hospital.
Not only does hybrid credentialing protect and preserve quality of care, its use
provides additional liability protection which ultimately leads to bottom line
cost savings. In light of today's health care battlefield, in which many
hospitals are currently positioned, meaningful reduction of liability exposure
and improved fiscal responsibility may enable hospitals to not only win the
immediate battles associated  [*1214]  with economics and quality of care, but
to ultimately prevail in the on-going health care war.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawActions Against FacilitiesGeneral OverviewHealthcare LawActions
Against Healthcare WorkersDoctors & PhysiciansHealthcare LawBusiness
Administration & OrganizationHospital PrivilegesGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1  Phyllis Brasher, Provider Selection Issues in Provider Network and Managed
Care Organizations (PHOs, IPAs, PPOs, HMOs), 1993 Texas Health Law Conference
(Oct. 8, 1993). See also ROBERT D. MILLER, PROBLEMS IN HOSPITAL LAW 113 (6th ed.
1990).




n2  MILLER, supra note 1.




n3  K.J. Williams, Some Basic Principles of Medical Staff Organization, in
COLLECTED PAPERS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO EIGHTH ANNUAL CONFERENCE ON
HOSPITAL MEDICAL STAFF MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATION 25, 27-28 (1971).




n4  THE JOINT COMMISSION ON ACCREDITATION OF HEALTHCARE ORGANIZATIONS,
ACCREDITATION MANUAL FOR HOSPITALS (1989) (hereinafter "ACCREDITATION MANUAL").




n5  John D. Blum, Economic Credentialing: A New Twist in Hospital Appraisal
Processes, 12 J. LEGAL MED. 427, 428 (1991). The physician credentialing process
is utilized by various healthcare entities, including, but not limited to,
managed care organizations, independent practice associations and hospitals. Id.
at 429-30. The scope of this article, however, centers upon physician
credentialing in the hospital context.




n6  Alden Solovy, Healthcare in the 1990s: Forecasts by Top Analysts, HOSPITALS,
July 20, 1989, at 34-36, 38-42, 46.




n7  This is due in large part to the commonly perceived "deep pockets" of
hospitals.




n8  James G. Wiehl, "Physician Integration": The Legal Pressures for
Consolidation of Health Care Services, 34 ST. LOUIS U. L.J. 917, 918 (1990).




n9  S. Gregory Frogge, Advancing Medical Technology: Can the Hospital Board Keep
Pace?, 2 KAN. J.L. & PUB. POL'Y 73, 73-75 (1993).




n10  211 N.E.2d 253 (Ill. 1965), cert. denied, 383 U.S. 946 (1966).




n11  Edward E. Hollowell, Medical Staff Credentialing: Rights, Duties, and
Restrictions, 15 LEGAL ASPECTS OF MED. PRAC. 1 (1987).




n12  Daniel D. King & Joel T. Allison, Medical Staff Credentialing: Taking Steps
to Avoid Liability, DEF. COUNS. J., Jan. 1994, at 107-108 (citing Darling, 211
N.E.2d at 253).




n13  Darling, 211 N.E.2d at 256.




n14  Blum, supra note 5, at 431.




n15  MILTON I. ROEMER & JAY W. FRIEDMAN, DOCTORS IN HOSPITALS 34-35 (1971).




n16  42 U.S.C. § 291 (1988).




n17  Id.




n18  David M. Mulholland III, The Corporate Responsibility of the Community
Hospital, 17 U. TOL. L. REV. 343, 344 (1986). As of 1946, the year the
Hill-Burton Act was passed, only ten states had any form of licensure law. Blum,
supra note 5, at 432.




n19  Blum, supra note 5, at 432.




n20  Id. (footnote omitted).




n21  The Joint Commission on Accreditation of Hospitals was subsequently renamed
the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations. Any and all
subsequent references herein to JCAHO denotes the renamed status.




n22  Blum, supra note 5, at 432 (footnote omitted).




n23  See ACCREDITATION MANUAL, supra note 4, at 101-24 (encompassing the Medical
Staff Section).




n24  Id.




n25  Id.




n26  Id.




n27  Id.




n28  Id.




n29  Id.




n30  Id. at PP 1.2.3.1.3.2, 1.2.3.1.8.




n31  Id.




n32  Blum, supra note 5, at 435-36. This internal structure is consistent with
case law, statutory law and JCAHO standards. The delegation to the medical staff
and/or its committees is warranted since hospital members frequently are not
licensed physicians and, therefore, may lack the clinical and professional
expertise to assume the full burden of the credentialing and review process.




n33  John D. Blum, Evaluation of Medical Staff Using Fiscal Factors: Economic
Credentialing, 26 J. HEALTH & HOSP. L. 65, 67 (1993).




n34  Id.




n35  Frogge, supra note 9, at 73.




n36  Id.




n37  Id. at 75. See also Johnson v. Misericordia Community Hosp., 301 N.W.2d 156
(Wis. 1981).




n38  See generally Darling v. Charleston Community Hosp., 211 N.E.2d 253 (Ill.
1965), cert. denied, 383 U.S. 946 (1966); Park N. Gen. Hosp. v. Hickman, 703
S.W.2d 262 (Tex. Ct. App. 1985).




n39  437 F.2d 173 (5th Cir. 1971).




n40  Sosa, 437 F.2d at 177.




n41  King & Allison, supra note 12, at 107.




n42  Id.




n43  Id.




n44  Frogge, supra note 9, at 73.




n45  Id.




n46  Id.




n47  Marcia A. Mobilia, Hospital Corporate Liability - Toward a Stricter
Liability Standard for Administrative Services, HOSP. LIAB. L. & PRAC. 329,
337-39 (Mary M. Bertolet et al. eds. 1987). See also Elam v. College Park Hosp.,
183 Cal. Rptr. 156 (Cal. Ct. App. 1982).




n48  Kevin E. Grady, Current Topics in Medical Staff Development and
Credentialing, 26 J. HEALTH & HOSP. L. 193, 195 (1993).




n49  Brenda T. Strama & Laura Van Os, Credentialing and Managed Care
Organizations, 6th Annual Health Law Conference 2 (Apr. 8, 1994).




n50  See generally Sloan v. Metropolitan Health Council, 516 N.E.2d 1104 (Ind.
Ct. App. 1987); Dunn v. Praiss, 606 A.2d 862 (N.J. Super. Ct. App. Div. 1992);
Hunte v. Hinkley, 731 S.W.2d 570 (Tex. Ct. App. 1987).




n51  731 S.W.2d 570, 571 (Tex. Ct. App. 1987).




n52  Hunte, 731 S.W.2d at 571. See also Abalos v. Oil Dev. Co., 544 S.W.2d 627,
631 (Tex. 1976); Jeffcoat v. Phillips, 534 S.W.2d 168, 172 (Tex. Civ. App.
1976).




n53  Hunte, 731 S.W.2d at 571.




n54  Id.




n55  Rev. Rul. 87-41, 1987-1 C.B. 296.




n56  David J. Oakley & Eileen M. Kelley, HMO Liability for Malpractice of Member
Physicians: The Case of IPA Model HMOs, 23 TORT & INS. L.J. 624, 627-29 (1988).
See also Brentwood Fin. Corp. v. Lamprecht, 736 S.W.2d 836, 845 (Tex. Ct. App.
1987).




n57  Oakley & Kelley, supra note 56, at 627-29. Hospitals may refer patients to
doctors who work at their facility or simply take a patient's name and assign
him or her to a physician. These types of activities indicate an agency
relationship. If the hospital pays a salary to a physician or provides medical
or dental benefits to a physician, the physician will likely be considered an
employee of the hospital rather than an agent.




n58  Dunn, 606 A.2d at 868.




n59  Rev. Rul. 87-41, 1987-1 C.B. 296. See also Michael Kanute, Comment,
Evolving Theories of Malpractice Liability for HMO's, 20 LOY. U. CHI. L.J. 841,
849 (1989).




n60  876 F.2d 174 (D.C. Cir. 1989) (per curiam).




n61  Scheier, 876 F.2d at 174.




n62  Id. at 178.




n63  Id.




n64  Id. at 177-78.




n65  Id. at 178.




n66  Baptist Mem. Hosp. Sys. v. Smith, 822 S.W.2d 67, 72 (Tex. Ct. App. 1991).
See also Mduba v. Benedictine Hosp., 52 A.2d 450, 453-54 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 1976).




n67  Baptist Mem., 822 S.W.2d at 72. See also RESTATEMENT (SECOND) OF AGENCY §
267 (1958).




n68  Boyd v. Albert Einstein Medical Ctr., 547 A.2d 1229, 1232 (Pa. Super. Ct.
1988).




n69  604 A.2d 1053 (Pa. Super. Ct.), appeal denied, 616 A.2d 985 (Pa. 1992).




n70  McClellan, 604 A.2d at 1053.




n71  Id. at 1058.




n72  Diana J. Bearden & Bryan J. Maedgen, Emerging Theories of Liability in the
Managed Health Care Industry, University of Texas School of Law Sixth Annual
Health Law Conference 25 (Apr. 8, 1994).




n73  Id.




n74  Johnson v. Misericordia Community Hosp., 301 N.W.2d 156, 171-72 (Wis.
1981).




n75  Misericordia, 301 N.W.2d at 171-72.




n76  301 N.W.2d 156 (Wis. 1981).




n77  Misericordia, 301 N.W.2d at 158.




n78  Id. at 156.




n79  Michael Meyer & Andrew Murr, Not My Health Care, NEWSWEEK, Jan. 10, 1994,
at 36; 1993's Largest Verdicts: Insurance, THE NAT'L L.J., Jan. 17, 1994, at
S5-7.




n80  Broadus A. Spivey, Suing the HMO, Texas Trial Lawyers Association Medical
Malpractice Conference 6 (Oct. 29, 1992).




n81  604 A.2d 1053 (Pa. Super. Ct. 1992).




n82  McClellan, 604 A.2d at 1055.




n83  Id. at 1061.




n84  No. 53906, 1989 Mo. App. LEXIS 852, at *1 (Mo. Ct. App. Jun. 13, 1989).




n85  Michael C. Thornhill, Managed Care at Risk, 13 WHITTIER L. REV. 359 (1992)
(citing Stelmach, 1989 Mo. App. LEXIS, at *1).




n86  Depending upon the type of hospital involved - i.e. public or private, the
source of a due process right varies. The Fourteenth Amendment governs public
hospitals, but is inapplicable, absent some form of state action, to private
hospitals. Private hospitals may, however, be governed by the theory of common
law due process.




n87  U.S. CONST. amend. XIV, § 1.




n88  King & Allison, supra note 12, at 113.




n89  Id.




n90  Id.




n91  Hollowell, supra note 11, at 2.




n92  552 F.2d 1070 (4th Cir. 1977).




n93  Christhilf, 552 F.2d at 1072. The physician was ultimately given a hearing
some four years after his privileges were terminated.




n94  Hollowell, supra note 11, at 2.




n95  Id.




n96  Id.




n97  Id.




n98  Id. at 2-3.




n99  Diane Ruder, Comment, Antitrust and the Credentialing and Decredentialing
of Physicians, 19 N. KY. L. REV. 351 (1992). See also Bellam v. Clayton County
Hosp. Auth., 758 F. Supp. 1488 (N.D. Ga. 1990); Steurer & Latham v. National
Med. Ctrs., 672 F. Supp. 1489 (D. S.C. 1987), aff'd, 846 F.2d 70 (4th Cir.
1988).




n100  15 U.S.C. §§ 1-2 (1988 & Supp. IV 1992). See also Shahawy v. Harrison, 778
F.2d 636 (11th Cir. 1985); Beard v. Parkview Hosp., 912 F.2d 138 (6th Cir.
1990).




n101  15 U.S.C. § 1.




n102  Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U.S. 1, 59 (1911).




n103  Standard Oil, 221 U.S. at 50-51.




n104  Board of Trade v. United States, 246 U.S. 231, 239 (1918). The rule of
reason test balanced the anti-competitive effects of the arrangement in question
against the procompetitive effects.




n105  Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. United States, 356 U.S. 1, 5-6 (1958). The per se
rule is applicable in circumstances in which the conduct in question is
repeatedly found to be unreasonable under a rule of reason analysis. If the
conduct falls within a per se class, the conduct is deemed illegal, regardless
of its impact on competition.




n106  Tambone v. Memorial Hosp., 635 F. Supp. 508 (N.D. Ill. 1986), aff'd, 825
F.2d 1132 (7th Cir. 1987).




n107  745 F.2d 786 (3d. Cir. 1984).




n108  Weiss, 745 F.2d at 818.




n109  Id. at 812.




n110  Id. at 831.




n111  15 U.S.C. § 2 (1988).




n112  See Oksanen v. Page Memorial Hosp., 945 F.2d 696 (4th Cir. 1991), cert.
denied, 112 S. Ct. 973 (1992).




n113  Oksanen, 945 F.2d at 708.




n114  Id. at 709.




n115  Id.




n116  698 F. Supp. 679 (E.D. Mich. 1988).




n117  Hassan, 698 F. Supp. at 695-97.




n118  Id. at 683.




n119  Id. at 684.




n120  Id. at 690.




n121  Id. at 695-97.




n122  King & Allison, supra note 12, at 114.




n123  445 U.S. 97 (1980).




n124  Midcal, 445 U.S. at 105.




n125  486 U.S. 94, 99-100 (1988), rev'g 800 F.2d 1498 (9th Cir. 1986).




n126  Patrick, 486 U.S. at 99-100.




n127  42 U.S.C. §§ 11101-11152 (1988).




n128  Id. § 11111(a)(1).




n129  42 U.S.C. § 11101.1.




n130  42 U.S.C. § 11111, note 2.




n131  42 U.S.C. § 11112.




n132  James F. Blumstein & Frank A. Sloan, Antitrust and Hospital Peer Review,
51 LAW & CONTEMP. PROBS. 8, 39 (1988).




n133  Grady, supra note 48, at 205.




n134  29 U.S.C. §§ 621-634 (1988 & Supp. V 1993).




n135  42 U.S.C. §§ 12101-12117 (Supp. V 1993).




n136  49 U.S.C. § 1981 (1988).




n137  42 U.S.C. § 2000e (1988).




n138  Grady, supra note 48, at 205.




n139  26 C.F.R. § 31.3401(c)-1(b) (1993); Treas. Reg. § 31.3401(c)-1(b) (1993).
See Rev. Rul. 87-41, 1987-1 C.B. 296.




n140  Grady, supra note 48, at 206.




n141  Id.




n142  838 F.2d 1155 (11th Cir. 1988).




n143  Pardazi, 838 F.2d 1155.




n144  Id. at 1156.




n145  Id.




n146  Id.




n147  Mitchell v. Frank R. Howard Memorial Hosp., 853 F.2d 762 (9th Cir. 1988),
cert. denied, 489 U.S. 1013 (1989); Beverly v. Douglas, 591 F. Supp. 1321
(S.D.N.Y. 1984).




n148  Grady, supra note 48, at 207-09.




n149  42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b (1988 & Supp. IV 1992).




n150  No. 90-L-172 (Cir. Ct. of Culpepper County Va. filed Aug. 8, 1990).




n151  Virginia Radiology, No. 90-L-172.




n152  Frogge, supra note 9, at 73-78.




n153  Strama & Van Os, supra note 49, at 12-15.




n154  See generally John D. Blum, Hospital - Medical Staff Relations in the Face
of Shifting Institutional Business Strategies: A Legal Analysis, 14 U. PUGET
SOUND L. REV. 561 (1991).




n155  Id. at 571-73.




n156  Harrell v. Total Health Care, Inc., No. 39809, 1989 WL 153066 (Mo. App.,
Apr. 25, 1989), aff'd on other grounds, 781 S.W.2d 58 (Mo. 1989).




n157  Strama & Van Os, supra note 49, at 14-15.




n158  Id. at 13.




n159  Id.




n160  Id. at 14.




n161  See generally Blum, supra note 33, at 65; Strama & Van Os, supra note 49,
at 24.




n162  Strama & Van Os, supra note 49, at 23-26.




n163  465 N.E.2d. 554 (Ill. App. Ct. 1984).




n164  Knapp, 465 N.E.2d at 560.




n165  Id.




n166  Id.




n167  No. C-2104-80 (N.J. Sup. Ct. 1982), cert. denied, 475 A.2d 585 (1984).




n168  Id.




n169  Id.




n170  Eleanor D. Kinney & Marilyn M. Wilder, Medical Standard Setting in the
Current Malpractice Environment: Problems and Possibilities, 22 U.C. DAVIS L.
REV. 421, 442-50 (1989).




n171  Use of a software system must be appropriately adjusted to fit the needs
of the hospital.




n172  See generally Michael J. Baxter, Exclusive Contracting: The Original
Economic Credentialing, 26 J. HEALTH & HOSP. L. 97 (1993).




n173  Grady, supra note 48, at 194.




n174  See generally John D. Blum, Hospitals, New Medical Practice Guidelines,
CQI, and Potential Liability Outcomes, 36 ST. LOUIS U. L.J. 913 (1992).




n175  Id.




n176  Id.




n177  Michael D. Roth, Peer Review Pitfalls: The Data Bank and Beyond, 13
WHITTIER L. REV. 387 (1992).




n178  Blum, supra note 174, at 913.




n179  Id.




n180  No. 91-589 (Fla. Cir. Ct. filed June 22, 1992).




n181  Id.




n182  Id.




n183  Id.




n184  FLA. STAT. ANN. § 395.0191(5) (West 1993).




n185  MICHAEL M. BIEHL & CATHLEEN S. BIEHL, THE MEDICAL STAFF: LEGAL ISSUES 114
(1990).




n186  475 A.2d 533 (N.J. 1984).




n187  Belmar, 475 A.2d at 533.




n188  Id. at 538.




n189  Id. at 539.




n190  Id. at 540.




n191  See generally Hospital Corp. v. Romaguera, 511 So.2d 559 (Fla. Dist. Ct.
App. 1986); Bilek v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Med. Center, No. 91-973 (Fla.
Cir. Ct., Apr. 29, 1991); Lewisburg Community Hosp. v. Alfredson, 805 S.W.2d 756
(Tenn. 1991).




n192  Observing a physician's application from a quality standpoint, a staff
physician might note that the applicant has always had quality results when
using complicated equipment owned by the hospital. A person looking at the
application from an economic perspective would note that, with the applicant's
knowledge of the hospital's equipment, the hospital would not have to hire an
additional specialist or provide training for the new physician to learn how to
use the equipment.




n193  Blum, supra note 174, at 913.




n194  An example of the second prong of economic credentialing is that of
excessive ordering of tests, which clearly have an adverse economic impact on
the institution, and may have an impact on the quality of care rendered the
patient.


