                              411 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            February 5, 2016 Friday
                               Australian Edition

PUBLIC HEALTH NEEDS A JAB OF PRIVATE PRODUCTIVITY

BYLINE: Jeremy Sammut

SECTION: COMMENTARY; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 806  words


Taxpayers' bankrolling of doctors and nurses is a kind of middle-class welfare

Since the 2013 election, the -national conversation has been dominated by calls
to revive the mojo of the 1980s and undertake economic reform to repair
government budgets. Yet according to some analysts, South Australian Premier Jay
Weatherill's plan to raise the GST to fund public health and education services
is "doable".

The real question, however, is whether we should do this kind of so-called "tax
reform" at all.

Public hospitals and public schools are the two areas of the public sector that
have remained largely quarantined from the reform agenda of the past 30 years.
Opening other government utilities - such as electricity, ports and transport -
to competition and privatisation has improved performance in those crucial areas
of the economy. But social services such as hospitals and schools, which consume
huge amounts of government expenditure, continue to be sheltered from reform and
propped up by taxpayers.

Pouring billions more GST revenue into public hospitals would represent the
antithesis of economic reform, which is meant to be about generating higher
"outputs" for the same or even fewer "inputs".

Taxes should not be hiked to fund inefficient services in a sector that is ripe
for restructuring to improve outcomes. Anyone familiar with the health policy
debate should know current health funding is not being used efficiently.

Inefficiencies range from expensive hospital admissions that could have been
prevented by lower-cost community-based care, to over-servicing due to
unnecessary and sometimes unsafe surgical procedures. Moreover, if public
hospitals employed the more efficient management and workplace practices common
in private hospitals, elective waiting times could be reduced.

This is just the tip of the -efficiency problem in public hospitals. Clinical
staff are employed on favourable terms and conditions under centralised,
statewide sweetheart agreements negotiated by public sector unions. Salaries
account for two-thirds of hospital budgets.

According to the latest Productivity Commission report on government services,
national recurrent expenditure on public hospitals topped $44 billion in 2014,
up from $28bn in 2005. Over this period, labour costs grew by 56 per cent, and
non-labour costs by 54 per cent.

Public hospitals face rising demand due to the ageing and growing population,
rising rates of chronic illness, and new medical technologies that create more
things to do for more patients. But the crucial question is whether the system
is productive, and if the higher amounts being spent are producing a
proportionate increase in services.

The one answer we have to this question suggests not. The 2013 Queensland
Commission of Audit headed by Peter Costello found that in the previous five
years, funding for the state's public hospitals increased by 43 per cent but
"activity" - the number of -patients treated and operations performed -
increased by only 17 per cent.

No wonder the former federal treasurer disagrees with his predecessor Paul
Keating, who wants a smaller GST rise hypothecated into state coffers. Costello
has remained true to the bipartisan spirit of economic reform that prevailed in
Canberra during the period of the Hawke Labor government, and has spoken out
against the Turnbull government's apparent willingness to take a GST rate hike
to the 2016 federal election.

The flagged rise in the GST is difficult to reconcile with the Prime Minister's
statement that he wants to lead a government committed to economic reform.
Financial pressure is the one thing that is most likely to force the state
governments down the alternative path canvassed by the Harper competition
review, which is to extend and apply the reform principles of choice,
competition, and private provision to the public health sector.

Before they jump on the "tax more, spend more" bandwagon, all members of the
political class should also ask themselves how fair it is to make average voters
pay higher prices for essential goods and services to preserve the cosseted
positions of some of the highest paid professionals in the nation.

Average doctor salaries in public hospitals top $188,000 a year, and the average
nurse earns $91,000. Taxpayer-funded employment in this part of the public
service should be called out for what it really is - a form of middle-class
welfare. There is no reason doctors and nurses (and teachers for that matter)
should continue to be treated differently to how blue-collar electricity, ports
and transport workers were long ago treated to achieve genuine economic
reform.Jeremy Sammut is a research fellow at the Centre for Independent Studies,
and co-authored with David Gadiel the research report How the NSW Coalition
Should Govern Health: Strategies for Microeconomic Reform.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


