                              414 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                             March 27, 2009 Friday

After losing $466M, Maryland hospitals ask: What's next?

BYLINE: Danielle Ulman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 622  words


The strain of the economic crisis caused Maryland's hospitals to lose $466
million in the fourth quarter of 2008, a dramatic decrease from the $41 million
profit in the corresponding period in 2007.

According to a financial analysis completed by the Maryland Hospital
Association, 34 of the state's 58 hospitals lost money in the quarter.

The Washington County Health System got hit by the tanking stock market, said
James Hamill, president and CEO of the hospital.

"We've lost quite a bit of money," he said. "It's mostly driven by investment
income; we've been conservative, but we've still lost money. "

Losses statewide stemmed from increased interest rates on loans or lines of
credit, smaller returns on investments and higher costs for upgrading or
expanding programs and underwriting new technology. To help ease the burden of
higher expenses, many hospitals have implemented hiring freezes, reduced
administrative staff and curtailed spending on new technology upgrades, like
moving medical records into electronic form, said Nancy Fiedler, senior vice
president of communications for the hospital association.

"There is a lot of belt tightening, and if these numbers continue, it will
probably lead to cutting beds and patient care staff at the very time when we're
seeing our emergency room admissions grow," she said.

More doctors are seeking hospital employment or pay increases for services as
insurance reimbursements decline. Hospital payments to physicians in Maryland
last year reached $210 million, more than doubling the $103.9 million hospitals
paid in 2003.

Carmela Coyle, president and CEO of the hospital association, said two-thirds of
hospital costs are for staff salaries and benefits. Most hospitals have already
cut back on discretionary spending, she said, leaving little fat to trim.

"I think the concern here is that as the economic crisis continues, what's next?
I think hospitals are on the precipice of making more difficult decisions,"
Coyle said. "They have few choices other than personnel choices to fill those
gaps. "

Washington County's Hamill said his hospital is in the process of putting
together a budget for fiscal 2010, but it is waiting for the state's Health
Services Cost Review Commission to issue the new rates. Maryland is the only
state in the country with government-controlled rates for hospital services.

"I think the key is for us to get fair and adequate rate adjustments," he said.

The MHA said that anecdotally the financial picture for the state's hospitals
does not look better for the first quarter of 2009. That will make the
commission's rate decision "one of the most important in many, many years
because it will make or break the financial liability of hospitals in this very
difficult economic time," Coyle said.

The commission has only lowered fees once, according to Executive Director
Robert Murray, and he said current draft plans do not show a reduction. While
Murray said he sympathizes with the hospitals' position, the commission will
also take into account the 6.3 percent contraction in the economy in the fourth
quarter.

"Raising rates at the same pace as in years before would make health care that
much less affordable," he said.

In the first half of fiscal 2009, Murray said hospitals have had operating
profits "in excess of 5 percent" in the areas the commission regulates, like
fees for day charges, emergency room service, lab services and radiology
services, but not doctor's fees, where hospitals are taking a big hit.

"More and more doctors are looking to the hospitals to employ them, and that's
in part why they're generating losses on the physician side because they are not
charging as much as it costs them to secure those physicians' services," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

