                              408 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            November 22, 2015 Sunday

BUSINESS AWARDS

SECTION: ; Pg. D5

LENGTH: 564 words


HEALTH CARE

Atrium recognized as Top Performer

Atrium Medical Center announced recently that it has been recognized as a 2014
Top Performer on Key Quality Measures by The Joint Commission, the leading
ac-creditor of health care organizations in the United States.

Atrium Medical Center was recognized as part of The Joint Commission's 2015
annual report "America's Hospitals: Improving Quality and Safety." for attaining
and sustaining excellence in accountability measure performance for heart
attack, heart failure, pneumonia, surgical care, perinatal care and stroke.
Atrium Medical Center is one of only 1,043 hospitals out of more than 3,300
eligible hospitals in the United States to achieve the 2014 Top Performer
distinction.

The Top Performer program recognizes hospitals for improving performance on
evidence-based interventions that increase the chances of healthy outcomes for
patients with certain conditions. The performance measures included in the
recognition program including heart attack, heart failure, pneumonia, surgical
care, children's asthma, inpatient psychiatric services, stroke, venous
thromboembolism, perinatal care, immunization, tobacco treatment and substance
use.

GOVERNMENT

Fairborn's Annual Report wins award

The City of Fairborn Economic Development Department received a Bronze Award
from the International Economic Development Council (IEDC) in recognition for
its 2014 Annual Report.

Staffed by Economic Development Director Chris Wimsatt and Economic Development
Specialist Janel Ranly, this two-person office has been operating for just over
two years with 2014 being the first full year of focused economic development
activity for the city. The number of completed and ongoing projects along with
increased jobs and marketing, and new investment in the Fairborn area allow this
department to keep momentum flowing as they move forward with development
activity in the city.

Recipients of the IEDC's Excellence in Economic Development Awards demonstrate
to an experienced panel of judges that they are at the forefront of the economic
development profession. They are recognized as the world's best economic
development programs and partnerships, marketing materials, and the year's most
influential leaders. These awards honor organizations and individuals for their
efforts in creating positive change in urban, suburban, and rural communities.

COMMUNITY

Dayton Chamber gets 5-Star rating

The United States Chamber of Commerce has awarded the Dayton Area Chamber of
Commerce with 5-Star Accreditation for its sound policies, effective
organizational procedures, and positive impact on the community.

Accreditation is the only national program that recognizes chambers for their
effective organizational procedures and community involvement. In order to
receive Accreditation, a chamber must meet minimum standards in their operations
and programs, including areas of governance, government affairs, and technology.
This extensive self-review can take 6-9 months to complete.

Local chambers are rated Accredited, 3-Stars, 4-Stars, or 5-Stars. State
chambers are recognized as either Accredited State Chamber or Accredited State
Chamber with Distinction. The final determination is made by the Accrediting
Board, a committee of U.S. Chamber board members.

The Dayton Area Chamber of Commerce is the only accredited Chamber of Commerce
in the Dayton Region.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


