                              413 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             May 8, 2013 Wednesday

NEPA nonprofit hospitals provide region with $132M in community benefits

BYLINE: Michael Iorfino, The Citizens' Voice, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 448 words


May 08--Northeastern Pennsylvania's nonprofit hospitals and health systems
provided the region with more than $132 million in charitable community benefits
in 2011, a report released Tuesday said.

Meanwhile, all for-profit and nonprofit Northeastern Pennsylvania hospitals
contributed a combined $3 billion to the region's economy in 2011 through
employee salaries and business and household spending.

The report, compiled by the Hospital & Healthsystem Association of Pennsylvania,
defined Northeastern Pennsylvania as Bradford, Lackawanna, Luzerne, Monroe,
Pike, Sullivan, Susquehanna, Wayne and Wyoming counties.

Comparatively, the Northeast ranked No. 7 out of the eight regions in both
charitable community benefits and total economic impact of regional hospitals
and health systems.

In 2011, the former Community Medical Center in Scranton, before joining with
Geisinger Health System, provided the region with $13.4 million in charitable
community benefits, and contributed $287 million to the region's economy through
employee salaries and household and business spending, Geisinger Community
Medical Center spokeswoman Wendy Wilson said.

The hospital's charitable community benefits include charity care -- as the
hospital "treats people regardless of their ability to pay" -- Medicaid
shortfall and community health improvement services, such as blood pressure
screenings and educational seminars on proper nutrition, she said.

Also, the hospital loses between $2 million and $4 million a year to run its
trauma unit -- the only one in Lackawanna County -- as it costs them to have
doctors, surgeons and anesthesiologists available 24/7, she said.

Meanwhile, Geisinger Health System, which owns facilities across the state,
including Geisinger Wyoming Valley Medical Center and Geisinger South
Wilkes-Barre, contributed $5.7 billion in economic impact and provided $300
million in community benefits in 2011, she said.

Commonwealth Health, which has eight for-profit area hospitals -- including
Regional Hospital of Scranton, Moses Taylor Hospital and Wilkes-Barre General
Hospital -- did not provide a breakdown of its community impact in 2011.

However, the hospital system invested $71 million in improvements to facilities
and provided $37 million in charity and uncompensated care to the area's
low-income residents in 2012, spokesman James McGuire said in a statement.

He said the affiliated hospitals contributed more than $677 million of direct
spending into the region's economy in 2011.

miorfino@timesshamrock.com, @miorfinoTT

___ (c)2013 The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Citizens' Voice
(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at citizensvoice.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130508-YC-NEPA-nonprofit-hospitals
-provide-region-with-132M-in-community-benefits-0508-20130508

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YC


                       Copyright 2013 The Citizens' Voice


