                              415 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                           December 5, 2015 Saturday

Private hospitals to benefit from regulatory relief;
Beijing policy reform likely to encourage private investment in health care as
outpatients grow

BYLINE: Laura He

SECTION: BUSINESS; Business; Pg.2

LENGTH: 511 words


As China relaxed its bureaucratic procedures for hospitals applying for basic
medical social insurance, private hospitals are set to benefit from a projected
big increase in outpatients, analysts said.

A number of  local governments have recently slashed  the administrative
approval process for medical institutions applying for basic medical social
insurance (BMSI), including Shaanxi province and Lanzhou city. The moves came
after Beijing issued an order in mid-October to relax the bureaucratic
procedures on the BMSI scheme, thus allowing patients to claim government health
insurance for their visits to private hospitals.

In a research report, Fitch Ratings analysts said the move was one in a series
of supportive polices China has launched to boost the private hospital sector
and reduce pressure on the public health care system.

Public hospitals have been overwhelmed with demand for years, as patients are
less inclined to go to private hospitals, most of which are not  covered by
China's government medical insurance programme.

In contrast, outpatients at public hospitals only pay a small amount  for
prescription drugs.

In June, the State Council said it will encourage private investment in the
hospital sector by offering tax-favoured treatment, streamlining the approval
process for establishing a hospital, allowing private players access to
diversified funding sources, and cutting red tape to encourage the free flow of
talent among different medical agencies.

The latest relaxation of BMSI rules sets no deadline for implementation, but it
marks "a good start in enhancing private hospitals' competitiveness", Fitch
analysts said, adding it may lead to an increase in outpatients for private
clinics and hospitals.

It will also lure more private investment into the sector.

"Drug-makers are the main force in private-hospital investment, with economic
incentives to underpin the downstream market by centralising and optimising the
medicine supply chain, instead of expanding the hospital market by compromising
with high kickbacks to the latter amidst fierce drug market competition.

"On the other hand, as China undergoes changing dynamics at a slower economic
growth, some industry capital has quit the previous high-yield sectors such as
real estate and mining and crowded instead into the medical service industry,"
Fitch said.

But some analysts also highlighted the risks in the sector.

China's health care service industry is characterised by high investment, low
returns and a long cycle. Risks involved in private-hospital development include
various obstacles at the administration level, only faint profitability
visibility, low social recognition, and hence only a limited number of
outpatients, they said.

The number of outpatient visits to private hospitals accounted for only 11 per
cent of total visits in 2014, compared with 8 per cent in 2009, according to
statistics from China's National Health and Family Planning Commission.

laura.he@scmp.com


     Some industry capital has ... crowded  into the medical service
     industry





     Fitch Rating report



LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:                  Private hospitals handled 11 per cent of outpatient
visits in 2014.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


