                              37 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            March 26, 2009 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

HOSPITALS BOON TO A COMMUNITY'S ECONOMY, STUDY FINDS

BYLINE: The Capital Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. WEB

LENGTH: 285 words


Hospitals are good for a community's economic health, according to a study
released Thursday by the University of Wisconsin Extension and the Wisconsin
Hospital Association.

The report examining the state's 145 hospitals showed the facilities generate
$22 billion in economic activity while employing more than 100,000 people.

"Hospitals were among the top 10 employers in 44 of the 72 counties in Wisconsin
and among the top five employers in 20 counties," said Andrew Lewis, community
development specialist with the Center for Community and Economic Development at
the UW-Extension.

The study found that a strong health care network adds to a community's
attractiveness as a place to live, work and retire.

"As baby boomers age, more Wisconsin families will base their decision on where
to retire on the availability of quality health care," the study said.
"Wisconsin consistently is among the top-ranking states in health care quality."

Besides a 100,000 strong workforce, the study said hospitals indirectly are
responsible for another 90,000 jobs in Wisconsin through purchases of goods and
services, with the ripple effect of hospitals accounting for $22 billion in
business a year.

A hospital in a rural setting also acts as a magnet for other essential
services, said Matthew Kures of the UW-Extension.

"Rural hospitals provide an anchor for other health care jobs, such as
physicians and pharmacists, that, in the absence of the hospital, may not be
available," Kures said. "Communities we work with cite the inability to attract
and retain college graduates, but hospitals are able to provide employment for
these individuals and help stem the so-called 'brain drain.' "

The Capital Times - 3/26/2009 12:38 pm

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2009 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


