                              416 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                    December 20, 2003 Saturday CITY EDITION

PHALEN PROJECT LURES CLINIC
OUTPATIENT FACILITY TO OPEN BY 2005

BYLINE: KARL J. KARLSON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: ST. PAUL


Regions Hospital said Friday it will open a $10 million outpatient clinic by
2005 in a new East Side business center under a deal approved this week that is
expected to involve the creation of more than 100 new hospital jobs.

The St. Paul clinic is being hailed as the first development attracted to the
area solely because of the Phalen Boulevard that St. Paul is building as an
economic stimulus for the East Side.

"The clinic would not have happened where it is without Phalen Boulevard," said
Curt Milburn, executive director of the Phalen Initiative, which has worked for
more than a decade to get the road built. The segment between Payne Avenue and
Interstate 35E opened two weeks ago. It is the first of three segments.

Brock Nelson, chief executive officer of Regions, said the site was chosen
because it is centrally located; there is easy access via the interstate system;
and the new facility can be more user-friendly there.

"There will be a surface parking lot so patients can park and walk in, not have
to park in a ramp," Nelson said.

The clinic will occupy almost all of a 60,000-square-foot building on one of the
seven sites in the Westminster Junction Business Park. The business park is at
Phalen Boulevard and Cayuga Street, a few blocks from Regions and just east of
I-35E.

Moving outpatient services to the new facility will open space at the main
hospital campus for more patient beds and other services. However, a hospital
spokeswoman said it has not been decided which of the many outpatient services,
such as the Regions Senior Clinic, will be in the new facility.

The St. Paul Port Authority this week agreed to sell the 5-acre, $670,000 site
for $1 for the development. The deal includes several provisions. These include
a requirement that the hospital's expansion and new facility create at least 127
full-time positions and that the hospital make a good-faith effort that at least
70 percent of the jobs go to St. Paul residents.

An estimated 64 jobs will be at the new facility, many of them transferred from
the main hospital campus.

The hospital also stipulated that the jobs will pay $9.50 an hour or more, plus
benefits. The provisions meet the Port Authority's purpose of creating jobs and
economic growth in St. Paul, according to Tom Collins, a vice president of the
agency.

The clinic is another example of the continuing growth at Regions. The campus at
Jackson Street at University Avenue completed a $62 million, 140,000-square-foot
expansion in 2000.

The hospital started in 1877 as a public institution and for years was known as
Ancker Hospital, then St. Paul-Ramsey Medical Center. It became a private,
nonprofit facility in 1986, merged with HealthPartners in 1994 and changed its
name in 1997 to Regions Hospital.

Karl J. Karlson can be reached at kkarlson@pioneer press.com or 651-228-5260.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

New Regions outpatient clinic

                     Copyright 2003 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved


