                              424 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                            February 6, 2009 Friday

Making case for city

BYLINE: Editorial

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 254 words


Pittsfield officials were in Boston Wednesday to make the case for the city's
economic potential, and recession aside, there is a good case to be made. As
Deanna L. Ruffer, the community development director, pointed out, the Stanley
Business Park is an ideal spot for the kind of "shovel-ready" project to be part
of an economic stimulus plan. As MassDevelopment President Robert Culver said in
a speech, the expansion of broadband will enable nano-technology and other
online driven businesses to put down roots in desirable locations to live. While
in some ways isolated, Berkshire County is in a position to take advantage of
opportunities in Massachusetts and bordering states when they emerge, hopefully
sooner rather than later, in a better economy.

A tribute to BMC

It is a considerable tribute to Berkshire Medical Center, a modest-sized
community hospital, that it and the substantially larger Massachusetts General
in Boston are the only two hospitals in the state to be named a distinguished
hospital by the consumer health group HealthGrades. The group rated more than
5,000 hospitals across the state, honoring 270 that finished in the top 5
percent of hospitals across 26 procedures and diagnoses. BMC has built a strong
financial base, enabling it to purchase cutting-edge equipment and recruit top-
grade people in all departments. The high marks in areas from pulmonary and
critical care to treatment for stroke and gastrointestinal ailments should make
residents feel confident in the care they will receive.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


