                              418 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           October 13, 2010 Wednesday

PATRICK- MURRAY ADMINISTRATION CELEBRATES GROUNDBREAKING OF SPAULDING
REHABILITATION CENTER IN CHARLESTOWN

LENGTH: 909  words

DATELINE: Grille


Grille, Oct. 13 -- The State Of Massachusetts has issued following Press
Release:

As part of the Patrick-Murray Administration's historic efforts to promote job
growth and long-term economic recovery in Massachusetts, Governor Deval Patrick
today joined health care advocates and lawmakers for a groundbreaking ceremony
at the site of the new Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital in Charlestown.
Construction of the new facility reflects the Administration's commitment to job
growth and economic development, and also reflects a technological upgrade for
delivery of the hospital's specialty, occupational and physical therapy. The
Charlestown project will translate into new jobs and economic development
opportunities in the area.

"Spaulding is a valued resource to the Commonwealth, offering critical
rehabilitative services to the residents of Massachusetts and greater New
England," said Governor Deval Patrick. "This project ensures the future of this
vital institution and will provide over 300 construction jobs. Spaulding's
commitment to our environment by investing in the clean up of this site and the
project's LEED silver certification speak to their mission to not only
rehabilitate their patients, but the community they will call home."

"The new facility will serve individuals with a range of needs in a
state-of-the-art setting," said Health and Human Services Secretary Dr. JudyAnn
Bigby. "We are pleased with the commitment Spaulding has made to also address
chronic conditions like obesity in persons with disabilities."

The new hospital will be a state-of-the-art rehabilitation facility, and will
provide numerous therapeutic and operational benefits that are not delivered in
the existing facility. The new facility will include 120 private adult
rehabilitation beds and 12 private pediatric beds. It will also include
gymnasiums and therapy rooms, swimming pools, research space, multi-purpose
conference spaces, radiology, a large outpatient clinic, laboratories, a
pharmacy and water access for patient therapy. The project will be completed by
January 2013.

"The construction of Spaulding's new location is a testament to the quality of
the hospital's care," said Massachusetts Rehabilitation Commissioner Charles
Carr, "Spaulding's decreased re-admissions and reduced stays reflect how
effectively they treat patients."

"Spaulding's new facility is good news because it will improve people's physical
health with a new state-of-the-art facility and strengthen the city's economic
health with the creation of much needed construction jobs. I'm delighted that
we've broken ground on several new health care facilities in the last couple of
weeks because we are so fortunate to have these institutions in our city. They
provide top notch care to our residents and help move our economy forward.
Spaulding's new facility will greatly improve this section of the Charlestown
Navy Yard by turning a brownfield into a greenfield and providing additional
open space including new Harborwalk connections," said Mayor Thomas M. Menino.

"For 40 years, thousands of patients and families from our region and all over
the world have come to Spaulding to create their own remarkable recoveries
guided by our dedicated caregivers. As we stand today as stewards of this rich
legacy of care, SRH is positioned to enter a new phase in its journey with a New
Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital," said David E. Storto, President, Spaulding
Rehabilitation Hospital. "Growing in national prominence to now our #4 ranking
in US News & World Reports " Best Hospitals" and serving as a center of
research, Spaulding is poised to reach unprecedented heights and create new
avenues of recovery while increasing our efficiency in healthcare delivery."

"Spaulding Rehab has provided high-quality, innovative care to our community for
40 years and made a difference in the lives of thousands of patients and their
families. The groundbreaking of this new, state-of-the-art facility and
conference center marks a great day for Spaulding and their continued commitment
to the neighborhood of Charlestown," said Senator Sal DiDomenico.

"It has been a difficult route, legislative and otherwise, to arrive at-but we
are here and Spaulding now has a building with employees and professionals that
will provide 21st century rehabilitative care to our community," said
Representative Eugene L O'Flaherty.

The construction of a new facility for Spaulding reflects the Administration's
jobs growth strategy, which focuses on investing in education, innovation,
infrastructure, promoting strong regions and supporting small business growth.
Massachusetts continues to lead the nation in recovery. Massachusetts has added
more jobs in the first eight months of 2010 than during any entire year since
2000, growing nearly 65,000 new jobs since December 2009. In its 2010 edition of
America's Top States for Business, CNBC named Massachusetts in the top five
nationally for business competitiveness. And Massachusetts has an unparalleled
entrepreneurial spirit, which is why for the second year in a row, Suffolk
University's Beacon Hill Institute ranked Massachusetts at the top in its annual
Competitiveness Report.

For more information please contact info@plusmediasolutions.co Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


