                              417 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 5, 1988

GP budgets 'may harm hospitals'

BYLINE: By DAVID BRINDLE, Social Services Correspondent

LENGTH: 546 words


Scope for improving the efficiency of hospitals through competition may be
limited, the Government is warned today by leading health researchers.

More likely is that if family doctors were given their own budgets for the care
of their patients, they may decide not to refer them to hospital at all, the
researchers say in proposals which support the running of experiments with
general practitioners as budget-holders.


The idea of giving budgets to GPs, which has emerged in the Government's review
of the health service, is based on the theory that they would send their
pateints to the more efficient hospitals. Payment for treatment would then
follow, thereby forcing the less efficient hospitals to improve.

Powys health authority in Wales is already bidding to run the first experiment
along these lines, under which four or five GP group practices would be given
notional budgets to buy all the care for their patients except emergency
treatment.

But this exception is one of the reason for the doubts expressed today by the
researchers from York and London.

They also say that many patients may be willing to go only to their local
hospital, while those who are willing to travel may be prepared to do so only to
beat long waiting lists, and not to get cheaper or better-quality care.

So although inter-hospital competition has been the focus of attention until
now,the researchers say that more importance should be henmceforth attached to
the potential for GPs to choose alternatives to acute hospital treatment for
their patients.

'In an internal market, where the GP has a notional budget for the patient and
acts as his guardian,e ach group practice could decide to increase
community-based care, and possibly demand community hospitals. Where this would
differ from a centrally-planned initiative is that the pattern could vary across
the UK.'

A third possible effect of GPs having budgets would be to iron out differences
between health districts in expenditure terms.

The researchers say that GPs who referred more patients to hospital than the
average, and consequently spent more, would be exposed by the new financial
discipline.

But in encouraging the Government to go ahead with limited experiments in which
GP budget-holders would plan their patients' use of hospital and community
services, the researchers say there could be measurable benefits of prolonged
patient life or improved quality of life.

However, they acknowledge that the results could have costs, saying: 'It is
unclear that there is consensus for accepting the unpleasant aspects of
effective competition: uncertainty, restricion of choice, losses of jobs and
hospital closures'.

The proposals have been drawn up by Professor Alan Maynard, director of the
Centre for Health Economics at York University; Professor Walter Holland,
chairman of the community health division of the United Medical and Dental
Schools of Guy's and St Thomas's hospitals; and Mr Gwyn Bevan and Mr Nicholas
Mays, respectively senior lecturer in health economics and lecturer in medical
sociology in the community health division.

Reforming UK Health Care to Improve Health; Centre for Health Economics, York
University, Heslington, York YO1 5DD; Pounds 3

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 Guardian Newspapers Limited


