                              421 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

Bangkok Hospital Dental focuses on CRM

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 320 words


Hospital director Valailuck Kiatthanakorn recently said the number of overall
patients in the first six months of the year had dropped by 6 per cent from the
same period last year, during which it had 5,300 patients per month on average.

The decline in patient numbers has occurred not only at Bangkok Hospital Dental
Centre but also at other similar-sized dental centres, because people are more
careful about their spending in the current economic climate, she said.

As part of its CRM, the hospital sent direct mails to its existing clients
during the first half of the year, as well as to the client base of Bangkok
Hospital Medical Centre (BMDC), to inform them of its dental services and
promotional packages.

Bangkok Hospital Dental Centre is part of the BMDC network.

As a result, Bangkok Hospital Dental Centre's revenue in the period increased by
2 per cent from a year earlier, despite the fall in patient numbers.

"The dental centre's revenue last year grew by 15 per cent from 2007. Despite a
growth rate of 2 per cent in the first half of 2009, we are quite satisfied with
the figure. In general, the centre's revenue increases at twice the rate of the
country's gross domestic product. So, I think our performance was good because
we were able to grow amid a negative GDP growth rate," she said.

Thanks to the centre's efforts, its revenue per bill per patient in the first
half rose to more than Bt2,000. The centre has discovered that its clients, who
are mostly high-income people, have more time to come to the dental centre than
in the normal economic situation, she added.

Apart from existing patients, Valailuck said Bangkok Hospital Dental Centre had
also tried to approach new customers, particularly foreigners, who are BMDC
patients.

It has added oral-cavity checking to BMDC's general health check-ups.

It has already seen an increase in the number of foreign patients, particularly
from the Middle East.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


