                              420 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Indian Banking News

                    September 24, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia Announces Appointments to Economic Advisory
Council

LENGTH: 802  words


Sept. 24 -- Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia issued the following news
release:

The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia today announced the appointments of
four executives to the Bank's Economic Advisory Council (EAC): Madeline Bell,
president and COO, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP); Varsovia
Fernandez, president and CEO, Greater Philadelphia Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
(GPHCC); Maria Rodale, chairman and CEO, Rodale Inc.; and Lynn M. Utter,
president and COO, Knoll Office, a unit of Knoll, Inc. Each will serve
three-year terms on the EAC.

The EAC advises Philadelphia Fed officials on regional business conditions and
economic issues that have an impact on the marketplace. The council includes
representatives from diverse industries as well as nonprofits and organized
labor in the Third Federal Reserve District, which includes eastern
Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey, and Delaware.

Madeline Bell began her career at CHOP, the nation's first hospital exclusively
for children, and after a variety of management and executive promotions, she
was named president and COO in 2007.

Bell serves as a board member for the University City District, the Schuylkill
River Development Corporation, the Delaware Valley Healthcare Council, the
Children's Hospital Association, and the Villanova University College of Nursing
advisory board. She has an M.S. and a master's degree in philosophy, both from
the University of Pennsylvania, and a B.S. in nursing from Villanova University.

Varsovia Fernandez is president and CEO of the GPHCC, a not-for-profit
organization that promotes the advancement and economic growth of Hispanic
businesses and professionals in the Greater Philadelphia region. Previously,
Fernandez worked with Congreso de Latinos Unidos as vice president of external
affairs from 2003 to 2006, and, before that, she held several senior corporate
positions in a variety of industries.

Fernandez serves on various boards and commissions, including Comcast's National
Joint Diversity Advisory Council, the Pennsylvania Early Learning Investment
Commission, the Philadelphia Youth Network Council for College and Career
Success, and the Governor's Advisory Council on Privatization and Innovation.
She is also a member of the board of the Community College of Philadelphia
Foundation. Fernandez has a B.S. in business management from Rosemont College.

Maria Rodale is the chairman and CEO of Rodale Inc., publisher of health and
wellness lifestyle books, magazines, websites, and the e-commerce site Rodale's
(Rodales.com). Rodale joined the family business in 1987, initially working in
circulation and direct marketing. In 1998, she became the director of strategy,
and in 2007, she was elected chairman.

Rodale is the author of several books, including Organic Manifesto: How Organic
Farming Can Heal Our Planet, Feed the World, and Keep Us Safe. She is cochair of
the Rodale Institute board and a member of the board of Bette Midler's New York
Restoration Project. She has a B.A. in communications and art from Muhlenberg
College.

Lynn M. Utter is president and COO of Knoll Office, a unit of Knoll, Inc., a
global firm that designs and manufactures office and home furnishings. She has
been president and COO of Knoll Office since 2012. Previously, Utter was
president and COO of Knoll North America from 2008 to 2012. From 2003 to 2008,
Utter was the chief strategy officer at Coors Brewing Company, a business unit
of Molson Coors Brewing Company. She was also group vice president of operations
and held various operational titles during her tenure with Coors, which began in
1997. Before that, Utter was the vice president of sales at the Frito-Lay
Company.

Utter is a director of WESCO Distribution, Inc. and WESCO International, Inc.
She is also a member of the Internal Audit Committee at the University of Texas.
Utter has an M.B.A. from Stanford University and a B.B.A. from the University of
Texas at Austin.

The four new EAC appointees are replacing retiring members Kevin Flemming,
president of Integrity Personnel and CEO of Integrity Business Services, LLC;
Teresa Bryce Bazemore, president of Radian Guaranty, Inc.; Cheryl Feldman,
executive director of District 1199C Training & Upgrading Fund; and Edward
Graham, chairman, president, and CEO of South Jersey Industries, who was
appointed to the Bank's board of directors in January 2014.

The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia helps formulate and implement monetary
policy, supervises banks and bank and savings and loan holding companies, and
provides financial services to depository institutions and the federal
government. It is one of the 12 regional Reserve Banks that, together with the
Board of Governors in Washington, D.C., make up the Federal Reserve System.

Source: Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


