                              435 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                           October 26, 2000, Thursday

QUEENS HOSPITAL LAND PLAN HIT

BYLINE: BY CELESTE KATZ DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SUBURBAN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 513 words

The city plan for long-term leasing or sale of property that will be left over
after the redevelopment of Queens Hospital Center may be woefully shortsighted,
the local community board charges.

But the city Economic Development Corp. says such protests are premature.

Members of Community Board 8 say the development corporation should slow the
process and avoid relinquishing its hold on land surrounding the new
$147-million hospital center that the city might need later.

Some board members and neighbors of the hospital met with Borough President
Claire Shulman last week.

"They're just concerned that once the city engages in a commitment of that sort,
they're sort of locked into something that may not be as appropriate then as it
is now," said Paola Micheli, director of health and senior services for Shulman.

"What Claire basically said to them was there will be clauses and ways of
getting around that legally, that can prevent having dinosaurs sitting on a
property that we don't need."

Shulman also is talking about medical-related uses for the excess property,
Micheli said, adding, "That has been the focus of this all along. We're not
talking about selling the property off to Home Depot."

The three sites up for redevelopment include the hospital site, the former
Triboro Hospital for Tuberculosis and the parking area between the two
locations.

Possible uses, Economic Development Corp. President Michael Carey said, include
health- or child-care centers, biomedical research facilities and staff housing.

Bernie Diamond, treasurer of Community Board 8 and one of the leaders in its
fight against long-term leases, said, "We're not opposed to those concepts, but
we don't think it should go into private hands for someone's profit."

Diamond and Seymour Schwartz, a member of Board 8 and co-chairman of its
hospital land use committee, testified against the long-term plans at an Oct. 12
public meeting of the city Health and Hospitals Corp.

"In this age of rapidly increasing biomedical changes," Schwartz testified, the
need for new health-care spaces "cannot be predicted even 10 years ahead, let
alone 99 years."

Yesterday, Health and Hospitals Corp. deferred comment on the issue to the
Economic Development Corp.

The community board, which wants more input in the proposal process and final
outcome of the redevelopment, also has passed a resolution urging the city to
hang onto the public property.

Neighboring Community Board 7 supports the resolution.

Diamond said residents fear that if private developers take over, important
services will cost the local elderly population more than they can afford.

But Economic Development Corp. spokesman Bruce Brodoff said proposals aren't due
back until Oct. 31, and he called the protests premature.

"We're ecstatic that we're getting a state-of-the-art hospital here," said Board
8 Chairman Alvin Warshaviak, crediting Shulman with helping drive the
construction.

"But [that] doesn't mean that they can have carte blanche to do whatever they
want with the remaining property."

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEIL SCHNEIDER HASTY PLANNING?   Members of Community Board 8 say the
city Economic Development Corp. is acting too hastily regarding plans for land
that will be left over after redevelopment of Queens Hospital Center. Board
nembers and neighbors of the hospital met with Borough President Claire Shulman
last week about it.

                        Copyright 2000 Daily News, L.P.


