                              430 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                            December 12, 2008 Friday

Samitivej to cut room rates

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 284 words


Samitivej's Sukhumvit branch plans to cut hospital room rates by 30 per cent
during the first half of next year to attract clients amid the global economic
slowdown, and to maintain business growth.

Hospital director Somsiri Sakolsatayadorn said yesterday that Samitivej had to
prepare itself to cope with the tough conditions in 2009 as the global financial
crisis had hit the economies of several countries.

"Samitivej next year will celebrate its 30th anniversary. So we decided to cut
room prices by 30 per cent from the average room rate of Bt4,000," she said.

Samitivej has not seen a decline in the number of patients in the second half of
this year despite the global recession. But that could be because most of the
hospital's patients were expatriates and local people, unlike other hospitals,
which aim to attract both expatriates and fly-in clients, she added.

Most of Samitivej's foreign patients are Japanese, American, English and French.
Foreigners account for 38 per cent of total patients, increasing from 35 per
cent last year.

"Although there are no signs of decline in patients this year, we have launched
measures to cope with the situation next year. We foresee a decline in the
number of patients, both foreigners and local people, mainly due to the economic
slowdown," she said.

Somsiri said Samitivej this year announced for the first time that it would not
increase its medical services fee because it wanted to send the message that it
was not a hospital where common people could not come for medical services. The
hospital's revenue in the first 11 months of this year grew 12.8 per cent from
last year.

Somsiri expects total revenue to increase roughly 12 per cent.

Nalin Viboonchart

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


