                              434 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Images (India)

                              June 2, 2014 Monday

Health sector achievements of the government unprecedented: NC

LENGTH: 568 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, June 2 -- Ruling National Conference (NC) claimed that the Omar
Abdullah led government has achieved historical success in developing core
health infrastructure in the state during the last five and a half years.

In a statement issued here, a party spokesman said that health and education
sectors have received historic impetus in the last five years.

"Omar Abdullah led government established 200 health institutions of various
categories throughout the state whereas 15 major hospital projects were
completed and commissioned which includes the super-specialty hospital at Jammu,
the 200-bed paedriatric unit at SMGS, the 200-bed OPD additional block at Lal
Ded Hospital, Srinagar besides various new District and Sub-District Hospitals,"
the statement quoting the spokesman said.

He said that District Hospitals were upgraded with modern, state-of-the-art
facilities and infrastructure in Langate, Khansahib, Pulwama, Yaripora,
Zainapora, Pampore, Kokernag, Tral, Beerwah, Kishtwar, Rajouri and Baramulla
besides various ancillary hospitals are being operationalized and upgraded in
various areas.

The spokesman said that 11 mobile medical units were deployed in 11 districts in
the State and 15 new modern, state-of-the-art x-ray plants, numerous new
anesthesia machines and 31 dental units were provided to various government
hospitals in the last five years as part of the State Government's focus on
revamping our health sector.

Stating that 48 Primary Health Centers were completed and 94 sub-centeres were
established in the last five years, the spokesman said that the State Government
took a step towards eradicating corruption by established the J&K Medical
Supplies Corporation.

"Around seven new, latest CT Scan machines were installed at various hospitals
throughout the State to make trauma care and response swift and effective," he
claimed.

The spokesman said that SMHS Hospital, SKIMS Soura, JLNM Hospital Rainawari and
Bone & Joint Hospital in Srinagar were upgraded with unprecedented
infrastructure addition and creation- both in terms of machinery as well as new
buildings.

He said the focus on the Health Sector had resulted in the creation of 2279
posts of specialists, 4124 posts of super-specialists, 1480 posts of specialist
doctors, 1210 staff nurses and about 1500 allied medical staff - appointments
that were made to both make the health-care sector more streamlined and provided
scope for professional growth in the State.

The spokesman claimed that while PDP relies on propagating lies and myths, NC
believes in development and growth.

"Despite economic slowdown in the country due to high inflationary conditions
and a general global economic slowdown, the State registered significant
economic landmarks of growth in the last five and half years. The Gross State
Domestic Product (GSDP) in J&K has continuously increased over the last five and
a half years. GSDP at constant prices has increased from Rs. 34664 crores in
2008-09 to Rs. 42878 crore (QE) in 2012-13 representing a growth of 23.70%.
Similarly the Per-capita income of the State has increased from Rs. 24641 in
2008-09 to Rs. 30222 (QE) in 2012-13 thereby registering an increase of 17.86%,"
the spokesman added.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Kashmir Images. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Kashmir Images
                              All Rights Reserved


