                              428 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                            Philadelphia Daily News

                             June 27, 2006 Tuesday

No 'sidelines' in Medicaid debate

BYLINE: ANDREW B. WIGGLESWORTH

SECTION: EDITORIAL OPINION; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 672 words


NOT A DAY goes by without a news story about people and businesses struggling to
maintain affordable, stable health coverage for themselves, their families or
their employees.

Ironically, while this daily struggle continues, the commonwealth is debating
big cuts to the Medicaid program. These cuts will make this struggle harder,
cost jobs and give money back to the federal government - while shifting the
cost of $128 million in services for some of our area's most vulnerable citizens
onto hospitals, businesses, employees and others in the region.

For next year's state budget beginning on July 1, the governor has proposed to
eliminate or cut in half funding for three major programs that help hospitals
meet the needs of Medicaid beneficiaries and the uninsured.

The proposed budget would cut $171 million in payments to hospitals all across
the state, with about 75 percent, $128 million, cut from hospitals in our
region. It gets worse for Philadelphia, the largest city in the United States
without a public hospital. Cuts like this will hurt the ability of many
hospitals to provide care for all of us, not just Medicaid beneficiaries or the
uninsured.

Let's be clear about what Medicaid is. It pays for health care provided to our
most vulnerable citizens: children, the elderly, the disabled and the
chronically ill.

But Medicaid is not just for the desperately poor. It is also there for
middle-class people who can no longer afford to pay for nursing-home care for
their elderly parents. It is there for the teenage child tragically injured in
an auto accident and whose parents' health insurance will no longer pay for
catastrophic coverage.

There are nearly 600,000 children and adults in the Delaware Valley who rely on
Medicaid. That's more people than the total population of Pittsburgh, Harrisburg
and Allentown. There is a very good chance that someone you know, even someone
you love, is or will be covered by Medicaid.

What's more, the proposals don't make economic sense for the state. They
especially don't make sense for our region. The Rendell administration has every
reason to be proud of its economic development record, but these cuts undermine
our effort to promote economic growth and jobs in several key ways.

First, the commonwealth would lose more in federal funds than it saves in state
funds. By cutting $78 million in state Medicaid funds, we lose more than $90
million in matching federal money. Do we really want to give the federal
government a break, so that all of us locally can pay more?

SECOND, MEDICAID payments generate a lot of local economic activity and jobs.

If enacted, these cuts will result in an overall economic hit to our regional
economy of more than $250 million and cost jobs. Every dollar spent in a
hospital turns over two to three times in the local economy. Every hospital job
created or lost results in another job created or lost elsewhere in the
community.

Third, many believe our region's future depends on growing the "life sciences"
sector of our economy. The Medicaid cuts are like a dagger pointed at key assets
that support the whole sector - our hospitals, particularly our academic medical
centers.

So, does it make sense to cut the Medicaid funding that supports a critical
segment of our economy, provides health care for some of our most vulnerable
citizens - and brings millions of federal tax dollars back home to Philadelphia?

We don't think so. If you agree, please go to www.patientaccess.

org or call the governor and state lawmakers to let them know that you oppose
these counterproductive Medicaid cuts to hospitals.

Let them know that arbitrary cuts to Medicaid that merely shift costs to others
are not the way to address the state's budget issues. Tell them that one of the
few things we all have in common is that all of us will depend on the
health-care system at various times in our lives.

In short, there are no "sidelines" in this debate. We all have a stake in its
outcome.

Andrew B. Wigglesworth is president of the Delaware Valley Healthcare Council.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2006 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


