                              433 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Union Daily Times, S.C.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 6, 2014 Friday

Tribble has experience in government, economic development

BYLINE: Charles Warner, The Union Daily Times, S.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 803 words


June 06--UNION COUNTY -- His experience in local and state government including
his role in successful efforts to promote economic development and address
related issues are what David Tribble Jr. brings to his bid for the SC House
District 42 seat.

The Democratic and Republican parties will hold their primaries on Tuesday, June
10. Voters must choose which primary they vote in before casting their ballots.

In the Republican primary the only local race is for the GOP nomination for the
SC House District 42 seat.

Former Clinton mayor David Tribble Jr. and Buffalo farmer and businessman Mark
Cathcart are running for the GOP nomination. The winner of the primary will face
incumbent SC House 42 Rep. Mike Anthony, a Democrat, in the November general
election.

In addition to serving six years as mayor of Clinton, Tribble also served six
years on Laurens County Council. He also served on the Laurens Hospital
Association Board, and represented S.C. House District 15 in the state
legislature before it was redistricted out of the area.

Among the issues Tribble dealt with during his years in office was economic
development.

"We located during my time as mayor of Clinton five new industries," Tribble
said. "Avery Dennison was in the print packaging business; the second-largest as
Mueller Valve which made valves for municipal systems; the third was McCrory
Stores which located their distribution center in Clinton; the Morris Bean
Company, an aluminum foundry that made inpellers for diesel engines; and Gold
Bond Products, a manufacturing facility which made products for Lowe's and Home
Depot."

Tribble pointed out that these industries came to the City of Clinton because it
had the means to facilitate their location. He said the city could offer them
sewer which he described as "the prime mover" in industrial development. Another
factor in the decision of those companies to locate there was the ability of the
city to offer them not only property for their initial facility, but enough
space for future expansion and their businesses grew.

While most would not expect it, Tribble said his years as a member of Laurens
Hospital Board Association and the decisions taken during that time also helped
promote economic development.

"We had two hospitals -- Bailey Memorial in Clinton and Laurens Memorial in
Laurens -- and we decided to create a new hospital between the two towns to
achieve economies of scale and we set off an economic explosion," Tribble said.

Tribble the new hospital, named Laurens County Hospital System, became the
center of a "dynamic, growing medical community" that soon included an
orthodontic services and dental services offices. In addition to the medical and
related entities that located there, Tribble said the Laurens County Chamber of
Commerce, the Vocational Rehabilitation Center, and the Social Security offices
also moved there.

His involvement in economic development gave Tribble an understanding of what is
involved, an understanding he said he will bring to the SC House District 42
seat.

"Economic development is a team sport," Tribble said. "Everybody needs to know
the roles they are to play. I've played multiple roles within that team sport.
I've seen how a community can come together to make that succeed.

"The state representation plays a leadership role similar to what I played in
the past," he said. "If the final piece to putting the deal together is effected
by DHEC, if it involves getting roads widened and turn lanes added, if there is
money in Columbia for the deal closing, this is where the representation comes
in."

Tribble added that such representation has to be experience and professional in
nature and with a strong understanding of the economic development process, not
only at the local level but at the state level.

"It is not uncommon for it to start in the (State) Department of Commerce,"
Tribble said. "That is why it is so important to have professional
representation."

Another issue that Tribble said will be the focus of his attention if elected is
unfunded mandates. He said he is opposed to unfunded mandates that can effect
local government, local school districts, and local health care systems and will
be on the lookout for them in Columbia.

Tribble said that during his previous term in the state legislature he worked to
maintain a close relationship with the local governments, school district,
health care system, and other local institutions in his district. He said that
before he would vote on an issue affecting them he would request to meet with
those officials to discuss any and all proposed legislation and he will do that
again if elected to the SC House District 42 seat.

___ (c)2014 The Union Daily Times (Union, S.C.) Visit The Union Daily Times
(Union, S.C.) at uniondailytimes.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140606-UH-Tribble-has-experience-in-government-economic
-development-0606-20140606

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UH


                                 Copyright 2014


