                              431 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       October 5, 2012 Friday 6:30 AM EST

The Center for Studying Health System Change: Regional Health Care Market
Studies Identify Emerging California Trends

LENGTH: 717  words


New Delhi, Oct. 5 -- Increased pressure on hospitals to contain costs, growing
concerns about physician shortages and strained safety nets are among the trends
identified in new market studies of the Sacramento and Riverside/San Bernardino
regions conducted by the Center for Studying Health System Change (HSC).



Funded by the California HealthCare Foundation (CHCF) and based on interviews
with local health care leaders in 2011-12, the regional market studies assess
how the organization, financing and delivery of health care are changing across
the state. A previous round of California site studies funded by CHCF was
conducted by HSC researchers in 2008.

Sacramento: Health Providers Collaborate and Weather Economic Downturn

While hospitals and physicians in the Sacramento region weathered the economic
downturn fairly well, a number of market trends have posed challenges for the
area. Key findings of the market report include:

* Increased pressures on hospitals to contain costs. Hospitals reported
deteriorating payer mixes because of declining commercial coverage; an uptick in
public coverage; smaller commercial payment rate increases; and rising rates of
uninsured patients. Despite these pressures, most hospitals continued to have
strong financial performances.

* Increased use of narrow-network arrangements. The market is developing new
health plan-provider collaborations, including accountable care organizations
and narrow networks of providers that accept lower payment rates in exchange for
exclusivity.

* Growing concerns about an inadequate supply of physicians-especially primary
care physicians. In the words of one respondent, the coverage expansions under
health reform will result in a "tsunami of unmet need" among both privately and
publicly insured people.

* Increased dominance of Kaiser. Kaiser is viewed as an even more formidable
competitor now, especially given the perception of Kaiser Permanente Health Plan
as a lower-cost option

* Increased pressure on outpatient capacity at safety net providers. With the
economic downturn driving up the proportion of uninsured people, the fragmented
safety net's outpatient capacity is insufficient to keep pace with demand, in
spite of considerable growth in community health centers.

The Sacramento report is available at
http://www.chcf.org/publications/2012/09/regional-market-sacramento.

Riverside/San Bernardino: Vast Region, Market Fragmentation Add to Access Woes

The vast Riverside/San Bernardino region is recovering slowly from the economic
downturn, and access to care continues to be a challenge. Key findings of the
market report include:

* Improved overall hospital financial performance. Many hospitals maintain
bargaining clout on payment rates because health plans must ensure access in
each of the region's many submarkets, some of which are underserved. This has
helped maintain and even improve financial performance at the same time that
hospitals have struggled with a declining payer mix as people lost private
health coverage.

* Increased presence of Kaiser. Kaiser Permanente's presence has expanded, with
other providers-both hospitals and physicians-viewing the integrated delivery
system as their biggest competitive threat.

* Growing concerns about physician supply. The per capita physician supply in
the region is low compared with other California markets, and some observers
reported that demand for physicians continues to outpace supply.

* Growing efforts by hospitals to align with physicians. Physicians remain
largely independent in solo or small practices, although some are joining larger
physician-owned organizations. Hospitals are seeking to align more closely with
physicians-both to gain patient referrals and inpatient admissions and to
prepare for new payment arrangements under national health reform.

* Increased pressures on safety nets. County-run safety net organizations face
capacity and financial pressures to care for growing numbers of Medi-Cal and
uninsured patients. Both counties are trying to work more with federally
qualified health centers (FQHCs) and other private community clinics and health
centers, especially as they prepare for reform.

The San Bernardino/Riverside report is available at
http://www.chcf.org/publications/2012/09/regional-market-riverside-san-bernardin
o.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


