                              432 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                 Agencia de Informacao de Mocambique (English)

                              July 11, 2010 Sunday

Maputo Provincial Hospital Ready Next Year

LENGTH: 273  words

DATELINE: Maputo


Work on building the Maputo Provincial Hospital, in the southern Mozambican city
of Matola, is well advanced, and should be concluded in 2011.

Health Minister, Ivo Garrido, speaking to reporters in Matola on Saturday said
that the original deadline for completing the hospital was April 2011. He
admitted that the construction was running behind schedule, but was confident
that the hospital would be completed in 2011.

Matola is the only one of the provincial capitals that does not already possess
a provincial hospital. The result is increased pressure on hospitals in Maputo
city, notably the Maputo Central Hospital and the Jose Macamo Hospital.

The Maputo Provincial Directorate of Health is now working to recruit staff for
the new hospital. According to Health Director Cremilde Anli, public tenders
have been launched to recruit 250 ancillary staff. Doctors and nurses, however,
will be allocated to the hospital by the Ministry of Health.

When complete, the hospital will have 400 beds, three operating theatres, a
laboratory, and a morgue. It will offer the full range of medical services to
patients.

The hospital has a budget of 9.5 million US dollars - seven million for
construction, and 2.5 million for acquiring and assembling equipment.

The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) has financed the
hospital with a loan of four million dollars, the OPEC fund has provided five
million dollars, and the Mozambique state itself is providing 500,000 dollars.

Anli said the new hospital will relieve the pressure on the Maputo City
hospitals and will offer better care to the 1.2 million people living in Maputo
province.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


