                              429 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                           January 9, 2013 Wednesday

Expert highlights health care ills

BYLINE: SANJAY MANDAL

LENGTH: 461  words


The cardiothoracic department of Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital
has a surgeon but no operation can be performed because of the absence of an
anaesthetist.

Basanti Rural Hospital and Gosaba Rural Hospital in South 24-Parganas cannot
perform any ultrasound scan or an X-ray as one has equipment but no technician
and the other the opposite.

The mismatch between human resources and equipment has crippled the state-run
health care in Bengal, a study by an expert panel has revealed.

The panel, set up by the Mamata Banerjee government last April to suggest a
health policy, has recommended a rational transfer regime to end the disparity.

"We have detected several instances of such mismatch at hospitals across the
state. If a proper transfer policy is followed, services at government hospitals
will improve by at least 20-30 per cent," panel chairman Subrata Maitra, a
critical care expert, said while delivering a lecture at the second workshop on
economic growth in Bengal at the Indian Statistical Institute on Tuesday.

"There should be the right person at the right place," Maitra pointed out.

The survey revealed that Amta Rural Hospital in Howrah district has no
anaesthetist. As a result, no gynaecological procedure, the most common of all
surgical procedures at a rural hospital, can be performed. The operating theatre
at the rural hospital in Karimpur, Nadia, has been lying unused in the absence
of an anaesthetist.

"It has been observed that the anaesthetists are stationed at hospitals where
there are no surgeons. So in both cases, the surgeons and anaesthetists are not
utilised at all," said Maitra.

Since surgeons don't get to perform operations at most rural hospitals, they end
up performing the role of a general practitioner - examining patients at the
outpatients' department. A waste of critical resource when those in need of an
urgent surgery or Caesarian section have to travel long distances to district
hospitals or overcrowded medical colleges.

"There is a problem. We are trying to solve this," said Satish Tiwari, the
principal secretary in the health and family welfare department.

A separate study - Health Policy in West Bengal: At The Crossroads, conducted by
a team led by Arijita Dutta of the economics department of Calcutta University -
also indicated under-utilisation of resources at state-run health care units.
The study blamed faulty planning for under-utilisation of 25.52 per cent of
doctors and 25.82 per cent of Group D staff at government hospitals.

Dutta, who spoke at Monday's session of the workshop, highlighted lack of
planning in the drug policy, too. "Around 70 per cent of the drug budget is
allocated for tertiary hospitals, while secondary and primary health care units
are left with little," said Dutta.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2013 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


