                              426 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Union Daily Times, S.C.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 7, 2014 Saturday

Sinclair takes interrelated approach to county issues

BYLINE: Charles Warner, The Union Daily Times, S.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1144 words


June 07--UNION COUNTY -- An understanding of the interrelated nature of issues
such as the hospital district, the county jail, and economic development and
policies that reflect that understanding are what Tommy Sinclair said he will
continue to implement if elected to a second term as Union County Supervisor.

The Democratic and Republican parties will hold their primaries on Tuesday, June
10. Voters must choose which primary they vote in before casting their ballots.

In the Democratic primary the only local race is for the Democratic nomination
for Union County Supervisor.

Incumbent Union County Supervisor Tommy Sinclair and District 2 Union County
Councilman Frank Hart running for the Democratic nomination. The winner of the
primary will be the next supervisor because no Republican is running for the
office in the November general election.

Sinclair, who is seeking his second term as supervisor, pointed to the
achievements of his time in office.

"They include stabilizing and putting confidence back in government by
transparency and public policy-based decisions rather than political ones,"
Sinclair said. "Obvious economic growth which provides jobs and tax base
investment, not to mention the jobs have health insurance which will benefit the
hospital and health care collectively."

In the area of information technology, Sinclair said that early on he determined
that county government was at the "bag phone" level of development in a "cell
phone world. We are now online with deeds, taxes, property cards, and open for
everybody to see."

In addition, Sinclair said "we have a planned yearly investment as we upgrade
technology and information services. It will take a while to catch up but we're
gaining ground."

In public works, Sinclair said that "after some involuntary personnel changes
and reorganization we're now a state model in the area of waste management and
recycling. We have increased recycling threefold while reducing the budget by
thousands and thousands of dollars."

Sinclair said the county has also purchased new equipment to maintain its roads.

Union Hospital District

As for the future, Sinclair said he sees the county playing an important role in
the efforts to help the Union Hospital District address its financial and
related issues. He said the county can play a role in helping facilitate the
district's plans to affiliate with a larger health care system in order to
reduce costs while maintaining services.

"Any of what I call 'major muscle movement' in public health, public safety, or
even public education has to involve the county," Sinclair said. "In health
care, if we use Spartanburg and Greenville as an example, both are special
purpose districts within the county. For example, when Laurens County affiliated
with Greenville, the Laurens County government had standing as the Spartanburg
County government had some standing in Spartanburg Regional. Besides the dialog
between hospitals there has to be some degree of government to government
dialog."

Sinclair pointed out that the county is already involved with the hospital
district as the members of the hospital board are appointed by Union County
Council. He said this gives the county standing to be involved in the
affiliation process, even if the district is looking at affiliating with a
private entity.

Union County levies tax millage to support the operations of a number of outside
agencies and institutions. It does not, however, levy tax millage to support the
hospital district. Sinclair said he would support using tax millage to help
support the hospital district if it proved necessary, pointing out that the
county has already provided it with financial assistance.

"I would based on some discussion and dialog," Sinclair said. "We have in fact
supported the hospital recently with GEO bond funds and reserve funds."

Sinclair said he favors the county's involvement with the hospital district and
its affiliation efforts because "public health and public safety and public
education is a basic and integral part of government."

Union County Jail

The structural problems of the Union County Jail is another issue the county has
had to deal with for the past several years and will likely continue to be an
issue for some years to come. Sinclair said the county is continuing to work to
address these issues through a combination of maintenance and reduction of the
inmate population.

"The jail does need some upgrading to extend its short-term life," Sinclair
said. "We do that by maintenance activities and by reducing the jail population
by putting an additional public defender on staff last year. The inmate
population last year was around 60 and now it is around 40."

Economic Development

Sinclair said the long-term solution not only will address the jail's problems
but could also play a role in the future economic development of the county.

"The long-term solution is a new facility with up to date systems in a different
location that would vacate the area to accommodate additional industrial
development," Sinclair said.

The jail is currently located off SC 18 in the Bonham area and sits near the
Gonvauto manufacturing facility. There has been much talk about the possibility
of eventually relocating the jail and other adjacent facilities such as the
Ellen Sagar Nursing Home to free up the area for future industrial development.

"I can see a scenario where the nursing home was relocated to the existing
hospital, which would be transformed to meet health care needs either there or
at a new location," Sinclair said. "Then we have a large area connected to the
existing Commerce Park between Highway 176, Highway 18, and the rail line, all
with upgraded water, sewer and power.

"That is more than a scenario but less than a plan," he said. "That's the
direction I'm going to try to lead us in."

Sinclair pointed out that the issues of economic development, health care, and
public safety are interrelated and must be addressed as such.

"The point here is you just can't talk about the hospital or the jail or the
nursing home or economic development or even education," Sinclair said. "They
are so interrelated and even interdependent that you must talk about them at one
time."

Sinclair added that economic development and quality of life improvement for the
county can occur in different ways in different areas. In the case of the
southern part of the county, that can take the form of the Patriots Lake Project
which would provide the county with increased water supplies in an era when
water source are diminishing. In the northern part of the county it will take
the form of projects like the Trakas site which can help the county attract more
distribution-type centers or light industry.

___ (c)2014 The Union Daily Times (Union, S.C.) Visit The Union Daily Times
(Union, S.C.) at uniondailytimes.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20140607-UH-Sinclair-takes-interrelated-approach-to-county-issues-0607-20140607

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UH


                                 Copyright 2014


