                              441 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                           December 29, 2007 Saturday

Afghan daily says private clinics act against government's policy

LENGTH: 576 words


Text of article by Warak in Pashto, "Why do private hospitals work in their own
way?", published by Afghan independent secular daily newspaper Hasht-e Sobh on
25 December

People were not offered necessary health services as expected following the
establishment of the interim government in Afghanistan. Some doctors failed to
fulfil their duties on time in hospitals, patients were not given medicines in
hospitals as before and some people tried to sell the medicines donated to
patients in market. Moreover, many doctors were made redundant and removed from
their jobs. This left a negative impact on the spirit of other doctors. As a
result of lack of attention by the government, particularly the Health Ministry,
hospitals were slowly privatized. Those who had experience in running private
hospitals abroad rolled up their sleeves to establish private hospitals in the
capital and provinces.

They created documents described as licences from the government, particularly
the Health Ministry and established a countless number of clinics and hospitals
in Kabul and other provinces. A large number of doctors and medical personnel
have been recruited at these clinics and hospitals. They receive high salaries
from the owners of these clinics and hospitals. This has reduced doctors'
interest in working in government hospitals and they are now in pursuit of their
personal benefits. There are a number of doctors and medical personnel who work
from morning till 1200 hours [local time] and leave the government hospitals at
1300 or 1400 hours [local time] and go to private hospitals to earn much money
and attend patients in return for high fees.

Patients, too, refer to private hospitals because they are not properly treated
in government hospitals. Government hospitals do not offer medicines free of
charge to patients like before. These [private] hospitals do not work in line
with the Health Ministry's policy that is compatible to the economic conditions
of wandering people of Afghanistan. Laboratories and X-Ray branches take high
fees and medicines are very expensive. Moreover, doctors receive high fees and
there are many other such problems. Moreover, a number of foreign doctors have
also established hospitals and clinics under different names in Afghanistan and
earn high fees in dollars or an equivalent amount in afghanis. This has further
harmed people's economic conditions. People are very concerned about this
situation.

They ask the government, particularly the Health Ministry to focus much of its
attention on government hospitals, so that compatriots are properly treated
there just as before. Also, they should strictly control clinics and hospitals,
so that compatriots can receive treatment and buy medicines in return for low
fees. Foreign doctors, too, should receive reasonable fees in afghanis instead
of dollars regardless of any discrimination in hospitals where they work. People
want to receive treatment in government hospitals and not in private clinics and
hospitals where they cannot receive treatment due to poverty. Given these needs,
the Health Ministry's officials should review their strategy and administer most
of those private and foreign clinics and hospitals which irresponsibly work in
their own way. They should be administered in line with people's demands and
should not be allowed to work in their own way under the name of free market.
[Ends]

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, in Dari and Pashto 25 Dec 07

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2007 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


