                              438 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                     The Journal Record (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              May 8, 2001 Tuesday

New hospital spurs economic development in area

BYLINE: Ray Carter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 817 words


Just as a dramatic increase in the Yukon and Mustang populations supported the
construction of a new Integris Health hospital in that area, so does that
hospital support further economic development in the region, officials said
Monday.

"If you look back over the last 20 years, there's been a continuous growth in
this area, and of course it's really growing now," said George Dashner, hospital
administrator of the Integris Canadian Valley Regional Hospital, now under
construction. "It may be the largest population in Oklahoma without a hospital."

Dashner noted the three zip codes representing the Yukon and Mustang area
contain 60,000 people who could be served at the new hospital, located at the
intersection of U.S. Interstate 40 and Garth Brooks Boulevard in Yukon.

According to 1999 city population estimates provided by the Oklahoma Department
of Commerce, Mustang had a population of 12,890 -- up 23.5 percent since 1990.
Yukon's population totaled 22,760, an 8.7 percent increase. Based on the '99
estimates, Yukon is now the 17th-largest city in the state, while Mustang ranks
34th. Canadian County now ranks fifth out of 77 counties in terms of population.

Those increases red-flagged the two suburban communities as a growing market in
need of additional medical services. As a result, Integris officials approved
construction of the Canadian Valley Regional Hospital in April 2000.
Construction began the following June.

The $30 million, 40-bed acute care facility incorporates two stories and 128,000
square feet, including emergency rooms, three surgery suites and a women's
center. The 21-acre campus will also include a new medical office building and
ambulatory care center.

Stanley Hupfeld, Integris Health president and chief executive, said the
hospital could attract other businesses to the area.

"If you came here a few years ago, you would not see any of the development that
we see right here all around us," Hupfeld said.

Noting that Staples and Lowe's have since built and opened stores in the area
adjacent to the hospital, he said, "there's no question that part of their
decision was made because there's going to be this nice (hospital) facility."

A Corning plant is also scheduled to open in the area in 2002, bringing another
1,000 jobs to the local economy.

That business growth may be just the beginning. Hupfeld predicted the Canadian
Valley Regional Hospital would draw other companies to Yukon and Mustang.

"It seems to be an economic truth that when a hospital gets developed, there's a
lot of economic development that seems to follow," he said.

Construction should be completed by the end of September, allowing the facility
to open in November, Dashner said.

He said outpatient care would be a major focus of the hospital, due to the
changing world of medical care.

"If you go back 25, 30 years ago, there was hardly any outpatient services, and
everything was focused just on the inpatient," he said. "Now you can see a lot
of room is provided for the day surgery, emergency department, (and) ambulatory
care."

As medical advances have made overnight stays unnecessary in many cases, the
demand for outpatient care has increased.

"I think the main emphasis has been allowing for more space for outpatient
(care), because the numbers are so much greater," Dashner said.

The hospital will contain three surgery suites and a six-bed recovery area.

Overall, 30 of the hospital beds will be available for inpatient care, while 10
beds will be reserved for the women's center, Dashner said. Six of the beds in
the women's center will for labor and delivery service. One surgery suite will
be dedicated to Caesarean section deliveries.

The campus will also contain 12,500 square feet of office space for lease to
local physicians, which should increase the range of practitioners available to
the community.

"We anticipate having several different types of medical specialists located up
on this floor," Dashner said.

Several office spaces have been reserved for physicians now in the Integris
Yukon Clinic.

Integris officials believe the population flow into Canadian County will
continue during the next decade, and anticipate building another floor and
adding 30 more beds to the hospital.

"We think that with the growth -- economic growth -- in Yukon and Mustang, that
within a few years we're going to be faced with a decision to expand this
facility, and that would please us very much," Hupfeld said.

"We will see continued growth and need for hospital beds, in my opinion,"
Dashner said. "We're constructed so we can build another floor on top of our
inpatient unit. So we could add another 30 beds without having to do anything --
in other words, the foundation will support that. And we can add another floor
on our medical office building. And being 21 acres, we obviously have room for
horizontal growth."

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: General news

                      Copyright 2001 Dolan Media Newswires
                                All Rights Reserved


