                              439 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                    The Sedalia Democrat (Sedalia, Missouri)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              March 6, 2009 Friday

Economy anxiety has more seeking mental health services

BYLINE: Allison Elyse Gualtieri, The Sedalia Democrat, Sedalia, Mo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 687 words


Mar. 6--Fear. Depression. Anxiety. Economic woes are leading more people to the
therapist's couch.

Demand for mental health services in the area has risen sharply following the
economic downturn, providers said, mirroring national trends.

"Any time we experience some local economic downturn, we experience an increase
in calls and requests for services, but this kind of dwarfs anything we've seen
in the past few years," said Mel Fetter, president and chief executive officer
of Pathways Community Behavioral Healthcare Inc.

Pathways operates 32 offices across Missouri, including one in Sedalia.

Fetter said the offices have seen a 40 percent increase in calls over the past
three or four months.

"We're all afraid it's kind of the tip of the iceberg as things get worse," he
said.

Fetter said many callers seeking services have been affected by the economic
downturn.

"Overall, we're experiencing quite a few additional calls daily for help. We
know from those calls that a good deal of it is people struggling with the
economy, whether it's job loss or another factor," he said.

Job loss or other economic stress can trigger substance use and abuse, lead to
domestic violence or just create tension in the home.

Calls to Royal Oaks Hospital in Windsor, a sister organization, are up about the
same amount.

"Their census has been very high and continues to be very high. They don't have
a lot of excess capacity," he said.

The 40-bed hospital, like many, is limited in how many people it can serve.

"There's a lack of psychiatric beds throughout the state, it's a statewide
problem. We do the best we can as far as helping folks through programs that can
keep them out of hospital," Fetter said.

Dr. Gary Kitto, a psychologist who has practiced in Sedalia since 1990, said he
has a patient in crisis right now who can't get a bed in a hospital. Instead, he
sees the patient three times per week.

Kitto's office has been busy for the past year, even during typically slow
times.

"We have slow seasons. We haven't had slow seasons in over a year," he said, not
even during summer or near Christmas.

His practice now has two licensed interns who see patients based on a sliding
scale, something the office has never had before.

Kitto said calls to his office are up, with many callers experiencing depression
and "incredible amounts of anxiety" about their financial situation.

Agencies that normally operate on a sliding scale are referring patients to
private counselors because of the demand, he said.

There is an increase in demand from people with insurance, too. Kitto said he
gets referrals daily, and people are willing to wait. Kitto's schedule is booked
for the next few months.

Kitto also traced the demand for mental health services to a decline in the
stigma about getting mental health care.

There is hope for patients whose lose their jobs or insurance. Kitto said his
office works with patients on an individual basis to work out payment
arrangements.

Whether or not Pettis County is getting hit as badly as other parts of the
country, local residents are feeling the recession.

"I think the economy, whether it's going to get worse or better, that's an
anxiety we're all dealing with," Kitto said. "I find myself watching the stock
market every day myself, and I never used to do that, and if I'm doing that,
then other people must be doing that."

RESOURCES

For more information on mental health resources, visit the following Web sites:

--Missouri Department of Mental Health Web site, www.dmh.missouri.gov

--Pathways Community Behavioral Healthcare Inc., www.pathwaysonline.org.
Pathways has a 24-hour hotline for people in crisis. Call (800) 833-3915.

--National Alliance on Mental Illness, www.nami.org

To see more of The Sedalia Democrat or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.sedaliademocrat.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Sedalia Democrat,
Sedalia, Mo. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090306-SX-Economy-anxiety-has-more-seeking-mental-health-services-0306

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SX


                      Copyright 2009 The Sedalia Democrat


