                              437 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           February 11, 2010 Thursday
                                 SOUTH EDITION

CASINO DOLLARS ARRIVE IN WASHINGTON COUNTY;
$9.8 MILLION WILL GO TO 30 PROJECTS OK'D BY BOARD

BYLINE: Janice Crompton, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: METRO; Pg. S-1

LENGTH: 774 words


Municipalities, nonprofit organizations and economic development initiatives in
Washington County will soon get a $9.8 million shot in the arm, thanks to the
success last year of The Meadows Racetrack & Casino.

The county's Local Share Account Review Committee recently recommended 30
projects to receive funding from the county's share of casino profits.

County commissioners approved the list, ranging from $20,000 for a community
park in Centerville to $1.5 million toward public sewerage in Donora, and
forwarded it to the state Department of Community and Economic Development for
final approval.

Every year since the casino opened in 2007, the county and host municipality,
North Strabane, have received a portion of the gross terminal revenue generated
by slot machines at The Meadows.

The revenue, expected to total about $12 million based on 2009 profits, is used
for economic development and community projects.

But, there are big changes this year.

In response to complaints from municipal officials that they were being
overlooked for economic development pursuits during the past two years, the
funding formula was changed and representatives from municipal governments were
appointed to the review committee, which is normally comprised of government
officials and economic development experts.

Changes in the state gaming law also now call for direct revenue sharing with
municipalities, 65 of which will receive $25,000, plus $10 for each resident.
North Strabane isn't included because it will continue receiving a separate
revenue stream. That new formula will knock the county's local share down by a
little more than $2 million.

Last year, the review committee began setting aside a portion of the funds for
water and sewage plans and for municipal projects. However, still getting the
largest slice of the pie is economic development initiatives, which this year
include 10 projects totaling $4.4 million.

Among them are $1 million for expansion of the Starpointe Business Park in
Hanover, $540,000 for safety improvements to the county airport, and $340,000
for the Washington/Greene County Job Training Agency Inc.

The priciest undertaking this year is a $15.7 million project for an electronic
medical record and information technology project being sponsored by the
county's three hospitals, Washington, Canonsburg and Monongahela Valley.

The joint project will receive $1 million a year for three years, with the
hospitals splitting the revenue equally.

The Washington Hospital Executive Vice President Gary Weinstein said the switch
to electronic records is now being mandated by the federal government.

Hospitals that don't begin phasing in electronic records by 2011 face cutbacks
in federal Medicare and Medicaid funding and the cost, estimated at a minimum of
$20 million per hospital, is going to be a challenge for most, he said.

"For many hospitals, it's going to be difficult to get where they need to be,"
he said.

Mr. Weinstein said The Washington Hospital began converting its paper records in
1982, and has kept pace over the years, with a $14 million upgrade in 2006.

Financial systems, registrations and clinical records are already electronic, he
said, and the hospital --along with the other county hospitals -- are now
pushing for electronic medical records, physician's notes, prescriptions and
more.

The project, which is expected to be completed in five years, received more
funding because of the cooperation between hospitals, said Jeff Kotula, chairman
of the review committee and executive director of the Washington County Chamber
of Commerce.

"We felt that rather than competing with each other, it was better to combine
resources," Mr. Weinstein said.

"It's the first one we funded, but not the first one we received," Mr. Kotula
said of the joint project.

Other funding highlights include $3.8 million for eight water and sewage
projects, including $876,000 for a sorely needed flood control project in the
city of Washington.

Twelve municipal projects totaling $1.5 million also were approved, including
$216,000 for a Pony League field restoration project, $220,000 for a park in
North Franklin and $75,000 toward a renovation of the Washington Area Humane
Society.

None of this year's funding includes revenue from table games, which aren't
expected to be online until this summer.

But, beginning next year, the county and North Strabane will each receive 1
percent of a 16 percent tax of gross revenue from games such as poker, blackjack
and craps.

Though it's impossible to say how much revenue will be generated from table
games, they account for about 30 percent of Atlantic City casinos' gambling
proceeds.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Janice Crompton: jcrompton@post-gazette.com or 724-223-0156./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 P.G. Publishing Co.


