                              444 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                   January 30, 2003 Thursday Marshall Edition

Former hospital CEO runs for LaPorte mayor

BYLINE: By STAN MADDUX; Tribune Correspondent

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. D6

LENGTH: 387 words


LAPORTE -- Leigh Morris, the former president and chief executive officer at
LaPorte Hospital, announced Wednesday he's seeking the Republican nomination for
mayor of LaPorte.

Morris, 68, disclosed his political aspirations after filing his candidacy with
the LaPorte County Clerk's Office.

Like the two other LaPorte mayoral candidates who previously filed, Morris
places economic development in a city that has lost several hundred
manufacturing jobs high on his list of priorities.

"I have studied LaPorte's economic conditions and outlook, and I am convinced
that we need more effective leadership if we are going to create new jobs and
work successfully to retain existing jobs," Morris said.

To lead LaPorte to economic recovery, Morris said the first task is to develop a
strategic plan outlining the kind of jobs desired and methods required from both
the public and private sectors to bring in those type of employers.

Over the past two years, a number of mechanisms has been put in place to vastly
improve the city's approach to economic development.

Without a strategic plan, though, Morris said "many of the things that are
happening don't get well-knit together.

"That has undermined the effectiveness of nearly everything we've done in the
past," Morris said.

Enthusiasm and aggressive leadership, he feels, are now lacking in the mayor's
office and are among the other ingredients needed to create more jobs, he said.

Morris was chief executive officer at a hospital in Huntington, Ind., for seven
years prior to his arrival at LaPorte Hospital, where he was president and CEO
for 21 years before stepping down in 1999.

He went on to become a CEO at a hospital in Columbus, Wis., for six months
before retiring.

Morris said such experience has given him unique skills in strategic planning
and other areas to become an effective mayor.

"The fact that I have 30 years experience at the CEO level in numerous
multimillion-dollar corporations helps me prepare for that role in city
government, which is also a multimillion-dollar operation," said Morris.

Currently, Morris and Fran

Milo are the only declared candidates seeking the Republican nomination for
mayor.

Kathy Chroback, who's seeking a second term, is the only Democratic candidate
for mayor to have filed campaign papers.


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2003 South Bend Tribune Corporation


