                              443 of 994 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright (c) 2010 Board of Trustees of the University of
                                    Arkansas
                University of Arkansas at Little Rock Law Review

                                  Spring, 2010

                University of Arkansas at Little Rock Law Review

                       32 U. Ark. Little Rock L. Rev. 315

LENGTH: 7423 words

ARTICLE: DON'T BANK ON BIG MEDICINE: THE VIRTUE OF SPECIALTY HOSPITALS

NAME: Robert Steinbuch*

BIO:



   * Associate Professor of Law, University of Arkansas at Little Rock, William
H. Bowen School of Law. J.D. from, and John M. Olin Law & Economics Fellow at,
Columbia Law School. B.A. and M.A. from the University of Pennsylvania.
Commissioner on the Arkansas Commission for Newborn Umbilical Cord Blood Bank
Initiative. Professor Steinbuch's research focuses on the intersection of health
and corporate law. The author wishes to thank Professors Pearl Steinbuch,
Frances Fendler, Nicholas Kahn-Fogel, Richard Peltz, and Diane Mackey, as well
as Rabbi Ben Pape, for their guidance, input, and/or contributions.

 TEXT:
 [*315]

    I. Introduction

    In Placing Profits Above Hippocrates: The Hypocrisy of General Service
Hospitals, I discussed some of the inappropriate means that general service
hospitals (GSHs) have used against specialty hospitals to preserve the former's
market dominance. n1 In response to Placing Profits Above Hippocrates, the Chief
Executive Officer of the St. Vincent Medical Center (Peter Banko) wrote to
me--as well as to the head of the University for whom I work (Chancellor Joel
Anderson)--to say why he, Peter Banko, believed that Placing Profits Above
Hippocrates was, well, wrong. In this article, I respond to Mr. Banko's primary
concerns. n2

    Specialty hospitals, frequently physician owned, focus on a specific medical
field n3 --often high dollar fields, such as orthopedics, cardiology, surgery,
and women's care. n4 General service hospitals, in contrast, are full service
entities and generally are "nonprofit" n5 institutions. n6 GSHs typically
[*316]  make their highest profit from cardiac, orthopedic, and general surgical
services. n7 As a consequence of their desire to hold onto their most profitable
cases, GSHs often attempt to undermine the development of competing specialty
hospitals. n8

    GSHs typically criticize specialty hospitals by arguing that (1) the
specialty hospitals threaten the viability of GSHs by competing for
revenue-generating cases, which GSHs often use to finance "unprofitable"
services such as emergency rooms, and (2) the existence of specialty hospitals
fosters conflicts of interest for physicians who refer patients to their own
hospitals. n9

    II. Undermining Specialty Hospitals

    In Little Rock, Arkansas, the three most notable GSHs are University of
Arkansas for Medical Sciences Hospital, Saint Vincent Infirmary Medical Center,
and Baptist Medical Center. There are also two specialty hospitals: the Arkansas
Heart Hospital and the Arkansas Surgical Hospital. These specialty hospitals
actively compete on the claim that they generally provide better care than that
provided at GSHs. n10

    In Placing Profits Above Hippocrates, I discussed how some GSHs have adopted
economic credentialing policies, i.e., rules based on "economic criteria
unrelated to quality of care or professional competence in determining a
physician's qualifications for initial or continuing hospital medical staff
membership or privileges." n11 This stands in contrast to what occurred  [*317]
"historically, where hospital credentialing decisions had been based almost
exclusively on qualitative criteria and a physician's clinical competence." n12
GSHs typically argue that in order to be able to offer essential but
"unprofitable" services, such as an emergency room, obstetrics, pediatrics, and
critical care, they need to "protect" their market in highly lucrative practice
areas, such as orthopedics and cardiology. n13 As such, GSHs have been known to:

    refuse to grant initial or continuing staff privileges to physicians who own
or have other financial interests in competing healthcare entities, refer
patients to competing entities, have staff privileges at any other area
hospitals, or fail to admit some specified percentage of their patients to the
hospital. Alternatively, the hospital might require a physician seeking
privileges to sign a loyalty oath or pledge to perform a certain percentage of
medical services at the hospital. n14


    The AMA opposes the consideration of economic criteria unrelated to patient
care in deciding whether to grant privileges to physicians: n15

    The AMA believes that the practice of conditioning a physician's medical
staff privileges on an agreement to refer patients only to that hospital is a
violation of the anti-kickback law . . . . Whether called loyalty oaths or
conflict of interest policies, the effect is the same. These practices . . .
negatively impact a physician's prerogative regarding patient care as well as
patient choice. n16


    In Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, doctors challenged in court the policy of
economic credentialing in South Dakota. n17 In that case, a hospital refused to
credential doctors because they apparently had a competing financial inter
[*318]  est. n18 The South Dakota Supreme Court ruled that the hospital could
base its decision to grant or deny credentials for economic reasons rather than
quality of care. n19

    The court . . . recognized that the hospital relied on 'the profitable
neurosurgical services' in order to be able to continue offering 'other
unprofitable services' in the . . . area. The court's decision seemed informed
by the unique economics of hospital financing that require cost-spreading to
fund[] treatment for uninsured and underinsured patients. n20


    In Little Rock, the situation of Janet Cathey, a gynecologist, presents a
conspicuous example of economic credentialing. n21 For twenty years her medical
practice was centered at the Baptist Medical Center. n22 Baptist is the largest
health care system in Arkansas and is the preferred provider for Arkansas Blue
Cross and Blue Shield, the state's biggest health insurer. n23 Indeed, Baptist
is Blue Cross's only acute care hospital in Little Rock. n24 Cathey's husband
joined a group of Baptist doctors who were opening the Arkansas Surgical
Hospital. n25 In anticipation of competition from the new Arkansas Surgical
Hospital, Baptist established an economic credentialing policy, n26 prohibiting
doctors "with a direct or indirect financial interest in a competing hospital"
from having privileges at Baptist's hospitals. n27 Indeed, "the new policy
applies not only to physician investors in such facilities, but also to their
immediate family members--with no right to a hearing or appellate review." n28

    Cathey was informed by Baptist that under the terms of the new
conflict-of-interest policy, once Arkansas Surgical Hospital opened, her
appointment and clinical privileges at Baptist would end. n29 Thus, as a result
of her husband's involvement in Arkansas Surgical Hospital, Cathey was no longer
entitled to admit patients or perform procedures at Baptist. n30 Because  [*319]
most of her patients were insured by Arkansas Blue Cross and Blue Shield,
Cathey's loss of privileges at Baptist would destroy her practice and deny her
patients the choice of care they once had. n31 That is, the largest insurer in
Arkansas (like most insurance companies) directs its customers to certain
hospitals--usually GSHs. n32 So, even if Cathey wanted to perform surgical
services at a specialty hospital, her patients' insurance company would not have
paid for a significant portion of the expenses that would have been covered had
the patients gone to Baptist. Thus, economic credentialing--coupled with the
oligopolistic arrangements that GSHs have with major insurance
companies--effectively squelches significant competition from specialty
hospitals.

    Similarly, Baptist stripped privileges from six cardiologists who are
part-owners of Little Rock's Arkansas Heart Hospital. n33 Cathey and the
cardiologists sued separately. n34 The cardiologists were granted a preliminary
injunction, but, on appeal, the Arkansas Supreme Court remanded the case back to
circuit court (trial court) for further findings. n35 On remand, the circuit
court again granted a preliminary injunction on behalf of the cardiologists, and
that injunction was also appealed. The Arkansas Supreme Court affirmed that
injunction. n36 And, after trial, the circuit court issued a permanent
injunction against Baptist in February 2009, enjoining the application of its
economic credentialing policy. n37

    Much has been written on whether economic credentialing is anti-competitive.
n38 Some courts have found it not so, n39 and GSHs have suc  [*320]  cessfully
argued that they should not be required to hire employees who are at the same
time actively competing with them. n40

    In addition to the use of economic-credentialing policies, GSHs have sought
to legislatively and regulatorily eliminate specialty hospitals. GSHs often
argue that (1) the specialty hospitals threaten the viability of GSHs by
skimming off revenue-generating cases that finance unprofitable basic services
and (2) the specialty hospitals create conflicts of interest when physicians
refer patients to their own hospitals for financial reasons. n41 Through the
first argument, GSHs seek to subsidize unprofitable areas within their hospitals
by reducing consumer choice. Through the second argument, GSHs seek to impose
non-market-based (i.e., ethical) restrictions only on the actions of doctors
with financial stakes in specialty hospitals.

    There is no doubt that society needs both the profitable and currently
"unprofitable" groups within GSHs. The question is how to ensure continued
viability of GSHs or other entities providing the services not available at
specialty hospitals. GSHs often attempt to do so by running specialty hospitals
out of business through competitive and noncompetitive devices. The cost of such
a proposal is that the often better care provided at specialty hospitals--for
the areas that they cover--will be lost in an effort to subsidize the
unprofitable centers at GSHs. In Placing Profits Above Hippocrates, I stated
that such an approach is not good for public health.

    III. St. Vincent's Response

    In response to Placing Profits Above Hippocrates, Peter Banko, Chief
Executive Officer of St. Vincent Health System, wrote to dispute my conclusions.
He agreed that economic credentialing is not the answer to address the existence
of physician-owned specialty hospitals, but he took issue with the various other
points raised in Placing Profits Above Hippocrates. As Mr. Banko stated:  [*321]

    I am not an economist or an attorney, but I live in the practical world of
health care each and every day. I would like to take this opportunity to present
to you a deeper rationale why physician owned specialty hospitals are not in the
best interest of our medical community and our community as a whole. n42


    Mr. Banko states his general thesis as:

    Limited service physician owned specialty hospitals are not in the best
interest of our society. They are truly competitive agents entering an
irrational health care market where pricing is controlled and information is
limited. They drive up utilization of expensive health care services that
increases costs for the employers and, consequently, every consumer. They skim
profitable health care services and profitable patients that are used to
subsidize unprofitable yet essential services (emergency, obstetrical, and
psychiatric care as well as care for the Medicare population) and care for the
poor and underserved. The quality of their care is good for those without
complication or co-morbidities, but truly disastrous for those that need extra
attention and support. n43


    I address Mr. Banko's main concerns below.

    A. Competitive Forces in Health Care

    As Mr. Banko states: "True competition does not exist in the health care
market. Therefore, you cannot use competitive market argument to support the
existence of physician owned specialty hospitals." n44

    My argument in Placing Profits Above Hippocrates, however, was not that the
health care environment reflects a purely competitive market. It surely does
not. But market competition does exist, and should be considered, in the health
care field. Hospitals routinely put on television and print advertisements
promoting quality, services, and physicians. In fact, St. Vincent advertises in
various forms, including with large billboards proclaiming, inter alia, that it
is the first Accredited Chest Pain Center in Little Rock. (Arkansas Heart
Hospital is the second.) This is a direct appeal to consumers--using competitive
market forces to attract business. Moreover, few dispute that "competition in
health care markets benefits consumers because it helps contain costs, improve
quality, and encourage  [*322]  innovation," n45 although, as Mr. Banko's
position makes clear, not all support this notion. n46

    Mr. Banko continues that "health care is not a rational market (in the
truest sense of definition) for the following reasons." n47 Mr. Banko states
that "consumers of health care suffer from a lack of adequate information about
what services they need to buy and which providers offer the best value
proposition." n48 This is true. But, again, it does not serve as a basis to
eschew market forces in health care. n49 Consumers often access comparative data
and quality grading on hospital quality. n50 Further, insurance companies often
post comparative hospital data on their websites; n51 Medicare provides
comparative data between medical facilities; n52 and legislation has promoted
better informed health-care consumers. n53

    Moreover, informational disadvantages are always a reality in any market
system. n54 The goal with such circumstances is to increase consumer  [*323]
knowledge and prevent misrepresentation in the market place, n55 not to
eliminate market forces and patient choice. The fact that GSHs themselves
advertise with the goal of creating informed consumers demonstrates at least a
recognition of market forces and consumer choice in health care.

    B.Doctors' Profit Motives

    Mr. Banko continues that because

    patients don't know a great deal about medicine, they rely on the opinion of
physicians for decision-making. Consequently, the physician becomes the agent of
the patient. Since physicians are paid on a fee-for-service basis, if they don't
have enough work or income, they can increase the amount of services for their
patients (with a simple stroke of a pen on a prescription pad). n56


    While some of what Mr. Banko asserts may be true, it is not clear (1) how
this differs between GSHs and specialty hospitals, (2) how this situation
differs from other service industries, and (3) how this argues in favor of
eliminating specialty hospitals.

    Mr. Banko seems to suggest that physicians, or at least those at specialty
hospitals, are not ethical or cannot serve as trusted advisors to their
patients. This criticism seems misplaced. Notwithstanding attempts at economic
credentialing by many GSHs and, in part, as a result of court decisions striking
down such policies, many of the physician investors in specialty hospitals are
still on staff at GSHs. n57 While they do not have ownership stakes in the GSHs,
they--no less the doctors who are full-time employees of the GSHs--have an
interest in the GSHs making profits, as well as the unit in which they work.
[*324]

    Further, the then Secretary of the Health and Human Services Administration
disagrees with the assertion that physician owners of specialty hospitals
excessively refer patients to their own institutions relative to their peers at
GSHs:

    We examined the extent to which physician-owners refer Medicare patients to
other facilities, given the financial incentive to refer patients to their own
facility. In two cardiac hospitals visited, owners had a clear preference for
referring inpatient cases to their owned hospital, with 65% and 75% of all their
cases admitted to their hospital. In the third specialty cardiac hospital
visited, owners referred almost the same percentage of cases to their facilities
as to competitor hospitals in the area. Physician-owners in all
orthopedic/surgery specialty hospitals visited, except for one, referred most of
their orthopedic or surgery inpatient cases to their competitor hospitals. This
is not surprising, given the very small inpatient census at these hospitals.
Consequently, we did not see clear, consistent patterns of preference for
referring to specialty hospitals among physician owners relative to their peers.
n58


    Moreover, in the cardiac hospitals in the HHS study, the average ownership
share per physician in heart hospitals was only 0.9% and 2.2% for
orthopedic/surgery hospitals. n59 The implication being that such a small
ownership is hardly likely to incentivize doctors to act unethically.

    In fact, at St. Vincent, at least some doctors also provide work on an
incentive basis--where they are compensated based in part on the quantity and
complexity of the procedures they perform. St. Vincent outsourced its emergency
room to an excellent service provider (EmCare), which routinely has a blended
pay structure, providing for greater compensation when the amount of services is
increased. n60 This is the type of incentive scheme that Mr. Banko appears to
criticize. I disagree with the wholesale critique of productivity-based
compensation that Mr. Banko seems to be now suggesting. Such a system recognizes
that while doctors might be tempted to overtreat, they are bound by ethical and
scientific principles to do otherwise. Moreover, checks and balances, such as
case managers, claim adjustors, utilization review managers, peer review
processes, and CMS mean  [*325]  deviation databases that could result in a CMS
audit if treatment patterns appear unjustified, serve to deter improper
behavior.

    Indeed, Mr. Banko admits that "private insurers and government payers use a
variety of controls on service availability to rein in physician inducement and
practice variations to control demand similarly to how physicians can control
supply." n61 Thus, the concern that doctors in specialty hospitals will somehow
uniquely abuse patients' trust and ethical principles seems further misplaced.

    In addition, the concern that service providers may overstate customers'
needs--where customers may not be well-informed on their own--exists throughout
any service industry. n62 This is not typically a basis to dismiss customer
choice. Rather, it is a basis for effective regulation and consumer education.
n63

    C.Transfer Protocols as a Measure of Quality--A Dangerous Comparison for
GSHs

    Mr. Banko states that:

    I believe you could make the argument that competition can be based on
quality and service and you did just that with your statement that 'generally
better care is provided at specialty hospitals.' There are studies both
supporting and refuting that premise, so I will speak from personal experience.
St. Vincent has never transferred a patient to a physician owned specialty
hospital for 'generally better care.' However, we do receive multiple transfers
from those specialties when patients get into trouble. If you have an infection
and need an infectious disease physician or you have lung issues and need a
pulmonary specialist or your kidneys start to malfunction and you need a
nephrologist (the list goes on),

     [*326]

    you are out of luck at that physician owned specialty hospital because those
physicians aren't available to help you. In those unfortunate situations, the
physician owned specialty hospital transfers you to a general service hospital
(like St. Vincent) to bail you, your family, and that invested physician out of
a mess. n64


    However, the Secretary of Health and Human Services stated:

    Based on the population of all specialty hospitals, the proportion of
patients transferred from cardiac hospitals to competitor hospitals is about the
same as the proportion of patients transferred between competitor hospitals. The
proportion of patients transferred from cardiac hospitals to competitor
hospitals who were severely ill was similar to that of patients in the same
Diagnostic Related Group (DRGs) who were transferred between competitor
hospitals. Consequently, the notion that specialty cardiac hospitals are
transferring more severely ill patients to general hospitals was not supported
by our study. Patients transferred into cardiac hospitals have slightly lower
severity levels on average than patients transferred into competitor hospitals
for cardiac services. Due to the small number of cases, no conclusions could be
drawn about the severity levels of transfer patients in the physician-owned
orthopedic/surgery hospitals. n65


    It bears repeating that I believe St. Vincent is a very good institution and
one that I would choose over various others depending on the circumstances.
However, the notion that specialty hospitals are a recipe for disastrous
outcomes--or that GSHs such as St. Vincent do not ever transfer patients for
higher-level care--is inaccurate.

    St. Vincent--as a GSH--offers a wider array of services to its patients.
Thus, as Mr. Banko asserts, if a patient needs multiple services, he may be
better off going to St. Vincent versus a specialty hospital. But St. Vincent
itself will transfer patients to other facilities when those patients need a
level of care that St. Vincent aptly decides it cannot provide. That is not a
basis for denying the value of St. Vincent--or, by analogy, specialty hospitals.
It is unclear why an intermediate-level care provider should argue against
specialty hospitals because of transfer protocols without subjecting itself to
the same criticism.   [*327]

    And while St. Vincent may not have transferred any patients to specialty
hospitals, other GSHs, to their credit, have. n66 This interest-of-the-patient
approach should be lauded, not discouraged.

    In addition, a true story of one patient serves as at least some anecdotal
evidence as to the usefulness of specialty hospitals. Recently, a patient with
chest pain went to St. Vincent one evening because he was concerned about the
risk of heart attack. n67 He was asked his age (under 30) and whether he was on
any drugs (no). Upon receiving answers to these questions, he was told that the
emergency room was busy and he would have to wait. After receiving the same
instruction to wait fifteen minutes later, the patient left St. Vincent and went
to Arkansas Heart Hospital. He was seen immediately in the emergency room.
Because the patient had an irregular electrocardiogram and raised nonspecific
blood enzymes, the emergency-room doctor admitted him to rule out a heart
attack. n68 This strikes me as a positive outcome for the patient. I know that
he was greatly relieved to have the option of going to Arkansas Heart Hospital.

    D.Health Care Ownership

    In discussing the lack of pure competition in the health care market, Mr.
Banko aptly suggests that there are different financial obligations on health
care institutions depending on their status: "Entities providing health care
services can range from for-profit to not-for-profit to public entities. These
ownership difference interject taxes, mandates for charity care to support
501(c)(3) status, and/or public subsidies that create imbalances in the health
care market." n69

    Mr. Banko is correct that there are different types of hospital ownership,
including for-profit, nonprofit, and government owned. For-profit sta  [*328]
tus, however, is not indicative of just physician-owned specialty hospitals.
Quorum, HCA, and other health care corporations that run GSHs are for-profit
facilities, as well.

    Moreover, for-profit hospitals have the same obligation to contribute to the
care of the uninsured and under insured, but they also pay a significant amount
of taxes that nonprofits such as St. Vincent avoid. As a consequence, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services concluded:

    The specialty hospitals in the study provided financial information that
allowed us to compute their taxes paid and their uncompensated care as a
proportion of net revenues. Because the specialty hospitals are much smaller
than their competitors, their share of the total uncompensated care in the
community was very small. On the other hand, the specialty hospitals paid real
estate and property taxes, as well as income and sales taxes, whereas non-profit
community hospitals did not. As a result, the total proportion of net revenue
that specialty hospitals devoted to uncompensated care and taxes combined
exceeded the proportion of net revenues that community hospitals devoted to
uncompensated care. n70


    E.Treatment for All

    Mr. Banko suggests that specialty hospitals do not treat all patients:
"Federal mandates for emergency care (and subsequent stabilizing care)
regardless of ability to pay bind hospitals to provide treatment for all. Our
mission at St. Vincent Health System calls us to provide treatment for all, but
physician owned specialty hospitals have managed to avoid these mandates." n71
Mr. Banko continues, stating, "Roughly, 85% of the hospitals in the United
States lose money on Medicare patients." n72  [*329]

    However, specialty hospitals routinely treat a diverse patient base,
including a very large Medicare component.

    All of the cardiac hospitals (16 were operational in 2003 for more than a
year) were built exclusively for cardiac care. They treated about 38,000
Medicare cases, which represent 80% of the cases treated in 2003 by all
physician-owned specialty hospitals. Medicare patients account for a very high
proportion of inpatient days, averaging 67% nationwide. n73


    Moreover, specialty hospitals are subject to the same EMTALA regulations
applied to all hospitals, and in Arkansas all licensed acute care hospitals must
have emergency rooms. n74 With that said, GSHs--being much larger institutions
than specialty hospitals--typically have much larger emergency rooms than
specialty hospitals. The size of the emergency room is a direct function of the
overall size that the institution itself (GSH or specialty hospital) voluntarily
has chosen to become.

    IV. Conclusion

    Mr. Banko and I have different philosophies. Mr. Banko wants patients to be
directed to GSHs like his, so that they may spread the wealth of profitable
centers in the hospital to the "unprofitable" ones. Mr. Banko describes his
position as follows:

    Stroke care, diabetes care, trauma care, emergency care, obstetrical care,
and psychiatric services are just a few of the highlights of the other
unprofitable services at general service hospitals. Dealing with a car accident
or a stroke with a parent or your new baby or the stigma of mental health
services is certainly where general service hospitals benefit you and our
community each and every day (relying on more profitable services to pay for
those that can't). n75


    Of course, the "unprofitable" centers provide useful services.
Profitability, however, is an issue of finance, not medicine. As a patient
advocate, a patient relative, and a patient myself, I want the best care
available--especially for critical health issues, such as cardiac care. After
all, heart disease remains the number one killer of Americans. n76 And the
Secretary of  [*330]  Health and Human Services seems to think that I might at
times be better off at a specialty hospital:

    Based on an analysis of the claims from the population of specialty
hospitals, the cardiac hospitals delivered a high quality of care that was as
good as or better than their competitor hospitals. Because of the small number
of discharges, a statistically valid assessment could not be made for
orthopedic/surgery hospitals. Patient satisfaction was very high in both cardiac
and orthopedic/surgery hospitals, as Medicare beneficiaries enjoyed large
private rooms, quiet surroundings, adjacent sleeping rooms for their family
members if needed, easy parking and good food. n77


    So, the inquiry becomes how do we pay for the services that Mr. Banko
describes as "unprofitable." He wants to do so by eliminating for patients the
option of going to hospitals that--according to the Secretary of Health and
Human Services--potentially provide better care for what Mr. Banko undoubtedly
views as the greater good of redistributing profits to spread income to
subsidize "unprofitable" areas within his hospital.

    I would seek an alternative approach. I am not comfortable with big medicine
deciding where I and other patients can go for treatment and what quality of
care I and other patients can get. I prefer an approach that leaves greater, not
less, control and choice of health care in the hands of not-so-uninformed
patients, their families, and their personal doctors. That freedom of choice, I
believe, is essential for quality health care and best reflects the American
spirit.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawBusiness Administration & OrganizationHospital
PrivilegesRestrictionsPublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
SecurityMedicareProvidersTypesHospitalsPublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
SecurityMedicareProvidersTypesPhysicians

FOOTNOTES:




n1  Robert Steinbuch, Placing Profits Above Hippocrates: The Hypocrisy of
General Service Hospitals, 31 U. ARK. LITTLE ROCK L. REV. 505 (2009).




n2  This article repeats portions of Placing Profits Above Hippocrates to
introduce new readers to the discussion. For the convenience of the readers, the
citations will be to the original sources rather than Placing Profits Above
Hippocrates.




n3  Battle Lines Drawn over Specialty Hospitals, AAMC REPORTER (May 2006),
available at http://www.aamc.org/newsroom/reporter/may06/specialty.htm
[hereinafter AAMC REPORTER].




n4  John K. Iglehart, The Emergence of Physician-Owned Specialty Hospitals, 352
NEW ENG. J. MED. 78, 78 (2005), available at
http://content.nejm.org/cgi/reprint/352/1/78.pdf.




n5  A nonprofit seeks to make profits, but they are not distributed to owners.
Rather, they are reinvested into the entity after all expenses, including
salaries of the Board and executives are paid. See GARY M. GROBMAN, THE
NONPROFIT HANDBOOK: EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO KNOW TO START AND RUN YOUR NONPROFIT
ORGANIZATION 25 (4th ed. 2005).




n6  Iglehart, supra note 4, at 79. ("The GAO also reported that more than ninety
percent of the specialty hospitals that have opened since 1990 are for-profit
entities, as compared with twenty percent of all general hospitals. Specialty
hospitals are much less likely than general hospitals to have emergency
departments (forty-five percent vs. ninety-two percent) or to treat Medicaid or
uninsured patients. In 2001, specialty hospitals accounted for an estimated $
871 million, or one percent, of Medicare's spending on inpatient services,
nearly two-thirds of which went to facilities that treat patients with cardiac
disorders.").




n7  Id. at 78.




n8  Id. at 83.




n9  AAMC REPORTER, supra note 3. ("'The AAMC is concerned that specialty
hospitals treat disproportionately low shares of very sick and uninsured and
under-insured patients, create conflicts of interest, and negatively impact the
revenue centers of teaching hospitals,' said Richard Knapp, executive vice
president of the AAMC and head of the office of government relations."); Sujit
Choudhry, Niteesh K. Choudhry & Troyen A. Brennan, Specialty Versus Community
Hospitals: What Role for the Law?: A Paradox Exists in the Mixed
Market/Regulatory Posture of U.S. Health Care, HEALTH AFFAIRS: THE POLICY
JOURNAL OF THE HEALTH SPHERE (Aug. 9, 2005), available at
http://content.healthaffairs.org/cgi/content/full/hlthaff.w5.361/DC1
[hereinafter Choudhry et al.] ("General hospitals warn that specialty hospitals
threaten their financial viability and quality of care by reducing the volume of
procedures performed in full-service settings.").




n10  See, e.g., AAMC REPORTER, supra note 3 ("Officials at Houston's Texas
Orthopedic Hospital said specialty hospitals can perform routine orthopedic
procedures three times faster than the average general hospital, with an
infection rate of less than one percent and high patient satisfaction.").




n11  American Medical Association, 2003 Legal Issues: Economic
Credentialing--Issues and Answers (2003),
http://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/physician-resources/legal-topics/current-legal-t
opics/2003.shtml (last visited Feb. 12, 2009) [hereinafter AMA, Economic
Credentialing]. See James W. Marks and Jayme R. Matchinski, Conflicts
Credentialing: Hospitals and the Use of Financial Considerations to Make Medical
Staffing Decisions, 31 WM. MITCHELL L. REV. 1009, 1015 (2005). See also Beverly
Cohen, An Examination of the Right of Hospitals to Engage in Economic
Credentialing, 77 TEMP. L. REV. 705, 708 (2004); Judith E. Orie, Economic
Credentialing: Bottom-Line Medical Care, 36 DUQ. L. REV. 437, 441 (1998).




n12  John W. Jones, Legal Implications of Economic Credentialing, PHYSICIAN'S
NEWS DIGEST (April 2006), available at
http://physiciansnews.com/law/406jones.html.




n13  Elizabeth A. Weeks, The New Economic Credentialing: Protecting Hospitals
from Competition by Medical Staff Members, 36 J. HEALTH L. 247, 248 (2003),
available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstractid=959196#.




n14  Id.




n15  AMA, Economic Credentialing, supra note 11.




n16  Id.




n17  621 N.W.2d 150 (S.D. 2001); Choudhry et al., supra note 9. But see Jones,
supra note 12.




n18  Mahan, 621 N.W.2d at 153.




n19  Id. at 156-59; Choudhry et al., supra note 9.




n20  Weeks, supra note 13, at 251-52 (footnote omitted).




n21  Berkely Rice, Economic Credentialing: When Hospitals Play Hardball, MEDICAL
ECONOMICS (Sept. 15, 2006), available at
http://medicaleconomics.modernmedicine.com/memag/article/articleDetail.jsp?id=37
0384.




n22  Id.




n23  Id.




n24  Id.




n25  Id.




n26  Id.




n27  Rice, supra note 21 (emphasis added).




n28  Id.




n29  Id.




n30  Id.




n31  Id.




n32  As Mr. Banko stated in his letter to me, "Arkansas Blue Cross Blue Shield
represents 75% of the insured market in Arkansas, so there is little to no
negotiation based on price in that segment of the population." Letter from Peter
D. Banko, President and Chief Executive Officer, St. Vincent Health Ctr. to
author, at 1 (Aug. 14, 2009) (on file with author).




n33  Rice, supra note 21.




n34  Cathey obtained an injunction against Baptist and settled shortly
thereafter. Cathey v. Baptist Health, No. CV-2005-5701 (Cir. Ct. Ark. Apr. 18,
2005).




n35  Baptist Health v. Murphy, 362 Ark. 506, 511, 209 S.W.3d 360, 364 (2005).




n36  Baptist Health v. Murphy, 365 Ark. 115, 132, 226 S.W.3d 800, 813 (2006).




n37  Baptist Health v. Murphy, No. CV-2004-2002 (Cir. Ct. Ark. Feb. 27, 2009).




n38  See Anne S. Kimbol, The Debate Over Specialty Hospitals: How Physician-
Hospital Relationships Have Reached a New Fault Line Over These "Focused
Factories", 38 J. HEALTH L. 633, 663 (2005) (arguing that specialty hospitals
are helpful entities and that there should be limits on economic credentialing);
Tracy A. Powell, The Permissibility of Conflicts Credentialing (A/K/A Economic
Credentialing) by Traditional Hospitals as a Response to the Growth of Specialty
Hospitals, 20 HEALTH LAW. 17 (2007) (concluding that laws governing economic
credentialing are not settled but that economic credentialing may be legal in
some cases); Weeks, supra note 13 (concluding that many of the new forms of
economic credentialing violate state and federal antitrust statutes). See
generally William E. Berlin, Antitrust Implications of Competition Between
Physician-Owned Facilities and General Hospitals: Competition or Exclusion?, 20
HEALTH LAW. 1 (2008) (detailing recent developments in case law, antitrust
legislation, and potential defenses to litigation against economic
credentialing); Beverly Cohen, An Examination of the Right of Hospitals to
Engage in Economic Credentialing, 77 TEMP. L. REV. 705 (2004) (surveying case
law, state law and federal law and concluding that there are few instances in
which economic credentialing is foreclosed).




n39  See, e.g., Mahan v. Avera St. Luke's, 621 N.W.2d 150, 160 (S.D. 2001)
(citing Imperial v. Suburban Hosp. Ass'n, Inc., 862 F. Supp. 1390, 1401 (D. Md.
1993)); Hutton v. Mem'l Hosp., 824 P.2d 61, 63 (Colo. App. 1991); Sarin v.
Samaritan Health Ctr., 440 N.W.2d 80, 82 (Mich. Ct. App. 1989); Lewin v. St.
Joseph Hosp., 146 Cal. Rptr. 892, 906-07 (Cal. Ct. App. 1978).




n40  Cohen, supra note 38, at 729 (citing Rosenblum v. Tallahassee Reg'l Med.
Ctr., No. 91-589, slip op. at 3 (Fla. Cir. Ct. June 18, 1992)).




n41  AAMC REPORTER, supra note 3.




n42  See Letter from Peter D. Banko, President and Chief Executive Officer, St.
Vincent Health Ctr., to author, supra note 32.




n43  Id. at 3.




n44  Id. at 1.




n45  FTC Bureau of Competition, Competition in the Health Care Marketplace,
http://www.ftc.gov/bc/healthcare/ (last visited Mar. 7, 2010).




n46  Harvard Business School, Porter and Teisberg on Redefining Health Care,
http://www.hbs.edu/rhc (last visited Mar. 7, 2010) ("Health care is on a
collision course with patient needs and economic reality. In today's
dysfunctional health care competition, players strive not to create value for
patients but to capture more revenue, shift costs, and restrict services. To
reform health care, we must reform the nature of competition itself.").




n47  Each of Mr. Banko's primary rationales will be addressed in seriatim.




n48  Banko, supra note 32, at 1.




n49  See Barrett S. Moore, Comment, Trust Me, I Do This All the Time:
Comparative Provider Statistics and Informed Consent in Arkansas, 31 U. ARK.
LITTLE ROCK L. REV. 609, 610 (2009) ("In 1990, the New York State Department of
Health undertook a state-wide study of open-heart surgeries, controlling--for
the first time in any study of that scale--the independent variables of
physician and hospital choice. After controlling for twenty additional
components that could account for variation in the surgical risk factor, the New
York Department of Health found a marked difference between the success rates of
New York's individual hospitals and heart surgeons. This study allowed patients,
for the first time, to evaluate a doctor or hospital as an independent risk
factor.").




n50  See, e.g., HealthGrades, Research Hospitals, Doctors, and Nursing Homes,
http://www.healthgrades.com (last visited Mar. 7, 2010).




n51  See, e.g., Blue Access for Members, Blue Cross Blue Shield,
http://bcbsil.sqctool.com/ (log-in required) (last visited Mar. 31, 2010).




n52  See, e.g., U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, Medicare Hospital
Compare, http://www.hospitalcompare.hhs.gov/ (last visited Mar. 31, 2010).




n53  See, e.g., SUSAN S. LAUDICINA ET AL., BLUE CROSS BLUE SHIELD ASS'N, STATE
LEGISLATIVE HEALTH CARE AND INSURANCE ISSUES: 2007 SURVEY OF PLANS 6 (2007),
available at http://www.cahc.net/documents/Acr17.pdf ("Arkansas lawmakers
enacted two laws to promote greater provider transparency. Under HB 1513, the
Arkansas Hospital Association will make price and quality information about its
member hospitals available to the public. Hospital-acquired infection rates will
also be publicly disclosed (HB 2735).").




n54  Nobelprize.org, The Prize in Economics 2001--Press Release,
http://nobelprize.org/nobelprizes/economics/laureates/2001/press.html ("Many
markets are characterized by asymmetric information: actors on one side of the
market have much better information than those on the other. Borrowers know more
than lenders about their repayment prospects, managers and boards know more than
shareholders about the firm's profitability, and prospective clients know more
than insurance companies about their accident risk.").




n55  Robert Steinbuch, Preventing Under-Equipped Medical Facilities from Killing
Heart-Attack Patients: Correcting Inefficiencies in the Current Regulatory
Paradigm for Providing Critical Health-Care Services to Patients with Acute
Coronary Syndrome, 17 HEALTH MATRIX 17, 46-50 (2007).




n56  Banko, supra note 32, at 1.




n57  See, e.g., MICHAEL O. LEAVITT, SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES,
STUDY OF PHYSICIAN-OWNED SPECIALTY HOSPITALS REQUIRED IN SECTION 507(C)(2) OF
THE MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG, IMPROVEMENT, AND MODERNIZATION ACT OF 2003, at
34 (2005) [hereinafter HHS REPORT] ("We found that a significant number of
specialty hospital owners 'took emergency call' at competitor hospitals, which
was to the benefit of both the specialty hospital owners and the competitor
hospitals. Local acute general competitors needed the expertise of specialty
hospital physician owners to treat (and share the burden of) its ED patients.").




n58  Id. at ii (emphasis added).




n59  Id.




n60  See Kelly A. Carter, Brian C. Dawson, Kori Brewer & Luan Lawson, RVU Ready?
Preparing Emergency Medicine Resident Physicians in Documentation for an
Incentive-Based Work Environment, 16 ACAD. EMERGENCY MED. 423, 423-28 (2009);
John Proctor, Gauging Emergency Physician Productivity: Are RVUs the Answer?,
AM. C. EMERGENCY PHYSICIANS, PRAC. RESOURCES,
http://acep.org/practres.aspx?id=30306 (last visited Mar. 31, 2010).




n61  Banko, supra note 32, at 2.




n62  See, e.g., Federal Trade Commission, Taking the Scare Out of Auto Repair,
http://www.ftc.gov/bcp/edu/pubs/consumer/autos/aut13.shtm (last visited Mar. 31,
2010) ("The best way to avoid auto repair rip-offs is to be prepared. Knowing
how your vehicle works and how to identify common car problems is a good
beginning. It's also important to know how to select a good technician, the
kinds of questions to ask, and your consumer rights.") (emphasis added).




n63  See Texas Attorney General, Consumer Protection, Car Repairs,
http://www.oag.state.tx.us/consumer/carrepair.shtml ("The Deceptive Trade
Practices-Consumer Protection Act includes some sections that deal with auto
repairs. Under this law, it is illegal to: 1. Knowingly make a false or
misleading statement about the need for parts, replacement or repair services.
2. State that work has been done or parts were replaced when that is not true.
3. Represent that goods are original or new, when in fact they are second-hand
or refurbished. 4. Advertise goods or services with intent not to sell them as
advertised.").




n64  Banko, supra note 32, at 2.




n65  HHS REPORT, supra note 57, at iii (emphasis added).




n66  Interview with Carrie Helm, Chief Executive Officer, Arkansas Surgical
Hospital, North Little Rock, Ark.




n67  For a discussion of related issues, see Robert Steinbuch, Regulatory
Changes for the Treatment of Patients with Heart Attacks, 99 AMER. J. CARD. 1166
(2007).




n68  D.R. O'Neill, Low-Risk Classified Chest Pain Patients: Do They Need Cardiac
Monitoring in the Emergency Department and Can They Be Cared for in
Non-Monitored Beds?, 10 AUSTRALASIAN EMERGENCY NURSING J. 58, 58 (May 2007)
("All chest pain patients are triaged to monitored beds within the emergency
department where they are observed awaiting test results."); Associated Press,
'Super X-Ray' Rules out Heart Attacks Faster (Nov. 18, 2009), available at
http://today.msnbc.msn.com/id/34019246/ns/health-hearthealth/ ("About 6 million
people each year go to hospitals with chest pain, but only a small fraction are
truly having a heart attack . . . . [There are many] people who did not have
clear signs of a heart attack from those blood tests or EKGs, but doctors are
afraid to send them home without more tests because between 4 percent and 13
percent of such patients will have a missed diagnosis of a heart attack, and up
to one quarter of that group will die . . . .").




n69  Banko, supra note 32, at 2.




n70  HHS REPORT, supra note 57, at iii-iv (emphasis added) ("Considering only
the hospitals in the six study sites, the specialty hospitals provide a greater
level of net community benefits, as we defined it, than competitor hospitals.
Even if costs in excess of Medicaid payments are considered as uncompensated
care, both cardiac and orthopedic/surgery specialty hospitals in the study still
contributed a higher level of net community benefits than competitor hospitals.
Only if Medicare DSH payments are not offset against uncompensated care in the
NFP hospitals, is the net community benefit of competitor hospitals similar to
the cardiac hospitals, but it would still be less than the orthopedic hospitals.
The cardiac hospitals in this study provided a not insubstantial level of
uncompensated care that exceeded the levels provided by competitor hospitals,
after offsetting DSH payments."). Id. at 59.




n71  Banko, supra note 32, at 2.




n72  Id. at 3.




n73  HHS REPORT, supra note 57, at ii.




n74  42 U.S.C.  § 1395dd (2006).




n75  Banko, supra note 32, at 3.




n76  See Steinbuch, supra note 55, at 17.




n77  HHS REPORT, supra note 57, at iii (emphasis added).


