                              440 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                            Crain's Detroit Business

                                August 30, 2010

OPINION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0006

LENGTH: 454 words


Hospital collaboration would help the region

Last week, advocates for health care cost containment released a new report
predicting that $1.3 billion in capital spending among Detroit-area hospital
systems would result in short-term economic gains but long-term cost increases.

The silver lining: If hospitals pulled more patients from outside the region,
that equation could change for the better.

And that's the opportunity. If hospitals collaborated to market best-in-class
programs, the region could draw patients from around the U.S. and the globe. But
a couple of economic development groups that explored such a collaboration in
recent years found little appetite among the competing hospital systems for
collaboration.

Maybe the current economic conditions could change that outlook. We hope so.

The health care cost report by the National Institute for Health Care Reform and
the Center for Studying Health System Change echoed the fears of institute
founders - the Detroit 3 automakers and the United Auto Workers union.

The auto groups, which opposed much of the new capital spending on the books,
have long held that health care costs can be controlled primarily through
Michigan's strict adherence to its certificate-of-need approval process. In
recent years, hospital systems have gotten around the CON rules by getting laws
passed to approve specific, multimillion-dollar projects.

Surprisingly, the report omitted Washtenaw County and the growing University of
Michigan Health System. Authors apparently didn't consider UM hospitals as part
of the regional equation. That must be a surprise to UM, which saturates the
broadcast airwaves with commercials aimed at attracting potential patients
throughout the region.

EMU union's demand unrealistic

Recession? What recession?

The union representing faculty at Eastern Michigan University wants a 12.75
percent wage increase over three years.

EMU has proposed 1 percent a year over that same period, with veteran professors
getting an extra $5,000 raise and additional 1 percent bonuses tied to
enrollment and state funding.

Hefty salary increases and no-cost-to-employee health care are vestiges of times
gone by. Most private sector workers long ago began sharing the cost of health
care and have had wages frozen - or reduced.

EMU faculty went on strike in 2006. Another strike would jeopardize the
university's efforts to overcome controversy from during the administrations of
two predecessors to current President Susan Martin.

EMU's offer to extend annual bonuses based on increased enrollment and state
funding would help give faculty a stake in the university's success financially
as well as academically.

Copyright 2010 Crain Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: cd


                      Copyright 2010 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


