                              445 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                            Crain's Detroit Business

                                 June 28, 2010
                              Correction Appended

McLaren wants hospital move;
Pontiac facility would reopen in Clarkston

BYLINE: JAY GREENE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0001

LENGTH: 813 words


Flint-based McLaren Health Care Corp. has been intensifying its ongoing lobbying
campaign in recent weeks to convince state legislators to approve a special bill
in the lame duck session this fall that would allow it to bypass the
certificate-of-need process and move 328-bed POH Regional Medical Center in
Pontiac to a 79-acre medical park it owns in Clarkston.

McLaren officials, who declined to talk to Crain's about details of the plan,
would confirm only that they are talking with Pontiac city officials about ways
to bring jobs and spur economic development in the city.

We are working with the city of Pontiac on an economic revitalization plan, said
Kevin Tompkins, McLaren's vice president of marketing. There is a ton of moving
parts in this deal and a lot of key decisions have not yet been made.

Tompkins said preliminary decisions could be made in two or three weeks. We are
working with the city to bring lots of good things to downtown Pontiac, said
Tompkins.

George Williams, a Pontiac councilman in District 2, said he has attended
community meetings in which McLaren has presented health care and economic
development plans.

I have heard bits and pieces of the plan, but nothing is complete and I cannot
comment at this time, Williams said.

Tompkins declined to address questions about McLaren's long-term plans to build
a 200-bed hospital in Clarkston, changes at POH Regional, or its minority
investment in Doctors Hospital of Michigan in Pontiac.

Clarence Sevillian, CEO of Doctors Hospital, said there are no significant
changes planned at the for-profit, physician-owned hospital.

In 2008, a group of 42 doctors and McLaren purchased the shuttered hospital
formerly known as North Oakland Medical Center.

At a recent meeting at Chrysler headquarters in Auburn Hills with executives of
most of the major health care systems, labor unions and employers in Southeast
Michigan, Jack Weiner, CEO of St. Joseph Mercy Oakland in Pontiac, said concerns
were raised that McLaren is lobbying state legislators to allow it to move POH
Regional to Clarkston.

McLaren is rehashing plans it brought up two years ago, Weiner said. When
McLaren bought POH, the plan was always to move POH out of Pontiac to Clarkston.
Why? Because Clarkston has a better payer mix than Pontiac.

Weiner said putting another hospital in Oakland County makes no sense from a
patient care or economic standpoint.


We are already overbedded in Oakland County, Weiner said. There aren't enough
patients in Clarkston to support a 200-bed hospital. It would force a majority
of patients to travel longer distances.

Larry Horwitz, president of the Economic Alliance for Michigan, said Republican
Senate Majority Leader Mike Bishop was the subject of the meeting that was
convened by the alliance and the Friends of Certificate-of-Need, a coalition of
115 hospitals, unions and employers.

We don't need additional hospitals, Horwitz said. Excess duplicative capacity is
one of the various drivers of health care costs.

With population growth and demand for health care services flat, Horwitz said a
new hospital in Clarkston, which would not be allowed under current CON
regulations, would only take away patients from other hospitals, driving up
their per-case costs.

While Tompkins declined to be specific, Walter Kraft, vice president for
communications and public affairs with Ypsilanti-based Eastern Michigan
University, confirmed talks have begun with McLaren to bring several academic
programs to POH Regional.

We are involved with (McLaren's) planning process to bring nursing programs,
health sciences, culinary art, hospitality and other business programs to POH,
Kraft said. The talks are very preliminary. We understand there is a component
in McLaren's plan that would include us at POH hospital.

Philip Incarnati, McLaren's CEO, has been a member of the EMU board of regents
since 1992. His term expires Dec. 31.

Kraft said he is not familiar with McLaren's larger strategic plans.

POH provides 1,200 jobs in Pontiac, Weiner said. Even if EMU moved its entire
nursing program there, it would (create) only 200 jobs. It would be a
significant tax base loss for Pontiac.

During a legislative lame duck session in 2002, Henry Ford Health System and St.
John Providence Health System won special state legislative approval to transfer
beds from existing hospitals to new hospitals in Oakland County.

Last year, 300-bed Henry Ford West Bloomfield Hospital in West Bloomfield
Township and 200-bed Providence Park Hospital in Novi opened.

Since 2005, McLaren has been considering plans to build a hospital in Clarkston
as part of the McLaren Health Care Village of Clarkston, which opened last year
and is located at Sashabaw Road and Bow Pointe Drive.

McLaren officials have said phase two of the project, with the 200-bed hospital,
could start this year.

Copyright 2010 Crain Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 5, 2010



CORRECTION: - A story and headline on Page 1 of the June 28 edition incorrectly
stated that a medical park owned by Flint-based McLaren Health Care Corp. is in
Clarkston. It is in Independence Township.

Copyright 2010 Crain Communications Inc. All Rights Reserved.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: cd


                      Copyright 2010 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


