                              442 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                           February 28, 2009 Saturday
                                  Main Edition

Hospital plans $35 million site;
Forget recession: To remain viable, 'we have to do this,' Morgan Memorial's CEO
says of building a new facility.

BYLINE: ANDY MILLER; Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5B

LENGTH: 247 words


A Madison hospital plans to build a $35 million facility, countering the
recession trends that have stalled similar medical projects.

Morgan Memorial Hospital said Friday that it will file for state permission to
replace its current structure, built in 1959.

The new hospital would feature all private patient rooms and expand outpatient
services. It will have 25 beds and connect to a 21-bed rehabilitation unit that
was built in 1998.

"Health care has changed dramatically since 1959, but this facility has not,"
said Brandon Jolley, CEO of the nonprofit hospital. "Health care has turned more
to an outpatient setting. Our staff does a good job taking care of patients
despite the limitations of our facility."

The economic downturn has halted many hospitals' capital spending. A recent
Georgia Hospital Association survey found that almost three of four hospitals
are postponing or reconsidering capital expenditures. The GHA survey results
echo those of national hospital surveys.

Jolley said he and other hospital leaders are aware of the economy's challenges.
"But if we're going to continue to be a viable option for health care in Morgan
County, we have to do this," he said.

Morgan Memorial, the only hospital in Morgan County, is located an hour east of
Atlanta. It is governed by a hospital authority. Jolley said financing for the
new facility has not yet been worked out. A hospital must get a ''certificate of
need'' from the state for major construction and expansion projects.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2009 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


