                              451 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Observer (La Grande, Oregon)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              April 4, 2008 Friday

EDITORIAL: Recruiting doctors helps area in many ways

BYLINE: The Observer, La Grande, Ore.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 458 words


Apr. 4--Economic development wears many hats. The term has become a catch-all
phrase for bringing more jobs and economic growth to an area. Rural communities
throughout the country are all competing for the same thing, though their
playing fields can be very different.

Union and Wallowa counties are no exception. Most folks realize that for our
region to ensure its future success, we must stimulate more economic growth. But
being able to do so while competing against all other rural communities requires
some essential ingredients -- good infrastructure, quality schools and
accessible health care.

We have all three, though in recent years our schools have been  challenged by
declining enrollments and crumbling infrastructure and doctors have been hard to
find -- and to keep once they get here.

Enter Grande Ronde Hospital. Over the past several years the hospital -- and the
region's health care system in general -- has been beset by the retirement or
departure of numerous physicians. The ability to recruit, and keep, doctors
isn't just a local phenomenon. Every small community, every rural area, is
struggling with the same thing.

What GRH and most rural hospitals have discovered is that few doctors these days
are willing to risk their future on setting up private practices. The economic
risk is simply too great. So more and more hospitals are getting into the clinic
business, just as GRH has done with its children's clinic and the significant
expansion of its Internal Medicine Clinic on Fourth Street.

And the effort is paying off. GRH will be bringing six physicians to the area
this year, including a pediatric specialist, a family practice doctor, a
surgeon, a couple of internists and a radiologist.

The long drought in doctors might not be over, but the hospital's efforts should
go a long way to helping fill a health care void that has seemed to be growing
for many years.

That effort, combined with the opening of a VA clinic in La Grande (which we
hope GRH will work closely with), will provide an enhanced health care delivery
system for those of us who love to call this area home. It will also help
enhance our area's ability to draw new business and new residents.

In these days of mostly bad economic news, word from GRH that it is bringing in
several new doctors is refreshing -- and very, very welcome.

To see more of The Observer or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.lagrandeobserver.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, The Observer, La Grande,
Ore. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080404-YL-EDITORIAL-Recruiting-doctors-helps-area-in-many-ways-0404

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YL


                                 Copyright 2008


