                              446 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 27, 2013 Friday

[#x200b]Nursing homes dying in Hyderabad

BYLINE: Bushra Baseerat

SECTION: HYDERABAD

LENGTH: 580 words


HYDERABAD: The smaller hospitals and nursing homes, where the average Hyderabadi
used to rush when afflicted by minor ailments, seem to be disappearing from the
city's map. At least 100 of these friendly neighbourhood hospitals have shut
shop in the last five to seven years and several more are in queue, thanks to
escalating infrastructure costs and continuing economic crisis.

"At least 100 nursing homes have shut down and around 300 nursing homes and
smaller hospitals that are struggling to survive are in the process of winding
up and giving their facilities on lease or selling them," Dr Krishna Prasad,
general secretary, AP Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (APNA) told TOI.
Owners of the hospitals that are still operational are being forced to cut costs
by laying off workers, APNA revealed. In some cases, they are even converting
their buildings into hotels, old age homes or hostels to pull through.

One of the main reasons for this is the competition put up by the bigger
multi-specialty hospitals that have mushroomed in the city over the last 10
years. At least 100 such hospitals have come up, providing all kinds of services
from blood tests to routine check-ups. The major challenge came when these
hospitals lowered their rates to survive the global economic slowdown in 2008.

Competition sounds death knell for smaller hospitals

Unable to grapple with the rising costs and increasing competition from their
much bigger counterparts, smaller hospitals started folding up.

For instance, Dr Bal Reddy, who had started the Archana Nursing Home in Ramnagar
with a bed strength of 30 in 1983 and added 15 more beds later due to the huge
demand, shut it down three years ago. The Life Hospital at DD Colony was also
shut down and one of the oldest hospitals in Secunderabad, Uppalapati Nursing
Home, has been converted into a clinic. Mela Nursing Home at Begumpet too has
closed its doors while another 30-year-old clinic in Secunderabad has reduced
its facility to half and converted the rooms into a lodge. Even then, 50% of its
beds lie vacant most of the time.

Another major reason for the predicament faced by the smaller hospitals is the
fact that the government's Aarogyasri scheme, which provides insurance to 84% of
the state's population and covers 938 treatments and procedures, empanels only
those hospitals which have minimum bed strength of 50. Criticizing this trend,
AP Specialty Hospitals Association president Dr Bhaskar Rao said the government
must do something about it. "Smaller nursing homes provide primary care and cost
effective treatment and the government should encourage entrepreneurs. There are
no incentives for the medical industry and unable to cope up, smaller facilities
are shutting down," he said.

Healthcare experts said the trend will affect the poor and the middle class the
most at a time when healthcare costs have gone up enormously.

"It's difficult to sustain nursing homes, both in terms of infrastructure and
staff today," said Dr R S Saluja, state president, APNA. But he added: "For
minor ailments like fever, vomiting and stomach upset, patients are being forced
to rush to big hospitals and coughing up huge sums they cannot afford." He
recalled a case of a woman, with a salary of Rs 6,000 per month, who had got her
mother-in-law admitted at a corporate hospital for a minor stomach ailment. She
ended up spending Rs 60,000 and mortgaging her gold to foot the bill, Saluja
said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


