                              449 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Picayune Item (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          December 26, 2012 Wednesday

Opening of new hospital on top

BYLINE: David A. Farrell, Picayune Item, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1728 words


Dec. 26--PICAYUNE -- The dedication and opening of Highland Community Hospital,
which represents a $60 million investment, was chosen the No. 1 story for 2012
for Picayune and Pearl River County by the editors and reporters of the Picayune
Item and Poplarville Democrat.

The new hospital, which has already produced major changes in the way healthcare
is delivered in Picayune, Pearl River County and southwest Mississippi, has
already had a large economic impact on the area, and is the economic engine that
is currently driving the local economy, say city and county officials.

The hospital ribbon cutting was conducted on July 8, and on July 28, the move
from the old Highland location on Goodyear Boulevard to the new facility was
completed. The move from the old facility to the brand spanking new facility
just off U.S. 11 North in northeast Picayune was complete: All functions,
services and patients were transferred to the new facility.

Highland officials touted the grand opening of the new, state-of-the art
facility as a reason to "now stay home for health care."

"Residents now have a reason to stay home for healthcare," said Mark Stockstill,
Highland Community administrator who spoke to about 1,000 attending the ribbon
cutting and grand tour of the facility on July 8.

He praised the dedication of employees and healthcare officials with Forrest
Health Systems, which also owns Forrest General Hospital in Hattiesburg, for
"catching and holding the vision" that eventually turned into the new facility.
He also praised the Carle Cooper family for donating the land and Roy Anderson
Co., which built the facility, and city and county officials.

The new hospital was credited with not only a tremendous economic boost to the
area, but also changing the very layout and configuration of northern Picayune
with ancillary healthcare facilities coming on-line, the new doctors complex and
a combined residential-commercial section planned by developers along the
four-lane thoroughfare, Highland Commons Parkway, which when completed, will
cause major changes in traffic patterns in North Picayune.

Other stories and their rank, chosen by Item and Democrat editorial staff were:

No. 2, the county budget crisis; No. 3, Hurricane Isaac; No. 4, the addition of
the new annex to the old City Hall and movement of city government back to its
historic original location; No. 5, Pearl River County's drug epidemic; No. 6,
the continued innovations by the Pearl River County Utility Authority and the
resignation of its board president, Steve Lawler; No. 7, the occupation in
February, although 10 months late, of a new office complex at Millard for DHS
and the Justice Court System; No. 8, the completion of the Beech Street project,
which refurbished a large portion of West Picayune; No. 9, the prisoner fee and
emergency dispatching issues between the City of Poplarville and Pearl River
County; and No. 10, the resignation of PRCC Wildcat Head Coach Tim Hatten.

No. 2, the county budget crisis. At its June regular meeting county
administrator Adrain Lumpkin, Jr., told supervisors that if the county remained
on its current spending projection that there was a possibility that the county
would run out of money before reaching the end of its fiscal year on Sept. 31.
Supervisor board President J. Patrick Lee vowed "this county will not go
bankrupt," and the board took drastic actions. It clamped a furlough on county
employees, began cutting back on county appropriations, and froze purchase
orders. Eventually, the crisis eased but some agencies got hurt, especially the
library and the Area Council on Aging, which threatened to cut out senior meals
if its funding was not brought up-to-date. By Sept. 30, supervisors had restored
some funding to the library and caught up on its Senior contribution, but it
faced problems with putting together a 2012-13 budget. It eventually raised
millage rates between 3 and 4 mills to close a budget deficit caused by a
decrease in tax revenue when property values fell, thus producing less revenue.
As the year closed, supervisors were increasing efforts to attract more industry
to shore up a tax base and were trying to watch more closely monthly budget
expenditures. It's worth remembering that during the crisis, car dealer Dub
Herring wrote an $8,750 check to the county to pay for the last quarter
installment of county funding to the Picayune animal shelter, which supervisors
had cut.

No. 3, Hurricane Isaac. The slow moving Isaac stalled when it came ashore
Tuesday, Aug. 28, near Houma, La., and took three days to move out northward
into Arkansas. But during that three days it dumped torrential rains on Pearl
River County, which was in the storm's northeast quadrant. The winds were not
high, but the rains brought extensive flooding throughout the East and West
Hobolochitto creeks, Wolf River and along Pearl River. Over the Aug. 28 to Aug.
30 period, 24 inches of rainfall were recorded on a Picayune rain gauge, a
record. Record flood stages were in some cases exceeded and in others reached
previous record levels along the major streams that drain Northern and Southern
Pearl River County. For the first time I-59 was closed when flood waters from
Wolf River rose over the major interstate. Approximately 100 homes were flooded
in Pearl River County, and by December cleanup operations had come to an end.

No. 4, the new annex to the old City Hall. Picayune sold its current City Hall
on Beech Street to Huey Stockstill and began preparations for moving back into
the historic old City Hall on Goodyear Boulevard, and most of 2012 was spent
adding a 20,000 sq. ft. addition onto the old City Hall. It is just about
complete and ready for dedication and occupation. The addition costs $1.8
million and will be paid for when finished. No additional taxes were levied to
pay for it.

No. 5, Pearl River County's drug epidemic. In an interview with the Item,
Sheriff David Allison described Pearl River County's drug problem as near
epidemic proportions, despite his department's efforts to put a dent in the
problem. However, he said he felt it would be worse if his department had not
been trying to curb it. The problem was then out in the open. He said, in candid
remarks, that the county was not going to arrest its way out of the problem,
that the county needed a concern and effort by all citizens, and maybe even a
religious revival, to come out of the problem. Over 1000 persons marched in a
demonstration, to Jack Read Park, showing their solidarity in wanting to do
something about the drug problem here, which stems mainly from prescription
drugs prescribed by doctors. Then coroner Derek Turnage released information,
showing that 17 persons had died from drug overdoses in PRC since January, and
at year's end, tests on another victim were being run to see if he was the 18th
victim. Hundreds have suffered drug overdoses but did not die, officials said.

No. 6, the continued innovations by the Pearl River County Utility Authority.
Although the PRCUA has received its share of criticism, two things happened
during 2012 that showed the area might owe it some leeway. Steve Lawler, its
president since its inception in 2006, resigned, and PRCUA supporters pointed
out that under his leadership, $80 million in federal funding was spent here
upgrading the county's utility infrastructure. That's $80 million taxpayers
would have had to come up with if PRCUA had not been a conduit for the federal
funding. Also, pointed out was that two new waste disposal plants, valued at a
total cost of $20 million, were dedicated and came on-line during 2012, under
Lawler's leadership. When PRCUA took over, Picayune was under a court order to
revamp its system and Poplarville couldn't build anymore structures because of
problems with its water system. Those problems are now solved.

No. 7, the occupation, in February, although 10 months late, of the new DHS
office building at Millard. The structure, which cost approximately $2.5 million
and was built with FEMA funding, will house most DHS offices, but also has space
for the Justice Court System, allowing the JP offices to move out of trailers it
has occupied since Katrina.

No. 8, the completion of the Beech Street refurbishing project. After almost
half-million dollars in federal funding was pumped into the Beech Street project
in West Picayune, a whole section of the city of Picayune got a brand new look.
One-and-a-half miles of Beech Street was paved and striped and a whole new
sidewalk system was installed and upgraded. The section now not only looks
better but can help relieve traffic pressure on downtown. Motorists can use
Beech Street from Liberty road south to Holcomb's Crossing to avoid downtown
congestion during rush hours.

No. 9, the prisoner housing and dispatching issue between the City of
Poplarville and the county. The City of Poplarville was not paying for housing
city prisoners at the county jail, but that changed when the county forced the
city to pay a per diem charge of $20 to house its prisoners at the Millard
prison. Poplarville at first refused to pay the fee, saying city residents
already paid county taxes, but an AG opinion said the county could charge the
city. But when the sheriff tried to make Poplarville pay $85,000 a year for two
dispatchers, the Poplarville board of aldermen set up their own local dispatch
service, which will take effect at midnight Dec. 31, and maintained that 911
service through the county should continue since residents pay a $1 per month
service fee for 911 service on their telephone bills. Aldermen said this week
that after midnight on Dec. 31, Poplarville residents should call 601-795-4447
for nonemergency situations and still dial 911 for emergencies. The cost of
setting up the new service: $17,000 a year.

No. 10, in sports, PRCC head coach Tim Hatten resigned at the end of the season.
On Dec. 14, the PRCC board named Coach William Jones, defensive coordinator for
East Mississippi Community College and a former Wildcat defensive coordinator
under Hatten, as new PRCC head football coach.

Copyright 2012 The Picayune Item. All rights reserved. This material may not be
published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

___ (c)2012 the Picayune Item (Picayune, Miss.) Visit the Picayune Item
(Picayune, Miss.) at picayuneitem.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121226-YP-Opening-of-new-hospital-on-top-1226-20121226

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YP


                          Copyright 2012 Picayune Item


