                              455 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                   Mississippi Business Journal (Jackson, MS)

                             April 18, 2010 Sunday

Commentary: Healthcare from an economic developer's viewpoint

BYLINE: Phil Hardwick

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 972  words


From an economic developer's perspective, healthcare in a community is a
positive, highly desirable activity.  It creates jobs, provides a better quality
of life and usually grows the local economy.

One need only consider the impact of two of the most highly-regarded medical
institutes in the world.  First is the Mayo Clinic, headquartered in Rochester,
Minn., with other locations in Phoenix/Scottsdale, Ariz., and Jacksonville, Fla.

 According to a study conducted by the Battelle Memorial Institute, the Mayo
Clinic is responsible for $22 billion in healthcare spending nationwide.  About
$9.6 billion of that figure is tied to the Mayo Clinic's home base in Rochester,
Minn., where it employs roughly 1,900 doctors and scientists and operates three
hospitals.  The clinic in Jacksonville employs 370 physicians and scientists,
while 400 physicians and scientists work in the clinic in Arizona.  The Mayo
Clinic is considered the largest integrated, not-for-profit group practice in
the world.  Overall, it treats more than 50,000 people a year.   Mayo employs
more than 57,000 people, including 37,000 in Minnesota, and creates an
additional 94,000 full-time jobs through its business expenditures and the
employment multiplier effect of these.

And then there is the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center.  The
economic impact on Houston and the surrounding area are almost staggering.
According to a 2009 study by The Perryman Group, a Texas-based economic and
financial analysis firm, the Center has an impact of $7.3 billion in annual
spending, $3.8 billion in annual output and 51,960 permanent jobs.
Additionally, M.D. Anderson provides $181.1 million in annual state revenue and
$108.2 million in annual resources for various local governments.

In case you are wondering how to gauge the economic impact of a hospital on your
community, there is online help available.  The University of Wisconsin Center
for Economic and Community Development offers an online tool for measuring the
economic impact of a hospital on a community.  Users will be requested to
download software from the site after which they will be instructed to enter the
following four values:

* Total Revenue - Total operating revenue for the hospital.

* Total Jobs - Total jobs is the sum of the full-time and part-time employment
at your hospital.

* Total Labor Income - Total payroll expenses for the hospital, not including
employee benefits.

* Total Income - Total income is the sum of the labor income and net income.

But there is more than the economic impact when considering the influence on a
community of a hospital and healthcare providers in general.  First, healthcare
jobs offer a local workforce a wide range of opportunities in terms of pay and
skill levels.  Entry-level jobs such as housekeeping, pharmacy aides and home
healthcare aides abound.  For such workers who want to move up the employment
ladder, there is hardly a better place to begin a career than a hospital.  Many
healthcare providers provide in-house education as well offering tuition
benefits to workers who want to attend college.  Workers in such facilities are
regularly exposed to workers in higher-paying jobs, and can thus be more
motivated to improve themselves by workers in other occupations who are not able
to witness the outcome of their improved education and skills.

A community with a healthcare focus leads to a better, healthier workforce.
Citizens of the community are more often provided with positive healthcare
messages.  Also, they are more likely to know and be influenced by someone in
the healthcare field.  A workforce that is better able to manage its healthcare
issues is obviously preferred.  The issue of healthcare costs and the management
thereof affects every business.  Half of people filing for bankruptcy in a
recent year cited healthcare costs.  Business leaders know that financial
problems faced by their workers leads to all kinds of business problems, such as
depression, theft from company and lower morale.

For economic developers, recruiting new industry and other businesses to a
community superior healthcare is a "competitive advantage. "  Essentially,
competitive advantage occurs when a community (or business) outperforms its
competitors because of attributes not possessed by its competitors.  These may
be location, natural resources, weather, educated workforce or, for example, the
presence of superior healthcare facilities.

Rural economic developers in particular are affected by lack of healthcare
facilities.  Nevertheless, progress is being made in the rural healthcare field.

 Telemedicine, which is generally defined as the ability to provide interactive
healthcare utilizing modern technology and telecommunications, is becoming more
widely used in rural areas.  One impediment is lack of high-speed Internet
access, but that issue is getting a lot of attention.  Efforts are also underway
by large economic development organizations and some state governments to
recruit physicians to rural areas.  For example, the Delta Regional Authority
had implemented the Delta Doctors program, which allows foreign physicians who
are trained in this country to work in medically underserved areas for three
years. Most choose to stay far longer once they develop a patient base.
According to the agency, those in the Delta Doctors program do not take jobs
away from U.S.-born physicians. Instead, they provide services in areas where
otherwise there would be a shortage of physicians.

As healthcare becomes even more of a priority in the U.S., look for the economic
development community to place more of an emphasis on it as a key ingredient in
their efforts.

Phil Hardwick is coordinator of capacity development at the John C. Stennis
Institute of Government. Contact him at phil@philhardwick.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

