                              447 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday

OUR OPINION: Oxford hospital to expand services

BYLINE: Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal, Tupelo

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 508 words


Aug. 04--Oxford and Lafayette County's $60 million-plus sale of the facilities
comprising Baptist Memorial Hospital-North Mississippi to the hospital's
Memphis-based corporation will clear the way for Baptist to build a new, $250
million hospital in Oxford -- a major development with strongly positive
expectations.

The Oxford, Lafayette County and regional economies will feel a positive impact
beginning with construction and follow through to the operation of a technically
advanced hospital with additional physicians, employees and services.

Wages and tax revenues will spin off the new Baptist-North Mississippi.

The sale had been under discussion and in negotiation for two years. Oxford and
Lafayette County will split the money, and both have indicated that at least
part will be invested for later public use. A final signing is expected Aug. 18.

Baptist-North Mississippi, as the Oxford hospital is officially known, is part
of a Memphis-based health care system operating 14 hospitals in west Tennessee,
north Mississippi, and northeastern Arkansas.

Health care is not only an essential service, it is an economic engine, and in
small, non-metropolitan cities like Oxford, cycling through of health-care
dollars has major impact.

Substantial research shows that health care provides 10 to 15 percent of the
jobs in many rural counties, and with the secondary benefits of those jobs,
health care can account for 15 to 20 percent of all jobs.

It is commonly understood that businesses consider location, schools and health
services the most important "quality-of-life factors" influencing investment
choices.

In addition, a strong health care system also attracts retirees, a notable and
continuing success in Oxford's fast-growth category.

Baptist has leased the hospital from the city and county since 1989, spent $160
million on expansions, developed the hospital into a regional referral center.

A 2007 economic impact study by the Mississippi Hospital Association found that
Baptist North Mississippi provides more than 1,200 jobs and has a total economic
impact of $165 million a year in Oxford.

In 2011, the Mississippi Nurses Association named the Baptist North Mississippi
the Hospital of the Year (hospitals of 100 licensed beds or more).

The Oxford hospital has 217 beds, a number that would be the minimum sought for
the new hospital, but 250 could be possible.

The hospital's board must follow an official Certificate of Need process with
state health officials before the hospital can be built.

Baptist and North Mississippi Health Services' Tupelo-based system are
competitors, but the region is stronger because it has two high-profile systems
and advanced care.

To see more of the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal or to subscribe to the
newspaper, go to http://www.nems360.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, Northeast
Mississippi Daily Journal, Tupelo Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services. For more information about the content services offered by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110804-TP-OUR-OPINION-Oxford-hospital-to-expand-services-0804-20110804

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TP


               Copyright 2011 Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal


