                              450 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Talks on £1.6bn hospital charges;
Annual payment is 13 per cent of budget

BYLINE: JOSEPH WATTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 433 words


HOSPITAL officials today admitted they face a "significant challenge" to pay
almost £1.6 billion over the next three decades for the building and running of
North Staffordshire's superhospital.

The Government has listed the University Hospital of North Staffordshire among
22 health trusts where "clinical and financial stability" is threatened because
of crippling private finance initiative (PFI) payments. The PFI deal to cover
the cost of constructing and maintaining the University Hospital's new buildings
will see the trust pay £53 million-a-year over nearly three decades in return.

The new hospital is expected to open later this year.

Hospital finance director Chris Calkin said: "The total cost of the PFI-funded
hospital buildings is almost £300 million. "The £53 million-a-year covers not
only the unitary payments but also services such as catering, cleaning and
maintenance. "This is 13 per cent of the trust's budget so represents a
significant challenge. The economic situation has changed since the contract was
signed, with lower tariffs, qualitydriven cost increases and a global economic
downturn."

Mr Calkin added: "Our board is committed to patient care and patient safety and
because we recognise the financial challenge we are facing we are already
discussing the situation with our commissioners."

The Department of Health is expected to release more detailed plans outlining
how it will help ease the financial pressure on the trust within months after
meeting with executives. Proposals could include renegotiating PFI contracts and
cost-cutting.

But Health Secretary Andrew Lansley blamed the problem on the last Labour
Government, saying: "Some hospitals have been landed with PFI deals they simply
cannot afford."

But Stoke-on-Trent's Labour MPs have accused the Government of playing the blame
game.

Stoke-on-Trent North MP Joan Walley said: "PFI in general was created by a Tory
government and whatever its faults it was a way of levering investment into the
health service. "Hospital buildings were crumbling and a huge amount of
investment was needed because things had been left for so long. It's all very
well ministers now simply blaming people in the past, but they have to take
responsibility for finding a way forward."

Stoke-on-Trent Central MP Tristram Hunt added: "It would appear that this is an
ongoing concern for future financial stability rather than an immediate crisis.
But there is a very strong case for playing hardball with companies and trying
to renegotiate some of the contracts."

Will the PFI deals hit patient care? Email us at letters@thesentinel.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COST: The University Hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2011 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


