                              454 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            December 1, 2006, Friday
                             Black Country Edition

Black Country News: Hospital new site;
SMETHWICK: Grove Lane earmarked

BYLINE: Alison Dayani

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 284 words


THE site for a new general hospital for Sandwell was revealed today.

Sandwell and West Birmingham Trust bosses have earmarked industrial land in
Grove Lane, Smethwick - bringing pounds 366 million worth of investment for the
area and 1,000 jobs.

A public consultation is currently under way into plans to close City Hospital,
in Dudley Road, Winson Green, Birmingham, and Sandwell Hospital, in Lyndon, West
Bromwich, and replace them with a state-of-the-art new building.

Health chiefs said today that the old sites would be sold off and redeveloped,
mainly as housing.

A trust spokeswoman said: "The hospital would be one of Sandwell's most
significant development projects, and would bring forward under-used, brownfield
land for redevelopment.

"Grove Lane is the preferred location because of its central location on the
Birmingham and Sandwell border, its accessibility for patients and emergency
vehicles and because of the regeneration and economic development benefits.

"This site would provide a significant boost to regeneration and economic
development in the area, creating investment of up to pounds 366 million in the
development of a new hospital.

"Indirect and induced employment could result in approximately 1,000 jobs."

Under the Towards 2010 programme, the new hospital would feature more individual
rooms to help combat MRSA. It would be supported by five community hospitals so
patients can have day surgery and treatment closer to home.

A public consultation ends in February, and if the scheme receives public
support, trust bosses hope to submit an outline business case to the Department
of Health at the end of 2007.

Construction is scheduled to start in 2010, and wards would open in 2013.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


