                              452 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday

Children's Hospital to gain $2.5M in state aid

BYLINE: by MELISSA DANIELS

LENGTH: 544 words


The latest award from one of the state's largest grant programs will funnel a
$2.5 million taxpayer-subsidized grant to one of the region's wealthiest
conglomerates, in support of an expansion project at Children's Hospital of
Pittsburgh of UPMC.

Gov. Tom Corbett announced the grant Wednesday at a news conference held in the
six-floor, four-story atrium at the hospital in Lawrenceville. Though UPMC
reported $190 million in operating income, and $567.7 million in net income in
the financial year ending June 30, Corbett said the taxpayer-funded investment
will come back to the commonwealth in the form of income tax revenue from jobs
and construction.

"This is considered to be start-up money," he said. "We will see this eventually
come back with taxes."

The Economic Growth Initiative grant will support a plan to expand Children's in
some of its fastest-growing patient care areas. Hospital officials said the
subsidy will allow them to begin renovating units that handle cardiac care, bone
marrow transplants and neonatal treatment.

The money will support a new 10-bed observation unit adjacent to the emergency
department, where patients could be treated by a nurse practitioner instead of
being admitted to a floor.

A 40 percent increase in the number of patients in the neonatal intensive care
unit in the past five years has driven demand for more space, said Diane Hupp,
chief nursing officer.

"Five years ago we had 31 neonatal beds," Hupp said. "Today we have over 60 in
the hospital, and we are busting at the seams."

Chris Gessner, president of Children's Hospital, said the hospital added more
than 800 jobs since opening its $625 million Penn Avenue campus in 2009. At
times it fills to capacity, he said, including during the busy flu season.

Gessner said he hopes to see the expansion plans, which pre-date the award,
complete in 18 to 24 months. The state money, he said, speeds that process
along.

"Over time, we would've found a way," he said. "We would've raised money through
our foundation or something, but it wouldn't have happened as fast if they
didn't jump-start the program."

Corbett, a first term Republican, is running for re-election Nov. 4 against
Democrat Tom Wolf. Wednesday's announcement was one of many monetary awards
Corbett has made in Western Pennsylvania this fall as part of the Economic
Growth Initiative, a restructured version of the state's Redevelopment
Assistance Capital Program.

The program awards up to $5 million to applicants on a reimbursement basis. The
state received more than $1 billion in applications this year, with about $130
million available to support projects statewide. Projects focus on job creation,
economic impact, viability and construction readiness.

The last time Corbett visited Children's was not in his role as politician but
as a grandfather. Recently, one of his newborn grandsons was admitted with a low
body temperature, Corbett said, and he thanked the hospital staff for taking
care of patients, parents and their families.

"Any investment, in my mind, that can improve the lives and the prognosis of
Pennsylvania's children is always one that's worth making," he said.

Melissa Daniels is a Trib Total Media staff writer. Reach her at
mdaniels@tribweb.com or 412-380-8511.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


