                              453 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                              April 2, 2012 Monday

Taxing hospitals wrong prescription for economy

SECTION: BIZ LEDGER; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 697 words


Hospitals across Illinois are working to transform the state's health care
system to make it more cost effective and efficient, improve coverage and access
to needed services, assure good outcomes for patients and stimulate the economy.

But taxing Illinois' nonprofit hospitals is not the prescription for
strengthening our health care system or supporting our economy.

Such a move would undermine patient access to health care, drive up health care
costs for families, workers and employers, devastate our hospitals, and hurt our
economy.

Illinois hospitals directly or indirectly employ nearly 425,000 workers and play
a key role in keeping our communities healthy and strong. In nearly half of the
state's counties, hospitals are among the top three employers.

Hospitals also drive economic activity through the purchase of local goods and
services and investments in needed equipment, technology and facility upgrades.
On the state level, hospitals pump more than $78 billion into our economy each
year -- making the health care sector the 6th highest contributor to Illinois'
GDP.

By eliminating tax exemptions for hospitals, we would forgo many of these
economic benefits and undermine the health of our communities in a much more
literal sense -- jeopardizing patients' access to the quality care they need.

Hospitals provide Illinois residents with outstanding medical care. In fact, 12
of the top 100 hospitals in the country are in Illinois -- the highest
percentage of any state. At the same time, hospitals also serve as safety nets
for our state's most vulnerable citizens, providing health care to every
community member, regardless of his or her ability to pay. Hospitals are the
principal provider of health care services to residents with low incomes, and
fund much of this care themselves.

In part, because of the hundreds of millions of dollars in unsubsidized care
they provide every year, one in three hospitals in Illinois is losing money.
Taxing these hospitals would have an immediate and devastating effect on an
already fragile health care system. Many hospitals would be forced to lay off
employees and severely reduce or eliminate vital services, while some hospitals
might even have to close their doors. With hospital services being eliminated,
we could see health care "deserts" in rural and inner city areas.

The Illinois Hospital Association's goals are in line with the nonpartisan Civic
Federation, which recommends that the legislature set clear standards on
hospital tax exemption. We agree that it is imperative we reach a legislative
resolution that includes this basic framework: to receive a property tax
exemption, hospitals must provide charitable care and certain other benefits
equal to or greater than their estimated property tax bills.

As part of that framework, hospitals should be recognized for the many ways that
they help relieve the burden of government, including treating Medicaid patients
at less than cost and underwriting preventive and other health care services in
their communities.

No other state applies such a narrow view of what entitles hospitals to a tax
exemption as Illinois. Ohio, which has similar criteria to Illinois for hospital
tax exemption, recently approved 100 hospital and health care facility
applications in the fourth quarter of 2011.

We're grateful for the support we've received from governmental and business
leaders who agree with our tax-exemption framework, including the Illinois
Chamber of Commerce, Chicagoland Chamber of Commerce, 18 members of the Illinois
Congressional Delegation, and county boards in DuPage, Kane, McHenry and Will.

The Illinois Hospital Association is continuing its work with the governor, the
Attorney General's office, the General Assembly and the Department of Revenue
and other key stakeholders, including Cook County and the Fair Care Coalition,
to achieve a fair and workable legislative solution in the spring legislative
session that will ensure hospitals can continue to provide high-quality health
care to the people and communities of Illinois today and well into the future.

* Maryjane Wurth is president & CEO of the Illinois Hospital Association, based
in Naperville.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Paddock Publications, Inc.


