                              448 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    February 20, 1992, Thursday, 1* EDITION

Unilateral pay-equity offer stirs up hospital talks

BYLINE: VALERIE CASSELTON; VANSUN

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D11

LENGTH: 460 words


A sudden promise by the health industry to provide an immediate $ 22.1 million
in pay equity payments for hospital employees has touched off a storm of
controversy in the midst of contract talks.

Hospital employees must recognize that they are trying to reach a contract
during tough economic times and there is limited funding for pay equity, Martin
Livingston, spokesman for Health Labor Relations Association said Wednesday.

"I think their expectations are very high and were raised considerably with the
new government," he said of the union's position on pay equity. "(Finance
Minister) Glen Clark's message was quite clear: public sector unions are going
to have to lower their expectations."

But union negotiators quickly responded that the government has not changed its
policy of ending wage discrimination and that hospitals cannot evade their
responsibilities.

"Are you going to continue to ask the woman in the lowest-paid sector of the
public sector to bear the burden of tough economic times?" asked Carmela
Allevato, secretary-business manager of the Hospital Employees' Union. "Pay
equity is a priority. I haven't heard the government say they're no longer
committed to pay equity."

Allevato said the employer has not even set a single common base rate for both
males and females. Starting rates for workers without experience or training now
vary so that women are paid $ 12.30 hourly while men are paid $ 14.22.

Economics have always been cited as justifications for not ending
discrimination, including early-century head taxes or last-century slavery, she
said.

Allevato criticized the HLRA announcement, saying the employer has taken a
unilateral position without regard to the negotiating process now under way.

And she said HLRA's position ignores the fact that almost all HEU members need
pay equity adjustments because its members are predominantly women and so pay in
all job classifications lags behind that in other sectors.

When making the pay equity announcement late Tuesday, HLRA president Gordon
Austin stressed that union and industry negotiators still must agree on a
process for implementation.

"Until a pay equity agreement is reached, HLRA is proposing three years of
interim wage rate adjustments," he said. "The goal is to have a
mutually-acceptable pay equity program in place by April 1993."

The lump sum would result in retroactive pay increases of between 3.5 and four
per cent to 13,000 people in the first year, according to HLRA. The members
would receive $ 900.

The proposal then would provide increases of between 1.74 per cent and 2.24 per
cent to 22,000 people in the second year, for a net payment of $ 540.

In the third year, allocation of the money would be negotiated.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1992 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


