                              456 of 994 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              July 12, 2015 Sunday

Hospitals have Hoke County poised for economic growth

BYLINE: Paige Rentz, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1989 words


July 12--RAEFORD -- In less than two years, Hoke County residents have gone from
having no local hospital to having a choice of two.

Now, as a result of the competition between two health systems for the patients
in a fast-growing community, Hoke County could be poised for accelerated
economic growth.

In March, the second hospital in the county, Fayetteville-based Cape Fear
Valley's Hoke Hospital, opened about three miles down U.S. 401 from FirstHealth
of the Carolinas' Hoke Campus of Moore Regional Hospital. The FirstHealth
hospital opened in October 2013.

The two systems fought for years to stake a claim on the eastern end of Hoke,
which has been among the fastest-growing counties in the state for more than a
decade. Between the 2000 and 2010 censuses, the county's population spiked by
about 40 percent and has grown another 10 percent in the past four years.

The population growth has been fueled at least in part by Fort Bragg, the
country's largest military post. Eastern Hoke County gives soldiers easy access
to Fort Bragg. And as Fayetteville has annexed its way into western Cumberland
County, there has been some suburban creep across the line in Hoke.

The thousands of homes that have popped up during Hoke's boom have made the
county increasingly appealing to retail and other commercial developers.

But for all the growth, the county lacked a basic service: a hospital. Most
residents drove to Moore and Cumberland counties to receive care. The nearest
emergency departments were more than 20 miles from Raeford.

But with two hospitals now in operation along this major artery of the county,
some locals expect a boom, including Donald Porter, Hoke County's director of
economic development.

"I think in about five years," he said, "that corridor is going to grow beyond
anything you can imagine."

In 2009, the two health systems proposed hospitals along U.S. 401. Cape Fear
Valley's initial proposal was planned for just inside the Cumberland County line
near Hoke Loop Road, but eventually shifted to the Hoke side of the line at
Johnson Mill Road.

By 2010, the discussion had shifted from which system's proposed hospital should
be built to creating competition in the booming corridor.

Charles Morris, a Fayetteville resident who served on FirstHealth's advisory
board, spoke in favor of building both at a state hearing in June 2010.

"I want to see the competition back," he said then. "There needs to be two
hospitals. Build 'em and let the people decide."

That's just what the state did a few months later.

In the intervening years, the health systems proceeded with planning and
construction of the hospitals while continuing to compete through the court
system.

Cape Fear Valley opened its Health Pavilion-Hoke in March 2013, with an express
care, pharmacy, and some specialty practices,

FirstHealth of the Carolinas opened its 8-bed hospital, a campus of Moore
Regional Hospital, in October 2013.

Not long after, Cape Fear Valley broke ground on its 41-bed hospital behind its
existing facility.

The court battle was decided late last year, when FirstHealth was granted the
ability to add 28 beds to its Hoke County hospital.

The health system is awaiting a certificate of need from the state before moving
forward with any planning for those beds, said Susan Beaty, president of Hoke's
FirstHealth hospital.

The hospitals, each sitting just inside of each end of Johnson Mill Road,
bookend a short stretch of U.S 401 primed for growth.

The spacious hospital campuses are so close, a patient could walk the 2.5 miles
from one to the other in the time it takes to drive to FirstHealth's parent in
Moore County.

Between the two, clusters of businesses have cropped up along U.S. 401, though
much of the land remains undeveloped as farmland or woods.

Signs advertising property for sale and places to live dot the landscape. Retail
locations? Professional office space? Move-in ready apartments? Newly built
single-family homes? All have their niches along the stretch.

Near Cape Fear Valley, Paraclete XP, an indoor skydiving business, is a major
draw. Heading toward FirstHealth, a number of businesses are clustered along the
northern side of the highway: an ammunition company, self-storage businesses,
and a FedEx distribution center.

There are three day care centers along the way, including ABC Learning Center,
owned by Marsha Lum.

She's glad the hospitals have moved in on either side of her and hopes they
bring in more businesses and people.

"It's been so barren out here for so long," she said, "and to have somebody next
door to us is great."

Jonathan Pounders, who works at Billie's, a thrift store on the southern side of
the highway, said he worries the growth is happening too fast and that the
houses may not get filled as quickly as they are getting built.

But, he said, he feels like the development "brings in more upper class to the
lower-class areas, makes it more evened out."

And it has been good for the business. The store has seen more customers as new
residents move in, he said, "because we deal in furniture."

Down the street, Heather Sapp, one of the owners of Something's Brewing Coffee
Shop, said she's also seen a bump in business since the two health systems
opened.

But it does have its downsides.

"Traffic is insane out here now," she said.

But she hopes the traffic brings more businesses, particularly some restaurants.

At each end of the corridor, the two hospitals are working to ramp up their own
business.

Last year, FirstHealth saw about 25,000 patients at the Hoke hospital, Beaty
said, with an average census of about 86 people a day.

That's more than FirstHealth expected, and the system has already begun
expanding services.

Two nursing shifts have been added, Beaty said. The hospital expanded from one
day of MRI service to two, and the use of the operating room has increased,
including the addition of orthopedic, cataract and ear, nose and throat
surgeries.

"We continually look to how we're expanding services," Beaty said.

At Cape Fear Valley, the number of patients has been ramping up over recent
months, with an average of about 55-60 emergency patients and 8 inpatients a
day.

Dr. Roxie Wells, president of Cape Fear Valley's Hoke Health Care, said the
focus now is on the emergency and the medical/surgical departments.

"We're growing by leaps and bounds in all of those," she said, "and we want to
make sure we continue to provide excellent care in those areas, and we will
branch out over time."

The hospital has a labor and delivery unit that has not yet opened because of
difficulties staffing it, she said.

The competition between the FirstHealth and Cape Fear Valley is good for the
county, said Porter, who served for seven years on Cape Fear Valley's board of
trustees, including a stint as chairman.

As an economic developer, Porter said he believes in customer choice.

"I never espouse to the philosophy of 'build it and they will come,'" Porter
said, "but in this case, that's exactly what's going to happen."

Having the two hospitals now in operation will make Porter's job just a little
bit easier.

"When clients look at coming to an area, people think quality of life is the top
priority," he said. "No way."

For those with children, schools are tops, then crime rates and public safety.
And number number three is health care.

For some businesses, safety is a high priority, and they want to make sure they
are near a hospital in case of an emergency, he said.

"Now that both of the hospitals are up and running, five or six years down the
road we're going to wonder what the heck happened," Porter said, "because it's
going to happen just that fast."

When businesses make decisions about where to build, Porter said, they conduct
circle studies, which factor in median family income, population density and
other data within a given radius of a potential site.

The continued residential growth along those corridors will bump the population
growth, and the economic impact, particularly salaries, of the hospitals will
help as well.

Porter said the hospitals, "are not only creating jobs," they're creating good
jobs."

Cape Fear Valley employs nearly 200 people in Hoke, Wells said.

When the hospital expands operations to its current capacity, it is expected to
employ about 350 people.

And First Health, said Beaty, is at 141 and growing.

Both systems continue to hire.

Beaty said the direct economic impact of the hospital in the community is $11.4
million, meaning that's how much money would leave the county if the hospital
weren't there. The direct economic impact of its employees' salaries is $6.5
million, she said.

For every dollar of health care revenue in Hoke County, another 66.5 cents is
generated in the county's economy, according to a 2006 state study provided by
the North Carolina Hospital Association.

Each dollar of compensation paid to an employee in the health industry produces
an additional 33.6 cents in other wages or benefits throughout the county.

And for every 10 people employed in the health care industry, an additional four
jobs are created in the county.

Julie Henry, spokeswoman for the hospital association, said these figures, based
on analysis of 2003 data, would likely be a minimum for the effect of the new
Hoke hospitals, since the county has seen such growth.

Porter praised county officials for having the vision to install a $1.5million
sewer line along the U.S. 401 corridor more than a decade ago.

When FedEx began looking at the area for a distribution center, Porter said,
county officials decided to plan for the future, laying the infrastructure that
could support commercial uses and higher-density residential development.

"We knew that one corridor would become one of the fastest-growing corridors in
North Carolina," Porter said.

Soon, the county will be opening its own wastewater treatment plant.

When FirstHealth approached the Williams family about putting its hospital on
their land, the siblings looked at the bigger picture.

"We bit the bullet and paid for extension of sewer and water to the hospital,"
said Charles Williams, one of the owners of the property.

They also went through a rezoning with the county, creating a master plan for
the property surrounding the hospital, which runs from the eastern end of
Johnson Mill Road to a retail cluster near Hobson Road. The plan allows
mixed-used development for restaurants, retail, professional offices, and
multiple family housing.

The work was a long play, Williams said. His family doesn't expect it to be
built out in five years.

"We thought with the hospital, if we were one of the first ones out of the gate,
it would give us that opportunity to kind of open up that corridor," he said.

The hope, Williams said, is that it will become a kind of medical corridor with
affiliated practices, dental offices, and other related services.

County planner Robert Farrell said he expects to see ancillary medical services
such a chiropractors, physical therapists, and other medical-related businesses.

Farell said The Crossings at Wayside, an assisted living facility between the
hospitals, is a prime example of such predicted ancillary services.

"It's a domino effect," Farell said.

Farrell and others have identified hotels and restaurants as a great need along
the corridor.

Now that the economy is improving, Williams said, he's beginning to "get some
feelers" from national restaurants and retailers, but he declined to say which
because nothing is final.

Initially there were a lot of people who doubted the county could support two
hospitals, Porter said.

And now both are looking forward to future growth.

"From my vantage point," he said, "these two hospitals in Hoke County have been
and will continue to be nothing but success."

Staff writer Paige Rentz can be reached at rentzp@fayobserver.com or 486-2728.

___ (c)2015 The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) Visit The
Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, N.C.) at www.fayobserver.com Distributed by
Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150712-FY-Hospitals-have-Hoke-County-poised-for-economic
-growth-0712-20150712

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2015 The Fayetteville Observer


