                              458 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                           November 12, 2009 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

CLOSING UPMC BRADDOCK IT WAS UNDERUSED; UPMC REMAINS COMMITTED TO THE COMMUNITY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-7

LENGTH: 536 words


In recent weeks, media have reported on community and political reactions to the
announced closure of UPMC Braddock, and some editorials and columns criticizing
the decision have used selective and inaccurate data and distorted facts. Going
forward, we want to ensure that the central facts stay in focus.

UPMC is preserving the jobs from UPMC Braddock. In the current recession, job
cuts are a devastating reality that touch every sector, but rather than cutting
the 650 jobs at UPMC Braddock, UPMC will offer willing and qualified employees
opportunities elsewhere within UPMC. This at a time when 17.5 percent of the
nation's workforce is unemployed or underemployed. UPMC did not cut jobs to save
costs or reduce losses.

UPMC is maintaining and strengthening health care in the Braddock area, not
abandoning it. The false belief is that a hospital is equivalent to health care.
The reality is that only about 12 percent of the population uses a hospital as
their usual source of care. Almost 70 percent use outpatient and physician
services, making access to outpatient services a much more important factor in
delivering quality health care to a community.

There are currently about 60 sites where outpatient/physician care is available
within the UPMC Braddock market and these services are being maintained. In
fact, UPMC is committed to expanding open-access care available in the evenings
and on weekends.

UPMC will support economic development in the Braddock area. The concern
expressed is that by closing its underutilized hospital UPMC is impairing
economic development in the region. On the contrary, UPMC is prepared to work
with regional governments and community economic development groups and to
donate the facility to such purposes as will advance the community's economic
future.

Since 1996, UPMC has invested more than $60 million in efforts and initiatives
aimed at making Braddock thrive. But we have not been successful. Ultimately,
underutilized hospitals are a wasted expense when health-care costs have become
the most significant threat to the national economy. Hospitals that lack the
volume to keep the skills of its staff well-honed are not optimal care
environments.

At UPMC Braddock, where the average daily census of medical surgical patients is
in the 40s, the volume is insufficient to assure the type of excellent care that
UPMC should provide. This, combined with the outmigration of patients from this
region to other hospitals by a 4-to-1 margin, are the reasons for closing the
inpatient facility.

These essential facts need to be kept in focus as we continue the discussion on
this issue:

* UPMC is preserving the jobs of UPMC Braddock employees -- not eliminating or
outsourcing them.

* UPMC is working to maintain and strengthen health care in the Braddock area --
not abandoning it.

* UPMC is on record with specific offers to continue to assist the community
with economic development.

If the closure of UPMC Braddock was about anything other than the facility's
underutilization, UPMC would not have taken the steps it has to preserve jobs.
We remain committed to working with community and government leaders to achieve
the best possible resolution to this challenging situation.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Paul C. Wood is vice president for public relations at UPMC./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2009 P.G. Publishing Co.


