                              461 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                            December 15, 2013 Sunday

[ed] For-profit hospitals '

LENGTH: 493 words


One of the long-cherished wishes of growth-oriented bureaucrats and big
businesses here has been the introduction of for-profit hospitals. In a
bypassing tactic not to provoke public sentiment, they took the first step 10
years ago by permitting foreign entities to set up for-profit medical
institutions in the nation's eight free economic zones, including Incheon and
Jeju Island.

The second such step was taken Friday when the government allowed hospitals to
set up profit-making subsidiaries engaged in such incidental businesses as
hotels, medical equipment, and medicinal products.

Deputy Prime Minister Hyon Oh-seok said the government would 'never' consider
commercializing medical corporations and that the public nature of the health
care service would remain unchanged. A question might have arisen in most
Koreans' minds: Until when?

Already, Koreans have complained about overtreatment and overbilling even by
non-profit hospitals. When these hospitals set up subsidiaries in part with
money from investors at home and abroad, patients may likely be forced to
undergo unnecessary diagnostic procedures, and, in a worst-case scenario, be
turned into human guinea pigs for clinical tests of newly-developed medicines
amid sharp rise in medical costs.

Proponents of for-profit hospitals cite better medical services and attraction
of foreign medical tourists as major reasons. However, the experience of the
United States where up to 15 percent of medical institutions are for-profit
hospitals shows otherwise: there were no for-profit hospitals among the top-17
institutions in the quality of medical services, as surveyed by the U.S. News
and World Report last year. Drawing of medical tourists also has more to do with
service quality than commercialization.

Korea's health care and insurance system is one of the few relatively superior
social security systems it has. The full-scale introduction of for-profit
hospitals and resultant medical divide is unthinkable in a country like Korea
notorious for its narrow and loose social safety nets. Large enterprises will
make more money and the nation's GDP will also expand a little, but the cost in
terms of public health will be intolerable.

As a candidate, President Park Geun-hye promised voters to treat four major
ailments, including cancer and heart disease, almost free of charge. It took
less than a year for Park to eat her words on health care, as she did in so many
other areas. Park was the only major candidate who did not oppose the
introduction of for-profit hospitals. After election, she did nothing to keep a
provincial governor from her own party closing down the nation's oldest public
hospital.

It is not easy to deny the need for advancing and internationalizing the medical
industry, but public health is one of the areas that cannot be sacrificed for or
exchanged with economic growth. Before the government stealthily proceeds any
further, it should put the issue to an open debate.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


