                              460 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             May 30, 2009 Saturday

Private hospitals to miss revenue targets

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 477 words


Bangkok Dusit Medical Services (BDMS) executive vice president John Lee Koh-shun
recently said his company had lowered its revenue-growth target from 10 per cent
to 5 per cent. The revision came after the company's first-quarter operating
results declined year on year.

BDMS operates the Bangkok Hospital Group, BNH Hospital, the Samitivej hospitals
and Royal International Hospital. It generated revenue of Bt21.83 billion last
year.

Koh-shun said that despite an increase in patient numbers in the first quarter
revenue had dropped, due mainly to the "Thai Help Thai" promotion providing
discounts on room rates and several medical services.

Some BDMS patients have shifted to lower-priced hospitals in this harsh economic
climate, but not a significant number, he said.

The "Thai Help Thai" promotion runs until the end of next month, but the company
plans to extend it in order to help Thais with their healthcare expenses.

"Although BDMS is a listed firm on the Stock Exchange of Thailand, we never put
profit ahead of helping Thais. We will extend the discount promotion even though
our net profit will be lower than last year," Koh-shun said.

He said another reason for extending the promotion was to build up consumers'
perceptions that hospitals in the BDMS network were sincere about wanting to
help out, which would be good for the hospitals in the long term.

"After the financial crisis in 1997, some of our general patients faded away,
fearing possible bad news if they came in for a health check-up. We don't want
that to happen again during this crisis, so we've done many things to keep them
with us. These include e-mails informing them of our promotional packages and
educating them so they'll realise their health should be the first priority,
even before thinking about coping with the economic crisis," Koh-shun said.

Bumrungrad Hospital CEO Mack Banner yesterday said this year's revenue would
definitely not grow 15 per cent as targeted, due mainly to the economic
uncertainty.

"I have not set a new target, because I don't know the future situation. Our
business consultant told me if hospitals could maintain their revenue at the
same level as last year it would mean business was still good in this tough
year. I just hope Bumrungrad experiences single-digit growth like last year," he
said.

Banner said patient numbers had declined 3 per cent year on year in the first
five months but revenue had increased 7 per cent, due to a large intensive-care
caseload.

BDMS's first-quarter revenue fell 2 per cent year on year to Bt5.385 billion.
However, its net profit dropped 34.86 per cent to Bt454 million, from Bt697
million in the same period last year.

Bumrungrad Hospital generated first-quarter revenue of Bt2.33 billion, up 4.48
per cent from Bt2.23 billion in the same period last year. Its net profit rose 8
per cent year on year to Bt338 million.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


