                              459 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                    The Land

                            June 21, 2017 Wednesday
                                Internet Edition

NSW Budget 2017: Big infrastructure spend leads regional cash splurge

BYLINE: JOHN ELLICOTT and JESSIE DAVIES

LENGTH: 501 words


â-º RELATED:

A $1.3 billion regional fund to turbocharge the regions leads a large
infrastructure spend on roads, water, schools and hospitals in the NSW budget.

In what many may term as a 'nurses and teachers budget', the NSW Government says
it is leading the other states in job creation and economic growth - with almost
40 per cent of new jobs created in regional NSW in the last two years.

In a bid to turbocharge regional economies the Government, as revealed last
month by The Land, has set up a $1.3b regional growth economic activation fund.

It includes record investment in water, roads and community facilities including
a $100m cultural program investment. The Government will pour money into
regional water and gas pipeline infrastructure projects.

Regional NSW will also get some of the 27 new schools promised in a $2.2 billion
schools budget, with a promise to reduce class sizes with 1000 new teachers. The
government has announced $46m to improve bush schools' internet connectivity.
All children involved in sport will get a $100 contribution towards sport
regsitration fees from January next year.

A feature will be investment in regional hospitals, starting with a new $534m
hospital at Tweed Heads, $43 million for Dubbo hospital, $8m for a new hospital
at Mudgee, an extra $30m for the redevelpoment of Armidale and Inverell
hospitals and $23m extra for Macksville hospital and $10m for redevelopment of
Goulburn hospital.

The government as part of a $100m palliative care package, will provide 300
scholarships in regional areas to support palliative services.

The government is backing the TAFE system with a $1.7b investment, which
includes $15m for the Agskills strategy, working with Cotton Australia and the
Grains Research and Development Corporation.

The government is spending $182m on Local Land Services (LLS), a boost of $23m
on last year partly to help support farmers through new vegetation and
biosecurity laws. Although staff numbers have fallen by 20 overall from last
year, the Government says it plans to employ up to 100 new LLS staff in the next
two years. It explains the fall in staff numbers due to a "time anomaly" when
department chiefs must declare staff numbers to Treasury.

Some other key points of the $965m primary industries expenditure includes $78m
for "Sustaining the Basin" to support efficiency for irrigators; $75m for
concessional loans under the Farm Innovation Fund; $64m to destroy Imported Red
Fire Ants; $18m to continue developing the Murray Darling Basin plan; $12m to
remove stamp duty on crop and stock insurance, $2.3 m to build a new offshore
patrol vessel to protect fisheries and $2m to research secure facilities for
growing medicinal cannabis.

Primary Industries Minister Niall Blair said the government "wanted to make sure
any investment in this sector looks after our farmers and primary producers not
just now, but well into the future".

The Government's aim is to achieve a 30 per cent growth in the value of primary
production by 2020.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


