                              457 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                              May 8, 2011, Sunday

Covering community health care;
W.Va. hopsitals shoulder bad debt, offer charity care during hard times

BYLINE: Veronica Nett, Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1B

LENGTH: 631 words


West Virginia hospitals spent more than $721 million on charity care and bad
debt in 2009 - more than double the cost in non-reimbursed care from a decade
ago, according to a report by the West Virginia Hospital Association.

In 1999, state hospitals spent about $286.8 million in uncompensated care for
residents without insurance or who were underinsured, according to the report
"West Virginia Hospitals: Covering Community Healthcare."

"Hospitals are responsible and required to treat patients regardless of their
ability to pay," said Tony Gregory, vice president of legislative affairs for
the West Virginia Hospital Association.

"More folks are becoming uninsured or underinsured as the result of layoffs and
other economic conditions," Gregory said. "They, for example, can't or are
having difficulty paying higher premiums and insurance rates, and therefore
choose not to have insurance."

In September, Charleston Area Medical Center, Saint Francis Hospital and Thomas
Memorial Hospital announced salary and budget cuts. All cited the need to
compensate for an increase in charity care and bad debt, as well as low Medicare
and state Public Employee Insurance Agency reimbursement rates.

CAMC officials said the hospital wrote off $18 million in charity care and $20
million in bad debt in 2009.

Officials at Thomas Memorial and Saint Francis Hospital, both part of the Thomas
Health System, said they paid out about $9 million in charity care in 2009, an
increase from about $6 million from the pervious year.

"From 1999 up to our current year, the number for total uncompensated care has
increased steadily," Gregory said. "No one really knows what health reform will
bring, but the belief is by 2014 the level of uncompensated care will stabilize,
in terms of more people being covered by some form of insurance."

West Virginia hospitals admitted more than 250,000 patients, delivered about
21,500 babies, and reported more than 1 million emergency room visits in 2009,
according to the report.

Medicare covered about half of the patients treated in state hospitals,
according to the report. About 400,000 West Virginians - or 21 percent of the
state's population - is covered by Medicare.

Hospitals also lost about $377 million from federal Medicare payments, and $324
million in low Medicaid and PEIA reimbursement rates in 2009, according to the
report.

Medicare currently reimburses state hospitals about 84 percent of the cost to
care for a patient, and Medicaid and PEIA reimburse about 73 percent of the
cost.

"For every dollar West Virginia spends on Medicaid, the federal government
contributes three," the report states.

"When West Virginia receives Medicaid payments, new rounds of spending are
promoted, generating new spending and tax revenue for the state. Therefore,
cutting Medicaid during an economic downturn, for example, would actually worsen
the state economy, as well as reduce access to needed healthcare services for
the state's most vulnerable population."

Hospital care is the largest component of the health-care sector, and a growing
segment of West Virginia's economy, according to the report.

State hospitals employ about 39,000 people, spend about $2.3 billion in payroll
and benefits, and purchase more than $4.7 billion in goods and services in 2009,
according to the report - which estimates the economic impact of state hospital
at about $8.4 billion.

"The report illustrates the heart of hospitals and how they care for their
communities, but it also shows the tug and pull of hospitals operating as
businesses while concurrently keeping compassion for people - regardless of
ability to pay - as their priority," said Joe Letnaunchyn, the Hospital
Association's president, in a prepared statement.

Reach Veronica Nett at veronican@wvgazette.com or

304-348-5113.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 Charleston Newspapers


