                              466 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Jamestown Sun (North Dakota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           December 12, 2009 Saturday

USDA key player in economic development

BYLINE: Toni Pirkl, The Jamestown Sun, N.D.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 723 words


Dec. 12--The USDA Rural Development began raising awareness of its ability to
help grow communities with its $46 million in loans for construction of a new
facility for Jamestown Hospital.

The unprecedented amount of U.S. Department of Agriculture funding has made it
possible to build a state-of-the-art regional medical center in Jamestown. The
$46 million was split into $31 million in a direct USDA loan and $15 million in
a guaranteed loan, with low interest rates. It was the largest amount of funding
USDA Rural Development has ever provided for a project in North Dakota.

"Without stimulus dollars this project wouldn't have happened," said Jasper
Schneider, state director for USDA Rural Development. "This was also one of the
larger projects across the country. It fits in what I think USDA Rural
Development should be."

Schneider believes North Dakota communities need up-to-date health care
facilities if economic development is going to work in the state. As a graduate
of Jamestown College, he said he was aware of just how outdated the present
Jamestown Hospital is. And much of his background centers around health care.

"This project is exciting for me as this is an issue I care so much about," he
said. "We're working with about a half-dozen clinics, hospitals and long-term
care facilities in the state."

As it turned out, USDA made it possible to fund construction of the Jamestown
Regional Medical Center, which begins in the spring. However, it's not where
hospital officials originally thought to look.

"Our decision to look for funding at USDA started with the collapse of the
credit markets and on the advice of our consultant," said Alan O'Neill,
Jamestown Hospital vice president of finance. "There were no other options for
us. And we couldn't have found rates like this anywhere."

The USDA financing option started with a meager $3 million and O'Neill said they
were told it would be a stretch to ask for $8 million. Then stimulus money
became available and the number climbed to $46 million.

"The USDA folks were such great advocates for this project and so helpful,"
O'Neill said.

The application process is complicated and extensive, he said. Just the
pre-application filled a 5-inch binder. The final application included a
feasibility study with historic and future budgets to determine whether it was
an affordable project.

"It's a very rigorous process. The requirements are very explicit," O'Neill
said. "But the USDA folks helped us comprehend them. They were so passionate
about this project."

Schneider said a project such as this would have raised red flags for a bank.

"This is not a good investment for a bank," he said. "That's where USDA Rural
Development steps in. We have a lot of options in our arsenal. No project is too
big or too small that we can't be involved in it."

Begun as the Farmers Home Administration, it transitioned to USDA Rural
Development in 1994-95.

"They kept a pretty low profile. Now we're raising the profile on our services,"
Schneider said. "We have grants and loans available for all kinds of projects.
It's pretty remarkable what we can do in our office."

With the many programs and options available, Schneider joked they could build a
town from scratch. And as only one-third of the stimulus funds have been
distributed, he said "it's a great time to contact us."

Deb Kantrud, executive director of the South Central Dakota Regional Council,
said her agency has worked hand in hand with USDA Rural Development on a number
of projects. For example, USDA provides low-interest loans and grants on
infrastructure projects such as construction of water and sewer lines. Other
USDA programs include housing, utilities and community facilities.

"We work with many communities who are accessing USDA funds," Kantrud said.
"They're a key player in keeping a community thriving."

Sun reporter Toni Pirkl can be reached at (701) 952-8453 or by e-mail at
tonip@jamestownsun.com

To see more of The Jamestown Sun, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.jamestownsun.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Jamestown Sun, N.D.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091212-QJ-USDA-key-player-in-economic-development-1212

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QJ


                                 Copyright 2009


