                              471 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 5, 2013 Friday

Pickering to study viability of hospitals

BYLINE: Bobby Harrison, Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal, Tupelo

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 625 words


July 05--JACKSON --State Auditor Stacey Pickering said he is concerned about
accessibility to health care that will be lost if the state's community-owned
hospitals do not remain viable.

Pickering, speaking recently to the Mississippi State University Stennis
Institute of Government/capitol press corps luncheon group, said his office will
be conducting a study of the issues surrounding the hospitals.

"I am very concerned about the community-owned hospitals and the accessibility
to health care and the viability they have," said Pickering. He noted that the
county-owed hospital in Laurel being open probably saved his father's life last
year and ensured a complete recovery when he suffered a stroke.

Pickering said he is concerned about how provisions of the Federal Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act and other factors would affect the hospitals.
Throughout the year, the Mississippi Hospital Association and many hospital
administrators have expressed concerns that if the state does not expand
Medicaid to cover those earning up to 138 percent of the federal poverty level
as is allowed by the Affordable Care Act, many local hospitals would be
negatively impacted.

Part of the reason for the projected negative impact on hospitals is that the
Affordable Care Act changes the way hospitals are reimbursed for uncompensated
care. The ACA presumes that with more people receiving Medicaid, fewer people
will need uncompensated care. Thus, part of the funds to pay for the ACA are
derived from greatly reducing over a period of time the federal payments for
uncompensated care to the hospitals.

The Legislature just finished a special session where efforts to expand Medicaid
were blocked by Gov. Phil Bryant and the Republican leadership of the
Legislature.

Pickering said the issues he wants to study cover more than the Medicaid
expansion. He said the issues cover the changing economics in health care and
how the governments that own the hospitals should determine when the health care
facilities should be sold.

In recent months, there have been discussions about what would happen to many of
the state's hospitals. Some have said that unless the state expands Medicaid,
hospitals would be forced to reduce services, lay off employees and, in some
cases, might be forced to close.

"The first people I want to talk about work in your community hospitals as
nurses, janitors, managers, medical coders, and cafeteria workers," Sam Cameron,
chief executive of the Mississippi Hospital Association, said in March.

"Many of them work in small, rural hospitals that are struggling to keep their
doors open already, and they face potential layoffs if we don't expand Medicaid
eligibility."

Pickering said he wanted to determine which hospitals are facing economic
difficulties and why.

Not only are the community-owed hospitals important for the health care they
provide, but they are economic engines in the local communities," Pickering
said. He said if the hospitals close, they will have dire economic consequences
in the communities they serve.

Pickering hopes to have the report finished by early next year.

He said he will focus on the community-owned hospitals, but the results of the
report will be applicable to for-profit and not-for-profit hospitals in the
state as well.

According to a report by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 41 hospitals in the state
are owned by local governments or the state, 27 are not-for-profit and 28 are
for-profit. North Mississippi Medical Center in Tupelo is a not-for-profit
health care provider.

bobby.harrison@journalinc.com

___ (c)2013 the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) Visit the
Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) at www.nems360.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130705-TP-HLT-Pickering-to-study-viability-of-hospitals-0705-20130705

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TP


               Copyright 2013 Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal


