                              470 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Austin American-Statesman (Texas)

                          September 15, 2005 Thursday

Site chosen for hospital in Cedar Park;
Plano-based company expects to break ground in March on city's first facility

BYLINE: Jennifer Barrios, AMERICAN-STATESMAN STAFF

SECTION: WILLIAMSON COUNTY THIS WEEK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 443 words


Officials with Triad Hospitals Inc. reached a deal last week on a site for a new
hospital in Cedar Park.

Gerald Stevens, a consultant with the Plano-based company, said Triad officials
signed papers that would allow them to acquire about 60 acres at the
intersection of the new U.S. 183-A and RM 1431.

The move brings Cedar Park one step closer to having a hospital within its city
limits. Currently, Cedar Park residents must go to neighboring Round Rock or
Austin for inpatient hospital services.

"It's a quality of life issue," Mayor Bob Lemon said. "You want a good hospital
near where you live."

The company announced its intention to build a hospital in Cedar Park last year.
Stevens expects the company to break ground in March.

The $90 million hospital will have 151 beds, although Triad will start with 75.
The hospital will cover 260,000 square feet, including an adjacent
60,000-square-foot medical building. Stevens said company officials plan to open
the hospital by 2008.

The company is asking for a $4 million reimbursement package from the city. That
money, which Triad proposes to get in $1 million installments over several
years, would help pay for the roads and infrastructure that will be built as
part of the project.

The $4 million would come from a half-cent sales tax that is channeled into an
economic-development fund. Voters approved the tax in 1999.

Shaune Haas, president of the 4A Economic Development Corporation, which
oversees the fund, said her board expects to have a recommendation on the
package next week.

But Haas said she did not think the incentives package would affect the deal.

"This is not a deal-breaker," she said. "This is a deal- enhancer."

City officials appeared jubilant over the hospital, which Triad estimates will
add about 150 jobs to Cedar Park.

"I am ecstatic," Council Member Christie Goodman said. "There's nothing bad
about bringing in a hospital."

Economic Development Director Phil Brewer said the addition of a hospital marks
a significant step in the 32-year-old city's growth.

"If you look around, most communities our size have their own hospitals," Brewer
said. "It's one of those pieces that is going to move us forward in terms of the
development and future growth of the community."

jbarrios@statesman.com; 246-1150

(box)

Triad Hospitals Inc.

Based in: Plano

Operates: 52 hospitals and 9 surgery centers in Texas and 14 other states

Proposes: A 75-bed hospital, expandable to 151 beds, in Cedar Park.

Timeline: Land deals reached. Triad expects to reach agreement with city on
hospital plans and incentives package by November. Groundbreaking in March;
hospital to be running by 2008.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2005 The Austin American Statesman


