                              467 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             June 13, 2013 Thursday
                                 SOONER EDITION

MEDICAID EXPANSION HELPS ALL;
GOV. CORBETT SHOULD TAKE A STEP BENEFICIAL TO THE STATE

BYLINE: A. J. Harper

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B-5

LENGTH: 754 words


Intertwined within the state budget negotiations is an issue that has been
simmering in the Legislature: that of expanding Pennsylvania's Medical
Assistance program. This is an option for each state under the new health reform
law, the Affordable Care Act.

To date, Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Corbett has taken the stance that Pennsylvania
will not expand Medical Assistance. With the state budget deadline of June 30
looming, the question of Medicaid expansion is bubbling to the surface. Senate
Democrats, led by Sen. Jay Costa, included expansion of Medicaid in their budget
proposal, placing their position directly opposite of Mr. Corbett's.

Currently, the state's Medicaid program provides health-care coverage to
approximately 2.2 million low-income Pennsylvanians who earn about half of the
poverty level. This equates to approximately $11,777 annually for a family of
four. The program also covers pregnant women, the disabled and the elderly.

If Pennsylvania chose to expand Medicaid, the commonwealth would receive
significant funding, which in turn leads to more citizens receiving health-care
coverage. Under the Affordable Care Act, the federal government will fund 100
percent of the costs of those who are newly eligible for Medicaid for 2014-2016.
After 2016, the federal government match declines to 90 percent by 2020 and is
expected to stay at that level for subsequent years.

There have been four economic impact studies conducted all reaching the same
conclusion -- Pennsylvania would benefit economically from expanding Medicaid.
The studies, conducted by RAND Corp., the Pennsylvania Economy League,
Pennsylvania's own Independent Fiscal Office and Families USA conclude
Pennsylvania would receive an influx of $2 billion minimally in federal funds
each year, creating additional economic growth. Three of the studies found that
at least 35,000 new jobs would be created. Job growth equates to people
investing in the state economy and employees contributing to the state revenue
through payroll taxes.

All four studies confirm several hundred thousand Pennsylvanians would receive
insurance who are otherwise not covered. For Western Pennsylvania hospitals and
the communities they serve, this would be a boost.

Hospitals and health-care systems are typically among the largest employers
throughout the region. These hospitals, whether they are part of a system or
stand-alone community hospitals, employ hundreds, thousands or tens of thousands
of people.

They provide charity care to those who can't afford to pay. The Hospital Council
of Western Pennsylvania's most recent Flash Survey shows that Western
Pennsylvania hospitals provided more than $243 million in charity care. The
Flash Survey also reported the region's hospitals lost more than $100 million
from operations over the same period last year. This is an alarming loss that
does not include Medicare payment cuts from sequestration.

The hospital council's data shows that Western Pennsylvania hospitals serve a
large percentage of Medicare and Medicaid patients. These patients represent
more than 50 percent of patients treated on average by the region's hospitals.
Western Pennsylvania also has one of the oldest populations in the country. Age
is a critical variable: the more severe the illness, the greater the resources
required to care for the patient.

If expanding coverage to our most vulnerable citizens and the continued cost
burden on hospitals are not reason enough to expand Medicaid in Pennsylvania,
then consider the benefit to the region's business community. Employers who
provide health insurance to their employees often pay higher premiums to
compensate for the financial losses hospitals absorb in treating patients
without insurance. If more uninsured people are covered by Medicaid, hospitals
will assume less charity care, thus keeping costs lower for commercial insurers,
and in turn, down for employers.

Finally, consider the impact on patients: With the expansion of Medicaid,
patients would receive care in the right setting at the right time. Those who
obtain coverage will not have to delay treatment and turn to hospital emergency
rooms -- one of the most costly settings to receive care. And, because these
patients are covered, their treatment will be ongoing, rather than at a crisis
point requiring more intense medical interventions.

For the sake of patients, the public, businesses and hospitals in Western
Pennsylvania we urge the governor and state lawmakers to expand Medicaid as part
of next year's state budget.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: A. J. Harper is president of the Hospital Council of Western Pennsylvania
(harpera@hcwp.org)./

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 P.G. Publishing Co.


