                              465 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           November 20, 2004 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Why elective surgery waiting lists are a design feature of Medicare

BYLINE: Ross Gittins

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 766 words


THE waiting lists for elective surgery in public hospitals aren't an unfortunate
stuff-up that we're working to fix, they are a design feature of Medicare.

Some people are shocked that I should say that, but to anyone who's studied a
little economics, it's a statement of the obvious.

State politicians always seek to give us the impression that waiting lists - or
waiting times - are an evil they're struggling to overcome (especially around
election time). And if the government is incapable of fixing the problem, the
opposition is sure it can do the trick.

The doctors' lobby groups give us the impression that waiting lists could be
quickly eliminated if only the pollies would spend just a few million more on
our hard-pressed public hospitals.

Because many doctors are surprisingly weak on economics, they explain waiting
lists in terms of too few operating theatres or surgeons (just so long as the
latter can be portrayed as the product of tight-fisted governments, not the
college of surgeons seeking to bolster surgeons' fees by restricting supply).

But while these factors may play a part, they don't go to the heart of the
problem, which is an economic one.

As you learn on day one of an economics course, "the economic problem" is that
our wants are infinite, but our means of satisfying them - our resources - are
finite. That's true for the individual, and also for society.

The whole point of economics is to help the community deal with this "problem of
scarcity" - there just isn't enough land, labour or capital in the world to do
all the things we'd like to do.

It's this comparative scarcity that gives resources their price. Only if
something is infinitely available (such as air to breathe, as we used to
imagine) does it come without price. And the price of something, no matter how
high, is the right price when it accurately reflects that item's "scarcity
value".

Because resources are scarce relative to all the uses we'd like to put them to,
we have the bedrock concept of economics - "opportunity cost". Everything we do
has an opportunity cost because the resources we use to do it are no longer
available to do anything else.

So the opportunity cost of that one thing is the value of the next most
desirable thing you could have done with the resources used.

Economists' primary contribution to society is to help it in its eternal battle
with the problem of scarcity - that is, help it find ways to satisfy as many
wants as possible from the limited resources available. Help it get more bang
for its buck.

Economists' obsession with scarcity explains their obsession with prices
(because prices are meant to reflect relative scarcity) and their obsession with
productivity (finding ways to extract more output from unchanged inputs of
resources) and efficiency (eliminating waste in the use of resources).

OK, back to hospital waiting lists. The thing that makes economists uneasy about
Medicare is its promise of "free" public hospital treatment to all-comers. If
something's free, it's bound to be used to excess, or wastefully. By charging a
price, you avoid waste by rationing the availability of the resources. By using
price to ration access, you ensure that only people who really value something
will find the money to buy it. (If they really want it but can't afford it,
economic efficiency's answer is: tough luck.)

The point is that, because resources are scarce, they have to be rationed one
way or another. And if you don't ration by price, you ration by queue.

If access to public hospitals really was free, state governments would be
writing an open cheque for each of their hospitals. Spending on hospitals would
grow even more rapidly than it does.

To cover this ever-expanding cost, governments would have either to keep cutting
spending in other areas or keep raising taxes. Because they're most reluctant to
do either, they set a limit on how much they're prepared to spend on public
hospitals each year and make everyone wait their turn for elective (non-urgent)
surgery.

This gives priority to people with life-threatening conditions who need
operations. And it doesn't just delay everyone's elective surgery. It probably
also causes less surgery, because some people look at the queue and don't
bother, while some people in the last months of their life die before they get
to the head of the queue.

So waiting lists are deliberate strategy to limit the growth in government
spending on health care. They exist in almost every other country and it's
impossible to imagine a time when governments will stop using them as a crude
way to limit public spending.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2004 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


