                              468 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      July 3, 1987, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Downtown hotel blaze kills senior in Vancouver

BYLINE: (CP)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 338 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER, British Columbia


   VANCOUVER (CP) - One woman is dead and another in critical condition in
hospital after a fire yesterday in the basement of a 14-storey downtown hotel.

The women, whose names were not released, were believed to be in their 70s.
Thirteen other hotel guests were treated for smoke inhalation.

The fire in the Tropicana Hotel, believed to have started in the hotel's sauna
area, forced the evacuation of about 140 guests.

Firefighters stop blaze

heading for B.C. towns

PENTICTON, B.C. (CP) - About 150 firefighters and seven helicopters were
fighting a forest blaze yesterday that on Canada Day had threatened to engulf
two small populated areas near here. The 1,800-hectare (4,448-acre) fire was
pushed back and is "close to being contained," a provincial forest spokesman
said.

Alberta business group

saved from collapse

EDMONTON (CP) - The Alberta Chamber of Commerce has prevented its possible
financial collapse by raising $120,000, spokesman Reuben Hamm says. The Calgary
chamber has committed $40,000 toward an emergency bailout of the provincial
business organization, he said. The organization's deficit jumped last year to
$187,000, due mostly to the economic downturn in the province and poor financial
control, officials said.

Former TTC worker

sailing across Atlantic

SYDNEY, N.S. (CP) - A former Toronto Transit Commssion worker has begun a solo
voyage across the Atlantic in an 8-metre (26-foot) sailing vessel. Doug Hurst,
33, left Sydney harbor under breezy, blue skies Wednesday for the Azores Island
off Portugal. The 12-year TTC administration worker figures the crossing will
take three weeks.

Hospital to shut down

night emergency room

WINNIPEG (CP) - Starting tomorrow, Grace Hospital will close its emergency room
during the busy night time hours after four of its 10 emergency department
physicians resigned, a hospital spokesman says. Dave Perry said that until the
hospital finds replacements, the emergency room will be closed from 6 p.m. to 8
a.m.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


