                              473 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            March 20, 1993 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

TAMPERING WITH MEDICARE A POLITICAL HEALTH HAZARD;
GITTINS ON SATURDAY

BYLINE: ROSS GITTINS Economics Editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1302 words


While the Liberals are asking themselves why they lost an unlosable election,
they should have a long, hard look at their policy on Medicare.

Their plans to change Medicare were probably their biggest vote-loser after the
GST. And not for the first time. The Liberals always promise to change Medicare
and it always costs them votes. (The exception was in 1990 when, just before the
election, Peter Shack abandoned his attempt to produce a policy. That cost
votes, too.)

Market research shows that voters are quite happy with Medicare. They like its
simplicity and its stability. It hasn't been changed significantly since Labor
introduced it in 1984 and voters like it that way.

They don't like the sound of waiting lists for elective surgery, of course, but
few voters are affected by them. The alleged queue of 100,000 patients
represents only about 3.5 per cent of annual hospital admissions.

If voters don't like changes to health care arrangements, they certainly don't
like changes that would make health care more expensive. And, though Labor's
scare campaign was over the top, there's no doubt the Liberals'changes would
have made health care more costly for everyone except pensioners and other
health-card holders.

True, the proposed rebates would have delivered a windfall to those people on
incomes of less than average weekly earnings who already have hospital
insurance.

But, for people under 65, singles on more than $35,000 a year and families with
combined income of more than $45,000 a year would have faced a surcharge if they
don't already have hospital insurance. And everyone apart from card-holders
would have been hit by other changes: the abolition of bulk billing for those
without cards, the reduction of the Medicare benefit from 85 per cent of the
schedule fee to 75 per cent, and the introduction of "gap"insurance to cover the
difference between the Medicare benefit and up to 85 per cent of the AMA's
recommended fee.

So, obviously, the Liberals' changes weren't motivated by political pragmatism.
What then was the motivation? More hair-shirt economic rationalism?

That's the strange thing. From a rationalist's point of view the changes were a
dog's breakfast. They'd have done nothing to reduce the manifest inefficiencies
of the health system.

In his efforts to sell the changes, the one benefit John Hewson claimed was that
they'd reduce hospital waiting lists.

As he explained in his TV launch: "Public hospitals are overcrowded. Private
hospitals have plenty of beds. So the Liberal Government will help pay for
people's health insurance so that they can use private hospitals. Public
hospital queues will be dramatically reduced." The trouble with this argument is
that Dr Hewson's carrots and sticks were aimed at encouraging people to take out
basic hospital insurance, at a cost of $800 a year for families ($400or for
singles).

Basic hospital insurance covers the cost of being a private patient in a public
hospital. To meet the cost of admission to a private hospital you need"top
table" cover, which costs a lot more.

So his policy would not have shifted many people out of public hospitals into
private hospitals.

In any case, Dr Hewson's argument assumed that the queues are caused by a
shortage of beds in public hospitals. In fact, there are many causes. In the
areas where waiting times are longest, orthopaedics and ophthalmology, the main
problem isn't a shortage of beds it's a shortage of specialists.

The economic rationalists' solution to that would be to oblige the specialist
colleges to ease their artificial restrictions on the supply of specialists.

You may imagine that a primary goal of the Liberals' Medicare changes would have
been to reduce the cost of health care to the taxpayer. Many economic
rationalists would like to see that.

But no. On Fightback's own figures, the saving to the taxpayer would have been
minor. What the Budget saved from reducing the size of Medicare benefits and
from cutting grants to public hospitals by $1.3 billion a year, would have been
used almost completely to cover the cost of the rebates for hospital insurance
and an increase in the Government's contribution to the health funds'
"reinsurance pool".

Many economic rationalists disapprove of bulk billing because they believe that,
when a service appears to be "free", it will be overused. They like to see the
patient make a "co-payment" to discourage overuse by patients and overservicing
by doctors.

So many economic rationalists would support Dr Hewson's plans to end bulk
billing for everyone except card-holders and to reduce Medicare benefits to 75
per cent of the schedule fee. They'd expect this to reduce the national cost of
health care without any diminution in the quality of that care.

Fine. But then Dr Hewson went off in the opposite direction by planning to lift
the ban on health funds offering gap insurance.

I don't know of any economist who approves of gap insurance. It completely
undercuts the economic logic behind patient co-payments. Once a person has
insured against the gap, it ceases to influence his or her decisions about
whether to visit the doctor. And it's easier for doctors to get away with
overservicing.

At present, bulk billing and the Medicare benefit of 85 per cent of the schedule
fee act to limit what doctors can charge. But if you end bulk billing and allow
gap insurance you increase the scope for doctors to raise their fees towards the
AMA's recommended fees, which are about 30 per cent higher than the schedule
fee.

Dr Hewson argued that competition between the oversupply of doctors would limit
their ability to raise their fees. But the oversupply is mainly of GPs, not
specialists. And even in the case of GPs, competition would not prevent a rise
in fees if many of their patients had gap insurance.

In any case, Dr Hewson criticised Labor for failing to reduce the flow of new
doctors and promised to maintain controls over the number of places in medical
schools and monitor the controls on the immigration of doctors.

From an economic rationalist viewpoint, Dr Hewson's Medicare changes didn't add
up. Nor did they add up from other perspectives. They would have cost patients
more, they wouldn't have saved the taxpayer a bean and they would have raised
the national cost of health care.

There's only one way to make sense of those changes: they would have greatly
benefited the private health funds and doctors.

The health funds would have benefited from the carrots and sticks to get more
people into hospital insurance and from the Government contribution to their
reinsurance pool.

Gap insurance, combined with the plan to allow the funds to pay out Medicare
benefits on behalf of Medicare itself, would have allowed them to get back into
medical insurance, from which they've been excluded since 1984. Doctors,
particularly the specialists who dominate the AMA, would have benefited from the
extra people with hospital insurance (since they get more for treating private
patients), from the removal of bulk billing and introduction of gap insurance.

The lesson for the Liberals is clear: if they want to start winning elections,
they should stop trying to change Medicare to benefit doctors and health funds
at the expense of voters.

HSC economics students: yours truly will be in Wagga on Saturday April 3 at Mt
Austin High School to give a day of lectures on macro-economic management. Cost:
$20. Ask your teacher for details or ring Greg Jackson on (063) 82 4371(after
hours).

A symposium on business careers will be held at Sydney Town Hall on Monday March
29, organised by the University of Technology, Sydney's AIESEC group. Experts
will speak on career opportunities in banking and finance, marketing, accounting
and computing. A well-dressed economics editor will say a few opening words. See
your teacher for details.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1993 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


