                              477 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                              The Herald (Harare)

                            December 26, 2011 Monday

Of Economic Life and Rural Areas [analysis]

BYLINE: Albert Nhamoyebonde

LENGTH: 877 words


It never ceases to amaze me each time I leave Harare and its unbelievably
congested traffic, that the economic life in rural centres becomes a major
subject of my concern.

Whether travelling to Gutu or this time to Mudzi District near the border with
Mozambique, my interest is to see whether the rural folk are happy with their
way of life.

There is no denying the fact that the main roads out of Harare are the best
roads in the country. The roads around Harare suburbs and city centre are
terrible. It is terrifying to drive into Harare from the rural areas where the
main roads are meant for the high performance cars not pushcarts or ox drawn
carts.

The perfect roads give a wrong picture as to the economic life of the rural
areas. Mudzi District centre was built after independence and has modern
buildings with a tarred road, a good district hospital but without a resident
doctor although there is excellent accommodation for hospital staff.

Why is there no doctor at this district hospital? The local church pastor says
the doctor left to further his studies but there has not been a replacement.
There cannot be any economic life without the health of the people being catered
for. Only mission hospitals away from the area have resident doctors.

The district has excellent conference facilities which include the Pumpkin Hotel
and the District Centre. Many workshops and seminars have been held but there
are no tangible economic activities that have emanated from these endless
meetings.

I visited the suburbs where houses are being built but was told that some of the
building materials and the builders themselves are not local but imported all
the way from Harare. Except for bricks, the roofing materials come from Harare.
With the excellent state of the roads, the transporters from Harare are happy to
use such good roads.

What other economic activity was evident? Yes, the roads were lined up with
mainly women selling mazhanje, tomatoes, mangoes etc. But what was missing were
small enterprises like hair salons, shoe repair or carpentry shops. Surely,
district centres should get priority for such simple shops to be set up by the
Ministry of Small Enterprises.

If economic empowerment is just preached in the city centres on radio and
television, without venturing into the rural centres, then the whole exercise
loses its meaning.

As I drove through Mutoko, Mrewa and other centres, what was missing was a
bustling economic activity. I saw many young people spending their time
aimlessly with a few girls trudging and pushing wheelbarrows with sacks of maize
to the grinding meals.

No wonder why Harare is so congested. The rural to urban migration has reached
such a level that, in a few years, only the elderly will be residing in the
rural areas. Cabbages sold in Gutu, I was told that they came from Harare. At
least, Mudzi, Mtoko, Mrewa, Goromonzi districts are self sufficient in
vegetables. These areas actually feed Harare.

But there is room for setting small manufacturing and maintenance economic
activities to provide jobs for the rural young people. Why should school
furniture and uniforms be made and repaired in Harare?

How difficult is it to set up barber shops, hair salons or any repair shops?
Should the bottle stores and small retail shops define the economic activity of
the rural centres? Of course not.

Are politicians serious about improving the lives of the rural areas? The
majority of the voters are in these areas. One thing upper most on their minds
is that they play a major role in deciding who shall form the Government.

It is not asking too much to see that more tractors should serve the rural
communities so that they can do away with ox drawn ploughs I saw everywhere.
Many countries have moved away from back breaking activities into the use of
modern scientific ways of servicing the rural areas. Vietnam is one country that
has emerged from a devastating war to spearhead economic activities in the rural
areas with much success.

For example, university and technical college graduates spend a year on
attachment in rural centres visiting communities and advising the rural folk on
economic matters.

Economic students as well as engineering students are sent to the rural areas.
Those from technical colleges such as carpenters, brick layers, water engineers
are also sent to the rural areas. Seminars should be on such economic
activities, such as, how to rear pigs, chickens etc.

The Medical School must be commended for sending their medical students and
lecturers to the rural district hospitals on attachment. But the major problem
becomes that there is no follow up by the Ministry of Health and Child Welfare
to complement the work of the Medical School by employing qualified doctors to
man the hospitals. There can never be any meaningful economic activities unless
the rural people get better services.

Another area that impressed me was the work of Zesa which is providing
electricity to these centres. I met with their officers who are proud of their
role in providing electricity to schools as well as public centres and homes.

There is no doubt that more resources should go to revamping economic activity
for the rural areas especially at growth points which should become the magnet
for rural economic life.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


