                              476 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                           Glanbrook / Sachem Gazette

                             May 26, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

State of hospitals underreported

BYLINE: Jim Knisley, Eye on the County

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 788  words


A couple of weeks ago the Ontario Health Coalition released a devastating report
on the state of rural and northern hospitals and health care in Ontario. To say
the report was underreported would be an understatement of Olympic proportions.
Perhaps this was because it didn't have anything to say about Toronto. Perhaps
it was because the results were based on a combination of research and public
hearings and were therefore somewhat predictable.

Anyone who has spent any time listening to what people are saying in areas
affected by the grinding down of smaller hospitals in various parts of the
province had a real good idea of what would be said. But does that make the
concerns and observations any less valid? In my opinion it makes them more valid
because the Ontario Health Coalition dared to go where the provincial government
wouldn't. The coalition set up its own process of non-partisan public hearings
after the Health Minister refused to have the government's rural and northern
panel conduct a province-wide public consultation. The coalition's panel got an
earful about the government, the Local Hospital Integration Networks,
amalgamated hospital boards (like Niagara's) and widespread deterioration in
hospital care and services in smaller communities. Thankfully, Haldimand's two
hospitals have been spared from much of what others are seeing. The uproar in
Niagara may have even slowed whatever changes were contemplated here and
therefore benefited the local hospitals and communities. The report says:
"Smaller communities have tremendous pride in their hospitals. The long history
of the development of local hospitals and the priority the public places on
their continuation cannot and should not be ignored." "Local hospitals are vital
to community social and economic development. For decades, community
development, social practices, systems and infrastructure have been built around
these hospitals. The location of hospitals has been a priority factor in
planning travel and settlement patterns including municipal transit where it
exists, ambulance systems, and seniors' retirement choices." "Every mayor and
community economic development committee member will testify that access to a
hospital is among the foremost priorities for industries when considering their
location." The panel also identified the scope of local support. "Hospitals
benefit tremendously from local donations of money, equipment and services.
There is natural self-policing: local communities want well-run, efficient and
compassionate hospitals. They want money to go to care and not waste." The panel
said that where hospital services are cut - especially emergency services -
there is an impact on economic development and local support, donations and
involvement. It said the "short-sighted cuts" could "reverse decades of
improvements in access to care to the detriment of both rural communities and
the larger communities in the region." The panel also despaired over the
treatment of local representatives. It condemned the "the culture of disrespect
for advocates (including municipal leaders)." It said "arrogance" on the part of
an increasing number of bureaucrats, ministerial staff and LHINs "has led to
poor decision-making." What should deeply concern the provincial government as
well as everyone in the province is that the panel came to believe that
decisions affecting rural hospitals are not part of some well thought out, long
term plan. "It is also evident that planning for hospital services has
deteriorated and is now ad hoc, erratic and inequitable. Access to care varies
greatly from locality to locality. It is not guided by principles and policy and
there are few basic standards or expectations. If the provincial government is
supposed to "steer" the system by providing policy and standards and the human,
financial and material resources to meet policy goals, it has failed in its
role." The panel is even harsher in its assessment of the LHINs and says they
should be scrapped. "The LHINs' mandate is unsupported by the public and
irredeemably flawed. The size of the regions is too big for meaningful health
care planning and service coordination. LHIN decision-making processes are
confused and erratic." "It is this panel's opinion that the Local Health
Integration Networks should be disbanded." In Niagara much of the focus has been
on creating centre's of excellence. This is likely a very good thing. But should
they come at the cost of reduced services in smaller hospitals. One Niagara
physician asked: "What good is a Centre of Excellence if a patient is DOA?" It
might be a question Haldimand residents keep in mind if the provincial
government or the regional LHIN comes knocking.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

