                              478 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            July 22, 1993, Thursday

Hospital will end reliance on Tri-Cities

BYLINE: By Barbara Ann Moore STAFF WRITER

SECTION: EXTRA; Section K; Page 1

LENGTH: 719 words


South Fulton Medical Center is drafting a financial declaration of independence.

After 30 years of using facilities owned by the Tri-Cities Hospital Authority,
South Fulton is preparing to buy its Cleveland Avenue complex and to assume all
liability for its outstanding debts, which total about $ 18 million.

"Now it will be its own person," said Hapeville Mayor Barbara Couch. "I think
it's wonderful because [that] was the goal upfront, that it be a separate
entity.

South Fulton's move toward financial autonomy is the second and final phase of a
corporate restructuring that has been going on since 1989. It will take some
financial pressure off the cities of College Park, East Point and Hapeville,
which for three decades have guaranteed payment on South Fulton's debts because
"that was the only way we could get the hospital," College Park Mayor T. Owen
Smith recalled.

"What the cities have done is co-sign on a loan, and that can be dangerous,
[although] South Fulton is not a speculative venture like others have been,"
College Park controller Jerry Anderson said in a pointed reference to the
Buggyworks office complex. After the Buggyworks filed for bankruptcy, East
Point, which had co-signed on the project, was forced to raise taxes to make the
bond payments.

"I am proud of the fact that in 30 years, we've never had to call on the
cities," said Neil Copelan, chief executive officer of the South Fulton Medical
Center.

He described the bond refinancing as "a rare case of win, win, win," both for
the cities, which are being relieved of a potential tax burden, and for the
hospital, which is getting a chance to restructure its debt.

The economic climate, with its low interest rates, will make it possible for the
hospital to save about $ 9 million over the next decade, according to Mr.
Copelan. "That just makes financial good sense," he said.

Mr. Copelan said it probably will be late summer before he knows what price tag
the hospital authority wll put on South Fulton's facilities. "It's a real
hodgepodge of many, many factors," he said. "The bottom line is that it's not
come down to a hard number yet."

Mr. Copelan said that although ownership of the hospital will change, patients
should notice no difference.

"The prices won't change, the services won't change," he said. "We'll still be
non-profit." Mr. Copelan described the changes as a "positioning strategy" for
the future.

Over the past few years, South Fulton has not only changed its name - from
hospital to medical center - but also its outlook, as it expanded facilities,
added a cancer-care center and concentated on serving a region instead of just
the Tri-Cities of College Park, East Point and Hapeville.

That's because since the hospital opened its doors in May 1963, South Fulton has
grown from 153 beds to 424 and has developed a patient base that stretches all
the way south to Coweta and Henry counties, according to Mr. Copelan. In fact,
about 75 percent of South Fulton's patients come from areas outside the
Tri-Cities.

So when the corporate restructuring began four years ago, "It was very important
just to move the mentality away from a single hospital and a single hospital
authority to something much bigger," Mr. Copelan explained.

The first phase of the restructuring plan created the Georgia International
Health Alliance, which became the holding company for five South Fulton
subsidiaries, including the South Fulton Medical Center Inc., which took over
direct control of hospital operations.

It did not do away with the hospital authority and neither will the second
phase, according to Mr. Copelan. "The hospital authority, of course, will remain
as an entitiy. It won't go away," he said.

But once the sale of the hospital facilities is complete, Mr. Copelan said he
will look forward to marshaling a more representative board of directors to
advise the hospital.

By law, the hospital authority must be made up of three members each, from
College Park, East Point and Hapeville. When South Fulton set up its own board
of directors four years ago, it decided to pull four of its nine members from
the hospital authority.

"We need to be governed by a board representative of all of the area we serve
[so] the next change is to be more representative," Mr. Copelan said.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH932110054

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


