                              484 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                 therecord.com

                           November 15, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Hospitals feeling pinch of economic slowdown; Longer wait times, cuts to
services may be necessary

BYLINE: Karen Kawawada, RECORD STAFF

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 587  words

DATELINE: WATERLOO REGION


Longer waits for health care and cuts in hospital services might be the future
as hard economic times ripple over to the region's three hospitals.

Grand River Hospital expects a $1.8 million deficit this fiscal year,
spokesperson Mark Karjaluoto said. Next year, the hospital will have to find
$4.5 million in cuts to reach a balanced budget.

For the current fiscal year, the original projected deficit was $3.3 million, so
"efficiencies" have already trimmed that down, Karjaluoto said.

For example, $1 million was saved by moving patients who need a less intensive
level of care after their acute care is finished from the main Grand River site
to the Freeport site, he said.

St. Mary's Hospital has a $1-million deficit this year and is projecting a
deficit of $3.2 million next year, said spokesperson Victoria Raab.

"Certainly that means there's going to be some difficult decisions to make over
the coming weeks and months, but at this point we haven't made any specific
decisions about what that means for St. Mary's," she said.

Julia Dumanian, the chief executive at Cambridge Memorial Hospital, said it will
have to make about $5 million in cuts by the end of next year. The hospital is
still working on its financial plan, so she said she didn't know where those
cuts would be made.

The hospital's fixed costs -- areas such as salaries, heat and hydro -- are
expected to go up between five and 5.5 per cent, Dumanian said.

But funding from the province is expected to go up less than two per cent.
That's a problem because hospitals have to present balanced budgets.

"The economy hits all industries, including health care, and we have to be
realistic about what the impact the current economic environment . . . has on
our ability to deliver care," Dumanian said.

"Quality will never be compromised. However, access to certain services might be
a challenge."

No jobs have been cut so far at any of the local hospitals. In fact, all have
job postings up now.

But before vacancies are posted, they are thoroughly reviewed to ensure they
need to be filled, said Raab, at St. Mary's.

Also, new positions are not being created, she added.

Dumanian and Karjaluoto said it hasn't yet been determined if there will be
future job cuts.

"It's not our desired approach," Dumanian said.

Both Dumanian and Raab said wait times might go up, though it's not clear how
much or in which areas. Karjaluoto said it was too early to say, but "we know
there is a challenge."

All three hospitals said they will look at services available elsewhere in the
community and try to eliminate duplications.

Some provincial cuts already announced, such as delays in hiring 9,000 more
nurses and the setting up of 50 family health teams, will have an impact
locally, the hospitals said.

Primary care, such as family health teams, "keeps people out of our emergency
departments and it keeps people in their homes longer," Raab said. "So without
investment in that, I'm certain that the acute sector, i.e. hospitals, will see
the impact."

Andrew Morrison, a spokesperson for the Ministry of Health, said funding for
hospitals this fiscal year, which ends in March, will continue to come through
as promised. However, funding levels for next fiscal year are still under
discussion.

Cambridge Memorial has been working on an expansion, and its $3-million first
phase is almost complete, Dumanian said.

The hospital is waiting for authorization to start the next phase, which is
"imminent."

There's no reason to believe it won't come, Dumanian says.

kkawawada@therecord.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

