                              483 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                           October 30, 2010 Saturday
                                  ROP Edition

REGIONAL ROUNDUP

BYLINE:

Patriot Ledger staff

SECTION: Business; pg. 22

LENGTH: 857 words


Caritas Christi switch to for-profit gets final OK

BOSTON - A Supreme Judicial Court justice has given the final blessing to a deal
that would convert Caritas Christi Health Care from a nonprofit organization to
a for-profit hospital system. Justice Francis Spina approved the change on
Friday. With endorsements from the attorney general's office, the state Public
Health Council and the Boston archdiocese, Spina's decision wraps up the
regulatory review of the transaction.

Cerberus Capital Management, a private equity firm in New York, has established
an affiliate, Steward Health Care, to run Caritas. Cerberus plans to spend $495
million to acquire the Boston-based Caritas system. That figure includes money
to pay off the system's debts and to fully fund its pension plan. Cerberus also
has committed to spending another $400 million on capital improvements over a
four-year period. The transaction is expected to be completed by the end of the
year.

No major job cuts are planned for Caritas Christi's 12,000-person work force.
The six Caritas hospitals are Norwood Hospital, Carney Hospital in Dorchester,
Good Samaritan Medical Center in Brockton, St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in
Brighton, St. Anne's Hospital in Fall River and Holy Family Hospital in Methuen.

Meanwhile, the Massachusetts Nurses Association said it has reached a master
agreement that involves 1,700 registered nurses at four Caritas hospitals -
Carney, Good Samaritan, Norwood and St. Elizabeth's. The five-year agreement
includes pay raises, an expansion of the nurses' paid time-off benefits, and the
creation of a new pension fund for the nurses that will augment the hospitals'
existing 401(3)b defined contribution plan.

State's economic growth outpaces the nation's

BOSTON - The state's economy grew at an estimated annualized rate of 3.7 percent
in the July-September period, nearly doubling the pace of the nation's economic
growth, according to a new MassBenchmarks report released by the UMass Donahue
Institute.

The state's economy has slowed somewhat from the first and second quarters of
2010, when the state's economy grew at an estimated rate of 6 percent and 4.7
percent, respectively. Meanwhile, the federal government reported on Friday that
the national economy expanded at an estimated annual rate of 2 percent during
the third quarter.

The UMass report predicts even slower growth ahead for Massachusetts: The
state's gross product is expected to grow at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter and 3 percent in the first quarter of next year. Much of the
slowdown is due to the sluggish economic growth worldwide, as demand for the
high-tech products and services that are exported from Massachusetts decreases.

Weathervane chain closes Plymouth restaurant

PLYMOUTH - The Weathervane restaurant on the Plymouth waterfront closed Monday,
leaving the Maine-based chain with only one Massachusetts location, in
Leominster. Weathervane Chief Operating Officer Jeremy Gagner, whose family owns
the chain, told the Old Colony Memorial that the decision was difficult. "With
the economics being where they're at, the restaurant wasn't viable any longer,"
he said. The Plymouth Weathervane opened in 1998 and was the southernmost site
in the 16-restaurant chain. Most of the restaurants are in Maine and New
Hampshire.

Brookline Bancorp to acquire Ipswich Bancorp

BROOKLINE - Brookline Bancorp Inc. has reached a deal to buy First Ipswich
Bancorp for $19.7 million in a move that will help the Brookline-based company
expand on the North Shore. The transaction is expected to be completed in the
first quarter of 2011. After the deal closes, First National Bank of Ipswich
will remain a subsidiary of Brookline Bancorp separate from its flagship
Brookline Bank, and First National Bank of Ipswich CEO Russell Cole will
continue to be president and chief executive officer. All six of First National
Bank of Ipswich's branches will remain open, along with Brookline Bank's 20
branches.

Boston Scientific selling neurovascular business

NATICK - Boston Scientific has reached an agreement to sell its neurovascular
business to Stryker Corp. in a deal valued at $1.5 billion. Natick-based Boston
Scientific plans to use half of the proceeds for acquisitions and half to retire
some of the company's debt. Boston Scientific established the neurovascular
business with the 1997 acquisition of Target Therapeutics, a Fremont,
Calif.-based company that made devices used to treat brain aneurysms. The
business currently employs about 1,150 people and reported 2009 revenues of $348
million.

Parking garage at Logan set to partially open

BOSTON - The Massachusetts Port Authority will make available on Monday the
first 1,000 spaces of a new 3,000-space economy parking garage under
construction at Logan Airport. Massport is consolidating its "economy" parking
in one location, partly to make it easier for travelers to find a spot when
they're in a rush. The parking will be priced at $18 a day, or $108 a week.
Construction began in July. Massport said another 1,000 spaces will be ready in
December and all 3,000 will be available to travelers in early 2011.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Weathervane in Plymouth has closed., GateHouse News Service

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 The Patriot Ledger


