                              486 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 6, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

TEXAS MEDICAL CENTER GIVES LIFE TO HOUSTON, BUT THE OUTLOOK IS UNCERTAIN

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1195 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 3


These may be tough times in Houston, but there is still one boom town here: the
sprawling, 525-acre complex off Main Street south of downtown that is home to
what officials call the largest medical complex in the world.

It is the Texas Medical Center, a collection of 37 medical institutions that is
the most conspicuous sign of this city's aspirations to maintain its vigor no
matter what happens to the price of oil. Despite the city's economic slump, some
$1.5 billion in construction will be started at the medical center before the
end of the decade, including a new facility for Methodist Hospital that will be
the world's largest private hospital.

There are some questions whether the medical center's remarkable growth can
continue and whether it can provide as muchf f a lift for the local economy as
some here hope.

But for now the medical center, which is made up of 37 institutions with a total
budget of $1.5 billion and 52,000 employees, remains the brightest spot in
Houston's economic picture and perhaps the most obvious sign of the way Houston
is trying to change gears, both economically and psychologically, after the
collapse in the price of oil. #40 Years of Progress ''It's a nice little city
isn't it?'' said Harold Hicks, the center's vice president of operations, as he
toured the dozen or so major construction projects in the works.

When the medical center was dedicated in 1946, it had two medical schools, a
cancer hospital and three general hospitals. Now it has 12 hospitals or patient
care facilities and nine academic institutions among the 37 entities housed in
more than 50 permanent buildings.

It provides outpatient care for more than two million patients a year and has
6,013 hospital beds used by about 182,000 inpatients.

In the last five years alone, the center has added 1.2 million square feet of
facilities valued at $735 million, which almost doubled the total physical plant
investment at the complex. A recent study indicates the center provides $2.2
billion directly to the economy.

The center's dramatic growth has been a source of enormous local pride as proof
that Houston was more than just an oil boom town. Heart surgeons like Dr. Denton
Cooley and Dr. Michael E. DeBakey have made Houston the world's center for heart
transplant surgery.

Among the Best in the Nation

Several of the institutions are of national importance. The University of Texas
system's M. D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute ranks near New York's
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center at the top of the nation's cancer
facilities. The Baylor College of Medicine is regarded as one of the nation's
top 10 medical schools.

But until recently the center was regarded as more of a local resource and a
source of prestige than a major economic factor in the city. The collapse in oil
prices and the city's subsequent rush toward economic diversification have
changed that, and the medical center is now being touted by local boosters as an
economic force in a way it has never been viewed before.

''The medical center grew out of local philanthropy and it has succeeded beyond
everyone's wildest dreams,'' said Harry Holmes, assistant to the president of M.
D. Anderson Hospital. ''In the past it was viewed as something passive,
something that money from oil and gas and other industries have provided for the
people of Houston. Only recently have people begun to look at it as something
that can turn and become an aggressive source of growth for the local economy.''

Local economic development groups such as the Houston Economic Development
Council view the medical center, along with space-related businesses that could
develop as a secondary benefit from the Johnson Space Center, as among the
city's best resources for diversification. But the pace of that development will
be affected by both economic and cultural factors.

Doubts Over Future Funds

Medical center officials say there has been no major fallout from the region's
economic problems, but they acknowledge that the outlook is far less rosy than
it was in the boom years.

''It's gives some sense of pause, of concern, but I can't say we've felt much
impact so far,'' said Dr. Richard Wineirdi, president of the medical center.
''The concern is over maintaining our momentum, our trajectory of growth, and so
far we've been able to do that.''

But he said the center depended on Federal grants, state funds and philanthropic
donations, particularly from the Houston area. All those sources are under new
pressures. In the state capital in Austin, for example, financing for medical
education and research, which has always been sacrosanct, is under increasing
scrutiny as the state tries to deal with its budget morass.

At the Baylor College of Medicine, state financing has declined more than $5
million over the last three fiscal years, from $30.5 million in the fiscal year
1985 to $25 million in the fiscal year 1987. #3% Cut in Hospital Budget At M. D.
Anderson Hospital, this year's budget will be 3 percent below last year's, and
about 200 jobs, most of them not involved with patient care, have been
eliminated.

Also in question is the level of future economic spinoffs from the medical
center. Like many other cities, Houston is touting the prospects for biomedical
businesses that are expected to be developed because of the center.

An example of what Houston hopes to see is the Positron Corporation, one of
three companies in the nation making positron emission tomography cameras that
provide three-dimesional photographs of the body's internal organs.

''You will never find anyplace else the concentration of medical technology that
you find here,'' said Nizar Mullani, the company's founder, who is an associate
professor of medicine at the University of Texas Health Science Center at
Houston.

Lag in Biotechnology Spinoffs

But Bob Whittemore, director of the office of technology administration at the
Baylor College of Medicine, said Houston remained far behind medical centers on
the East and West Coasts in the interconnections between medical research and
industry. The medical and scientific expertise is there, but that does not mean
the entrepreneurial spinoffs will happen soon, he said.

''You look at somewhere like Stanford University, there are very sophisticated
linkages between industry and whole departments,'' he said. ''That hasn't
happened here. The growth will come, but it's not going to come as fast as any
of us would like.''

Such officials as Don Moyer, president of the Houston Economic Development
Council, concede that Houston businessemen and capital sources are going through
a painful transition from the more tangible, quick-hit world of oil or real
estate to the slower pace of technological change.

''You're talking about patient capital, and that may yet be a cultural challenge
we have to win,'' he said. ''The willingness to come up the learning curve is
there, but you might ask that if the enormous returns that were available in oil
and gas were to return, will there still be capital interested in moving into
areas of diversification? The jury is still out on that one.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: map of Houston highlighting Texas Medical Center

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


