                              482 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                    July 12, 1991, FRIDAY, FIVE STAR Edition

NEVADA, MO., PROTESTS HUNDREDS OF LAYOFFS

BYLINE: Virginia Young Post-Dispatch Jefferson City Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6A

LENGTH: 517 words


JEFFERSON CITY - Nevada, Mo., the town that is slated to take the hardest hit in
the latest round of state budget cuts, sent emissaries to the capital Thursday
to ask why.  ''What have we done to deserve such a blow from the Department of
Mental Health, that we have served so well and so long?'' asked Mary Ireland, a
utility official representing the Nevada Area Economic Development Commission.
Ireland was part of a delegation questioning 300 layoffs planned for the Nevada
State Hospital and Nevada Habilitation Center, the biggest employers in Vernon
County.  The Department of Mental Health announced the layoffs last month as
part of a plan to cope with $31 million in budget cuts. In all, Gov. John
Ashcroft ordered $200 million in cuts to offset lagging tax revenue.  The Nevada
delegation addressed its questions to the state Mental Health Commission, which
oversees mental health facilities. But commissioners deftly handed the questions
to a trio of legislators complaining about the budget cuts.  Commissioners noted
that the Legislature defeated a tax increase that would have boosted mental
health and social services funding. Instead, only education and economic
development projects will benefit if voters approve the $385 million tax package
on the November statewide ballot.  ''When you make that decision, you inherit
the consequences of that decision,'' said Keith Schafer, director of the
Department of Mental Health.  Given the budget constraints, ''we have given it
the best shot we can.'' The plan calls for changing the role of Nevada State
Hospital to a community mental health center. Hospital patients will be shifted
to other programs. Specifically: 33 forensic patients will be moved to other
state hospitals, in Fulton and southeast Missouri.  25 patients needing acute
care will be shifted to Springfield private hospitals while six will stay in
hospitals in the Nevada area. The care will be provided under contracts.  33
long-term patients will be housed in the community in Nevada.  Nevada officials
said the layoffs will devastate the area's agricultural economy. Said Rep. Bubs
Hohulin, R-Lamar: ''These folks with ties to agriculture cannot withstand a
layoff and a poor crop year. We cannot withstand a slam-dunk like this.'' Bryan
Breckenridge of the Nevada Area Economic Development Commission suggested as an
alternative that all mental health workers' salaries could be cut across the
board. ''They would rather have a job with a percentage cut in their salary than
no job at all,'' Breckenridge said.  Only Ruth Brandon, representing the
Missouri Mental Health Consumer Network, supported the cuts. Brandon, of
Columbia, Mo., said the state needed to move toward community care instead of
institutionalization.  Commissioner C. Robert Cloninger, of the Washington
University Medical Center in St. Louis, asked the legislators whether they would
help get more tax money for mental health.  Hohulin's answer was pessimistic:
''The public wants to see greater responsibility in spending their money before
we ask for authorization to spend more.''

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1991 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


