                              487 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                THE KOREA HERALD

                           October 21, 2003, Tuesday

Health insurance to be accepted at foreign hospitals

LENGTH: 418 words



The planning committee on free economic zones hinted yesterday that the
government may allow Koreans to use their national health insurance at the
foreign-invested hospitals that are scheduled to be built in Incheon, Busan and
Gwanyang.

The committee said the move may be unavoidable considering the foreign hospitals
will need local clients but the service will be too expensive for the average
population.

"The foreign-invested hospitals will be very costly because they will have fewer
patients than the domestic health facilities, and because they will be staffed
with high-paid professionals," an official within the committee said.

"Accordingly, we are considering permitting the use of Korea's national health
insurance, though those Koreans using foreign hospitals would probably be
subject to different coverage and support by the National Health Insurance
Corp.," he added.

As a part of its plans to develop Korea into a hub of Asia, the government said
it would develop the three cited regions as free economic zones that boast both
excellent business opportunities and living environments, including education
and health care.

For the health care part, the government is working on attracting investments
from world-class institutions, such as Johns Hopkins Hospital, Harvard Medical
School and Boston General Hospital.

"These hospitals will first and foremost be for the foreign residents, but it is
a reality that we cannot block local citizens from using their services," the
official explained. "But it is equally important that we guarantee the hospitals
real profits."

However, many predict that there will be controversy over this, given that
domestic hospitals will most likely not be keen on having to compete with the
foreign institutions. If the government tries to deal with this by allowing the
local hospitals to match terms and prices with the foreign ones, it would result
in an overall price hike of medical services.

The preparatory committee for the economic zones said that these were among the
several issues that they would work to resolve before the actual opening of the
zones in 2008.

"We still have a good five years to sort out the difficult problems, and in this
case, we will cooperate closely with the Ministry of Health and Welfare to come
up with solutions that will minimize the negative side effects on the industry
while at the same time encouraging outside investment into the three economic
zones," the official said.

(mihui@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2003 The Korea Herald


