                              485 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                            March 21, 2015 Saturday

United Kingdom: European backing for two new Scottish hospitals confirmed

LENGTH: 359  words

DATELINE: Luxembourg


The European Investment Bank (EIB) has agreed to provide GBP 109 million for the
construction of a new District and General Hospital in Dumfries that will ensure
modern health-care for people living in the south-west of Scotland. The 26 year
loan from Europe's long-term lending institution represents around half of the
project cost and represents the second new hospital in Scotland to be supported
by the EIB this year following confirmation of GBP 83 million support for the
new Royal Hospital for Sick Children agreed in February. "The European
Investment Bank recognises that investment in new hospitals is essential to
reflect Europe's ageing population and ensure the highest-quality of medical
care.

Patients using these two new Scottish hospitals will benefit for years to come,
hospital staff will use the latest techniques and local smaller companies will
play a key role during construction. Europe's long-term lending institution is
fully committed to supporting long-term investment that improves the quality of
life of people living in Scotland and strengthens economic activity in the
country. Support for the new Dumfries and Galloway hospital and the Royal
Hospital for Sick Children follows recent EIB backing of new transport,
education energy, water and telecoms infrastructure across Scotland." said
Jonathan Taylor, European Investment Bank Vice President. "Reaching financial
close represents a pivotal moment for the delivery of the new hospital. The deal
struck with High Wood Health represents excellent value for money for the Board
over the duration of the entire contract that exceeds prior expectations.  It
incorporates an ambitious, innovative high quality design that is energy
efficient, sustainable and adaptable and will enable the delivery of the Board's
new model of care.  The deal will also bring with it numerous community benefits
that include 150 new jobs entrants, 36 modern apprenticeships and a range of
opportunities for small and medium businesses, boosting the local economy and
contributing to economic regeneration."  said Dennis O'Keeffe, NHS Dumfries and
Galloway Project Director for the new hospital.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


