                              494 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                     Charleston Daily Mail (West Virginia)

                             July 25, 2008, Friday

Our views;
Wealth solves many problems;
CAMC's proposal illustrates the desperate need for growth

BYLINE: Dmedit

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. P4A

LENGTH: 370 words


CHARLESTON Area Medical Center is the largest provider of Medicaid services in
the state. It provides 25 percent of the charity care in West Virginia as well.

The hospital's situation brings into sharp focus why West Virginia needs to
remove barriers to economic growth as rapidly as possible. The private and
public sectors are paying a heavy price for the state's failure to do that.

A fifth of the state's population is covered by the Medicaid program. Half the
babies born in the state are born on the taxpayers' dime.

And the truth is, economic failure is an expensive proposition. According to the
Kaiser Family Foundation's statehealthfacts.org, state taxpayers put $315
million into Medicaid in 2006. Because the state's per capita income is so low,
federal taxpayers matched that 3-to-1, putting up $1.5 billion for West
Virginia's Medicaid program.

That is not nearly enough.

Medicaid reimburses hospitals for only about half the cost of treating patients
covered by the program. CAMC lost about $25 million on Medicaid in 2006 and
about $30 million in 2007.

What the hospital loses on Medicaid and other government plans must be paid by
someone.

That someone is West Virginia's anemic private sector - the one that is expected
to create the wealth that relieves the poverty.

Overall, about $100 million in costs are shifted to private-sector payors.
Locally, this hidden tax on business amounts to about $20 million.

The state collects a health care provider tax to generate part of the funds used
to draw down the federal Medicaid money. CAMC proposes that the city collect an
additional provider tax from hospitals and remit the money to the state.

The state would then use the money to draw down additional federal money,
sending it to the hospitals that paid the tax. CAMC contends that it could
reduce the hidden tax on businesses by $15 million.

This proposal for a circular mechanism might not be approved. It's too soon to
tell.

But the fact that hospitals must consider such measures is a clue to how
desperately the state needs to clear away any obstacles to economic growth.

The cure for poverty is the creation of wealth.

West Virginia would find all of its problems much easier to solve if it made
growth easier.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Charleston Newspapers


