                              491 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 10, 2017 Tuesday

Hospitals are less likely to admit publicly insured children, but outcomes
aren't affected

LENGTH: 697  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 Hospitals are less likely to admit children covered by public insurance such as
Medicaid than privately insured children with similar symptoms, especially when
hospitals beds are scarce. But the disparity doesn't appear to affect health
outcomes, according to Princeton University researchers who analyzed information
on tens of thousands of children who came to New Jersey emergency rooms between
2006 and 2012.





 "In the end, I think we came to kind of a surprising conclusion that maybe the
problem isn't that too few publicly insured children are being hospitalized,"
said Princeton health economist Janet Currie . "Maybe the problem is that too
many privately insured children are being hospitalized when they don't really
need it."



 The research was conducted by Currie, the Henry Putnam Professor of Economics
and Public Affairs, chair of the Department of Economics, and co-director of the
Center for Health and Wellbeing, and Diane Alexander, an economist at the
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago who earned her Ph.D. at Princeton.



 Their article, titled "Are Publicly Insured Children Less Likely to Be Admitted
to Hospital Than the Privately Insured (and Does it Matter)?", was published
Dec. 9, 2016, by the journal Economics and Human Biology. A PDF is available on
request.



 Currie, who has done extensive research on patients covered by Medicaid, said
she was drawn to the project by the challenge of understanding whether hospitals
treat people insured by Medicaid and SCHIP (State Children's Health Insurance
Program) differently than people with private insurance. On average, hospitals
receive lower payments for treating publicly insured children than privately
insured ones.



 To answer the question, Currie and Alexander examined records on all children
between the ages of 3 months and 13 years who came to a New Jersey emergency
room over seven years. The researchers recorded whether the child was admitted
to the hospital and whether hospital beds were in high demand at the time
because of local influenza outbreaks.



 They found that publicly insured children were less likely to be admitted to
the hospital overall, even when controlled for factors such as their diagnosis
and characteristics of the hospitals. The disparity widened when hospital beds
were scarce.



 "That sounds kind of sinister, but we see absolutely no evidence it results in
any increased return trips to the emergency room or that those who return are
sicker," Currie said. "As far as we can see, yes, people are being turned away
because they have public health insurance, but there's no health consequence."



 Why does the disparity in admission rates matter?



 Unnecessary hospital admissions have important consequences, Currie said,
including the risk of hospital-acquired infections and other complications, the
cost of hospitalization, and the time children are away from school.



 Anna Aizer, an associate professor of economics and public policy at Brown
University who studies health outcomes for the poor, pointed to the finding that
privately insured children may be over-treated as especially significant.



 "This is an important finding that is likely to spur more research examining
whether similar patterns are evident in other contexts," Aizer said. "The
results will likely have important implications for policymakers interested in
understanding and addressing both rising health care costs and disparities in
health."



 Currie said the research is part of a larger project that is examining how
health care is allocated in a range of situations, including heart attacks and
cesarean sections.



 "There are people who are getting things they don't need and then there are
people who do need treatments but aren't getting them," Currie said. "So, in
some sense, the procedures aren't being matched properly to the patients. If you
kept the same amount of care and allocated it better, you could have better
health outcomes for the same overall cost."



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


