                              496 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                           Crain's Cleveland Business
                                 Print Version

                                October 17, 2016

Study 'reinforces' impact of hospitals to economy

BYLINE: LYDIA COUTRÉ; lcoutre@crain.com

SECTION: Pg. 6 Vol. 37

LENGTH: 802  words


In 2015, hospitals in Northeast Ohio pumped roughly $11.5 billion into the local
economy through both direct and indirect employment, according to a new study
from the Center for Health Affairs.

"It reinforces how important the hospitals are to Northeast Ohio (and) the
financial health of the community," said Laura Gronowski, chief of staff for the
center, an advocacy group for Northeast Ohio hospitals. "The hospitals are major
employers in the area and contribute greatly to the financial strength."

Hospitals in Cuyahoga and surrounding counties employ more than 81,000 people
directly, plus roughly 4,300 through their construction projects. Combined,
these employees earned almost $7 billion in salaries and benefits in 2015.

The 2016 Economic Impact Report, which the center released in September, also
factors in the jobs and income estimated to be created by employees spending
their paychecks in the community. The study calculates that this contributes to
another roughly 81,000 jobs and $4.5 billion in a six-county region: Cuyahoga,
Ashtabula, Geauga, Lake, Lorain and Medina.

The center releases this study about every three years. The total contribution
to direct and indirect income in the region is up from $10 billion in the last
report examining 2010 data.

Heidi Gartland, vice president of government and community relations for
University Hospitals, said UH is keenly aware of its work not only as a health
care provider but also as an economic driver.

"Obviously, we do an amazing job at UH in providing health care for the
community, but I think one of the things that people don't often think about is
the benefit of the economy that presence of amazing health care provides," she
said.

In the past several years, UH has begun focusing on buying and hiring locally.
Prior to that shift, UH "sort of bought things where we bought things."

Of the total $832 million it spent in goods and services in 2015, $199 million
was spent with vendors in Cleveland and $363 million with vendors in Ohio.

"We know that the minute we invest that purchase in the local economy, those
dollars stay locally," Gartland said.

The Cleveland Clinic also conducts internal studies of its economic impact,
generally for stakeholders, board members, community leaders or the media. Mike
Harrington, the Clinic's chief accounting officer and controller, said that
people often ask the Clinic about its impact, especially as a nonprofit.

These studies are a way to "demonstrate what kind of engine we are in terms of
fueling the economy here in Northeast Ohio," he said.

In addition to the workforce it employs, Harrington points out the Clinic's
investments into the expansion of its services across the region also impacts
the economy, including building a brand new cancer center with a budget in the
$300 million range; creating a Health Education Campus in partnership with Case
Western Reserve University, a project around $500 million; and a new hospital in
Avon for about $160 million.

Given its international reputation, Harrington said, the Clinic also brings in a
lot of patients from outside the region, state or country, which further fuels
local spending.

According to the Center for Health Affairs' report, 16.9% of the region's total
hospital revenue was earned from providing care to patients who live outside of
Northeast Ohio.

The report also highlighted the community benefit total from hospitals in
Northeast Ohio, which calculates the free and subsidized care they provided,
community health improvement initiatives, health professions education and
in-kind contributions to community groups.

In total, the region's hospitals offered $1.8 billion in community benefit.

"There's a really big tie in terms of our economic predominance to being able to
really not only do good health care, but also think about the future both in
cures from the research that we do and in making sure that we've got the
workforce that's going to take care of the certainly changing demographic,"
Gartland said. "We know our population is getting older so we have to make sure
that we're training that next generation that's going to be there to take care
of whatever the health diseases are of that future population."

Hospitals included in the study were Ashtabula County Medical Center, Cleveland
Clinic Health System, Lake Health, Louis Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Center,
Mercy Allen Hospital, Mercy Regional Medical Center, Southwest General Health
Center, St. Vincent Charity Medical Center, The MetroHealth System, UH St. John
Medical Center and University Hospitals

The report compiles data from The Center for Health Affairs' Volume Statistics
Report, its tax study and an economic impact report it commissioned. The report
was completed by professors of regional economics at Oklahoma State University.

Twitter: @LydiaCoutre

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CL


                      Copyright 2016 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


