                              499 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                               The Daily Yomiuri

                           September 8, 1996, Sunday

Diagnosis: Japanese health care in good hands

BYLINE: Tom Weverka ; Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 645 words


HEALTH ECONOMICS OF JAPAN

By Aki Yoshikawa, Jayanta

Bhattacharya and William B. Vogt

University of Tokyo Press

322 pp. 5,356 yen

Not only do the Japanese live longer, suffer fewer infant deaths and enjoy
better access to hospitals than Europeans and North Americans, they pay a
cheaper medical bill for these privileges. This country spends about 7 percent
of its gross domestic product on health care, compared with 9 percent in Germany
and 14 percent in the United States, where 40 million people are uninsured.

Much of the credit for this success goes to Japan's universal health insurance
system, which shines above even its European counterparts. In Britain,
socialized medicine has not eliminated the differences in mortality rates
between the social classes. In Japan, by all statistical accounts, the poor are
as healthy as the rich.

Nevertheless, the graying of the population and swelling public hospital bills
are putting pressure on the Health and Welfare Ministry to cut costs. "Health
Economics of Japan" applies economic principles to the study of health care for
analyzing patient behavior and gauging the cost efficiency of medical services
and technology in this country.

This straightforward report by the Comparative Health Care Policy Research
Project at Stanford University will be of interest to industry analysts,
economists or anyone seeking a better understanding of how the ministry, doctors
and hospital administrators interact in Japan. The book represents a pioneering
attempt to introduce market principles into the Japanese health-care industry to
clarify medical standards and improve treatment while alleviating the burden on
taxpayers.

The authors are the first to admit that the principles of economics, a quasi
science at best, do not always apply to the health-care industry. Hospital and
government data can be fuzzy or flawed, making analysis difficult. The customer,
or the patient, may not understand the services purchased--if he or she is
indeed buying them. Japanese patients usually foot only 10 percent of the bill
as out-of-pocket expenses and may not worry much about cost. Or, once sick,
people will pay whatever it takes to get well. On the other hand, it is in the
economic interest of the producer--the doctor or clinic--that the product or
service offered will require ongoing use or will fail, forcing the patient to
return. Doctors and auto mechanics sometimes think alike.

In each chapter the authors pose a question, provide background information on
the topic, establish variables and work them into an equation. After applying
the statistics to the equation, they reach a seemingly objective understanding
of the issue. Trying to fit the day-to-day workings of hospital staff and the
benefits of technology into tidy equations is in some ways futile, but economics
models are useful for understanding the true value of services rendered.

The authors refute some common beliefs about patient behavior and treatment
under a universal health insurance system. Their analysis shows that patients
are more sensitive to cost and nursing quality than was previously thought.
Japanese hospitals employ too many doctors and registered nurses but not enough
private nurses, and the average monthly medical bill for a senior citizen is no
higher than it is for a middle-aged worker.

One of the most interesting chapters compares the incidence of surgery in Japan
and the United States. An American who sees a doctor is twice as likely as a
Japanese to be admitted to a hospital and four times as likely to undergo
surgery. The Japanese patient can afford to practice preventive medicine by
visiting the doctor before the problem gets out of hand. The American worries
more about cost and may put off the visit until surgery is required. Paying now
is more economical than paying later.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 1996 The Daily Yomiuri
