                              46 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Erie Times-News (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 7, 2009 Wednesday

Hospitals squeezed in Erie, Pa., area

BYLINE: David Bruce, Erie Times-News, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 660 words


Jan. 7--Local hospitals are feeling the effects of the nation's recession.

More patients are delaying CT scans, postponing checkups and leaving
prescriptions unfilled than they were a year ago, a Hamot Health Foundation
official said.

"I talked with our primary-care doctors and they said patients are avoiding
their routine visits," said Jim Fiorenzo, Hamot's chief operating officer. "They
are canceling checkups and diagnostic exams like CT scans because they can't
afford them."

Hamot isn't alone. A new survey shows that the economic crisis is hurting
hospitals all over Pennsylvania.

The survey was released Tuesday by the Hospital and Healthsystem Association of
Pennsylvania, which advocates for more than 250 Pennsylvania hospitals. It
reported that 75 percent of the state's hospitals believe the crisis will have a
moderate to significant effect on their financial stability in 2009.

The survey also showed that:
--48 percent of the state's hospitals are reconsidering or postponing building
projects.

--50 percent of the hospitals reported a moderate to significant decrease in
admissions, especially for elective procedures like knee-replacement surgery.

--83 percent of the hospitals reported significant declines in investment
income.

--51 percent of hospitals reported a moderate to significant increase in
uncompensated care -- medical care for which no payment is made.

"As more people lose jobs and/or health insurance, the financial burden on
hospitals will increase," HAP Chief Executive Carolyn Scanlan said in a
statement. "From a human perspective, however, the implications are worse. More
patients will postpone preventive and routine health care, and they will be put
at risk for more serious illnesses and complications before they seek care."

Meadville Medical Center officials said they weren't sure whether patients were
postponing elective cases, but the hospital's inpatient admissions declined in
2008.

"Meadville Medical Center is financially stable, but is experiencing impact from
our nation's economic downturn," Meadville Medical Center Spokesman Duane Koller
said in a statement. "Income from investments has declined compared to the same
period last year. Inpatient volume has also decreased, while outpatient volumes
are stable."

Not all hospitals are reporting decreases in admissions or elective procedures,
however.

Saint Vincent Health System's inpatient and outpatient admissions continue to
rise, said Steve Gary, Saint Vincent's chief financial officer.

"Maybe it's because people know that we have good charity care," Gary said.

Saint Vincent offers charity care to patients whose incomes fall within 300
percent of federal poverty guidelines -- a higher percentage than many other
Pennsylvania hospitals.

Saint Vincent has seen a 2 percent increase in charity care and a 14 percent
increase in bad debt, Gary said.

"We are still hitting our budget," Gary said. "The (crisis) has caused us to
evaluate our capital expenses. We haven't delayed or postponed anything, but we
are making sure projects are patient-care related."

Millcreek Community Hospital is seeing an increase in uncompensated care, said
spokesman Pierre Bellicini.

"We expect to see more of an increase in the next month or so, when employers
decide on any changes to their employees' health insurance," Bellicini said.

Scanlan, HAP's chief executive, said the survey is proof that health care isn't
immune to economic troubles.

"The current economic crisis imperils hospitals -- our community safety net --
and the patients who depend on them," Scanlan said.

To see more of the Erie Times-News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.GoErie.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Erie Times-News, Pa. Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090107-EI-HOSPITAL-SQUEEZE-20090107

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EI


                         Copyright 2009 Erie Times-News


