                              47 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                             April 21, 2017 Friday
                                  Mars Edition

New LaPorte hospital will be built at current site

BYLINE: Stan Maddux Tribune Correspondent

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 524 words


LAPORTE -- The new LaPorte Hospital will go up beside its present location.

The much anticipated decision revealed Thursday was hailed by community leaders
because of the amount of traffic the hospital at 1007 Lincolnway generates for
downtown.

"The hospital has long been an anchor for downtown activity, and remains a
viable part of our physical and economic health and well-being of our
community," said LaPorte Mayor Blair Milo.

According to hospital officials, the new $125 million facility will be either
five or six stories, and groundbreaking is expected in early 2018, with a grand
opening in 2020.

LaPorte Hospital spokesperson Stacey Kellogg said the current hospital will be
used during construction of the new facility.

No decision has been made on whether the existing hospital will be demolished or
used in some capacity, she said.

A rendering of the new hospital was still in the development stages.

According to hospital officials, the announcement follows a thorough vetting of
more than 20 locations throughout the county over the last year as well as input
from building professionals, community leaders, hospital staff, physicians and
board members.

"Lots of work went into that decision," said Kellogg.

Ashley Dickinson, who recently took over as chief executive officer of the
hospital, said factors in the decision included the suitability of land, traffic
patterns, ease of access and proximity to the new LaPorte County Emergency
Medical Service station next door.

The site being centrally located for communities served by the hospital along
with its high visibility and impact on local economic development and vitality
also were factors in the decision, she said.

"LaPorte Hospital staff and physicians are deeply committed to having a thriving
community hospital, and we are excited to announce this major step forward,"
said Dickinson.

The hospital made it known early on that a location within the city limits was a
high priority, but community leaders began worrying as the decision process went
on.

The city council last year also took steps to steer the new hospital into the
city by restricting the extension of water and sewer lines on all new
development just outside the corporate boundaries.

Bert Cook, executive director of the Greater LaPorte Economic Development Corp.,
said the decision will be used in ongoing marketing of downtown.

"Any time you can show that new construction and state-of-the-art facilities are
part of your downtown landscape, you're contributing to positive economic
growth. We'll be able to showcase the new hospital as a bright development and
look forward to featuring the project as a win for our community in the next two
years," he said.

Leigh Morris, a former president and CEO of the hospital, said there should be a
significant cost savings from building at the current site because of utilities
like dual electrical feeds, water and sewer lines and oxygen delivery systems
already being in place.

''Adaptive reuse of those can save lots of money,'' said Morris.

More information and updates on the construction along with a place to submit
questions are available at newlaportehospital.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


