                              50 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Telegraph (Alton, Illinios)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             April 24, 2015 Friday

AMH publicly opposes Rauner cuts

BYLINE: The Telegraph, Alton, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 347 words


April 24--ALTON -- Saying they recognized the critical role that hospitals play
to ensure the health and economic well-being of their local communities and the
state, the board of trustees/directors of Alton Memorial Hospital has passed a
resolution urging State Sen. William Haine (D-Alton) and state Rep. Daniel
Beiser (D-Alton) to support hospitals and oppose drastic Medicaid cuts.

A press release issued by the hospital Thursday said the significant
contributions of Alton Memorial Hospital in providing high-quality,
cost-efficient care, transforming Medicaid and the health care delivery system
and strengthening the local economy, the board resolution warns of the dire
consequences of drastic Medicaid cuts as proposed by Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner.

The resolution reads:

"The Governor's budget proposal radically cuts Medicaid funding to Alton
Memorial Hospital and hospitals across the state by nearly $800 million. That
would result in the loss of more than 12,500 jobs and $1.7 billion in economic
activity statewide.

"These Medicaid cuts jeopardize access to health care services and good paying,
professional jobs for our community."

"We are urging our state legislators to work with us and the Illinois Hospital
Association to consider and enact workable and reasonable alternatives to these
devastating Medicaid cuts," said Dave Braasch, President of Alton Memorial
Hospital.

Alton Memorial Hospital employs 900 people, with an annual economic impact on
the local community of $76,568,986. Statewide, hospitals provide nearly 450,000
direct and indirect jobs, with an economic impact to the local and state
economies of more than $83 billion a year.

"We are deeply concerned that the proposed Medicaid cuts would undermine the
ongoing transformation of the state's Medicaid program and health delivery
system as well as jeopardize access to health care and the creation and
retention of good paying, professional jobs," said Braasch.

___ (c)2015 The Telegraph (Alton, Ill.) Visit The Telegraph (Alton, Ill.) at
www.thetelegraph.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150424-AI-AMH-publicly-opposes-Rauner-cuts-0424-20150424

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AI


                          Copyright 2015 The Telegraph


