                              51 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                             May 28, 2011 Saturday
                                 METRO EDITION

Hospitals defend their economic role in state

BYLINE: JACKIE CROSBY; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 495 words



HIGHLIGHT: As cutbacks loom, hospitals say they generate nearly 6 percent of
economic activity.


As the Legislature seeks to slash the amount the state spends on health care,
the Minnesota Hospital Association is fighting back with an economic argument.

Hospitals provide more than 4.4 percent of all jobs in Minnesota and nearly 6
percent of economic activity in the state, according to data the industry group
provided to the Star Tribune on Friday.

In many communities, hospitals are the largest employer. Not surprisingly, the
seven-county metropolitan area and the region surrounding the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester lead the state in economic output as well as numbers of hospital
-related employment.

"We want legislators to understand a big part of the economy is affected by the
hospital community," said Lawrence Massa, CEO of the Minnesota Hospital
Association.

In all, the state's 148 hospitals generated $27.2 billion and created 214,108
jobs in 2009, according to the most recent data available from the Minnesota
Department of Employment and Economic Development, which ran the numbers for the
Hospital Association.

About $11.2 billion came from wages and salaries, another $15.1 billion in
indirect contributions including purchases of beds, sheets, bandages and heart
stents. "Hospitals are a surprisingly larger portion of the state's economy than
the man on the street would suspect," said Paul Anton, an independent economist
and consultant who was not connected with the survey. "The economic health and
some of the jobs, especially in outstate areas, are going to be impacted
disproportionately by our policies on health care spending and reimbursements."

Health care spending accounts for about a third of the state's budget and is
projected to grow rapidly. With lawmakers facing a $5 billion budget gap, health
care spending has been under the knife.

Gov. Mark Dayton on Tuesday vetoed a bill passed in the House and Senate that
would have trimmed about $1.8 billion out of the Health and Human Services
budget.

The bill would have moved 95,000 poor adults without children onto state/federal
Medicaid programs; privatized MinnesotaCare for many low-income workers, and
eliminated general assistance to 20,000 Minnesotans. It also would have cut
hospital payments by $433 million.

"While we understand that cuts need to be made to balance the budget, draconian
cuts and disproportional cuts to health care providers will cost a lot of jobs
and will have unintended consequences with the economies in a lot of
communities," Massa said.

Rep. Jim Abeler, R-Anoka, who chairs the House Health and Human Services Finance
Committee, said he's heard it all before.

"The state is at a deficit; the federal government can't pay its bills," he
said. "Faced with record hospital profits ... you wonder how the world's going
to end.'' Abeler said he plans to meet with Human Services Commissioner Lucinda
Jesson on Thursday to try to resolve disputes that Dayton, DFLers and the
hospital industry group say would leave 140,000 people uninsured.

Jackie Crosby - 612-673-7335

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


