                              52 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Thai doctor shortage poses big headache

                                October 23, 1997


Problem compounded by uneven distribution

BANGKOK -Thailand is facing a critical shortage of doctors -it needs more than
15,000 to meet a target doctor-patient ratio of 1:2,000 that will help the
country provide better and more adequate medical care for its people.

This is compounded by an uneven distribution of the doctors available at
present, resulting in Bangkok having one doctor per 909 people while the rest of
the country have ratios that exceed 1:5,000, The Nation newspaper said in a
special report last week.

The shortage is occuring even though Thailand, in several years of high GDP
growth before the economic crisis struck, has seen a big growth in its
private-health business.

The government has said that it plans to produce 1,500 doctors annually in the
next three years, up from 1,200. At this rate, it will take 10 years before the
proportion between doctors and the population hits 1:2,000, an improvement from
the present ratio of 1:4,000.

But the country is also plagued by uneven competition between the public and
private hospitals, both fighting for the same pool of doctors.

In 1992, at the beginning of the boom for private healthcare, many private
hospitals with big capacities were opened. Within a year, some 30 private
hospitals, or 8,000 beds, were established, mainly in Bangkok and the outskirts,
in addition to the 20 hospitals operating earlier.

As the number of beds increased in private hospitals, the number of doctors in
government-run hospitals decreased, even though their bed totals grew.

While between 8,000 and 10,000 private hospital beds are needed in Bangkok and
the outskirts for eight to 10 million people, more than 15,000 beds are
available. Most of the big hospitals are not operating at full capacity, with
only a quarter of the beds being occupied.

Dr Suwit Wibulpolprasert, vice secretary-general of the Medical Council, said:
"Doctors were drained from government-run hospitals to private ones. The
government hospitals would have gradually faced a doctor shortage, if the crisis
had not occurred."

The newspaper said that the current economic crisis seemed to have arrested the
boom of private hospitals.

According to Dr Suwit, 40 to 50 per cent of private hospitals might go bankrupt
during the crisis.

The doctor shortage in the government sector will ease within two years as a
result of the economic downturn, he said.

"As an effect of the economic downturn, there will be no more demand for doctors
in private hospitals, and no more investment in this business. Those who plan to
work in private hospitals will have to reconsider their decision," he said.

However, according to a report by the Thai Health Systems Research Institute,
the supply of doctors needs to be handled carefully and flexibly. Without any
direction in production, serious problems may result, it warned.

Quoting the report, Dr Suwit said: "It's better to run out of doctors than have
too many.

"Whenever the number of doctors is close to the needs of people, producers must
be aware of it. Otherwise, over-treatment may occur because of competition."

SECTION: South-East Asia; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 522 words

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1997 The Straits Times Press Limited


