                              54 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                THE KOREA HERALD

                           November 19, 2004, Friday

U.S. medical schools eye hospital in Incheon; University of Pennsylvania is
mostly likely candidate after signing MOU with government in May

BYLINE: By Sim Sung-tae

LENGTH: 567 words



The government is negotiating with the medical schools of four U.S. universities
to build one or two hospitals in the free economic zone in Incheon, a senior
government official said yesterday.

"We expect to open one or two foreign hospitals in the Incheon special zone in
2008 and many more in the three free economic zones by 2020," said Cho Sung-ik,
head of the Free Economic Zone Planning Team, a government agency working on
establishing zones.

Of the four, the University of Pennsylvania is the mostly likely candidate as it
signed a memorandum of understanding with the government in May to open a
500-bed hospital in the zone in 2008.

The other three, including Johns Hopkins University, Harvard University and
Columbia University, are also interested in a deal but have not made any
commitment, Cho said.

In the special zones, foreign doctors and pharmacists can work without obtaining
a local working license, he added.

The government also scrapped its plan to set a minimum foreign investment to
build a hospital in the nation's three free economic zones. It had considered a
50-percent requirement by foreigners to receive various tax and other benefits
in the special economic zones.

"We decided to set no such a limit on the foreign stake ownership. The basic
idea is to allow any foreign investor or company to build a hospital in the
zones," the official said.

The Ministry of Health and Welfare, however, will prepare the qualifications to
set up a foreign hospital in the zones, he added.

Cho also said the government is contacting several foreign theme parks to build
a theme park in the free economic zones, refusing to provide further details.

The Cabinet decided Monday to allow Koreans to use the foreign-invested
hospitals envisioned for the free economic zones. But foreigners-only pharmacies
operating in the zones will not be allowed to sell medicine to locals.

The government plans to soon submit the finalized bill to the Assembly to have
it approved by the end of this year, Cho said.

According to a recent poll, 80.7 percent of the general public said locals
should be allowed to use the foreign hospitals in the free economic zones. The
survey, jointly conducted by Korea Gallup and Kyung Hee University's medical
research center, also showed 68.6 percent of the general public want foreign
hospitals to be built in the zones.

The foreign hospitals issue has been a source of contention between the
government, which supports the move, and those in the medical profession and
civic groups who oppose the idea. The government says that over the long term,
bringing in foreign hospitals could help improve the quality of medical care in
Korea. However, many medical groups and civil organizations say it is unfair to
provide the proposed benefits only to foreign hospitals.

Korea is developing free economic zones in three port cities - Incheon, Busan
and Gwangyang - in the hope that they will become hubs of business, finance and
logistics for Northeast Asia.

In these special zones, foreign-invested companies and their employees are to
enjoy exceptional benefits and incentives compared with the rest of the country,
including tax breaks, expanded foreign-exchange circulation, language services,
labor flexibility, relaxation of greater-Seoul restrictions, and establishment
of foreign education and medical centers.

(saintsim@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2004 The Korea Herald


