                              57 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                         June 24, 1993, Thursday, ZONE

Hospital plans benefit Whitby

BYLINE: By Sterling Taylor TORONTO STAR

SECTION: SCARBOROUGH/DURHAM; Pg. SD5

LENGTH: 409 words


   Whitby is off to a flying start in the economic recovery race, Mayor Tom
Edwards says.

The $133.5 million redevelopment of Whitby Psychiatric Hospital, announced by
the province last week, will put lots of people back to work and ensure Whitby's
future as a centre for mental health care, he said.

It's the kind of spending that assures the town of 64,000 that more than 1,300
permanent jobs will be created directly or indirectly - good news when 60 per
cent of the country's construction workers are unemployed, Edwards said.

More than 700 people will also be employed over the next three years in the
construction project, which begins this autumn.

Replacing the 80-year-old collection of run-down buildings with a 325-bed
hospital to serve a population of 1.8 million in the eastern Metro region is
only the first step in Whitby's plans to beat the recession, Edwards says.

Edwards has invited provincial Health Minister Ruth Grier to become involved
with the town in the promotion. The town's directors of planning and marketing
are already working on the plan.

There are other plans to tie the town's economy into the hospital, which is
scheduled to open by Christmas 1996, and the 62.3 hectares (155 acres) of
provincial land that surrounds it beside Lake Ontario.

A planned system of regional waterfront trails will run through the area and the
land could be developed into attractive green space, Edwards says.

Last week's provincial announcement ended more than 15 years of speculation and
government promises about the future of the hospital.

While plans to rebuild the facility have been around for more than a decade, the
project awaited government plans to integrate the mentally sick with the
community.

Closing it like a similar hospital in Etobicoke was always a possibility, Grier
said during her announcement last week of the government's plans to rebuild the
Whitby facility.

Meanwhile, the 55 brick and concrete buildings that were built to house wounded
and shell-shocked veterans after World War I continued to deteriorate.

Cost of maintenance reached $725,000 a year, Grier noted.

Her announcement also ended years' of concern by the more than 700 employees,
who care for 300 in-patients and 1,000 out-patients that now use the hospital.

Employees had been afraid for some years that the hospital would close, said
Lorna Frank, assistant administrator of hospital services.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: Tom Edwards: Mayor sees economic boon in hospital redevelopment

                  Copyright 1993 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


