                              58 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Private hospitals may face closure

                                 June 25, 1998


A depreciating ringgit and the need for imported drugs are already forcing
private hospitals to close some wards

KUALA LUMPUR -Private hospitals have closed many of their wards as a result of
rising medical costs because of the depreciating ringgit.

These hospitals had been hit hard by rising operating costs because of the need
to import certain drugs and disposable supplies, the Sun reported yesterday.

The president of the Association of Private Hospitals of Malaysia, Dr Chakr Sri
Na Nagara, was quoted as saying that fewer people were seeking treatment at
private hospitals because of the effects of the economic crisis.

"If the situation does not recover, many private hospitals may be forced to
close," he said at the opening of the 1998 National Healthcare Conference and
Exhibition. The exhibition was opened by Deputy Health Minister Datuk Dr Siti
Zaharah Sulaiman.

Dr Chakr said 36 private hospitals, of which 21 are in the Klang Valley, were
due to open this year, but most of them had deferred their plans.

He also cited the attitude of some patients who had started patronising public
hospitals after the economic downturn as another reason for the poor response to
private hospitals.

"Although they can afford to go to private hospitals for treatment, they now
prefer public hospitals as they know it is free or they pay a minimal fee," he
said.

To overcome the problem, Dr Siti Zaharah urged private hospitals to introduce a
fee package for certain ailments according to the ranking of hospitals so that
patients knew which treatment they could afford.

She admitted that public hospitals were now overburdened due to the drastic
increase in the number of patients.

SECTION: Malaysia; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 285 words

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1998 The Straits Times Press Limited


