                              60 of 994 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 1994 University of Maine School of Law
                                Maine Law Review

                                  Winter, 1994

                               46 Me. L. Rev. 67

LENGTH: 8894 words

TERMINATION OF HOSPITAL MEDICAL STAFF PRIVILEGES FOR ECONOMIC REASONS: AN APPEAL
FOR CONSISTENCY

NAME:  June D. Zellers * and Michael R. Poulin **

BIO:



   * Director, Skelton, Taintor & Abbott; B.A. Univ. of Southern Maine (1982);
J.D. Univ. of Maine School of Law (1986).


   ** Director, Skelton, Taintor & Abbott; B.S. Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
(1973); J.D. Univ. of Maine School of Law (1982).

 TEXT:
 [*67]

    I. INTRODUCTION

    The relationship between physicians and hospitals is undergoing significant
change. Historically, a physician maintained a private practice in the community
and looked to the local hospital for ancillary support when his or her patients
were too ill to remain at home. This community-based physician gained access to
the hospital by obtaining medical staff privileges. These privileges allowed the
physician to admit patients to the hospital, treat patients while they were
there, and use the hospital's staff and equipment. The physician generally
enjoyed the use of the privileges throughout his or her active career, losing
them only if found incompetent. Today, not all physicians maintain a
community-based practice. Instead, many are employed by hospitals to staff
various departments. Others enter into exclusive contracts, either individually
or as part of a practice group, to provide certain services for hospitals.

    Although these "hospital-based" physicians have a different economic
relationship with the hospital than traditional communitybased physicians, they
usually have similar medical staff privileges. Unlike community-based
physicians, however, they may not enjoy the use of their privileges throughout
their active careers. Instead, these physicians face the actual or constructive
termination  n1 of their privileges whenever their contractual relationship with
the hospital changes.

    Physicians who lose or cannot use their privileges for this reason are suing
hospitals with increasing frequency. The case law, however, has failed for the
most part to articulate the legal principles that govern these controversies.

    This Article analyzes those cases arising from the loss of medical staff
privileges in private hospitals due to changes in the contractual relationship
between the hospital and the physician. It does not in  [*68]  clude cases
arising from the loss of privileges for incompetence or other disciplinary
reasons or cases decided on antitrust grounds.  n2

    The Article identifies four kinds of economic relationships between
hospitals and physicians.  n3 Using these classifications, the Article compares
a recent case from Maine, Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Center,  n4 and its
precedents, with recent conflicting authority from Tennessee, Lewisburg
Community Hospital v. Alfredson.  n5

    The Article posits that the courts have reached opposite results on similar
facts for two reasons. One, the parties have neglected to set forth clearly
their agreement with respect to privileges. Consequently, courts have been
presented with contracts and bylaws that are ambiguous, silent, or contradictory
on the issue of privileges. For instance, the contract between the parties may
not address the issue of privileges  n6 or may conflict with the hospital
bylaws,  n7 which usually have not been updated to reflect the contract between
the parties. Two, when faced with ambiguous or conflicting evidence, the courts
have overlooked a significant and often controlling fact: the economic
relationship between the physician and the hospital. This Article suggests that
courts should rely on the economic relationship between the parties as the best
extrinsic evidence of the parties' intent with respect to privileges, including
the physician's right of access to the hospital's equipment and personnel. The
Article concludes with a discussion of how hospitals can modify their contracts
and bylaws to minimize the risk of unfavorable decisions in these cases.
 [*69]

    II. RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN PHYSICIANS AND HOSPITALS: PRIVILEGES AND ECONOMICS

    Hospitals may be organized as private for-profit corporations, private
not-for-profit corporations, or public not-for-profit corporations. Regardless
of the nature of corporate organization, a physician generally has no automatic
right to practice in either a public hospital or a private hospital.  n8

    Medical staff privileges are the method by which physicians gain access to
the hospital, and the hospital controls the quality and number of physicians who
are permitted to practice within its facility.  n9 The procedure for granting
and revoking privileges as well as the applicable standards of conduct for
physicians are embodied in the medical staff bylaws.  n10

    Medical staff privileges, however, are only part of the modern relationship
between hospitals and physicians. There is also an economic relationship between
the hospital and the physician. This economic relationship may be viewed as a
continuum of dependency. At one end is the community-based physician. At the
other is the physician-employee of the hospital. In between are non-employee
hospital-based physicians.

    The most economically independent is the community-based physician. The
primary basis of a community-based physician's practice is his or her office. It
is there the physician sees and evaluates patients and decides what treatment is
necessary. The physician's office practice is separate from the hospital and
constitutes his or her own private professional practice. The physician is free
to reap the benefits of this practice, including income, but is also responsible
for the burdens of the practice, including office management, overhead, and
fluctuations in cash flow.

    The community-based physician's relationship with the hospital revolves
around patient care, particularly the quality of care provided by the physician.
"Economic" decisions by the hospital, such as the organization of the hospital,
the services it offers, or the equipment it provides, influence the decisions of
a physician to which hospital he or she will admit patients but otherwise have
only a marginal effect on the community-based physician's practice, unless the
physician is located in a one-hospital area.  n11
 [*70]

    In contrast to the community-based physician, the hospital-based physician
is not truly an independent private practitioner. This physician has exchanged
the freedom to reap all the economic advantages of practice for certain benefits
provided by the hospital such as office management and stable cash flow.

    There are three types of hospital-based physicians: (1) the
physician-employee; (2) the "dependent" physician, whose services are billed by
the hospital; and (3) the "quasi-independent" physician, who bills his or her
services directly but who must have access to hospital equipment and staff in
order to render such services.

    The physician-employee and the dependent physician have a similar economic
relationship with the hospital. In both cases, the hospital has a direct
economic interest in the cost/price structure of the physician's practice. The
more the hospital has to pay the physician, the less revenue will be available
for the hospital. If the hospital decides to change the method of providing
services or to terminate a service, these physicians may see their positions
diminished or even eliminated.

    Quasi-independent physicians, such as radiologists and anesthesiologists,
have a less direct economic impact on the hospital's bottom line. They are,
however, highly dependent on the hospital for access to equipment and staff and
rarely maintain an office practice separate from the hospital. For these
physicians, an inability to use the hospital's equipment renders their medical
staff privileges meaningless.

    Clearly, a hospital's relationship with a physician is much broader than the
relationship created by medical staff privileges alone. The distinction between
the parties' economic relationship and the relationship created by the granting
of privileges is crucial to understanding the physician's right to exercise his
privileges by having access to the hospital's equipment and staff.

    The hospital must control access by all physicians on the basis of quality
of care.  n12 The hospital exercises this control through the credentialing and
privilege revocation procedures in its medical staff bylaws, which must include
a peer review process and notice and
 [*71]  opportunity for a hearing.  n13 The hospital may also control access to
its equipment and staff on the basis of its own economic interests. The hospital
exercises this control not through the credentialing process but through its
contracts with physicians for certain services.  n14

    III. CONFLICTING APPROACHES BY COURTS

    As the following analysis of the case law demonstrates, hospitals have often
neglected to articulate in contracts with physicians or in their bylaws the
scope of their discretion to control access for economic reasons. A hospital has
a strong economic interest in controlling the access of its employee and
dependent physicians and a far weaker economic interest in controlling the
access of quasi-independent and independent physicians. The distinction between
these economic interests has gone virtually unnoticed by some courts. As a
result, some courts have failed to appreciate the difference between the
hospital's control of access on the basis of quality of care and the hospital's
control of access on the basis of its own economic interests.

    Courts have historically taken one of three approaches to cases involving
termination of medical staff privileges. If the hospital is a private hospital,
the courts usually employ an express contract analysis based on the hospital
bylaws.  n15 In some jurisdictions, the courts view hospitals as quasi-public
entities and employ an approach similar to a review of an administrative
proceeding.  n16 If the hospital is a public hospital, the courts also analyze
the physician's property and, or alternatively, liberty interests in the
privileges granted and the
 [*72]  corresponding constitutional due process requirements.  n17

    Most hospital-physician litigation today arises from the termination or
expiration of an exclusive contract arrangement,  n18 or the termination of an
employment relationship.  n19 For example, the hospital may enter into a
contract or employment relationship with a physician or group of physicians,
giving the physician or group the exclusive right to provide certain services at
the hospital. The hospital also grants the physician or physicians privileges.
The hospital later decides, for economic or other reasons, to terminate the
contract or employment, oftentimes giving the exclusive rights to a different
entity. The hospital may or may not attempt to terminate the physician's
privileges. Once another entity obtains the exclusive right to provide services,
the hospital denies the physician access to the hospital's facilities and staff.
The physician finds himself both without the contract and without the ability to
exercise privileges at the hospital.

    Turning to the courts for assistance, the physician seeks to reassert or
reinstate his or her medical staff privileges as the method of continuing to use
the hospital's facilities and staff and thus preserve the economic value of his
relationship with the hospital. Sometimes the physician can point to express
provisions of the bylaws providing that her privileges are not contingent on
employment contracts. If, however, the contract does not address the issue of
privileges or if the bylaws have not been updated to reflect the effect of the
additional contractual relationship, hospitals find themselves in the anomalous
position of appearing to have violated the bylaws each time they terminate a
contractual relationship. In addition, if the hospital allows the physician
continued access to its equipment and staff, the hospital may violate the
exclusive contract it has now
 [*73]  given to someone else.

    The physician who loses the right to use his or her privileges at a private
hospital for economic reasons may therefore present two different contracts for
interpretation and enforcement: (1) the employment or exclusive contract between
the hospital and the physician; and (2) the contract created by the medical
staff bylaws.  n20 Often one or both of these contracts do not reflect
accurately the understanding between the physician and the hospital with respect
to the exercise of privileges. If the bylaws or any separate contract clearly
delineate the scope of the privileges granted, the courts need look no further
than these documents and may apply contract principles to the facts. If the
contract and bylaws are silent, ambiguous, or contradict each other, the
rationale for the courts' decisions has been less understandable. Courts appear
to be rewriting rather than enforcing the bargain struck by the parties. The
result is a body of law that undermines the contractual bargain of the parties
and offers little legal guidance to practitioners in drafting agreements and
advising clients.

    A. The Law Court Fails to Recognize the Economic Relationship Between the
Physician and the Hospital in Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Center

    1. The Case

    Representative of courts' confusion in this area is a recent decision of the
Maine Supreme Judicial Court, sitting as the Law Court, Bartley v. Eastern Maine
Medical Center.  n21 The plaintiffs in Bartley were four emergency physicians
employed by a group practice that had an exclusive contract with Eastern Maine
Medical Center to provide physician services in the emergency department. When
the group practice lost its exclusive contract, the hospital denied the
physicians access to its emergency department. The physicians sued, relying on
the rights granted them in the medical staff bylaws.  n22 The case reached the
Law Court on the physicians' appeal of a grant of summary judgment to the
hospital.

    The issue before the court in Bartley was whether the hospital
 [*74]  had breached the contract created by the medical staff bylaws by denying
the physicians access to the hospital's equipment and staff without providing
notice and hearing as required by those bylaws. The physicians relied on two
separate provisions of the bylaws. The first was an express provision that
privileges were not contingent on employment contracts.  n23 The second was that
privileges could not be reduced without notice and hearing.  n24 The court found
that these two provisions did not prevent the hospital from denying the
physicians access to the hospital's equipment and staff and held that the
hospital did not breach the contract created by its bylaws.  n25

    The court gave essentially two grounds for its decision. First, it found
that the medical staff bylaws were "subject to the authority of the hospital
board of trustees,"  n26 which, being vested with the general management of the
affairs of the hospital, had the power to enter into new contracts for the
staffing of the emergency department and otherwise manage the hospital's
departments.  n27

    Second, the Law Court found that the physicians were not entitled to the
notice and hearing provisions of the bylaws because these provisions were
applicable only to "major corrective action."  n28 As defined by the bylaws,
corrective action occurs when there is a recommendation that a physician's
privileges be reduced.  n29 The court reasoned, however, that the physicians'
privileges were not reduced because a grant of privileges did not include the
right to use the privileges.  n30 Since the physicians' privileges were still
intact, the court found the notice and hearing provisions inapposite.  n31
 [*75]

    2. Analysis

    Bartley contains no mention of the terms of the exclusive contract between
the physicians and the hospital. This omission leaves the reader to assume that
the contract addressed neither termination of privileges nor access to
facilities and staff once the contract was terminated. Further, the reader is
not given a complete understanding of the terms of the bylaws. This prevents the
reader from determining the economic relationship between the parties, although
the hospital's brief pointed out that the physicians were hospital-based
physicians whose services were billed by the hospital.  n32 In the end, the
reader is left with the impression that the court redefined, without attention
to the bylaws or the contract, the concept of medical staff privileges and used
this new definition, in combination with its expansive reading of the discretion
granted the hospital's board of trustees, to undermine the notice and hearing
rights granted under the bylaws.

    a. The Bartley Court's Treatment of the Grant of Privileges v. The Right to
Exercise Privileges

    The Bartley court defined hospital medical staff privileges to mean only
that the physicians were qualified to practice at the hospital not that the
physicians had the right to exercise the privileges.  n33 The court then said
that in order to use the privileges, something else was necessary for hospital
-based physicians but not for community-based physicians.  n34 The court,
however, did not identify any language in the bylaws that differentiated between
the grant of privileges and the exercise of privileges or between privileges
granted to hospital-based physicians as distinguished from other physicians.
n35 Nor did the court identify anything in the exclusive contract that supported
these distinctions.

    If the court had explained the distinction between hospital-based
 [*76]  physicians and general practitioners in terms of their different
economic relationships with the hospital, the court's basis for the distinction
between the grant of privileges and the right to use privileges would be more
understandable. In addition, these differences could have been used to analyze
properly the cases relied on by the court.

    i. The Basis for the Distinction Between the Grant and the Exercise of
Privileges

    Two seminal cases, cited by the Bartley court, have recognized the
distinction between the grant and the exercise of hospital privileges. The first
case is Engelstad v. Virginia Municipal Hospital,  n36 decided by the United
States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in 1983. Dr. Engelstad was an
employee-at-will of the hospital.  n37 When he lost his job as the director of
the pathology department, Dr. Engelstad sued for damages alleging that the
hospital had failed to provide him appropriate notice and hearing.  n38 The
court held that Dr. Engelstad was not entitled to a hearing under the bylaws.
n39 The court noted that the bylaws granted physicians the right to treat
patients. This right, however, did not apply to Dr. Engelstad who, as a
pathologist, did not treat patients. In the case of pathologists, the bylaws
provided that their privileges were defined by the medical staff executive
committee.  n40 The court also found that Dr. Engelstad's staff privileges had
not been reduced since he had been offered an arrangement with the hospital to
continue as a staff pathologist.  n41

    In other words, the physician in Engelstad was an employee whose privileges
under the bylaws were expressly distinguished from the privileges granted to
independent physicians. The contract created by the bylaws accurately reflected
the parties' economic relationship. Moreover, the physician had declined other
employment that would have allowed him to exercise his privileges. The court's
decision was consistent with the parties' contract and their economic
relationship. These facts show that Engelstad is clearly distinguishable from
Bartley.

    The other case relied on by the Bartley court was Holt v. Good
 [*77]  Samaritan Hospital and Health Center.  n42 Dr. Holt held an exclusive
contract with the hospital that entitled him to provide emergency room services.
Dr. Holt lost the exclusive contract and subsequently refused to work for the
physicians who were awarded the new contract.  n43 And, like the physician in
Engelstad, Dr. Holt had the opportunity to exercise his privileges but chose not
to.  n44

    Dr. Holt was, in all likelihood, a dependent hospital-based physician whose
services were billed by the hospital.  n45 Holt does not appear to be factually
distinguishable from Bartley.

    Both Engelstad and Holt conclude that having privileges at a hospital does
not confer the unimpeded right to exercise those privileges.  n46 Lost in the
analysis is the distinguishing fact that the right to exercise privileges is
related to the economic relationship between the parties and in these cases was
limited to dependent hospitalbased physicians. This distinction was controlling
in the seminal case to address this issue, Adler v. Montefiore Hospital
Association of Western Pennsylvania.  n47 ii. Origin of the Distinction Between
the Grant and the Exercise of Privileges

    The genesis for the distinction between the grant of privileges and the
ability to exercise privileges is found in Adler v. Montefiore Hospital
Association of Western Pennsylvania. Dr. Adler was a cardiologist who lost his
part-time employment as the Director of the Cardiology Lab at Montefiore
Hospital. In addition to this part-time
 [*78]  employment, Dr. Adler maintained a private practice with two offices,
and had privileges at three other hospitals.  n48 As the part-time Director of
the Cardiology Lab, Dr. Adler was the only physician authorized to perform
certain procedures using hospital equipment.  n49

    The Adler court found that Dr. Adler's right to perform these procedures
using the hospital's equipment arose solely from his employment as Director of
the Laboratory and not from any grant of staff privileges.  n50 Since Dr. Adler
continued to enjoy the right and authority to admit and treat patients at the
hospital, and since his rights to perform certain procedures using hospital
equipment did not arise from his privileges, the court held that Dr. Adler had
no right to a hearing under the hospital bylaws.  n51 In other words, the
contractual basis for Dr. Adler's access to equipment was not the contract
formed by the bylaws but the contract formed through his employment. Since the
hospital had not breached his employment contract, he had no right to relief for
the loss of access to the hospital's equipment.

    In short, Dr. Adler was a dual-status physician. He gained the right to use
certain equipment because he was employed by the hospital. The loss of access to
such equipment, however, did not have a major effect on Dr. Adler's practice
because in all other respects he was an independent community-based physician
who maintained a private practice and continued to admit and treat patients at
the hospital. iii. Distortion of the Distinction Between the Grant and the
Exercise of Privileges

    Over time the reasoning of Adler has become divorced from its unique
underlying facts. One reason arises from a failure to understand or articulate
the underlying economic relationship between the hospital and the physician. An
example of this failure is Williams v. Hobbs.  n52

    In Williams, the complaining physician was fired from the group practice
that held the exclusive contract to provide radiology services to the hospital.
The court found that the physician's privileges were indeed terminated. The
court found that no breach of the hospital's medical staff bylaws arose from the
termination.  n53 Instead, the court held that employment by the exclusive
contractor was one of the qualifications for hospital staff privileges in the
department of
 [*79]  radiology. Once the physician lost this employment relationship, he was
no longer qualified to hold privileges. Although the court quoted liberally from
the bylaws, it identified no bylaw provision that imposed employment as a
condition of privileges.  n54

    The court in Williams did not discuss the economic relationship between the
radiologist and the hospital. Radiologists are quasi-independent physicians who
bill for their own services. Unlike Dr. Adler who gained access to the
hospital's equipment through his employment relationship with the hospital,
radiologists maintain a certain independence from the hospital. The hospital's
economic interest in restricting a radiologist's access to its equipment and
staff is no greater than its economic interest in restricting a surgeon's access
to its operating room. Also, unlike Dr. Adler, without access to a hospital's
equipment and staff, radiologists are not able to exercise any of their
privileges. The court in Williams erred by adopting an analysis based on the
employment relationship between the physician and the hospital. Since the
radiologist in Williams was economically independent from the hospital, the
analysis found in Adler is inapposite.

    The analysis in Adler is appropriate when the physician is not independent
from the hospital, and his economic relationship with the hospital does
determine the nature of his privileges. For instance, in Collins v. Associated
Pathologists, Ltd.,  n55 a dependent hospital-based pathologist, whose services
were billed by the hospital, lost his employment with the holder of the
exclusive provider of pathology services to the hospital.  n56 Like the court in
Williams, the Collins court held that the physician's ability to exercise his
privileges was dependent on his employment relationship with the exclusive
contract holder.  n57 The court in Collins stated that it could not compel the
hospital to enter into a contractual relationship with Dr. Collins in derogation
of its exclusive contract with another provider.  n58

    One must look to the trial court opinion in Collins, however, to understand
the basis for this conclusion. When Dr. Collins lost his job with the exclusive
provider, he asked the hospital to employ him. The hospital refused.  n59 The
trial court found that the grant of privileges did not entitle a physician to an
employment contract with the hospital.  n60 In other words, in order to exercise
pathology
 [*80]  privileges it was necessary to have a second contract or financial
arrangement with the hospital. This was necessary because the hospital, not the
physician, billed the patient for pathology services. Without the second
contract, there was no way for the pathologist to be paid. Therefore, the
reasoning of Collins should be applied only to employee and dependent hospital
-based physicians.

    The courts in Collins and Williams struggle to articulate the relationship
between the grant of privileges and the exercise of privileges but fail to
recognize that the relationship is governed by the economic relationship between
the physician and the hospital. In the ideal case, the relationship between the
exercise of privileges and any contract between the parties is defined in both
the hospital's bylaws and the physician's separate contract with the hospital.
Sometimes the court can infer this relationship from the facts presented. In
most cases, however, this relationship is ignored. Unless the economic
relationship between the parties is recognized as the distinguishing fact in
these cases, any physician whose practice relies heavily on continued access to
the hospital's equipment and personnel may be without legal recourse when his or
her privileges are constructively terminated by a denial of that access.

    b. Recognition of the Economic Relationship Between the Physician and the
Hospital

    The economic relationship between the hospital and the physician and its
effect on the physician's privileges was recognized in Lewisburg Community
Hospital v. Alfredson.  n61 Dr. Alfredson was the sole provider of radiological
services to the hospital under two consecutive contracts. In his second contract
with the hospital, he negotiated the deletion of a clause providing that his
clinical privileges would terminate if the contract was canceled without cause.
n62 Eventually, Alfredson's contract was canceled. Technically, he retained his
privileges, but the hospital denied him access to its equipment and staff.  n63
Alfredson then sued the hospital.  n64

    The hospital made the same arguments raised in Bartley. The Tennessee court,
however, found them unpersuasive for three reasons. First, the court
painstakingly reviewed the medical staff bylaws but found no support in their
language for differentiating between the grant of privileges and the ability to
exercise them.  n65 The court concluded that the grant of privileges must embody
the ability
 [*81]  to exercise those privileges, based on the absence in the bylaws of any
provisions to the contrary.

    Second, the court implicitly recognized the economic relationship between
the hospital and the physician when it explained that, "with hospital-based
specialties such as radiology, the inability to use the hospital facilities and
staff would have rendered the clinical privileges meaningless."  n66 As a
radiologist, Alfredson was most likely a quasi-independent physician who billed
separately for his own services. In order to do so, however, he required access
to the hospital's equipment and staff.

    Finally, the court concluded, based on the unique facts of the case, that
the hospital had made an economic decision when it agreed to delete the
automatic termination of privileges provision from the physician's contract.
n67 The hospital was bound by that decision just as it was bound by its decision
to enter into a different exclusive contract. The court's finding--that the
hospital had reduced the physician's privileges by denying him access to
equipment and staff  n68 --is an implicit recognition of the underlying economic
relationship.

    The court in Alfredson used the economic relationship between the physician
and the hospital to bolster its conclusion regarding the effect of changes in
the physician's contractual relationship with the hospital. This evidence is not
needed, however, to construe exclusive contracts that either expressly address
the issue of privileges  n69 or are
 [*82]  consistent with the scope of privileges granted under the bylaws.  n70

    The confusion seen in these cases arises from a failure to explore the
economic relationship between the parties as the most reliable extrinsic
evidence of the parties' intent regarding privileges if the documents themselves
are unclear. If the limitations on privileges are clear from the plain language
of the contract, this extrinsic evidence is not needed and should not be used to
override the actual bargain of the parties.  n71 If the contractual language is
ambiguous or
 [*83]  contradictory, this evidence gives the courts a reasoned basis upon
which to determine the scope of a physician's right of access to a hospital's
equipment and staff.

    c. The Hospital's Discretion to Make Economic Decisions

    The second aspect of the Bartley opinion that deserves clarification is the
breadth of the hospital's power to impose ad hoc restrictions on privileges. The
Bartley court found the hospital had broad discretion to enter into contracts
and otherwise manage the hospital. This recognition of the hospital's broad
discretion is in accord with the conclusion reached by most courts in evaluating
a hospital's ability to enter into exclusive contracts.  n72

    The Bartley decision is unclear with respect to how the hospital's
discretion to manage its business relates to the specific rights and obligations
granted under the medical staff bylaws. The confusion may be due in part to an
inadequate discussion of the significance of the bylaw provision that provided,
"continuation of staff membership shall not be made contingent on the
continuance of an employment contract."  n73 The Bartley decision can be read to
mean that the hospital's general managerial discretion to enter into contracts
provides the unilaterally legal entitlement to overrule express provisions of
the medical staff bylaws.

    The discretion to enter into a contract, however, is not synony  [*84]  mous
with the unilateral right to terminate a contract. The hospital has the same
discretion to terminate a contract according to its terms as it has to decide to
breach a contract. It is the terms of the contract that dictate the conditions
under which it may be terminated without a breach occurring. Thus, a hospital
cannot ignore or override the express requirements of a contract without
breaching it.

    Although the Law Court correctly analyzed the breadth of a hospital's
discretion in making economic decisions, it failed to apply this analysis to the
facts presented. An explanation of the economic relationship between the
hospital and the physicians was needed. Otherwise, there is no reasoned basis
why the hospital, in the exercise of its discretion, could not restrict or
reduce for economic reasons any physician's access to the hospital without
providing notice or opportunity to be heard as required by the bylaws. For
quasiindependent and independent physicians, restriction or reduction of the
physician's access to the hospital is a constructive reduction of the
physician's privileges.

    If the physicians in Bartley were indeed dependent hospital-based
physicians, then it was the hospital's economic interest in the profitability of
the services it rendered that would provide the limiting principle for the
exercise of this discretion. Absent a showing of a similar economic interest in
the profitability to the hospital of services rendered by other physicians, the
hospital's discretion may not provide unfettered power to deny other physicians
access to the hospital's equipment and staff for economic rather than competency
reasons.

    The Bartley decision also fails to analyze the significance of the provision
in the medical staff bylaws that prohibits making the continuation of privileges
contingent on continued employment with the hospital.  n74 Although the
physicians relied on this provision to support their right to relief, the court
does not explain why it is inapplicable to the facts presented.

    The court could have explained that the physicians in Bartley were not
employed by or under contract with the hospital, but by an entity that had
contracted with the hospital. Apparently their employment with this entity
continued. Consequently their employment status had no relevance to their
privileges, nor did they have a direct contractual relationship with the
hospital.  n75 Therefore, even without the distinction drawn by the court
between the grant of
 [*85]  privileges and the exercise of privileges, the cited provision of the
medical staff bylaws can be construed to offer no protection to the physicians
in Bartley. Consequently, the board of trustees did not override this express
provision of the medical staff in refusing the physicians' access to its
equipment and staff. Conversely, with the distinction drawn by the court between
the grant and the exercise of privileges, this portion of the holding seems
unnecessary.

    Bartley should not be read for the proposition that hospitals have
unfettered discretion to override the express provisions of medical staff bylaws
without risking an action for breach of contract. A careful review of the
factual underpinning of the court's holding shows that this discretion is not
unlimited. Like any other business entity, a hospital may choose to breach any
of its contractual obligations. But if it does, it may be liable for damages for
breach of contract.

    IV. A CALL FOR CLARITY

    The confusion surrounding these disputes and the resulting litigation could
be reduced, if not eliminated, by amending hospital and medical staff bylaws and
by ensuring that all hospital-based physicians have written contracts with
clearly defined termination clauses. Hospitals should take the lead in
redesigning their bylaws to eliminate many of the problems outlined above. The
mutual understandings and expectations of the hospital and the physicians should
be set forth in plain language. The issue is one of reasonable notice to the
physician of the scope and limitations of his or her rights to use the
hospital's facilities, equipment, and staff.

    Medical staff bylaws should define the rights of the physician who has been
granted privileges. For instance, they should state to what extent the
privileges include the right to use hospital equipment, facilities, and staff
necessary to provide services. If these rights vary, the bylaws should
distinguish between physicians who are community-based and physicians who are
hospital employees or who are otherwise hospital-based.

    In addition, the hospital and medical staff bylaws should expressly reserve
to the hospital governing board the right to terminate any health service or
change any method of delivering such services, including exclusive contracting
and directly employing physicians. The bylaws should make clear that this
authority supersedes the grant of privileges to a physician.

    Next, bylaws should distinguish between termination of privileges for
competence or disciplinary reasons and termination of privileges for business or
economic reasons, by providing notice, an opportunity to be heard, and peer
review for the former, but only a reasona  [*86]  ble period of advance notice
for the latter.  n76

    The bylaws should also provide that employment and other contracts with
physicians that provide for the withdrawal of privileges will supersede
applicable bylaw provisions regarding privileges. Hospitals should bargain for
contracts that provide for automatic withdrawal of privileges when the contract
expires or is terminated. Where the contract is with a physician group or
corporation, the contractor should be required to maintain employment agreements
with its physician employees that provide for automatic resignation from the
hospital upon termination of employment.

    Finally, substantive changes in the bylaws should coincide or become
effective with the physicians' biannual renewal of privileges.  n77 Since
privileges are granted for a specific term, arguably they are not subject to
unilateral modification during that term. Making such changes effective upon
renewal gives physicians fair notice and is consistent with contract law
principles.

    The case law in this area need not be confusing. What is needed is clear
draftsmanship, updated bylaws, and litigants who provide the courts with an
understanding of the economic relationships between the hospitals and
physicians.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawBusiness Administration & OrganizationHospital
PrivilegesRestrictionsLabor & Employment LawEmployment RelationshipsEmployment
at WillGeneral OverviewLabor & Employment LawEmployment RelationshipsEmployment
ContractsConditions & TermsGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1  Constructive termination of privileges occurs when the physician is denied
access to the hospital's equipment or facilities without having his privileges
revoked. See infra Part III.




n2  For a discussion of antitrust issues, see generally Robert J. Enders,
Federal Antitrust Issues Involved in the Denial of Medical Staff Privileges, 17
LOY. U. CHI. L.J. 331 (1986).




n3  See infra Part II.




n4  617 A.2d 1020 (Me. 1992).




n5  805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991).




n6  See, e.g., Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d at 1020.




n7  An example of the contract being inconsistent with the bylaws is Hospital
Corp. of Lake Worth v. Romaguera, 511 So. 2d 559 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1987). In
this case, a pathologist's exclusive contract provided for termination of his
privileges upon termination of the contract. Subsequent to entering into this
contract, the hospital amended its bylaws to provide that termination of a
physician's contract would not affect his or her medical staff privileges. Id.
at 560. Apparently, this provision was added to the bylaws in response to the
Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (hereinafter
JCAHO) Standards which provide that physicians with contractual relationships
with the hospital will have their privileges defined through the medical staff
bylaws. Standard MS.2.16.6, Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare
Organizations 1994 ACCREDITATION MANUAL FOR HOSPITALS, at 70 (hereinafter 1994
JCAHO ACCREDITATION MANUAL). The court ruled that the subsequent amendment of
the bylaws modified the exclusive contract but only because it expanded rather
than restricted the physician's rights. Hospital Corp. of Lake Worth v.
Romaguera, 511 So. 2d at 560.




n8  E.g., Hayman v. City of Galveston, 273 U.S. 414, 416-17 (1927); see
generally Barbara Cray, Due Process Considerations in Hospital Staff Privilege
Cases, 7 HASTINGS CONST. L.Q. 217 (1979).




n9  Sheree Lynn McCall, A Hospital's Liability for Denying, Suspending and
Granting Staff Privileges, 32 BAYLOR L. REV. 175 (1980) (hereinafter McCall).




n10  Standards MS.2-MS.3, 1994 JCAHO ACCREDITATION MANUAL, supra note 7, at
66-72.




n11  The primary concern of the community-based physician faced with a
suspension, reduction, or revocation of his or her privileges is a full and fair
opportunity to explore the charges presented. The peer review and hearing
requirements of medical staff bylaws are a result of this concern. Peer review
is also required by the MedicareMedicaid program, 42 C.F.R.  482.1-482.66, and
may be required by state statute and regulations, see, e.g., ME. REV. STAT. ANN.
tit. 24, 2503 (West 1990); 6 Code of Maine Regulations, ch. 112, VI, XIX, and is
a condition of accreditation by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of
Healthcare Organizations, Standards ES.1, GB.1, 1994 JCAHO ACCREDITATION MANUAL,
supra note 7, at 105-06, 113-16. In addition, medical staff committee members of
a professional review body are provided with immunity from antitrust actions if
the procedures comply with the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42
U.S.C.  11101-11152 (1988).




n12  Standards MS.2-MS.3, 1994 JCAHO ACCREDITATION MANUAL, supra note 7, at
66-72.




n13  Standard MS.2.12, 1994 JCAHO ACCREDITATION MANUAL, supra note 7, at 68.




n14  See, e.g., John D. Blum, Evaluation of Medical Staff Using Fiscal Factors:
Economic Credentialing, 26 J. HEALTH & HOSP. L. 65 (Mar. 1993); Kevin E. Grady,
Current Topics in Medical Staff Development and Credentialing, 26 J. HEALTH &
HOSP. L. 193 (July, 1993).




n15  Medical staff bylaws constitute an enforceable contract between a hospital
and its staff physicians. See, e.g., Bhatnagar v. Mid-Maine Medical Ctr., 510
A.2d 233, 234 (Me. 1986); see also Pariser v. Christian Health Care Sys., Inc.,
816 F.2d 1248, 1251 (8th Cir. 1987); Posner v. Lankenau Hosp., 645 F. Supp.
1102, 1106 (E.D. Pa. 1986); Robinson v. Magovern, 521 F. Supp. 842, 925 (W.D.
Pa. 1981), aff'd, 688 F.2d 824 (3d Cir. 1982), cert. denied, 459 U.S. 971
(1982); Lawler v. Eugene Wuesthoff Memorial Hosp. Ass'n, 497 So. 2d 1261, 1264
(Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1986); Berberian v. Lancaster Osteopathic Hosp. Ass'n, 149
A.2d 456, 458 (Pa. 1959); St. John's Hosp. Medical Staff v. St. John Regional
Medical Ctr., Inc., 245 N.W.2d 472, 474 (S.D. 1976). See generally Barbara Cray,
Due Process Considerations in Hospital Staff Privileges Cases, 7 HASTINGS CONST.
L.Q. 217, 251-54 (1979) (hereinafter Cray); McCall, supra note 9, at 183-86.




n16  McCall, supra note 9, at 186-88; Cray, supra note 8, at 238-46. California
takes this approach. It is similar to the approach taken in the New Jersey case
of Greisman v. Newcomb Hosp., 192 A.2d 817 (N.J. 1963), which created a common
law right to due process in medical staff decisions. Contra Hottentot v.
Mid-Maine Medical Ctr., 549 A.2d 365 (Me. 1988).




n17  See Carolyn Quinn, Comment, Procedural Due Process Rights of Physicians
Applying for Hospital Staff Privileges, 17 LOY. U. CHI. L.J. 453, 453-65 (1986).
Only in cases regarding public hospitals is the term "due process" used in its
constitutional sense. In all other cases where government action is not
implicated, the use of the term "due process" denotes notice and opportunity to
be heard.




n18  E.g., Bilek v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Ctr., No. 91-973 (Cir.
Ct. Leon Cty, Fla., Apr. 29, 1991); Palm Beach-Martin County Medical Ctr. v.
Panaro, 431 So. 2d 559 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1983); Szczerbaniuk v. Memorial
Hosp. for McHenry County, 536 N.E.2d 138 (Ill. App. 2d 1989); Bartley v. Eastern
Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d 1020 (Me. 1992); Anne Arundel Gen. Hosp., Inc. v.
O'Brien, 432 A.2d 483 (Md. 1981); Lewisburg Community Hosp., Inc. v. Alfredson,
805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991). Cases may potentially arise, however, from a
variety of economic decisions made by hospitals. For instance, a hospital may
decide to close a particular unit, may decide not to replace or update certain
equipment, or may decide to discontinue certain procedures.




n19  E.g., Collins v. Associated Pathologists, Ltd., 844 F.2d 473 (7th Cir.
1988); Engelstad v. Virginia Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d 262 (8th Cir. 1983); Williams
v. Hobbs, 460 N.E.2d 287 (Ohio App. 1983); Adler v. Montefiore Hosp. Ass'n of W.
Pa., 311 A.2d 634 (Pa. 1973).




n20  One way to sidestep physicians' claims under hospital bylaws is to declare
that such bylaws do not create an enforceable contract. That approach was
recently taken in St. Mary's Hosp. v. Radiology Prof. Corp., 421 S.E.2d 731, 736
(Ga. App. 1992).




n21  617 A.2d 1020 (Me. 1992). For a criticism of the Bartley case, see Chenen,
Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Center: Cost Containment Prevails Over
Physician's Rights, 7 MEDICAL STAFF COUNSELOR 67 (1993).




n22  Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d at 1021. The Law Court
began its analysis on a tentative note, indicating that the medical staff bylaws
"may constitute an enforceable contract between the medical center and its staff
physicians." Id. (emphasis added). The court did not, however, pursue this line
of reasoning. See supra note 20.




n23  Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d at 1022 (citing Art. III,
C(5) of the bylaws which provides: "Physicians who are employed or are under
contract to the Medical Center shall be appointed through the same procedure
used for all members of the medical staff. Continuation of membership shall not
be made contingent on continuance of such employment or contract.").




n24  Brief for Appellants at 9, Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d
1020 (Me. 1992) (No. PEN-92-211) (citing Art. III, E(1)(a) of the bylaws). The
exclusive contract was apparently silent on the issue of privileges as no
mention was made of its terms.




n25  Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d at 1023.




n26  Id. at 1022.




n27  Id.




n28  Id. at 1023.




n29  Id. The bylaws provided that "privileges may be reduced or terminated only
when it is found, after a substantial notice and hearing process, that "the
activity or professional conduct of any medical staff member . . . is . . .
lower than the standards or aims of the Medical Center.' " (emphasis in
original). Brief for Appellants at 9 (citing Art. III E(1)(a) of the bylaws).




n30  Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d at 1023 (citing Engelstad
v. Virginia Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d 262, 268 (8th Cir. 1983); Holt v. Good
Samaritan Hosp. & Health Ctr., 590 N.E.2d 1318, 1323 (Ohio App. 1990)).




n31  Id. at 1023.




n32  Generally, hospitals include in their billings the fee generated by their
emergency physicians, which would make these physicians "dependent" physicians
as that term is used in this Article. This classification may be inferred from
the court's noting that the new contract contained a "compensation arrangement
more favorable to the hospital." Id. at 1021. The hospital's brief on appeal
pointed out that the hospital controlled the physicians' pricing and billing
practices under which the physicians received 80.8% of the professional charges
billed through the emergency department. Brief for Appellee at 4, 7, Bartley v.
Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d 1020 (Me. 1992) (No. PEN-92-211). In
addition, the hospital eventually adopted an employment relationship with its
emergency room physicians, thus increasing the hospital's economic control.




n33  Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d at 1023.




n34  Id. The court referred to these physicians as "general practitioners."




n35  See infra text accompanying notes 40, 54 & 65 for a discussion of cases in
which the courts analyzed the specific provisions of the bylaws to support their
decision regarding the meaning of privileges.




n36  718 F.2d 262 (8th Cir. 1983).




n37  Id. at 266.




n38  Because the hospital was a public hospital, Dr. Engelstad relied on both 42
U.S.C.  1983 and the hospital bylaws for his right to a hearing. Engelstad v.
Virginia Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d at 263. On the civil rights claim, the court found
that because Dr. Engelstad did not have a property interest in his employment
with the hospital, he had no protected interest sufficient to require a due
process hearing. Id. at 266.




n39  Engelstad v. Virginia Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d at 269.




n40  Id. at 264.




n41  Id. at 269.




n42  590 N.E.2d 1318 (Ohio Ct. App. 1990).




n43  Id. at 1319.




n44  Id. The court in Holt relied primarily on four cases, rather than an
analysis of the economic relationship between the parties, to support its
holding. These cases are all distinguishable. First, the court relied on Lewin
v. St. Joseph Hosp., 146 Cal. Rptr. 892 (Ct. App. 1978), a case that employed
the administrative law analysis to hospital privileging issues. See supra note
16 and accompanying text. Second, the court relied on Anne Arundel Gen. Hosp.,
Inc. v. O'Brien, 432 A.2d 483 (Md. Ct. Spec. App. 1981). In that case, however,
the physician was granted privileges for a limited period of time only; the
physician's privileges and contract expressly terminated at the same time. See
infra note 69. The court also relied on Collins v. Associated Pathologists,
Ltd., 844 F.2d 473 (7th Cir. 1988). Collins, however, is an antitrust case. The
contractual issues are dismissed in one paragraph at the end of a lengthy
decision. See infra text accompanying notes 55-60. Collins is factually similar
to Holt, though, in that both physicians were dependent, hospital-based
physicians whose services were billed by the hospital. Finally, the Holt court
relied on Williams v. Hobbs, 460 N.E.2d 287 (Ohio Ct. App. 1983). Williams is
similar to Holt in that the issue turned on the employment status of the
physician. Williams, unlike Holt, involved a quasi-independent physician.




n45  Unlike the court in Engelstad, the court in Holt did not address the
economic relationship between the parties.




n46  Engelstad v. Virginia Mun. Hosp., 718 F.2d at 262, 267-69; Holt v. Good
Samaritan Hosp. and Health Ctr., 590 N.E.2d at 1319-21.




n47  311 A.2d 634 (Pa. 1973), cert. denied, 414 U.S. 1131 (1974).




n48  Id. at 636.




n49  Id. at 637.




n50  Id. at 644-45.




n51  Id. at 638.




n52  460 N.E.2d 287 (Ohio Ct. App. 1983).




n53  Id. at 292.




n54  Id. at 291-92.




n55  844 F.2d 473 (7th Cir. 1988).




n56  Id. at 475.




n57  Id. at 481.




n58  Id.




n59  Collins v. Associated Pathologists, Ltd., 676 F. Supp. 1388, 1392-93 (C.D.
Ill. 1987).




n60  Id. at 1410.




n61  805 S.W.2d 756 (Tenn. 1991).




n62  Id. at 757.




n63  Id. at 757-58.




n64  Id. at 758. Alfredson sued on multiple grounds, all of which were disposed
of by summary judgment. The only issue addressed on appeal was the breach of
contract issue.




n65  Id. at 760.




n66  Id. at 761. Of course, this reasoning should be applied only to
quasi-independent physicians. The hospital privileges of dependent physicians
are similarly meaningless without access to the hospital's equipment and staff.
These latter physicians cannot, however, gain access without some additional
contract with the hospital.




n67  Id. at 759.




n68  Id. at 762.




n69  For instance, in Anne Arundel Gen. Hosp., Inc. v. O'Brien, 432 A.2d 483
(Md. Ct. Spec. App. 1981), a professional association of radiologists, headed by
Dr. David A. O'Brien, enjoyed an exclusive contract entitling them to provide
radiology coverage to the hospital. Id. at 485. The contract and the
radiologists' medical staff privileges expired on the same date. Id. When the
contract was not renewed, but instead was awarded to another radiology group,
O'Brien's group sued the hospital on a variety of theories, including breach of
contract, equitable estoppel, interference with business relationship, violation
of federal and state antitrust laws, fraud, and violation of due process. Id. at
484. The trial court ordered the hospital to provide the O'Brien group a "due
process" hearing under the hospital's bylaws. The appellate court reversed,
finding that the O'Brien group's rights under both their contract and the
medical staff bylaws expired by agreement. Id. at 490. It is unclear from the
O'Brien decision whether the bylaws permitted termination of privileges for
economic reasons such as the expiration of an exclusive contract. At least one
court has found that privileges cannot be terminated for economic reasons if the
bylaws do not expressly authorize the termination. Bilek v. Tallahassee Memorial
Regional Medical Ctr., (No. 91-973), slip op. at 4 (Cir. Ct. Leon Cty, Fla.,
Apr. 29, 1991).

    The O'Brien court also did not discuss whether the contract itself indicated
that privileges would be terminated upon its expiration. The absence of this
discussion arises from the peculiar facts of the case. Usually, medical staff
privileges are granted for a specific term such as one or two years. For the
O'Brien group, however, the hospital departed from its usual practice by
limiting the appointments to approximately five months. Anne Arundel Gen. Hosp.,
Inc. v. O'Brien, 432 A.2d at 486. The hospital notified each radiologist in the
O'Brien group of the expiration date of his or her appointment, and each
radiologist signed an acceptance letter. As the court noted, "none objected to
or appealed from the appointment of limited duration." Id. Thus, the court went
no further than holding the parties to the terms of their bargain. Although the
physicians were presumably quasi-independent physicians, they had failed to
protect the value of their economic relationship with the hospital by agreeing
to a limitation on their ability to exercise their privileges.




n70  E.g., Szczerbaniuk v. Memorial Hosp. for McHenry County, 536 N.E.2d 138
(Ill. App. Ct. 1989). As in O'Brien, the hospital in Szczerbaniuk contracted
with a radiologist to provide exclusive services to the hospital. The contract
provided that it could be canceled by either party for cause by giving 180 days'
written notice. The contract also expressly provided that membership on the
medical staff was terminated if the contract was terminated. Id. at 139.

    The physician alleged that termination of his privileges was a breach of the
medical staff bylaws because the medical staff bylaws formed part of his
contract with the hospital. Id. at 140. The trial court dismissed this part of
the complaint, and the appellate court affirmed the dismissal. Id. at 140, 143.
The appellate court found the exclusive contract between the parties controlling
for four reasons. First, the exclusive contract expressly addressed the issue of
medical staff privileges. Second, the exclusive contract did not expressly
incorporate the medical staff bylaws. Third, the contract recited that it was
the entire agreement of the parties. Finally, the contract contained procedures
for resolving problems that were inconsistent with the bylaws. Id. at 143. In
other words, the exclusive contract both defined and governed the economic
relationship between the parties and overrode inconsistent provisions in the
bylaws. Again, the quasi-independent physician had failed to protect the
economic value of his contract with the hospital.




n71  An example of the misuse of such extrinsic evidence is Palm Beach-Martin
County Medical Ctr. v. Panaro, 431 So. 2d 1023 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1983), which
involved an exclusive contract for anesthesiology services. There the medical
staff bylaws provided that loss of a contractual relationship with the hospital
was cause for termination of privileges. The bylaws also required a
recommendation of "cause" from the medical staff in order to revoke privileges.
Dr. Panaro's privileges were revoked when his contract was terminated; however,
no recommendation was made by the medical staff. Id. at 1024.

    The court correctly found that the hospital had not complied with the
procedural requirements of the bylaws in revoking Dr. Panaro's privileges. The
court, however, also found a substantive breach of the bylaws by holding that
the bylaws were internally inconsistent. Id.

    The court compared the above-referenced portion of the bylaws that required
cause for termination with the provision of the bylaws that required the grounds
for termination not be arbitrary, unreasonable, or capricious. Although the
bylaws defined loss of a contract as "cause" for termination of privileges, the
court found that the termination was not "arbitrary, unreasonable, or
capricious" and therefore no cause existed for the termination. Id.

    Anesthesiologists are generally quasi-independent physicians who bill
separately for their services. The court apparently recognized this economic
relationship between the parties. It noted that the loss of privileges would
prevent Dr. Panaro from practicing anesthesiology and that he would have no
means of support. Id.

    Despite the parties' economic relationship, the bylaws permitted termination
of privileges on the grounds asserted. Consequently, the court had no need to
look beyond the documents in order to decide the case. What should have been a
simple case of breach by the hospital caused by procedural error was complicated
needlessly by an analysis that disregards the basic terms of the parties'
contract. Had the bylaws not defined cause as including the loss of a contract,
the court's exploration of this issue may have been justified. But the parties
had provided for this eventuality in their contract; it was not for the court to
disregard it.




n72  See, e.g., Tomlinson v. Humana, Inc., 495 So. 2d 630 (Ala. 1986); Dattilo
v. Tucson Gen. Hosp., 533 P.2d 700 (Ariz. Ct. App. 1975); Redding v. St. Francis
Medical Ctr., 255 Cal. Rptr. 806 (Cal. Ct. App. 1989); Radiology Professional
Corp. v. Trinidad Area Health Ass'n, 577 P.2d 748 (Colo. 1978); Rush v. City of
St. Petersburg, 205 So. 2d 11 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1967); Brandon v. Combs, 666
S.W.2d 755 (Ky. Ct. App. 1983); Hottentot v. Mid-Maine Medical Ctr., 549 A.2d
365 (Me. 1988); Benell v. City of Virginia, 104 N.W.2d 633 (Minn. 1960); Holt v.
Good Samaritan Hosp. and Health Ctr., 590 N.E.2d 1318 (Ohio Ct. App. 1990);
Williams v. Hobbs, 460 N.E.2d 287 (Ohio Ct. App. 1983); Adler v. Montefiore
Hosp. Ass'n of W. Pa., 311 A.2d 634 (Pa. 1973).




n73  Bartley v. Eastern Maine Medical Ctr., 617 A.2d 1020, 1022 (citing Medical
Staff Bylaws Art. III, C(5)).




n74  See id. at 1022.




n75  Compare with supra text accompanying notes 36-46. In both Engelstad and
Holt, the physicians refused to continue their employment relationship,
Engelstad with the hospital and Holt with the exclusive contract holder.
Similarly, in Collins (see supra text accompanying notes 55-60), the physician
had been fired from his employment with the exclusive contract holder. None of
these cases, however, cites a bylaws provision similar to the provision in
Bartley.




n76  This is analogous to the distinction between an employer discharging an
employee for cause and an employer eliminating a position through layoff or
reduction in force. Generally even where employment contracts or collective
bargaining agreements provide "due process" protection, it does not apply to a
layoff.




n77  Medical staff privileges are typically granted for two-year periods. In
fact, JCAHO standards require that privileges be granted for not more than two
years. MS.2.13, JCAHO, 1994 JCAHO ACCREDITATION MANUAL, supra note 7, at 68.


