                              61 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          The Brunswick News (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            March 24, 2016 Thursday

Health system helps propel regional economic engine

BYLINE: Lindsey Adkison, The Brunswick News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 464 words


March 24--It's long been known Southeast Georgia Health System contributes a
great deal to the local economy, but a recent study defines just how significant
that impact is in Glynn and Camden counties.

The Georgia Hospital Association, the state's largest hospital trade
organization, said in 2014 the system's two locations generated more than $574
million in revenue for the local and state economies.

The health system maintained 1,800 full-time jobs, excluding employees at the
health system's two senior care centers and its strategic affiliates.

The report also found that in 2014, the Brunswick and St. Marys hospitals
provided approximately $31 million in uncompensated care and had direct
expenditures of more than $251 million.

To calculate the economic impact, the expenditure total was combined with an
economic multiplier developed by the U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of
Economic Analysis. The output multiplier factors in the ripple effect of direct
hospital expenditures on other sectors of the economy, including related
industries such as medical supplies, medical equipment and pharmaceuticals.

Michael Scherneck, president and chief executive officer of the health system,
said the report validates the important role the Southeast Georgia Health System
has in the community.

"We are very appreciative of our communities for their unwavering support of our
health system and will continue to work hard to ensure that the residents of our
communities have access to the best and safest health care services available,"
he said.

While Southeast Georgia Health System has proven to be a strong economic engine
for the local economy, hospital leadership is concerned about a wide array of
economic challenges.

First and foremost is the fear that a fast-growing uninsured population, coupled
with inadequate payments from Medicare and Medicaid, will make providing
services more difficult. Many hospitals struggle with that. Some 41 percent of
all state hospitals are operating within negative margins.

Scherneck said the health system remains committed to the community and will
continue to offer top quality care.

"We're extremely concerned about the current operating environment for our
health system hospitals," Scherneck said.

"We've made a commitment to every citizen of our communities to be there for
them 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. However, our ability to do so is being
compromised when so many of our patients are either uninsured or severely
underinsured."

Reporter Lindsey Adkison writes about business and other local topics. Contact
her at ladkison@thebrunswicknews.com or at 265-8320 ext. 346.

___ (c)2016 The Brunswick News (Brunswick, Ga.) Visit The Brunswick News
(Brunswick, Ga.) at www.thebrunswicknews.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160324-GE-Health-system-helps-propel-regional-economic
-engine-0324-20160324

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GE


                       Copyright 2016 The Brunswick News


