                              62 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             November 4, 1998, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

BRIEFLY

SOURCE: Compiled from Staff and Wire Reports; Bloomberg News

SECTION: BUSINESS; BRIEFLY; EARNINGS; Pg. 2E

LENGTH: 772 words



ECONOMIC INDICATORS FLAT: The index of leading economic indicators was
unchanged in September for the second month in a row, a sign economic growth
will moderate in the coming months. The Conference Board's index, intended to
project economic activity over the next six months, follows the movement of 10
indicators each month. Of those, four made a positive contribution in
September, five made a negative contribution and one was unchanged.

SECOND WHISTLE-BLOWER CLAIMED: Lawyers for indicted Columbia/HCA HealthCare
Corp. executives suggested in a motion there is at least one more
whistle-blower in the criminal investigation of the nation's largest hospital
chain. The motion comes as the Nashville, Tenn., hospital chain tries to  settle
the government investigation into whether it overbilled Medicare and  other
government health insurance programs. Four mid-level executives have  been
charged in the case. A lawsuit brought by a whistle-blower was unsealed  last
month after the Justice Department got involved in the case.

HUGHES SUPPLY TO BUY TAMPA COMPANY: Hughes Supply Inc., an Orlando distributor
of construction and industrial materials, said it will acquire Florida
Electrical Supply Inc. of Tampa, an electrical distributor, for an undisclosed
sum. Hughes chairman and chief executive David Hughes said the transaction  will
boost the purchasing and administrative muscle of both companies. The  deal is
expected to close next week.

FEDEX PREPARED TO DRIVE: Federal Express chief executive Ted Weise says the  air
cargo company is prepared to become a ground carrier if pilots strike. In  a
letter to the company's 3,500 pilots, Weise said labor troubles already have
prompted several major clients to shift business away from FedEx. Leaders of
the FedEx Pilots Association say Weise's letter was an attempt to scare the
union into accepting an unfair contract. FedEx pilots have voted to stop
working overtime as of Monday. They vote this month on whether to give union
leaders the authority to call a strike during the busy holiday delivery  season.



ZAPATA TO BUY BACK SHARES: Zapata Corp., a fish-protein and food-packaging
concern which last month halted its ambitious expansion plan, will stop paying
quarterly dividends and will use the savings to buy back stock. The Houston
company run by Avram Glazer, son of Tampa Bay Bucs owner Malcolm Glazer, last
paid a quarterly dividend of 7 cents a share on Aug. 17. Last month, Zapata
called off all its planned acquisitions of Internet companies as well as the
spinoff of its Internet operations, blaming volatile global markets and the
recent battering of Internet stocks. Shares of Zapata closed up 81 1/4 cents  at
$ 8.62 1/2.

CHRYSLER SETS OCTOBER SALES RECORD: Chrysler Corp. sold 20 percent more cars
and light trucks in October than it did a year ago, setting a record. The
226,179 vehicles sold topped Chrysler's previous record of 205,393 in October
1996. Chrysler's merger with Daimler-Benz AG is expected to be completed  during
the week of Nov. 16.

TV STATIONS ACQUIRED: Hicks Muse Tate & Furst Inc. said its television
broadcasting affiliate, STC Broadcasting, acquired five stations in North
Dakota for $ 63.8-million from closely held Meyer Broadcasting Co. STC
Broadcasting is a subsidiary of Sunrise Television Corp., a closely held
television-broadcasting concern based in St. Petersburg.

TREASURY AUCTION: Yields on five-year Treasury notes fell in Tuesday's auction
to the lowest level on record. The yield was 4.340 percent, down from 5.327
percent at the last auction Aug. 11. The notes will carry a coupon interest
rate of 4 1/4 percent. A total of $ 16-billion in notes were sold out of bids
totaling $ 28.8-billion.

Earnings

Information Management Resources Inc.

The Clearwater information technology provider reported record results for its
third quarter.

           3rdQtr    Year Ago

Revenue       $ 42-mil   $ 23-mil

Net Income    $ 7.4-mil  $ 3.5-mil

Per Share     20 cents  10 cents

Equitable Cos.

The life insurer's third-quarter earnings fell 23 percent as declines in the
stock market hurt business at its investment units. Net profits includes  $
3.4-million in losses from the sale of securities.

           3rdQtr      Year Ago

Net Income    $ 138.3-mil  $ 181.2-mil

Per Share     62 cents    81 cents

- Compiled from Times staff, wire and Bloomberg News reports.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: DIGEST

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


