                              63 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                          Picayune Item (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 18, 2011 Monday

Community growth begins with major construction project for Highland Community
Hospital and surrounding development

BYLINE: Jodi Marze, Picayune Item, Miss.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 618 words


July 18--PICAYUNE -- Highland Community Hospital held a "Topping Off" ceremony
last Monday onsite of the new hospital location, which is currently under
construction off of Hwy 11. The event marked the conclusion of framing for the
structure in a project that has brought this community a much needed economic
boost and is predicted to be the catalyst for major growth upon completion.

Project Manager, Steven Moore of Brice Building Company, says, "We have anywhere
from 150 to 200 workers at a time onsite. We will continue with this number of
people throughout the next 8 to 10 months.

"We have several subcontractors out here and the larger ones are hiring local
workers as much as possible. It is good for the local people and less expensive
for the contractors when they hire folks that already live here.

"The workers that are from out of town are staying in local hotels and renting
houses here. They are getting involved in the community. One of the plumbing
foremen has joined the local bowling league. They have found the restaurant and
really getting some local flavor."

Many of these workers attended the ceremony on Monday and signed the final beam
to be placed along with other members of the community just prior to placement.

Mr. and Mrs. Carle Cooper and their son, Andy, were on hand for the ceremony.
The Cooper family donated the land for the new hospital and own the land for the
surrounding development which will be called Highland Commons.

The information released on the development indicates that Highland Commons will
be comprised of districts: The Outer Commercial District, which is dedicated for
larger, big-box type businesses; the Market District, described as the community
town center of Highland Commons which will feature smaller businesses and loft
apartments; and the Residential District will have single family homes,
condominiums and townhouse units. There will also be the Highland Professional
Park District, and the Special District which will provide hospitals, office
space and an athletic club.

Carle Cooper said, "I am optimistic about the economic impact this newly
constructed hospital will have in our community. I believe that it will attract
good citizens and boost our local economy. We are preparing for it with a solid
infrastructure, including new roads, to support the growth this hospital and
surrounding development will bring."

County Administrator, Adrain Lumpkin, said, "This is the first new hospital to
be built in Picayune since Crosby Hospital (now Highland Community Hospital).
This facility will be a great asset to our community for economic growth, but
also because it will mean that senior community members needing certain types of
medical care will not have to leave Picayune to receive treatment somewhere
else. This also means that family care givers will not have to leave their homes
and spend extra money for gas and accommodations to be with their loved ones
receiving treatment. This will be large help to all concerned."

Highland Hospital Administrator, Mark Stockstill, says, "This will set the stage
for economic growth in the community. Health care is in the top-tier criteria
for companies in choosing locations when it comes time to either relocate or
expand. We now have much to offer in that arena."

The hospital project is expected to be completed in spring of 2012 and fully
operational by mid-year.

To see more of the Picayune Item or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://picayuneitem.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, Picayune Item, Miss. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information about the
content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit
www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110718-YP-Community-growth-begins-with-major-construction-project-for-Highland
-Community-Hospital-and-surrounding-development-0718-20110718

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YP


                          Copyright 2011 Picayune Item


