                              64 of 994 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                August 23, 1998

Fewer patients able to pay steep bills; Recession threat to hospitals

BYLINE: Ruth Mathewson

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 477 words


SOME private hospitals could collapse as patients tighten their belts and go
public during the recession, doctors say.

The proportion of patients admitted to public hospitals has climbed to 93 per
cent - the highest rate yet recorded - up from 85 per cent in 1991 and 92 per
cent in 1995.

This leaves private hospitals with just seven per cent of patients - less than
half of their market before the Hospital Authority was set up in 1991.

The loss of patients, compounded by the economic crisis, meant some hospitals
were now in "very bad shape" to ride out the recession, said Medical Association
chairman Dr So Kai-ming.

"Some of them have good financial support and good attendances, but some of the
less-prepared or worse-organised hospitals are on the verge of collapsing," Dr
So said. "I won't be surprised if some go down."

Professionals in the industry feared "one or two" hospitals could close down, he
said.

Canossa Hospital superintendent Dr Arthur Langenberg said the loss of patients
must impact on private hospitals.

"For example, Japanese patients have been very few and far between. We used to
have more, but a lot have been sent back to Japan now," Dr Langenberg said.

"There are concerns that many hospitals are struggling and some might go under."

The taxpayer-funded Hospital Authority's move to capture more of the private
market - by introducing private rooms and semi-private wards - made no sense,
doctors said.

"I think the authority is probably going to come crashing to the ground soon,"
Dr Langenberg said. "They've been very busy, in the past few years, building up
these services. They've spent time and money building their image to attract
patients from private hospitals. It doesn't make any sense."

An authority spokesman said a bed in a public ward, including all meals, drugs,
doctors and operations, cost SAR residents just $ 68 a day.

But taxpayers subsidised each bed to the tune of 97 per cent - leading to a
Hospital Authority budget this year of $ 26 billion.

Union Hospital medical director Dr Anthony Lee Kai-yiu said the authority's
private rooms and semi-private wards could spell disaster for private hospitals.

"If this is expanded, it will be detrimental for private hospitals - we won't
have any breathing space, at all," Dr Lee said.

Private hospitals had been gaining slightly before the economy stalled last
year.

"Before the economic downturn, things were going in favour of private hospitals
for 12 months or so, because of misadventures in public hospitals, waiting lists
and congestion," Dr Lee said.

"But since the economic downturn they (the Hospital Authority) have had another
percentage-point gain."

Most private hospitals should be able to "battle on for a while" by reorganising
themselves and working with lower margins, he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 1998 South China Morning Post Ltd.


