                              66 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              June 7, 2015 Sunday
                                Regional Edition

Virginia's rural hospitals aren't healthy

BYLINE: Patrick Hope

SECTION: EDITORIAL COPY; Pg. C04

LENGTH: 695 words


As we discuss government's role in health care in this country, one problem
increasingly stands outneeding immediate attention: the state of medical care in
our rural areas, including in Virginia.

Rural hospitals play a unique role in the communities they serve. They are not
just crucial to the well-being and health-care needs of local residents; they
also are among the leading economic drivers in their regions. According to the
Virginia Hospital and Healthcare Association (VHHA), in 82 percent of Virginia's
rural counties, health care is among the top five largest employers .

Virginia's rural hospitals directly employ more than 17,000 workers, the VHHA
reports. These are jobs that pay well above average wages and have historically
offered stable employment and advancement up the economic ladder.

Beyond their own economic activity, rural hospitals enhance the ability to
develop economically. When choosing a community, employers view the presence of
a hospital as a signal of the area's strength and rely on hospitals to help them
maintain a healthy and productive workforce.

Despite their outsize importance, both medically and economically, rural
hospitals are battling the toughest fiscal environment they have ever
encountered. According to the North Carolina Rural Health Research and Policy
Analysis Center, almost 50 rural hospitals have closed nationally in just the
past four years. Here in Virginia, one of our rural facilities closed in 2013.
The financial outlook for our other hospitals is daunting.

Nearly half of Virginia's rural hospitals had negative operating margins in
2012, the VHHA says, and more than 20 percent have a negative net worth. Our
rural hospitals expect to be paid in full by only 1 in 5 patients they see. Most
patients at our rural hospitals are covered by Medicare , which already pays
only about 90 percent of a hospital's cost of care.

Now, our hospitals face nearly $1 billion in direct cuts to Medicaid and
Medicare in 2015 and 2016, with no end in sight to such reductions. For
Virginia's rural hospitals, the situation is serious, and it is only growing
more difficult by the day. The VHHA estimates that with these cuts operating
margins at our rural hospitals will fall to zero by the year 2022.

In the face of these challenges, rural hospitals continue to faithfully adhere
to their solemn obligation to provide service to anyone who comes through their
doors. That care is provided regardless of whether the person can pay. They
strive to meet the needs of their communities and, as a result, nearly every
Virginian is within 20 miles of a fully functional hospital that is open 24
hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year.

Of course this commitment creates very real financial pressures that other
businesses do not confront. But that care is crucial to the success of economic
development and job creation in the commonwealth. Businesses simply cannot be
expected to open in communities that lack health-care infrastructure. If we are
serious about ensuring the economic vitality of our rural communities, a major
component of that effort must be ensuring they retain excellent hospitals that
are accessible and affordable.

While Virginia has many different regions, and those regions have many specific
needs, we cannot stand by and watch some areas move forward as others fall back.
Our rural hospitals face the same challenges as their counterparts nationally,
and it is incumbent on those of us in state government to find the policy
solutions necessary to address these challenges.

While we can argue about specific policy details, the reality is our rural
hospitals need serious, immediate financial help. They face a situation that is
only growing worse. Medicaid expansion would be the simplest and most
financially sensible course. I continue to advocate strongly for it. But I also
continue to urge all lawmakers to look for any means by which we can provide the
financial support our rural health-care providers need to continue to serve the
Virginians who depend upon them every single day, in every single community.

The writer, a Democrat, represents Arlington in the Virginia House of Delegates.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2015 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


