                              70 of 994 DOCUMENTS



                     Western Kansas World (Wakeeny, Kansas)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                               February 27, 2014

Importance of Kansas Hospitals

BYLINE: Western Kansas World staff

LENGTH: 801  words


As the fifth largest producer of total income and sales in the state, the Kansas
health sector is a powerful economic force. The contributions of the health care
systems to the state's economy are often overlooked, including the number of
people employed, the impact of hospital and health system purchases and the
impact of employees' spending and tax payments.

A January 2014 report entitled The Importance of the Health Care Sector to the
Kansas Economy, produced by researchers at the Office of Local Government,
K-State Research and Extension, estimated the "gross" impacts associated with
the health care sector on economic activity in the State of Kansas. The report
identified three general areas of health care's importance to the state's
economy: 1) health care attracts and retains business and industry; 2) health
care attracts and retains retirees; and 3) health care creates jobs in the local
economy.

"Hospitals and health services truly represent an economic anchor in our state,"
said Tom Bell, president and CEO of the Kansas Hospital Association. "This
report documents the relative importance of the health care sector to the Kansas
economy. While the estimates of economic impact are substantial, they are only a
partial accounting of the benefits that health care in general, and community
hospitals in particular, provide to the state. Kansas community hospitals help
to not only stabilize the population base, but also invigorate their communities
and contribute significantly to the quality of life."

According to the report, Kansas hospitals employ 81,303 people or 4.3 percent of
all job holders in the state. The report calculated economic multipliers and
estimated that hospitals account for nearly 60,000 additional jobs throughout
all businesses and industries in the state. Thus, the hospital sector employment
had a total impact on state employment of more than 140,000 jobs. This means
that for each job created in the hospital sector, another 0.73 jobs were
supported in other businesses and industries in Kansas.

Furthermore, the entire health sector in Kansas employs nearly 224,000 people or
12 percent of all job holders in the state. This puts Kansas ahead of the
national average of 10 percent of all job holders in the United States working
in health care services. The total employment impact of the health services
sector in Kansas resulted in an estimated 349,000 jobs in the Kansas economy.
The health care sector is the fourth largest aggregate employer in the state.

The study found that Kansas hospitals generate approximately 5.2 billion in
direct labor income to the Kansas economy each year. For every one dollar of
income generated in the hospital sector, another $0.46 was generated in other
business and industry. Thus, the hospital sector had an estimated total impact
on income throughout all business and industry of nearly $7.6 billion.

The impact of health care services in Kansas will grow even more if Kansas can
develop a solution to expand the KanCare program. The ability to cover more than
169,000 low-income Kansans has the potential to inject $800 million in federal
dollars into the Kanas economy over three years. In addition, a recent study
conducted by researchers at Regional Economic Models, Inc. and George Washington
University shows that KanCare expansion could create approximately 4,000 new
jobs by 2020.

Jobs are an essential part of the economic impact, but funds spent to buy goods
and services flow from hospitals to businesses and then ripple throughout the
economy as well. The impact of hospitals on area retail sales generates more
than $2.5 billion to the Kansas economy each year. Additionally, it is estimated
that the hospital sector generates nearly $154 million in sales tax for the
state, which is largely used to fund state programs.

"While these raw numbers indicate the importance of community hospitals and
health services to the Kansas economy, they also make it clear that the
challenges faced by our state cannot be met by those directly responsible for
health care administration alone," said Bell. "These challenges require a
community-wide response involving government, business and civic leaders. They
also require supportive state- and federal-level policies and programs that
don't take for granted the access to care provided by the community hospital."

The Kansas Hospital Association is a not-for-profit association of health care
provider organizations and individuals that are committed to the health
improvement of their communities. KHA membership includes 215 member facilities,
of which 128 are full-service community hospitals. Founded in 1910, KHA
maintains its vision of "an organization of hospitals working together to
improve access, quality and the affordabil-ity of health care for all Kansans."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

