                              71 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                  Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday

Health care remains state economic driver

BYLINE: Bobby Harrison, Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal, Tupelo

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 603 words


Sept. 29--JACKSON -- The health care industry is not only important to the
overall physical wellness of Mississippians, but also is vital to their
financial well-being.

That was one of the messages from the annual Mississippi Economic Outlook
Conference conducted Wednesday by the Institutions of Higher Learning Policy and
Research Planning division.

The overall theme was that the national economy had slowed and that some believe
there is a 40 percent chance of another recession. And closer to home, the state
economy continues to underperform the national economy.

Marcella McKay, chief operating officer for the Mississippi Hospital
Association, said in many communities the local hospital is the area's largest
employer and primary economic engine.

"Often the economic importance of hospitals is overlooked in the communities
they serve," McKay told the about 50 policy experts and others who attended the
conference at the IHL complex in Jackson.

She said 60,140 people are employed in hospitals across the state with an
average annual salary of $42,193 -- $9,000 above the overall state average.

While the health care industry is in some ways recession-proof, McKay said there
are ongoing factors also affecting health care in Mississippi.

For instance, the amount of uncompensated care hospitals perform has risen
during the current economic woes since more people are unemployed and without
health insurance. Mississippi hospitals are not compensated for 9 percent of the
care they provide.

Overall, 41 percent of all hospital services in the state are paid for through
Medicare, a federal program for the elderly, while 16 percent are paid through
Medicaid, a federal-state program primarily for poor pregnant women and their
children, the disabled and the elderly. Insurance and self-pay account for the
other 34 percent.

McKay said the downturn in the economy, leading to less state tax revenue, also
is a concern for hospitals because of state budget cuts. She said cuts to
universities and colleges have the potential of impacting the programs that
train their employees.

"These programs are labor intensive and costly to run. We get concerned about
budget cuts to universities and colleges," she said.

National health care reform and other federal changes also will impact
Mississippi hospitals. As part of the reform package, McKay said providers will
move toward "bundled billing" where a person does not receive separate bills
from the treating physicians and the hospital.

In other news from the conference, Mary Beth Wilkerson, the state tourism
director, said Tupelo's hotel/motel occupancy was up 23.1 percent during the
first seven months of the year. She attributed the jump to business travel
surrounding the opening of the $1.3 billion Toyota manufacturing plant later
this year in nearby Blue Springs.

Several speakers said one of the biggest issues currently facing the economy is
that consumers are not spending money.

"We really think there is a lot of pent-up demand," said Marty Milstead,
director of the Mississippi Homebuilders Association.

The number of people needing housing is growing, even though sales of new and
existing homes remain sluggish.

"People are staying at home longer, staying with parents longer," he said. "The
divorce rate is actually going down. We don't think people are loving each other
more ... The signs show people are staying together for business reasons."

bobby.harrison@journalinc.com

___ (c)2011 the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) Visit the
Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal (Tupelo, Miss.) at www.nems360.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110929-TP-HLT-Health-care-remains-state-economic-driver-0929-20110929

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TP


               Copyright 2011 Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal


