                              74 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                            June 13, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

A giving community

BYLINE: Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 356 words


This has been a tough year - so far - in Ottawa. The city's biggest employer,
the federal government, is undergoing a major downsizing and doing it in a way
that spreads the uncertainty beyond those who will eventually lose their jobs.

Government layoffs, especially at a time when the world economic news is grim,
mean the city's economy is depressed. Throughout Eastern Ontario, the economic
news has also been bad lately. That makes what happened last weekend at the
Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario telethon all the more worth celebrating.

The annual telethon, which collects and tallies donations and pledges to help
the children's hospital provide a number of pediatric programs as well as
helping to assist families, support research, offer medical education and buy
equipment, raised a record-setting amount of money: $6,448,260. That record
comes at a time when many families throughout the region are reducing their
spending at home.

The achievement is a strong signal that community support for the hospital,
rather than diminishing during economic-ally rough times, has strengthened. And
that should make even those who never use the hospital feel good about their
community.

Philanthropy has long played an important role in health care, and that role is
perhaps more important now than ever. That philanthropy takes many forms. There
are the big donations that help hospitals and health centres expand. In re-cent
years, local philanthropists Dan and Roger Greenberg, for example, have each
donated $1 million to cancer centres at Queensway Carleton and Ottawa hospitals.
There are other such big-ticket donations that help build new wings and clinics
and purchase state-of-the-art equipment.

But there are smaller charitable acts as well, and each is important to the
functioning of hospitals and health centres. From groups who knit hats for
preemies and small babies to those who pledge a small amount of money, they all
ensure that, not only is quality health care available, but it is also an
intrinsic part of the community.

And, no matter what the economic indicators say, that sup-port is a sign of a
healthy community.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

