                              76 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Meridian Star (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 12, 2010 Friday

New hospital breaks ground in Kemper County

BYLINE: Byron Wilkes, The Meridian Star, Miss.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 393 words


Mar. 12--MERIDIAN -- DeKalb and Kemper County will get to enjoy the benefits of
modern health care right next door, thanks to the efforts of several civic and
economic organizations in the area.

The Kemper County Economic Development Authority, Rush Health Systems, and other
local and state officials broke ground for the future John C. Stennis Memorial
Hospital in DeKalb Thursday.

"We didn't have a facility and actually one of the first things we looked at was
just emergency facility, common triage facility," said Brian Henson, executive
director for the Kemper County Economic Development Authority. "As we got to
talking... Rush made contact with us and was interested in possibly building a
hospital."

The hospital, which will include state-of-the-art facilities and a helipad, is
part of a 20-acre site that Henson said hopefully will attract doctors' offices
and clinics, increasing the economic outlook of the area in a crucial time.

"We're talking about 88 job opportunities, well-paying job opportunities for
this area," Henson said.

Henson also spoke on the various agencies that came together to make the
hospital a reality, including board of supervisors, mayors of both Scooba and
DeKalb, East Mississippi Community College and various civic groups.

"It's very humbling from my standpoint to see a community come together like
they did for this," Henson said. "This is a hospital that the people can not
just be thankful they've got; they can feel some sense of ownership in my
opinion."

Henson said he expects the hospital to be built in about 10 to 12 months.

"A hospital is a very difficult building to build," Henson said.

"It's very code-driven. It's a little more detailed work than your typical
building, so it'll take a little longer than most buildings."

When the hospital is finished, however, residents of DeKalb and the nearby area
will be able to enjoy not only its economic benefits, but most likely a higher
quality of life.

To see more of The Meridian Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.meridianstar.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Meridian Star, Miss.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100312-ZG-New-hospital-breaks-ground-in-Kemper-County-0312

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZG


                        Copyright 2010 The Meridian Star


