                              80 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                The Wayne County Outlook (Monticello, Kentucky)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

Hospital provides economic lifeline

BYLINE: Casey Tolliver, The Wayne County Outlook, Monticello, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 836 words


Dec. 01--Hospitals are seen as a sanctuary for the sick, a place of treatment

and recovery, but seldom are hospitals seen as an economic boon.

However, certain data demonstrates how the Wayne County Hospital has

proven to be a local economic juggernaut.

"We realize smaller hospitals are a major factor in the local

economy," Wayne County Hospital (WCH) CEO Joe Murrell said.

"Basically, we're neighbors and friends and realize how important we

are. We're just delighted to be here and happy to serve the community

in that capacity."

According to the most recent data available from the Kentucky

Hospital Association (KHA), WCH spent nearly $8.1 million on employee

wages and salaries and purchases of supplies and services in 2013.

Jobs and payroll created by hospitals across the state produce a

significant chunk of employment opportunities.

Locally, that chunk may be even more significant, according to local

officials.

"It (WCH) employs 132 full time and 181 total staff. This of course,

provides occupational taxes to the county. Those salaries and wages

create a trickle down impact to groceries, gas stations, car sales

and much more," Wayne County Judge-Executive Mike Anderson said.

Last year, overall employment by the state's hospitals rose due to

greater community needs for inpatient and outpatient services,

according to the KHA.

Jobs and payroll generated by Kentucky's hospitals supply tax

revenue to state and local governments, and support other Kentucky

businesses through the purchase of goods and services, the KHA said

in a report.

Statewide, hospitals rank eighth highest among other industries in

Kentucky, when it comes to providing full-time jobs.

Not only does the hospital provide a large number of jobs in smaller

communities, more often than not, those jobs are higher paying jobs

when compared to other industries, due to the fact that most hospital

employees are highly trained.

According to KHA data, the average hospital employee wage is 24

percent higher than the average wage of all other private employers

of the state.

Locally, the $5.5 million in wages and salaries Wayne County

Hospital pays their employees consists of nearly four percent of all

wages and salaries in the entire county.

In addition, the local hospital's capital projects created

additional jobs in the community.

In 2013, WCH spent nearly $800,000 on capital projects, which in

turn created jobs in the local construction industry.

Tax payments are another typically unseen way the hospital beefs up

the local economy.

WCH generated nearly $800,000 in state and local tax revenue through

taxes paid directly and tax revenue derived from employees and nearly

$50,000 in local occupational taxes, according to the KHA.

On top of that, the hospital paid nearly $280,000 in provider taxes

to the state, which helps support the Kentucky Medicaid program.

Coupled with matching federal funds, the Wayne County Hospital's

provider tax supported nearly $930,000 in state Medicaid spending,

the KHA said.

In total, the state receives $465,000 in income and sales taxes

linked to wages and salaries of Wayne County Hospital employees.

Besides the payroll numbers, the hospital is a proven powerhouse in

local spending.

WCH is responsible for generating approximately $4.8 million in

local economic activity from purchases it made and those made by its

employees.

Wayne County Hospital purchased many goods and services and generated

nearly $2.5 million annually in purchases from local businesses

Spending by hospital employees alone nearly matched that, after

hospital employees spent nearly $2.3 million in local purchases.

"As you can see the economic impact of the local hospital is vital

to our

community. They have a very skilled workforce dedicated to saving

lives and

providing excellent health care," Anderson said.

Rural hospitals have been the subject of intense speculation recently

Kentucky Auditor Adam Edelen released a scathing report earlier this

year that painted a dreadful financial outlook for many rural

hospitals in the state.

According to Edelen's report, as many as one-third of Kentucky's

rural hospitals are in poor financial shape, despite the economic

boon they present to smaller communities.

In his report, Edelen warned those hospitals, including WCH, were in

danger of closing due to their poor financial condition.

WCH Board of Directors Chairman Larry Bates responded to Edelen's

report in a letter to the Wayne County Outlook.

In that letter, Bates said like other rural hospitals put on notice

by Edelen, WCH's struggles stem from Medicaid Managed Care

reimbursement issues, as well as a variety of complex regulations

surrounding those managed care plans.

Despite those economic woes, WCH has proven sustain its fair share

of the local economy.

"We're well aware that we're an integral part of the community.

We're delighted to be here and glad to be such a big part of the

local economy," Murrell said.

___ (c)2015 The Wayne County Outlook (Monticello, Ky.) Visit The Wayne County
Outlook (Monticello, Ky.) at www.wcoutlook.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151201-OZ-Hospital-provides-economic-lifeline-1201-20151201

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OZ


                    Copyright 2015 The Wayne County Outlook


