                              81 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Jamestown Sun (North Dakota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 12, 2011 Tuesday

Hospital could help the area's economy

BYLINE: Katie Ryan-Anderson, The Jamestown Sun, N.D.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1063 words


July 12--Aside from the implications for regional health care, the Jamestown
Regional Medical Center may affect the amount of money earned and spent in
Stutsman County. Experts say the economic effects may surprise even the
hospitals' top advocates.

After a decade in development, the Jamestown Regional Medical Center opens July
31.

The money comes in three categories: direct, indirect and induced, according to
Lance Brower, Stutsman County Extension agent for North Dakota State University.
Direct spending refers to money the hospital generates. Indirect spending refers
to spending other businesses do. So, if a hospital contractor purchased lumber
from a local lumberyard, it would be considered indirect spending. Induced
spending is the amount of money employees spend on personal living.

According to Brower's calculations, the new medical center will result in a
$33.7 million economic effect specifically in Stutsman County. This only
includes money spent in Stutsman County and would not include money spent in
surrounding counties like Cass or Burleigh.

The hospital will employ about 239 full-time employee equivalents. But the
business of the hospital itself results in about 28 indirect full-time
equivalents (the contractor and his crew, for example) and about 54 induced
full-time equivalents (like a teacher at the school or barista at a coffee
shop).

"It's actually a boost to the economy," Brower said, saying the medical center
affects everybody.

Funding for the $52 million medical center stems from the $6 million the
hospital raised itself and $46 million in direct and guaranteed funding from
U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development. The USDA loaned the hospital
$31 million in a "tremendous financing package" according to Alan O'Neil,
Jamestown Regional Medical Center chief financial officer.

The USDA guaranteed a $15 million loan, meaning it partnered with Jamestown
Regional Medical Center and essentially co-signed for the loan from a
third-party bank.

The funding comes from President Barack Obama's stimulus package, said Jasper
Schneider, state director for USDA Rural Development in North Dakota. It means
the taxpayers loaned the medical center the money and will earn it back with
interest.

The project was important to USDA because the organization is committed to the
future of small towns and rural areas, Schneider said.

"Health care is so vitally important to the success of our rural communities,"
Schneider said.

One of the short-term economic impacts of the project, which was the largest his
office has ever financed, Schneider said, is the 700 construction jobs it
created in building the facility. Long-term implications include a
state-of-the-art health care center for Jamestown and its surrounding counties,
he said.

Long-term implications also include its economic effect to the community.

Of the $33.7 million per year economic effect, $25 million is hospital operating
costs, $3.5 million is indirect costs (the construction crew's salary and
expenses) and $5.2 million is induced (the teacher's salary and what hospital
employees spend on their needs and wants).

Some Jamestown residents have criticized the new medical center, saying its
location is an added expense to the city in new roads, sewer system, water
infrastructure, etc.

The medical center has paid those costs, said Marty Richman, Jamestown Regional
Medical Center president and CEO. The hospital also footed the bill for the
roadway entrance to the hospital and its lighting as well as a circular water
line, switch line, gas lines and power lines.

The community is the beneficiary to those assets, Richman said, saying they
total approximately $2 million.

Brower said he was unsure how the economic effect of the new hospital will
compare to the current economic effect of Jamestown Hospital, but he did say the
new medical center will want to hire people.

It already has.

Already, Richman has hired a new orthopedic surgeon, which, with the physician's
salary as well as his or her staff, creates a $2.3 million economic effect in
salaries alone. It looks to hire another orthopedic surgeon, doubling the
economic effect. The hospital also looks to add a neurologist, oncologist and
urologist, bringing the total of new physician and staff salaries and benefits
to $8.6 million per year.

But like Brower said, economic effect is more than salaries. It's how and where
those employees spend that money too.

"Where you go for your health care, that's where you tend to shop," Richman
said, saying the hospital, in its green space location in southwest Jamestown
could be the catalyst for new retail, restaurant or lodging facilities.

That, however, hasn't been the case for the city of Staples, Minn., population
3,000. At least not yet.

The Jamestown Regional Medical Center modeled some of its relocation efforts
after the Lakewood Health System there.

In Staples, the previous facility was located in a primarily residential area.
It moved to a green space area 1.2 miles outside the city limits in January
2007, said Gerel Nelsen, community development director for the city of Staples.

Nelsen said he's had inquiries from employers seeking to locate near the health
center, but the health center owns much of the neighboring land rather than a
public entity like in the case of the Jamestown Regional Medical Center.

Nelsen did say Lakewood Health System added about 250 positions since its move,
many of them professional-level jobs. Its additional jobs have contributed to
the increase in population of the greater Staples area, he said.

"I attribute quite a bit of it (population increase) to the growth of the health
care system," Nelsen said.

Brower said the new medical center may induce an increase in population to the
Jamestown area as well. For every three new jobs created at the hospital, one is
created in Stutsman County, he said.

"I think the scope of the hospital is going to surprise everybody," Brower said.

Sun reporter Katie Ryan-Anderson can be reached at 701-952-8454 or by email at
kryan-anderson@jamestownsun.com

To see more of The Jamestown Sun, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.jamestownsun.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The Jamestown Sun, N.D.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110712-QJ-Hospital-could-help-the-area-s-economy-0712-20110712

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QJ


                        Copyright 2011 The Jamestown Sun


