                              82 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                       The Natchez Democrat (Mississippi)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 29, 2014 Sunday

EDITORIAL: Hospital sale as economic development project questionable

BYLINE: The Natchez Democrat, Miss.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 276 words


June 29--The nearly yearlong saga of attempting to sell Natchez Regional Medical
Center may soon be coming to an end -- one way or another.

Friday the Mississippi Development Authority considered the request of NRMC to
allow the sales process to receive special MDA recognition as an economic
development project.

Doing so would allow the company interested in buying the hospital to pre-pay
property tax as part of an unusual purchase agreement. Many people near the
discussion suggest the designation is a shoo-in, but such a decision seems a far
stretch of the intended purpose of the Regional Economic Development Act.

At the moment the only company publicly interested in purchasing county-owned
Natchez Regional is the parent company of cross-town rival hospital Natchez
Community Hospital.

The idea for both entities is to simply merge together and become more
efficient.

We agree that having a single hospital in Natchez likely means the business of
health care would operate more efficiently and perhaps ultimately result in a
better quality of care.

However, contending that the sale of a public asset to a private one is an
economic development project still seems a bit of a stretch.

In the world of business, "efficient" often means doing the same work with less
people -- that likely won't result in job creation.

We would have hoped -- if creating new jobs or maintaining current ones wasn't
an option -- the hospital could have been sold for real dollars that paid off
the facility's debt.

___ (c)2014 The Natchez Democrat (Natchez, Miss.) Visit The Natchez Democrat
(Natchez, Miss.) at www.natchezdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140629-YY-EDITORIAL-Hospital-sale-as-economic
-development-project-questionable-0629-20140629

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YY


                      Copyright 2014 The Natchez Democrat


