                              84 of 994 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                              July 8, 2005 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

ECONOMY WILL NOT BE WELL WITHOUT HOSPITAL

BYLINE: By Adrian Burns Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 468 words


If St. Joseph Hospital shuts down, then the local economy is out nearly $70
million.

That's the estimated annual impact of the facility, which is slated for a
closure, downsizing or sale.

In total, Augusta's hospital systems contributed more than $1.2 billion toward
the local economy during 2003, according to a June report by the Georgia
Hospital Association.

The economic impact of local hospitals is roughly equal to that of Fort Gordon.

"What the study attempts to point out is that people often think of hospitals as
just being medical providers, but they often fail to think about the economic
impact that these facilities provide," said Kevin Bloye, a spokesman for the
Georgia Hospital Association.

Although Augusta's economy has grown 9 percent during the past 11 years, the
sector that includes mainly health care workers grew by 33 percent during the
same period, said Jeff Humphreys, the director of the Selig Center for Economic
Growth at the University of Georgia.

The boom in the health care industry since the mid-1990s has accounted for
nearly 6,000 of the 18,000 new jobs, he said.

"These tend to be high-wage jobs, the type every community wants," Mr. Humphreys
said.

The growth of Augusta's medical industry is particularly beneficial to the
economy because of the area's status as a regional medical center, which means
patients and their money come to Augusta from other locations.

Not only do they spend on medical care here, Mr. Humphreys said, but they and
their families also eat and stay in Augusta.

"The success of the hospitality industry owes a debt of gratitude to the medical
service sector," he said.

The high-paying jobs also generate disposable income, which helps the area
flourish, Mr. Humphreys said. Doctors Hospital, for instance, pays its 1,400
employees a total of $58 million per year.

"The majority of this money stays in the community, which is spent on housing,
clothes, food and entertainment," Doctors Chief Financial Officer Kelly Penton
said.

An aging population, better technology and more treatment options will continue
to expand the medical industry, Mr. Humphreys said.

But the sector is facing hurdles, Mr. Bloye said.

Issues such as the reduction of Medicaid and Medi-care reimbursements for
hospitals and the growing number of uninsured patients is putting a severe
strain on hospitals, he said.

"It's a huge challenge for hospitals just to stay in the black; unfortunately
many of them aren't doing that right now," Mr. Bloye said.

He said St. Joseph Hospital is an example of a small facility endangered by the
tough climate.

But Mr. Humphreys said he expects demand will keep the sector growing.

"It's going to outdo the overall economy by leaps and bounds despite those
challenges," he said.

Reach Adrian Burns at (706) 823-3352

or adrian.burns@augustachronicle.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Andrew Davus Tucker/STaff Sonographer Mary Walden (right) administers
an echocardiogram to patient Bill Nelson of Augusta at the Medical College of
Georgia's Cardiovascular Center. Augusta's economic sector that includes health
care workers has increased by 33 percent in the past 11 years.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation


