                               2 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 27, 2014 Friday

Tennessee: Hospital Operations Coordinator, 2nd shift 58904

LENGTH: 860  words

DATELINE: Nashville


The state of Tennessee has issued the following job vacancy:

Job Order Number:   58904
Job Title:   Hospital Operations Coordinator, 2nd shift
Job Duration:   Over 150 Days
Type of Job:   Regular
Full or Part Time:   Full Time (30 Hours or More)
Job Position(s):   1
Date Job Order Created/Updated:   6/27/2014 10:10:00 AM
Last Day Job Order Available Online:   09/21/2014
Source:   Preferred Employer
Site:   JOBS4TN ONLINE
Occupation Information

Employer Information

Employer Name:   Universal Hospital Services, Inc.
Company Website:   View company website
Company Size:   50-99
Type of Employer:   Private Sector
Other Local Job Listings:   View other job listings for Universal Hospital
Services, Inc. located in Tennessee
All Job Listings:   View all job listings available for Universal Hospital
Services, Inc.
Work Site Information

Location Name:   Memphis
Address:   Company Worksite
City, State, Zip, and Country:   Memphis, TN 38106 US
Map Address

Public Transportation Accessible:   No
Worksite Industry (NAICS):   Home Health Equipment Rental (532291)
Education, Training and Work Experience

Minimum Education Level:   No Minimum Education Requirement
View typical education requirements for Healthcare Practitioners and Technical
Workers, All Other
Minimum Experience:   0 months
View typical work experience requirements for Healthcare Practitioners and
Technical Workers, All Other
Education Programs:   View education programs locally available to train
Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Compensation and Hours

Salary Range:   N/A
View typical labor market wage rates for Healthcare Practitioners and Technical
Workers, All Other
Pay Comments:   DOE (Depends on Experience)
Hours per Week:   Hours Not Specified
Shift:   Not Applicable
Skills Required

Job Skills:  Click here to view these job skills  View this employer's job skill
requirements
Personal Skills:  Click here to view these personal skills  View the personal
skills that are typically associated with individuals that work as Healthcare
Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
General Job Requirements

Test Requirement:   No test required
Driver's License Certification Requirement:   No
Work Interests:   View the typical interests of individuals that are Healthcare
Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Knowledge:   View the knowledge typically needed by Healthcare Practitioners and
Technical Workers, All Other
Abilities:   View the abilities typically needed by Healthcare Practitioners and
Technical Workers, All Other
Work Styles:   View the personal characteristics that can affect how well
Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other perform
Nature of the Work

Work Values:   View what is typically important in a job to Healthcare
Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Work Activities:   View typical work activities for Healthcare Practitioners and
Technical Workers, All Other
Tasks:   View the specific tasks commonly performed by Healthcare Practitioners
and Technical Workers, All Other
Working Conditions:   View the typical working conditions for Healthcare
Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Tools and Technologies:   View the tools and technology generally used by
Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Job Description

Job Title: Hospital Operations Coordinator, 2nd shift
ID: req1075
Type: Full Time
Location: Memphis, Tennessee

Seeking a HOSPITAL OPERATIONS COORDINATOR to work 2nd shift to lead the team of
service reps!

Universal Hospital Services, Inc. (UHS) is the leading provider of medical
equipment management solutions in the US. We have nearly 2500 employees who
manage more than a half-million pieces of medical equipment for over 8,400
clients in all 50 states.

For more than 75 years, UHS has delivered equipment management solutions that
help clients reduce costs, increase operating efficiencies, and increase
caregiver satisfaction while achieving optimal patient outcomes. We provide
unmatched world-class service, and offer tools and documentation to verify
positive results for caregivers and patients.

You will work onsite at a local hospital to coordinate medical equipment needs,
product delivery, installation, usage and maintenance of movable medical
equipment. The Hospital Operations Coordinator works as a liason between a
dedicated team of UHS staff and hospital staff to ensure quality service. Prior
hospital operations experience and strong leadership skills essential.

The numbers tell it all. UHS has been in business since 1939; it operates
through 85 districts and serves customers in all 50 states.

Our motto? Quality. Value. Service. All of us. All the time. Now, find out what
that means to you. Compensation includes base wage, eligibility for incentive
pay, 401(k), health/dental and tuition reimbursement. Learn more. Apply online
today!

We are proud to be an EEO/AA Employer/Vet/Disabled . We maintain a drug-free
workplace and perform pre-employment background and drug testing.

.
We are proud to be an EEO/AA Employer/Vet/Disabled employer.

For further information please visit: https://www.jobs4tn.gov

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


