                               7 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                           January 27, 2011 Thursday

Ailing bir hospital: Quality going down, says NVC report

LENGTH: 347  words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Jan. 27 -- Giving credence to the popular belief that Bir Hospital,
the country's oldest health institution, has lost its past glory, the National
Vigilance Centre (NVC), in its field report, says the hospital is unable to
provide quality service and that its condition is deteriorating.

The report claims that the hospital's technical human resource is being posted
in administrative vacancies, hampering the institution's technical work. Eight
technical experts are reportedly appointed in administrative jobs. "This
under-utilisation of manpower has seriously hampered the hospital's overall
performance," said NVC Spokesperson Arjun Khanal.

"Despite their technical expertise, Shanker Jha, Padam Raj Kaini and Dipak
Mudwari were found working respectively as personal assistant to the director,
manager at the hospital's medical store and an administrator," reads the report.

According to Khanal, the report does not mention the names of five other
persons. "The highly-skilled human resource could well be used for the
hospital's benefit," he added. "This is against the spirit of the National
Academy of Medical Sciences Act. We will forward our findings to the Commission
for the Investigation of Abuse of Authority and recommend action against those
involved in malpractices."

Denying the allegations, Hospital Director Dr. Bulanda Thapa claimed the
appointment was aimed at enhancing the hospital's performance.

"Their appointment is expected to attain perfection at the technical as well as
administrative levels," Thapa said. "Appointment of a technical official in the
medical store will obviously provide quality service there. The report has
misinterpreted our intentions."

"If the NVC wants to justify its report, it should clearly point out which part
of the medical law prohibits a hospital from utilising its technical manpower in
the administration," Thapa added. Published by HT Syndication with permission
from EKantipur.com. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


