                               9 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             July 3, 2014 Thursday

Tennessee: Hospital Operations Manager - Medical Equipment 59930

LENGTH: 1031  words

DATELINE: Nashville


The state of Tennessee has issued the following job vacancy:

Job Order Number:   59930
Job Title:   Hospital Operations Manager - Medical Equipment
Job Duration:   Over 150 Days
Type of Job:   Regular
Full or Part Time:   Full Time (30 Hours or More)
Job Position(s):   1
Date Job Order Created/Updated:   7/3/2014 12:13:00 PM
Last Day Job Order Available Online:   09/30/2014
Source:   Preferred Employer
Site:   JOBS4TN ONLINE
Occupation Information

Employer Information

Employer Name:   Universal Hospital Services, Inc.
Company Website:   View company website
Company Size:   50-99
Type of Employer:   Private Sector
Other Local Job Listings:   View other job listings for Universal Hospital
Services, Inc. located in Tennessee
All Job Listings:   View all job listings available for Universal Hospital
Services, Inc.
Work Site Information

Location Name:   Memphis
Address:   Company Worksite
City, State, Zip, and Country:   Memphis, TN 38106 US
Map Address

Public Transportation Accessible:   No
Worksite Industry (NAICS):   Home Health Equipment Rental (532291)
Education, Training and Work Experience

Minimum Education Level:   Bachelor's Degree
View typical education requirements for Healthcare Practitioners and Technical
Workers, All Other
Minimum Experience:   48 months
View typical work experience requirements for Healthcare Practitioners and
Technical Workers, All Other
Education Programs:   View education programs locally available to train
Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Compensation and Hours

Salary Range:   N/A
View typical labor market wage rates for Healthcare Practitioners and Technical
Workers, All Other
Pay Comments:   DOE (Depends on Experience)
Hours per Week:   Hours Not Specified
Shift:   Not Applicable
Skills Required

Job Skills:  Click here to view these job skills  View this employer's job skill
requirements
Personal Skills:  Click here to view these personal skills  View the personal
skills that are typically associated with individuals that work as Healthcare
Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
General Job Requirements

Test Requirement:   No test required
Driver's License Certification Requirement:   No
Work Interests:   View the typical interests of individuals that are Healthcare
Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Knowledge:   View the knowledge typically needed by Healthcare Practitioners and
Technical Workers, All Other
Abilities:   View the abilities typically needed by Healthcare Practitioners and
Technical Workers, All Other
Work Styles:   View the personal characteristics that can affect how well
Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other perform
Nature of the Work

Work Values:   View what is typically important in a job to Healthcare
Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Work Activities:   View typical work activities for Healthcare Practitioners and
Technical Workers, All Other
Tasks:   View the specific tasks commonly performed by Healthcare Practitioners
and Technical Workers, All Other
Working Conditions:   View the typical working conditions for Healthcare
Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Tools and Technologies:   View the tools and technology generally used by
Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Job Description

Job Title: Hospital Operations Manager - Medical Equipment
ID: req1120
Type: Full Time
Location: Memphis, Tennessee

UHS is seeking experienced Operations Managers in Memphis!

Do you have a 4 year degree, strong leadership and team management experience?

Searching for talented managers to lead our team of Service Representatives!

Universal Hospital Services, Inc. (UHS) is the leading provider of medical
equipment management solutions in the US. We have 2500+ employees who manage
more than a half-million pieces of medical equipment for over 8,400 clients in
all 50 states.

For more than 75 years, UHS has delivered equipment management solutions that
help clients reduce costs, increase operating efficiencies, and increase
caregiver satisfaction while achieving optimal patient outcomes. We provide
unmatched world-class service, and offer tools and documentation to verify
positive results for caregivers and patients.

As Manager, you will be responsible for managing and directing the daily
activities of the technical service and equipment management teams for our
client hospital(s) along with achieving the financial an operating objectives
set by the overall organization's business plan.

Main responsibilities will include:

Providing leadership, planning and direction to our hospital on-site service
prgrams and to ensure business objectives and financial goals are achieved.

Promote communication among team members to create visibility for internal staff
and the customer.

Maintain heightened awareness of costs associated with function to identify and
implement operational efficiencies.

Partner with Director of Health System, Account Executives and others on
customer meetings to promote revenue growth, cost containment and expansion of
UHS services with the customer.

Manage equipment inventory.

Recruit, train and develop employees to continuously upgrade the team.

Qualifications include: 4 year degree, knowledge of healthcare industry,
hospital operations and medical equipment manufacturers, strong management and
leadership skills, business and financial management expertise, flexibility to
work various hours and ability to lift and or push up to 75 pounds.

The numbers tell it all. UHS has been in business since 1939; it operates
through 85 districts and serves customers in all 50 states.

Our motto? Quality. Value. Service. All of us. All the time. Now, find out what
that means to you. Compensation includes base wage, eligibility for incentive
pay, company vehicle , 401(k), health/dental and tuition reimbursement. Learn
more. Apply online today!

We are proud to be an EEO/AA Employer/Vet/Disabled. We maintain a drug-free
workplace and perform pre-employment background and drug testing.

.
We are proud to be an EEO/AA Employer/Vet/Disabled employer.

For further information please visit: https://www.jobs4tn.gov

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


