                              102 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           December 9, 2015 Wednesday

CMCH Larkana's uplift works in jeopardy

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 1055

LENGTH: 384  words


The development works of Chandka Medical College Hospital (CMCH), Larkana, is
affected due to non- availability of qualified civil and electrical engineers as
these posts are lying vacant since their sanction two years ago. Previously
Executive Engineer (XEN), Provincial Buildings Division, Larkana, was providing
technical support and supervising the construction of the buildings but now it
has been refused because the Chief Engineer has not yet asked his XEN in Larkana
to extend his technical support to CMCH projects whereas in other teaching
hospitals, these XENs are extending their support in Nawabshah, Sukkur and LUMS.
Sindh government recently released M and R budget five months late, but tenders
have not yet been floated due to single reason of non-availability of civil
engineer who will make proper tender documents.

Dr Munir Jokhio, CMCH Medical Superintendent (MS) in this connection wrote a
letter to Health Secretary for filling the vacant posts on merit but in vain so
far as if it is not his job to ensure proper utilization of tax payer's money.
The then Sindh Chief Secretary issued minutes of meeting on 31.7.2008 wherein it
was decided that all development funds will be placed at the disposal of the
concerned MSes of all the Teaching Hospitals of the province to ensure speedy
work and timely completion. It was further mentioned in these minutes that
concerned XEN of the district will provide technical support  and  supervise the
works but it was discontinued by the XEN Provincial Buildings Division, Larkana,
during the last financial year 2014-15 due to which the projects which were to
be completed after June 2015 are still incomplete, MS informed the health
secretary. The hospital has become handicap to manage development projects
properly without provision of technical support and supervision, further wrote
the MS in his letter. If the Sindh government is sincere to completion of these
lingering projects and M and R works, then it should immediately direct
Commissioner Larkana Division to provide services of an expert XEN of Works  and
Services Department or Provincial Buildings Division immediately to the CMCH to
complete all required technical formalities for proper utilization of funds
otherwise it is feared that these schemes will never be completed.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


