                              107 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            April 20, 2017 Thursday

Technicians strike adds to the miseries of Polyclinic patients

BYLINE: Rahul Basharat

SECTION: Vol. 31 No. 45

LENGTH: 532  words


The strike of technical staff at Federal Government Polyclinic Hospital (FGPH),
owing to non-payment of salaries, on Wednesday has added to the miseries of
patients.

Around 100 junior technical staff of the hospital held a strike in the hospital
due to non-payment of salaries for last nine months.

The scale-9 employees of the hospital applied against the vacancies in 2013;
however, the hiring procedure was halted and the employees were not issued
appointment letters.

Later on, the case was raised in Islamabad High Court (IHC) and after three
years court issued orders of regularizing of the technical staff to Ministry of
Capital Administration  and  Development Division (CADD).

Despite of court orders the ministry has not paid wages to the junior technical
staff for last nine months.

Talking to The Nation, a lab technician Muhammad Javed said that the candidates
cleared all process of test and interview after which merit list was finalised.

'Instead of releasing the salaries, the hospital administration has started
issuing explanation letters to the technicians,' he said.

President Staff Welfare Association Ilyas Raja said that employees are paying
their services to hospital without any salary.

He said the ambiguous joining status has resulted in this situation where
ministry is not paying the salaries.

According to documents available with The Nation, FGPH in August 2016 issued
appointment letters against junior technician posts.

'You will be entitled to the starting salary of (BPS-09) plus usual allowance as
admissible to the Federal Govt Employees of your category,' states the letter.

'Your appointment in the first instance will be on probation for a period of one
year which if not terminated will be deemed to have been extended for another
year,' the letter states.

IHC, in 2016, in its order has stated that the authority issued order for 102
employees who were declared eligible. Out of 102, 67 candidates joined their
duty, but their salaries have not been released because of pendency of the
matter before court.

The court in its order stated, 'Since they have been declared eligible,
therefore no hurdle remained in their way to pay their salaries as required by
law. To that extent, their grievance are redressed, therefore the authorities
concerned are directed to issue their salaries.'

Talking to The Nation, a senior doctor who wished anonymity said that court had
issued the orders of salaries and joining of these employees but ministry has
prolonged the matter.

He said that the strike badly affected the services and system of hospital.

'Dispensary and laboratory services were not available for patients and they
suffered because of it,' he said.

He said ministry is confused on releasing the salaries of these employees.

Spokesperson FGPH Dr Imtiaz talking to The Nation said that court last month
issued detailed judgment regarding issuing of salaries and hospital
administration is mulling to implement the decision.

'A policy is required for the implementation of orders and hospital
administration will soon hold a meeting with ministry to resolve the matter,' he
said.

He said that it was a symbolic strike and the technical staff later joined their
duties.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


