                              108 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           January 28, 2003, Tuesday

NEW ERA IN LEARNING;
 COVENTRY AND WARWICKSHIRE HOSPITAL; SITE IDENTIFIED AS IDEAL LOCATION

BYLINE: ANDREW HUTSON SPLIT SITE: The vision for the future would mean most, if
not all, of the Tile Hill; operation ending, as well as the end for the Butts
college building; AMBITIOUS PLANS: College principal Paul Taylor; ON BORROWED
TIME: Coventry and Warwickshire Hospital, whose services will eventually move to
the Walsgrave superhospital, leaving a large site for redevelopment ROYAL VISIT:
The Prince of Wales, later Edward VIII, sees the college building take shape in
the 30s

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 776 words


PAUL TAYLOR, principal of City College Coventry, which was formed a year ago
through the merger of Tile Hill College and Coventry Technical College, has a
bold pounds 100million vision for a new campus.

He says creating a new college, possibly on the current site of Coventry and
Warwickshire Hospital, would lead to massive efficiency savings and bring the
college into the 21st century.

"We are estimating the total cost as something in the order of pounds 25million
to pounds 30million from the college's point of view," he said yesterday, as he
revealed the news ahead of the college's first birthday.

The "learning village" - which could possibly include a school - would be
developed in partnership with the council.

"For the whole learning village, it's obviously significantly more and we are
looking at potentially in excess of pounds 100million," Mr Taylor added. "We
would be seeking to build a brand-new, much more accessible college that would
be a much better place for students to learn in and enable the college to
continue to invest in students' learning from the savings in running costs."

A new college on the hospital site would fit neatly into plans to regenerate the
area when most of the services move to the Walsgrave superhospital site.

Mr Taylor said excess capacity at the Butts college had led to excess overheads.

"We've got too much space and much of it is not suitable for a modern college -
the Butts building itself is highly energy-inefficient.

"We would be able to create a better learning environment for students and it
would also mean the college would become more efficient. That would also benefit
the students because I can put more money into direct learning resources.

"There's an understanding with the Learning and Skills Council that the college
will seek to build new accommodation.

"That would include the disposal of the Butts site and most, if not all, of the
Tile Hill site."

News of the possible closure of the college at Butts comes the week after work
started to transform the adjoining stadium into a new ground for Coventry Rugby
Club.

That work alone will drastically alter the Spon End landscape.

What is now a derelict former athletics and sports pitch surrounded by a banked
cycle circuit is being bulldozed to create a pounds 10,000-seater rugby ground,
to open in a year's time.

The development also includes office buildings and accommodation blocks to house
sports academy students.

Key college dates

COVENTRY Technical College has a history dating back to 1828 and was founded as
the Mechanics' Institution at 69 Hertford Street.

1855 Renamed the Coventry Institute.

1888 A new Technical Institute was opened in an old textile warehouse on Earl
Street.

1926 The institute qualified to become a Technical College.

1919 The Pool Meadow site was too small and the building was built at its site
at The Butts at a cost of pounds 145,000.

1969 Tile Hill College of Further Education opened in 1969 and cost pounds
750,000 to build.

The merger of Coventry Technical College and Tile Hill College into City College
dated back to a report by Ofsted into further education provision in the city in
2000.

The merger was dogged by financial problems but made a profit in 2001.

Academy for the stars - and cars - of the future

City College Coventry has around 400 courses for its 18,000 students.

Academic and vocational courses are offered and range from building and
engineering to fashion and performing arts.

The merger of Coventry Technical College and Tile Hill College in City College
Coventry provided significant investment in performing arts facilities at the
Butts Centre, including two flexible performance areas and a new dance studio.

Work is also due to start to complete the conversion of the former engineering
workshop block at the Butts into a new City College Academy for the Performing
and Creative Arts.

It has excellent links with the car industry and manages all the training for
Jaguar and, with Sutton Coldfield College, manages the training for BMW at Hams
Hall.

It provides engineering training for Aston Martin and Peugeot and is seeking
Centres of Vocational Excellence status in auto design and engineering and
passenger service vehicles engineering.

WHAT DO YOU THINK OF PAUL TAYLOR'S IDEA? WRITE: to The Letters Editor, Evening
Telegraph, Corporation Street, Coventry, CV1 1FP.

PHONE: (024) 7663 3633 extension 5351 between 10am-4pm weekdays only. Please
have your letter ready for dictation.

E-MAIL: letters@coventry-telegraph.co.uk

FAX: (024) 7655 0869.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2003 Coventry Newspapers Limited


