                              101 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  The Leader-Times (Kittanning, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            December 1, 2015 Tuesday

Babies welcomed to the world in holiday style

BYLINE: Brad Pedersen, The Leader Times, Kittanning, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 485 words


Dec. 01--More than a dozen students from Lenape Technical School's Life Skills
program are making sure babies born in Armstrong County this month are in the
Christmas spirit.

This marks the first time the program's students made ACMH Hospital's obstetrics
unit about two dozen stockings and Santa caps for babies born in December, said
Tonilynne Stirling, president of the ACMH Auxiliary.

"When a newborn baby is ready to go home, the nurses will be able to bring the
child to its parents wearing the cap, nestled in the stocking," Stirling said.
"Taking a new baby home is special to begin with, but having a holiday keepsake
to mark the occasion is also a nice way to celebrate the holidays."

The Life Skills program, which is designed for students with intellectual
disabilities, has been working with the hospital's auxiliary on several
projects, ranging from preparing monthly newsletters for shipping, to making
about 150 candy cane ornaments to hand out to patients around Christmas, said
teacher Mari Zilla.

But making the stockings and caps has easily been a student favorite, Zilla
said.

"It's taken about two weeks of work to make the caps and stockings, but they
absolutely loved every second of it," Zilla said. "Our students are fascinated
by the babies and are excited to get to see the babies in the stockings and
caps."

The project is just one of many involving students from Lenape Technical School
volunteering at the East Franklin hospital, Stirling said.

Students from Lenape Technical School's Natural Resources program has been
helping with landscaping and maintaining gardens, trees and plants around the
hospital grounds, while students from the Sports Medicine program have been
helping with a variety of medical-related tasks throughout the facility,
Stirling said.

Patients have also been receiving books at the hospital, which have been
organized and distributed by students in the school's Book Club and Honors
English class, she added.

"We have a very good partnership with Lenape Technical School," Stirling said.
"It's nice to see the students feel good about giving back to the community and
volunteering their time at the hospital."

Zilla said the Life Skills program aims to teach students job skills, to help
them secure gainful employment once they graduate from high school. She also
aims to teach her students about the benefits of helping others.

"These types of projects teach them the joy of giving, versus just receiving,"
Zilla said. "Anytime we can connect our students with their community, it not
only shows them how good it can feel to help others, but also connects them with
potential employers."

Brad Pedersen is a staff writer for Trib Total Media. He can be reached at
724-543-1303, ext. 1337, or bpedersen@tribweb.com

___ (c)2015 The Leader Times (Kittanning, Pa.) Visit The Leader Times
(Kittanning, Pa.) at www.triblive.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151201-KT-Babies-welcomed-to-the-world-in-holiday-style-1201-20151201

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KT


                        Copyright 2015 The Leader-Times


