                              10 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 9, 2015 Monday

Technical Analysis Analyst - Arrowhead Hospital

LENGTH: 619  words

DATELINE: Lansing


National Association of Sales Professionals has issued the following job
announcement:


Technical Analysis Analyst - Arrowhead Hospital
Job ID:  21972597
Position Title:  Technical Analysis Analyst - Arrowhead Hospital
Company Name:  Dell, Inc.
Location(s):  Phoenix, Arizona, 85001, United States

Posted:  February 8, 2015
Job Function:  Other
Entry Level:  No
APPLY FOR THIS JOB
Apply URL:  https://dell.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.f...
Save Job  Email Job  Print Job
Job Description

Job Description

Technical Analysis Analyst - Arrowhead Hospital-15000488

Dell is currently seeking a Technical Analysis Analyst for one of its healthcare
customers located in Phoenix, AZ.
The Technical Analysis Analyst position will work onsite at our client hospital
facility for Dell Services. This position requires direct interaction with the
hospital's end users in support of their desktop computers. This position will
report to the hospital IS Director.
The Technical Analysis Analyst will provide system support for all client
workstations. They will investigate and suggest new, or enhancements to, current
practices, policies, procedures, or other actions that result in enhanced
workflow, reduced costs, increased productivity, increased employee
satisfaction, as well as continual compliance with company requirements. They
are responsible for installing and maintaining all workstation hardware and
client software. They will educate the user on basic applications with basic
training and support as needed. This position also includes ensuring customer
satisfaction while providing service and support for all customer service
requests.


Qualifications

Required:
A minimum of a high school diploma or GED equivalent.
Four year's experience in a medium to large networked computer support
environment.
Experience with Microsoft Operating Systems.
Strong knowledge of computers and computer software, with emphasis on hospital
supported software applications (IE: Office productivity applications email
clients, Citrix clients and various other applications).
Ability to effectively prioritize and execute tasks in a high-pressure
environment.
Ability to absorb and retain information quickly.
Desire to learn and progress.
Excellent interpersonal skills, with a focus on listening and questioning skills

Exceptional customer service orientation.
Must be able to communicate effectively in English, both in writing and
verbally.
Professional appearance acceptable to the department is required.
Preferred:
Some college experience or computer trade school.
Experience in a hospital environment.
Experience setting up and conducting classroom style training.
Dell offers:
-Opportunity to work with a strong brand at one of the world's largest IT
solutions providers
-Dynamic, challenging, international work environment
-A team with a high level of energy, integrity and motivation to win
-Exciting internal career opportunities
-A commitment to diversity and inclusion
-Competitive compensation including bonus plans & a great benefit package
-An individual professional development plan
About Dell Inc.:
Want to work in an environment where each day is focused on delivering solutions
that make a real difference in people's lives?
Where teams are constantly curious, and different perspectives and experiences
are valued?
At Dell, we believe technology is essential for human success and that it should
be accessible to everyone. We are constantly evolving
to better serve our customers, seize new opportunities and drive growth.
Together we can change the world. Come join us.
For more information, visit us on the web at www.dell.com.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


