                              99 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                          September 13, 2008 Saturday

More widey history

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 607 words


Following the recent Looking Back pieces on Widey Tech, Len Williams was
prompted to get in touch.

Said Len: "I would like to add some further information on its forerunner,
Plymouth Junior Technical School, which I attended in 1947 and 1948.

"The school at this time was sited in the old Mount Street Board School, but its
past history reveals that some 5,000 boys passed through the school over the
years.

"The school evolved from a small group of students based in the old Plymouth
Technical College in 1911. By 1914 the group had met the necessary criteria and
were officially recognised by the local education authority and named the
Plymouth Junior Technical School.

"In 1921 the accommodation situation at the college had become a problem, and
this was temporarily solved by sending the young school to the former Durnford
Hotel, and World War One hospital for Army officers, in Stonehouse.

"The billiard room became the carpenter's shop and the basement kitchen the
metalwork shop.  This 'temporary' arrangement lasted 17 years, and the LEA began
to realise the need for a more suitable home; in 1938 the school was transferred
to new premises at Stoke, in the former Stoke Military Hospital.  On February
14, 1939, the Junior Tech and three other boys' schools (Valletort Senior, Tamar
Central and Stoke Senior) were instituted into the converted hospital premises.
However, within eight months the order was given to evacuate the premises within
24 hours; the Second World War had arrived.

"For a year the school was accommodated within the Cobourg Street Secondary
School, and this was followed by another temporary measure, an offer to use
Mount Street Board School (it had been the first board school to have been built
in Plymouth in 1876).  Here the school remained until the new Widey Technical
School opened in 1959.

"Mr GW Turpitt was the headmaster for the greater part of those early years,
having been the school's first-ever head in 1911, and staying on until 1947.  He
was followed by Mr ER Harris from Devonport High School (which had moved into
the old Military Hospital after the war). The Junior Tech adopted the crest of
Lord Mount Edgcumbe, presumably when they were based in Stonehouse; I don't know
if they had one before that, but an early school motto was 'Get on or get out' .

"As well as helping boys to find their vocation, studying maths and mechanical
engineering, practical and theoretical, the school catered well for sports",
adds Len, "playing  rugby, football and cricket at Marsh Mills, Collins Park and
other places.

"Most of my contemporaries took the dockyard exam, sitting in one of those rooms
at the back of Mutley Baptist Church.  The dockyard used to take around 260
apprentices every year, and not everyone got through.  Even when you did, there
was still plenty more schooling to be done if you wanted to get on."

As an apprentice, he did a lot of work in the basement of the old Tech in
Glanville Street. "You used to be able to look down into it."

Len spent all his working life in the Yard,  apart from a four-year spell in the
Merchant Navy with Cunard in his early twenties: "I worked on the Mauretania and
the Queen Mary; it was good experience, but not my sort of life.

"I was still single, but staff weren't allowed to talk to passengers unless you
were spoken to first, and anyone caught with a lady passenger in their cabin was
sacked on the spot!"

It's now 19 years since Len left the Yard, and 60 years since he left school, so
putting names to faces isn't easy, but he enjoys looking back, and wrote a book
on Holbeton (his second home for many years) in the early days of his
retirement.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 82


                         Copyright 2008 Evening Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


