                              114 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            February 28, 2014 Friday

Minister repeats tech education, free healthcare mantra

BYLINE:  Our Staff Reporter

SECTION: Vol. XXVIII No. 001

LENGTH: 371  words


Punjab Minister for Ushar and Zakat Malik Nadeem Kamran has said that the Punjab
government has been pursuing a comprehensive strategy to provide technical
education to youth and free medical facilities to the needy patients. He said
that funds were being provided to the technical training institutions and
government hospitals in this regard.

The minister claimed that Rs27.75 million had been provided to institutions in
Sahiwal division to materialise the vision of Punjab Chief Minister Shahbaz.

Malik Nadeem Kamran was addressing a function held to distribute cheques to
Principal of vocational training institutions and Medical Superintendents of
hospitals the other day.

Sahiwal DCO Dr Sajid Mahmood Chohan, Additional Commissioner Nasir Jamal Hotiana
and heads of all institutions were also present on the occasion. The minister
said that the government was providing technical education to students to help
them stand on their feet and play their role in the national development.

He emphasised that transparency should be maintained in the distribution of
Zakat funds and self respect of each needy person should not be hurt. He
informed that the Punjab government was providing funds worth Rs250 million to
39 hospitals across the province to improve healthcare facilities for the poor.
Similarly Rs900 million are being spent on 166 vocational institutes to provide
different skills the youth.

MMAP wants PEC abolition: Muttahida Mahaz Asataza Pakistan (MMAP) Vice chairman
Rana Abdul Sattar stressed the need for abolition of Punjab Examination
Commission (PEC) forthwith, saying that sustaining PEC any more will be
injustice with students of Class 5, and 8th and wastage of public money and
time.

He demanded that the Class 5 and 8th examination should be conducted at district
level instead of provincial level to end inconvenience to the students and their
parents. He alleged that ill-planned and imprudent policies of the Punjab
government had ruined the education system, adding that syllabus for primary
classes should also be reduced. The MMAP head said that six books had been
prescribed for nursery class students, which was more than a burden on minor
children and affect their mental and physical growth.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


