                              118 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        BBC Monitoring Central Asia Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            August 8, 2015 Saturday

Some 100 Indian military specialists work at Tajik airbase - defence official

LENGTH: 447 words


Text of report by privately-owned Tajik news agency Asia-Plus website

Dushanbe, 8 August: Apart from the 201st Russian military base, Tajikistan
currently hosts an Indian military contingent on its territory.

A source in the Defence Ministry of the country has told Asia-Plus that
representatives of the Indian military contingent along with Tajik servicemen
and the 201st Russian military base in Tajikistan are participating in sports
competitions dedicated to the 22nd anniversary of founding of the Air Forces of
Tajikistan, which are taking place from 4 to 12 August.

The head of the press service of the Tajik Defence Ministry, Lt-Col Faridun
Mahmadaliyev, commented on the report. He said 73 Indian servicemen, mostly
military medics, are working under a two-year contract in the military hospital
of the Defence Ministry's military unit 07017, where a new multipurpose military
hospital of the Khatlon garrison, which is named "Friendship Hospital of
Tajikistan and India", was commissioned with the participation of [Tajik
President] Emomali Rahmon in early October 2014.

The hospital was built in the shortest time possible with funding from the
government of India and is equipped with modern medical facilities. The hospital
is designed for 50 beds. Seventy three qualified specialists from India, who
will simultaneously train their Tajik colleagues to work with the advanced
equipment installed in the hospital, will work in the hospital for two years. In
addition, about 100 military specialists of India are working in the Tajik
Defence Ministry's Ayni military airfield, which has been modernized in recent
years with financial and technical assistance from India. The airfield was
officially commissioned in early September of 2010.

The Indian military personnel are employed at the airfield as technical staff,
as well as trainers for refresher training of Tajik military pilots.

The most important military facility was equipped with modern technical and
navigational facilities worth 70m dollars by Tajik and Indian experts in recent
years. The military airfield turned into the largest airfield capable of taking
all available types of aircraft in the world, because its runway is 3,200
metres.

The airfield has a flight operations centre and navigation centre equipped with
modern technology, and its work is coordinated with the activities of other
relevant institutions of airports and navigation centres of the country. A
training building, where officers, soldiers and other professionals of the
country's air forces can learn and improve their skills, was also built in the
airfield .

Source: Asia-Plus news agency website, Dushanbe, in Russian 0513 gmt 8 Aug 15

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


