                              116 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                 July 30, 2001

Inquiry into murder of mother, sons to focus on family home area
Post-mortems show multiple injuries as knife, hurley removed from house for
examination

BYLINE: By ELAINE EDWARDS

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 480 words

DATELINE: CASTLEDALY


The Garda murder investigation into the deaths of a mother and her two young
sons in Castledaly, Co Westmeath, will centre on the immediate area of the
family home where they were found dead on Saturday.

Ms Debbie Fox (30) and her sons, Trevor (9) and Killian (7), were killed in an
apparent attack at their home in the village between Moate and Athlone on Friday
night or early Saturday morning.

Their remains were removed to Longford-Westmeath General Hospital in Mullingar
for post-mortems, which showed they had all sustained serious multiple injuries.

It is understood all three had stab wounds, and possibly other injuries
inflicted with a blunt instrument.

A knife and a hurley stick found in the house were removed for examination by
the Garda Technical Bureau. Mr Greg Fox (32), the husband and father of the dead
woman and children, was found unconscious in the family shop adjoining the
house. He was removed by ambulance to Portiuncula Hospital in Ballinasloe, Co
Galway. His injuries were described yesterday as "not serious" and his condition
was comfortable.

Mr Fox was moved to a private room in the hospital yesterday, where a Garda
presence was being maintained last night. The Garda has confirmed that officers
will interview Mr Fox when he is discharged from hospital.

The Technical Bureau and local gardai were at the scene of the incident
throughout Saturday afternoon. The Assistant State Pathologist, Dr Marie
Cassidy, carried out preliminary examinations of the bodies before they were
removed to hospital.

Supt Kevin Donohoe of Athlone station, who is in charge of the investigation,
described the scene inside the house on Saturday morning as "horrific".

He did not wish to speculate on what may have happened, pending an inquiry.

Ms Fox and her two children were found dead at their home by neighbours on
Saturday morning. Local people became concerned when they noticed the family
shop had not opened for business.

When gardai gained access, Ms Fox was found dead in the kitchen with serious
injuries. The two boys were found dead in separate bedrooms, also with serious
injuries. There was a lot of blood at the scene, Garda sources said.

The post-mortems showed that the three members of the family had suffered
multiple wounds, believed to include stab wounds and possibly other injuries.

The Fox family moved to Castledaly about 18 months ago. They ran a small shop
and petrol station, which they had bought from a local man, Mr Sean Kelly. Ms
Fox was from Portarlington, Co Laois. Her husband, Mr Greg Fox, is from Dublin.
Ms Fox's family travelled to Mullingar on Friday evening to identify the
remains.

A Garda spokesman said full results from the post-mortems would not be
immediately available.

He confirmed the Garda wished to interview the husband of the dead woman in
connection with the investigation.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2001 The Irish Times


