                              110 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Crain's Detroit Business

                                 April 27, 2009

Hospitals target readmissions;
10-20 in state to join study to cut costs, improve quality

BYLINE: JAY GREENE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 0003

LENGTH: 460 words


A group of 10 to 20 Michigan hospitals will join hospitals in Massachusetts and
Washington in a four-year study to develop processes that could reduce avoidable
rehospitalizations by 30 percent and save billions of dollars in unnecessary
health care costs.

National data show that nearly 20 percent of all Medicare patients are
readmitted to hospitals within 30 days and 33 percent are readmitted within 90
days, costing Medicare $17 billion dollars in 2004 alone, according a study in
the April 1 New England Journal of Medicine.

The Michigan hospitals, which are expected to be named in early May, are part of
a project funded by a $1 million grant from the Commonwealth Fund with technical
assistance provided by the Institute for Healthcare Improvement.

A steering committee for the project in Michigan will be coordinated by the
Michigan Health and Hospital Association and MPRO, a Farmington Hills-based
quality improvement organization.

"We are proud of Michigan taking the lead in one of the many small areas of
needed change in health care processes which can lead to significant and major
savings in costs and improvement in quality," said Larry Horwitz, president of
the Economic Alliance for Michigan, a Novi-based coalition of businesses and
unions.

Horwitz said he believes Michigan's hospitals will provide a national model for
reducing costs and improving quality.

In the first phase of the project, MHA and MPRO will appoint a steering
committee of hospital executives and other health care providers to oversee the
efforts to reduce readmission rates and improve patient satisfaction. Up to four
project leaders will serve as improvement advisers to the participating
hospitals. They will receive technical training from the Institute for
Healthcare Improvement.

Part of the technical training will include methods to improve care coordination
after patients are discharged from hospitals.

The study found that 50 percent of patients who returned to hospitals within 30
days of undergoing treatment other than surgery had not seen a doctor before
they were readmitted.

MHA and MPRO also are expected to include nursing home officials and physicians
in the hospital project to improve care coordination.

The goals of the readmission reduction project include:

-- Reduce 30-day rehospitalization rates by 30 percent.

-- Increase patient and family satisfaction with post-hospital care and with
care coordination.

-- Coordinate existing state and national quality-improvement activities to
reduce rehospitalizations.

-- Provide examples in which providers, including nursing homes and physician
offices, have dramatically improved transitions and reduced rehospitalizations.

-- Identify and develop approaches to remove systemic barriers to reducing
rehospitalizations.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: db


                      Copyright 2009 Crain Communications
                              All Rights Reserved


