                              117 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                           The New Age (South Africa)

                             June 28, 2016 Tuesday

Coega projects to create jobs

BYLINE: LONDEKA DLAMINI

LENGTH: 506 words


The refurbishment and upgrading of the Frontier Hospital in Queenstown and
Mjanyana District Hospital in Ngcobo is under way through the Coega Development
Corporation (CDC).

By the end of the projects, more than 1200 jobs and 28 internships, job
opportunities for 1463 technical and lifeskills courses for site workers will
have been created for local communities in the rural areas.

"Our objective with every major project that we facilitate is to leave a
heritage in the form of technical, life and business skills.

"The people and the business owners we have trained now have the skills they
need to qualify for other tenders, or to create projects for themselves," the
CDC unit head of marketing and communications, Ayanda Vilakazi, said.

The corporation will also refurbish clinics in Qebe and Nkwenkwana in Ngcobo and
Isikhoba clinic in Cofimvaba.

The development corporation has retained the skills which built Africa's most
modern industrial development zone (IDZ) and fine-tuned the management systems
to help government agencies such as the provincial department of health to
improve the quality of life for the people of the province.

"We are more concerned with socio-economic transformation rather than maximising
profits.

"That means we spend more time and resources on supporting local small
businesses and training members of the community," Vilakazi said.

Head of recruitment and placement at Coega Human Capital Solutions Duncan
Grenfell said the R247m Frontier Hospital project created 619 jobs, with 428
local people having been provided with job opportunities they would otherwise
not have had.

In addition, 10 internships were provided and 335 youth and 80 women weregiven
the opportunities to work on the project.

Project manager Michael Mabunda said that more than 60 technical skills courses
and life skills courses had been offered to the communities on the R20m
allocated to the project.

In Ngcobo, about 34 people attended technical skills courses during the life of
the R19.4m Mjanyana Hospital project. Additionally, five interns have been given
the opportunity to work on the project and a total of 76 jobs were created in
Ngcobo.

At the nearly R20m Qebe Clinic project, about  158 jobs were created, 99 of
which went to people from the local community.

Four local contractors have been involved in the project. There were seven
internship opportunities for local graduates. During the project about 560
technical and life skills courses were provided.

At the R20m Nkwenkwana Clinic 199 jobs were created with 154 filled by locals.
Eight local contractors worked on the project and some six internship
opportunities for local graduates were created. Workers on site attended about
809 technical and life skills courses.

About 107 locals were given a share of the 160 jobs created by the R20m Isikhoba
Clinic project.

There were five internships for local graduates and 742 technical and life
skills courses presented. Nine local contractors provided a variety of services.

provinces@thenewage.co.za

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 TNA Media (Pty.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


