                              113 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 BusinessWorld

                            March 5, 2014 Wednesday

BRIEFS

SECTION: Pg. S2/6

LENGTH: 565 words


Makati Shang holds Indian food festival

IN PARTNERSHIP with BDO, Makati Shangri-La's Circles Event Cafe lets guests
experience a taste of authentic Mughlai cuisine as chefs from Shangri-La's -
Eros Hotel, New Delhi bring the spices and flavors of their Indian hometown to
Manila for Delights of Delhi, an Indian food festival from March 3 to 14. Guests
may enjoy authentic Mughlai cuisine as chefs Negi Gabbar Singh and Dhingaan
Nitin Kumar prepare various Indian specialty dishes, available for lunch and
dinner buffet at Circles Event Cafe. Mughlai cuisine, a style of cooking adapted
from the imperial kitchens of the Mughlai empire, is known to represent the
cooking techniques in the northern regions of India. The taste varies from
extremely mild to spicy cuisine, cooked with aromatic ingredients. Guests who
dine for Delights of Delhi at Circles Event Cafe may also get the chance to
enjoy luxurious hotel accommodations in Traders Hotel, Puteri Harbour, Johor in
Malaysia and Shangri-La's - Eros Hotel, New Delhi in India. For reservations,
call 813-8888.

CRC turns over field hospital

AS PART of Canada's commitment to assist in the recovery of areas hit by super
typhoon Yolanda, the Canadian Red Cross (CRC) turned over an emergency field
hospital to the Philippine Red Cross. The field hospital includes equipment from
the CRC emergency response unit, locally-procured medical and technical supplies
to fully restock the hospital, and ongoing training and technical support. The
field hospital will be able to provide basic health care to around 30 thousand
people in a future emergency.

Seda introduces

Italian guest chef SEDA HOTELS is introducing to the Philippines an Italian
Aperi-Dinner or "apericena" as it is called in Italy, with guest chef Giovan
Giuseppe Ferrandino from March 7 to 22 at Seda BGC's Straight Up roof deck bar.
Chef Giovan will introduce the Italian way of enjoying good food - with
"aperitivi" or pre-dinner cocktails, complemented by a buffet of antipasti and
other international appetizers. Seda Hotels' Italian Group General Manager
Andrea Mastellone says, "Seda is the first hotel to introduce this concept in
the Philippines and we are proud that Chef Giovan, who has worked in various
Michelin-starred restaurants in Europe, is helping us present the event." Chef
Giovan is based in Genova, Italy and has worked not only in his home country but
also in Germany, France, Monaco and Switzerland. At Straight Up in Seda BGC, he
will showcase an "apericena" buffet of tapas-style dishes including stuffed
mozzarella, crostinis, pizzas, pastas, open-faced quiche, and even goulash and
crepes.

Century Tuna sets SuperChallenge

ON APRIL 25 to 27, the Century Tuna Superbods SuperChallenge once again gathers
celebrities and beach lovers in the country's ultimate summer destination,
Boracay. This year, the event takes an intriguing twist as actor John Lloyd is
tapped to inspire loyal customers of Century Tuna to join the Superbods
SuperChallenge. For six weeks, the matinee idol will undergo the Superbods Diet
and Workout Plan designed by top nutritionist Nadine Tengco and fitness trainer
Coach Jim Saret. The Superbods Diet and Workout Plan are accessible to the
public through the My Road to Superbods Web site
(www.centurytuna.ph/superbodschallenge). Now on its fifth season, the Century
Tuna Superbods will hold go-sees in Luzon, Visayas, and Mindanao.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 BusinessWorld Publishing Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


