                              112 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            October 21, 2001, Sunday

Nurses unionize, join Teamsters

BYLINE: RYAN DAVIS

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: HUDSON



(ran PW, PS editions)

Nurses at Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point became on Friday night the
newest members of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.

"It was a very exciting moment," said Bob Maldunis, the regional organizer for
the Georgia-Florida conference of Teamsters. "It was a nailbiter."

Even after the election, the fate of workers in the hospital's technical unit
remains unresolved.

After two days of voting, the secret ballots were tallied in the hospital
cafeteria. The nurses voted 167-136 in favor of joining the union. The technical
unit workers voted 51-46 in favor of unionizing, but seven ballots have been
challenged and remain unopened, Maldunis said.

Throughout the world, the Teamsters represent 1.4-million workers, including
500,000 health care workers. But the Bayonet Point nurses will be the first
hospital workers to join the 3,500-member Teamsters' Local 79 Chapter, which
stretches from Citrus County in the north to Naples in the south.

The nurses and technical workers total about 450 employees.

"It's a big step," Maldunis said. "You go from the old myth that Teamsters are
nothing but a bunch of truck drivers, but now you see the step that
professionals are unionizing because they feel they need to.

"It just makes us stronger."

Nurses celebrated by popping champagne corks in the hospital parking lot. Pay
and working conditions led them to unionize, Maldunis said. The nurses were
concerned about the hospital bringing in temporary nurses.

They needed a majority of the vote to win the election.

In about a week, Maldunis said, the Teamsters will send the hospital a letter to
set up bargaining dates for a contract.

"It's not going to be a quick change," Maldunis said. "It's going to be
difficult to negotiate a contract."

At the same time, the Teamsters and the hospital will try to reach an agreement
about the fate of seven ballots cast by technical unit workers known as coders.
The Teamsters consider them to be clerical workers and do no think their votes
should count. The hospital thinks they should.

If the two sides cannot reach an agreement, they will have a hearing before the
National Labor Relations Board, Maldunis said.

There had been previous attempts to unionize workers at Bayonet Point, but this
was the first time workers had circulated a petition that led to a vote,
Maldunis said.

Sometime next month between 200 and 300 of Bayonet Point's nonprofessional and
service employees, including phlebotomists and kitchen workers, will vote on
joining the Teamsters, he said. A date has not been set.

- Information from Times files was used in this report.


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES

                    Copyright 2001 Times Publishing Company


