                              111 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        May 13, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

UCSF Responds to AFSCME's Plans for Two-Day Strike

LENGTH: 454  words


New Delhi, May 13 -- The American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees (AFSCME) union announced on May 10 that its patient care technical
workers unit will strike on May 21 and 22 across the University of California
system.



AFSCME's patient care technical workers (EX Unit) will be joined on the picket
lines by AFSCME's service workers (SX Unit), who will engage in a sympathy
strike at UC campuses.

UPTE's health care professionals unit (HX), which includes pharmacists, also
announced it will strike in sympathy and it is possible that members of other
unions will also join the strike, although strikes are illegal for members of
unions currently engaged in bargaining or still under contract.

Physicians and nurses will not be on strike and will continue to provide care to
patients.

UC officials say a strike involving patient care technical employees at its five
UC medical centers, including UCSF, would pose an imminent threat to public
health and safety and improperly withhold health care from members of the
public.

Because of that threat, the University said it will seek a restraining order
against an AFSCME strike.

A strike by AFSCME patient care technical workers, and other union workers who
join in sympathy, could involve more than 4,200 employees at UCSF, which
operates one of five medical centers in the 10-campus UC system.

The majority of these workers take care of patients and their families at UCSF
Medical Center and UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital. They include patient care
assistants, respiratory therapists, sterile processing technicians, hospital lab
technicians, pharmacy and imaging technicians.

The strike is also expected to affect patient care services at other UCSF
clinical sites, including San Francisco General Hospital and Trauma Center, the
dental clinics and Langley Porter Psychiatric Institute.

Chancellor Sue Desmond-Hellmann, MD, MPH, and UCSF Medical Center CEO Mark Laret
are sending a communication to the UCSF community today that says, in part:

"UCSF is a leading university, with top-ranked academics and research programs.
Our UCSF Medical Center and UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital rank among the
nation's best hospitals and consistently exceed the most widely used patient
satisfaction and safety measures in the nation. We ask all employees to continue
placing UCSF's mission of improving health - and particularly the interests of
our patients who entrust their lives in us every day - as a top priority.

"If AFSCME goes through with its strike plans and UPTE with its sympathy strike
plans, all UCSF employees - including represented employees - would still be
allowed to come to work. We encourage you to do so in service of our patients
and our community."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


