                              127 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                           October 19, 2016 Wednesday

WHO to reform four Punjab hospitals

SECTION: Vol. 30 No. 225

LENGTH: 539  words


The World Health Organization (WHO) has expressed its willingness for providing
technical assistance in improving medical facilities in four major hospitals of
Punjab.

During a meeting yesterday, Punjab Chief Minister Shehbaz Sharif was briefed by
WHO delgation on reforms in hospitals and further improvement in health
facilities for the masses.

The meeting also reviewed in detail recommendations for improvement of service
delivery system in hospitals.

The CM, welcoming the WHO interest, said that provision of quality treatment
facilities to patients is the mission of the government and all out measures are
being taken for providing modern health facilities in hospitals so that ailing
humanity could be served in the real sense.

He added that patients have a right to quality health facilities in hospitals
and Punjab government will uphold this right at any cost.

"Punjab government has given the biggest budget to health sector in the history;
however, patients should also be satisfied with the measures for improving
healthcare system." Shehbaz directed that practical recommendations should be
finalised at the earliest for making four big hospitals of Punjab as role model
and a final programme should be evolved in the light of the recommendations for
making speedy progress.

The WHO representative commended the vision of CM Shehbaz for provision of
quality health facilities to the patients and said that they are ready to extend
technical assistance for improving health services in hospitals.

Finance Minister Dr Ayesha Ghaus Pasha, Adviser on Health Kh Salman Rafique,
Parliamentary Secretary Kh Imran Nazir, chief secretary and other senior
official of Punjab government, besides representative of WHO in Pakistan Dr
Michel Thieren and medical experts attended the meeting.

WHO Technical Officer Dr Ann Lise Guissct, WHO Healthcare Delivery Adviser Dr
Hamid Tavaghi from Iran and Health Policy Specialist University of
Toronto-Canada Dr Ben Chan participated in the meeting through video link from
Tokyo.

CM MEETS FORMER PM

Separately, CM Shehbaz met former prime minister and veteran politician Mir
Zafar Ullah Khan Jamali in Balochistan House, Islamabad yesterday and discussed
important national and political affairs.

Speaking on the occasion, the chief minister called for a spirit of national
construction as well as political tolerance so that the target of making
Pakistan an economic power could be achieved.

"Pakistan is making progress and such mega projects are being completed
expeditiously as will help in overcoming energy crisis within next one and a
half years and achievement of economic targets," the CM said.

Taking on the opposition, Shehbaz Sharif said that some political elements are
trying to create anarchy in the country only for achieving their narrow
political ends but their conspiracies will not succeed.

He also commended the political services of Mir Zafar Ullah Khan Jamali and his
role in development of Balochistan and said that he has been a patriotic
Pakistani who is always active for promotion of political tolerance and
understanding in the country.

Jamali appreciated the programmes of the CM for the welfare of the people and
progress of the province and expressed good wishes for him.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


