                              12 of 998 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1989, American Health Lawyers Association
                              Journal of Health Law

                                 December, 1989

                        Vol. 22, No. 12, HOSPLW Pg. 388

LENGTH: 544 words

TITLE: CASENOTE: LABOR RELATIONS: Technical employee unit excluding
nonprofessional employees upheld

AUTHOR: J.K./S.W.

TEXT:

   The United States Court of Appeals, Tenth Circuit, upheld a ruling by the
Regional Director of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) allowing a union
to represent a bargaining unit consisting of defendant hospital's technical
employees.

   When a union petitioned the NLRB to represent the hospital's technical
employees, the hospital opposed the petition, arguing the unit should also
include all service and maintenance employees as well.  In evaluating the
petition, the Regional Director first applied the "community of interests" test
which focused on limiting bargaining units to employee groups which have certain
characteristics in common.  Based on this standard, the court concluded the
appropriate bargaining unit consisted exclusively of technical employees.
Although the employees voted in favor of representation by the union, the
hospital refused to bargain with the union.  The union then filed unfair labor
practice charges against defendant.

   Subsequent to the hearing on the original petition, the Tenth Circuit began
requiring a "disparity of interests" test to determine the appropriate
bargaining unit.  The disparity of interests test provides that in defining an
appropriate unit, one should start with a broad unit of employees and then
exclude employees with disparate interests.  The NLRB also adopted the disparity
of interests test, and therefore denied the hospital's motion for summary
judgment, and remanded the case to the Regional Director for reconsideration
based on the new standard.  At the second hearing, the Regional Director upheld
the appropriateness of the all-technical unit.  Defendant hospital again refused
to bargain with the union and appealed.

   On appeal, defendant hospital contended two groups of employees, the
radiologic technologists and respiratory therapists, belonged in the
professional unit as opposed to the technical unit.  Moreover, defendant wanted
all nonprofessional employees placed in one unit.  The Regional Director
determined radiologic technologists and respiratory therapists did not fit the
strict statutory definition of professionals.  Therefore, they were correctly
placed in the technical unit.

   The appellate court recognized the disparity of interests test was a more
rigorous standard than the community of interest standard.  However, it
concluded the Regional Director could reasonably find the all-technical unit
appropriate under the new standard.  The primary inquiry of the court was
whether the Regional Director properly focused on the disparity of interests
between the employee groups which would inhibit fair representation of their
interests.  The criteria in determining disparity of interests included
evaluation of wages, education and training, degree of interchange, and
commonality of supervision.

   The court gave deference to the Regional Director's decision to exclude
service and maintenance employees from technical employees due to differences
between the two groups.  The Regional Director cited statistics showing
contrasts in the average starting wages, differences in education background and
training, lack of interchange between the two groups, and the lack of common
supervision.  Accordingly, the Regional Director's decision was affirmed.

REFERENCE: St. Anthony Hospital Systems v. NLRB, 884 F.2d 518 (10th Cir. 1989).


