                              121 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             October 5, 2009 Monday

Soon, city's govt hospitals to get German hand to cut wastage

BYLINE: Vidya Krishnan

LENGTH: 378  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


If all goes as planned, state-run hospitals will soon be working in clockwork
precision, German style.

The state Health department has approached GTZ - German Technical Cooperation -
for technical support to reduce wastage and improve resource utilisation under
the Indo-German agreement for the health sector.

The public-private partnership project will introduce better quality control in
13 secondary hospitals in the Capital by October-end, Principal Secretary
(Health) J P Singh said.

Introducing checklists so that doctors do not run out of drugs in the OPD is a
basic example to make a state-run hospital work like a well-oiled machine.

Simple changes like these introduced by GTZ have already proven effective in
state-run hospitals in Himachal Pradesh and West Bengal, officials said.

The GTZ will be focussing on four areas: institutional development, management
capacity development, clinical capacity development, and consumer empowerment.
"GTZ will give us technical support, help us manage patient load efficiently and
also improve standards of services in hospitals," Singh said. "We will start
with 13 secondary hospitals and the project should be operational by this
month-end.

"The state government will invest in infrastructure but the expertise will come
from GTZ."

The project includes implementation of basic techniques like a token system for
patients or helping patients queue up so that doctors do not waste time in
controlling crowds. "We will facilitate a quality improvement process and set
standards. We will try out some mechanisms that lead to better utilisation of
existing facilities," said Amit Phaliwal, senior technical specialist in quality
management with GTZ's health sector support.

At the outset, the hospitals have been given a self assessment exercise in which
they have to mark themselves on 1100 criteria.

"Based on feedback from this exercise, we will know what standards they are
complying with and the gaps that need to be filled," Pahliwal said. "We aim to
remove the bottlenecks in OPD, IPD and OTs in (Delhi's government) hospitals.
One simple way will be to have a general practitioner examine the patient and
direct them to specialists, instead of the current practice of all patients
crowding the Casualty/Medicine department."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2009 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


