                              120 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                          September 29, 2016 Thursday

Bio-safety labs being set up in teaching hospitals

SECTION: Vol. 39 No. 269

LENGTH: 323  words


On the directions of Punjab Chief Minister Mohammad Shehbaz Sharif, Bio-Safety
Labs-2 (BSL-2) are being set up in all teaching hospitals, beisdes upgradation
of the existing laboratories.

Laboratory tests of infectious diseases including Congo would be conducted in
these laboratories.

It was stated by Advisor to Chief Minister Punjab on Health Khawaja Salman
Rafiq, while presiding over a meeting of professors of Microbiology Departments
of the medical colleges/ teaching hospitals at Civil Secretariat on Wednesday.

Besides Special Secretary Specialised Healthcare  and  Medical Education Dr
Sajid Chohan, Additional Secretary Technical Dr Salman Shahid, Chief Planning
Officer Abdul Haq Bhatti, MS Mayo Hospital Dr Amjad Shehzad, Chief
Bacteriologist Punjab (IPH) Prof Zarfishan Tahir, Consultant Dr Tahir Yaqub and
professors of Microbiology Department of the medical colleges attended the
meeting.

The professors briefed the meeting about the requirements for establishing BSL-2
in their colleges, capacity of the existing laboratories and technical aspects
of the laboratory.

Kh Salman Rafiq called for preparing comprehensive reports of the medical
colleges/ teaching hospitals, keeping in view the available resources and
equipments.

He said that the reports must suggest that how much work for setting up  BSL-2
could be completed with the available resources and how much more resources
would be required.

He said that he would request the chief minister for providing additional
financial resources for this purpose.

Special Secretary Health Dr Sajid Chohan said that a separate working paper of
each teaching hospitals should be prepared within a week in which financial
analysis, existing resources, orientation, human resource requirement and other
technical aspects of the project should be mentioned.

Kh Salman Rafiq disclosed that the World Health Organisation would provide
technical guidance for establishing BSL-2 in hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


