                              123 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                           February 8, 2017 Wednesday

'Technical education is CM's priority'

SECTION: Vol. 26 No. 336

LENGTH: 409  words


Technical Education and Vocational Training Authority (Tevta) Chairperson Irfan
Qaiser Sheikh has said that promotion of technical and vocational education in
Punjab is top priority of Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif so well considered
measures are being taken according to his vision.

Addressing a meeting here on Tuesday, he said foreign partners were supporting
Tevta to strength its system across the province as future of the country was
entirely linked with it. Irfan Qaiser Sheikh said the dream of progress could
not be realised without skilled workforce. He added Tevta was imparting free
training in hospitality, driving, food and beverages, construction, IT, Chinese
language and other important sectors as trained manpower was urgently required
at the national and international level.

DC: Lahore Deputy Commissioner Sumair Ahmed Syed paid a surprise visit to Mian
Mir Hospital and checked arrangements in wards, emergency room and medicine
store here Tuesday. He was accompanied by additional Deputy Commissioner General
Asfandyar Baloch, health officials and the hospital administration. During his
visit, the DC reviewed cleanliness arrangements. He went to different wards of
the hospital and talked to patients and inquired from them about the facilities
being provided to them. On a complaint regarding talking on phone while
examining patient, he directed the hospital administration to take action
against doctors. Similarly, he also observed cleanliness in wards and checked
medicine stock. He also inspected the quality of material being used in the
construction of new blocks in the hospital and expressed his satisfaction.

Mayor: To review administrative and cleanliness affairs of Dar-ul-Amaan, Mayor
of Lahore paid a surprise visit to the premises here on Tuesday.

Lord Mayor Col (R) Mubashir Javed was accompanied by officials of Social Welfare
department and officials of Dar-ul-Amaan. He observed the facilities being
provided to women and children who have taken shelter in it and showed his
satisfaction.

Briefing the mayor, Dar-ul-Amaan incharge Misbah Rasheed said that there were 63
women and 15 children in Dar-ul-Amaan who are being provided best residential
facilities and home-like atmosphere.

The mayor, later on, distributed clothes among 63 women and said cleanliness
arrangements and atmosphere there was excellent. He also appreciated the efforts
of Dar-ul-Amaan incharge over keeping affairs of the institution perfect.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


