                              131 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Herald (Goa) (India)

                           November 14, 2013 Thursday

CM assures 'super fast' completion of hospital

LENGTH: 281 words

DATELINE: MARGAO


ARGAO, Nov. 14 -- Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar has said that work on the
district hospital project in Margao will be completed with "super fast speed,"
even as he announced that the top two floors of the hospital building will be
utilised for para-medical (technical) courses.

After inspecting the district hospital under construction, Parrikar told the
media that the hospital work is in full swing. "I have not set any deadline for
the completion of the project. But, one should know that most of my projects
have been completed in super fast time. The district hospital project will not
be an exception," he said.

Replying to a question, the Chief Minister said that the first three floors will
be utilised to house the hospital, while the top two floors will have a separate
entrance and would be used to run the para medical (technical) courses. "The
technical courses will include x-ray technicians, MRI, CT-scan. Even machines
can be maintained at a lower end," he said, adding that the drawings of the top
two floors will be completed and submitted to the contractor by November-end.

The Chief Minister, who also visited the multipurpose school complex at Borda,
said that a government run college will start functioning from the complex from
the coming academic year. "I have inspected the school complex since nothing had
moved in the direction of the new college though a decision was taken three
years ago. We will tender work on the new college premises within a month," he
added.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Herald Goa. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 Herald Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


