                              137 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            December 6, 2002, Friday

MUM STABBED TO DEATH;
 TEENS QUIZZED AFTER VICTIM IS FOUND IN BURNING HOUSE

BYLINE: Pat Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 405 words

HIGHLIGHT: SCENE: Firefighters last night in Greenfields, Kilkenny;;
INVESTIGATION: House at Greenfields Road, Kilkenny, where Christina Quinn was
found last night is sealed off as gardai begin inquiries


A MOTHER was stabbed to death in a frenzied attack and left to burn in a blazing
house last night.

Firefighters found Christina Quinn, 36, in a pool of blood at her home in
Kilkenny.

Two teens were last night being questioned. A Garda source said: "It was a
horrific scene. The woman suffered severe injuries." It is believed Mrs Quinn's
throat had been cut but she was still alive when rescue workers broke into the
blazing house at Greenfields Road in the city.

A Garda source said they were awaiting the results of a post mortem before
launching a murder inquiry.

He added: "The firefighters took Mrs Quinn away from the flames and I believe
she died on the path outside.

"There was a call to the emergency services at 5pm and two units of Kilkenny
fire brigade responded. They were quickly followed by an ambulance and Gardai.

"Firefighters were still at the scene two hours later having dealt with a minor
blaze."

Her body was removed by ambulance the short distance to St Luke's Hospital,
Kilkenny.

Locals said Mrs Quinn's husband Aidan, who was in the Army, was not living in
the family home.

Neighbour Ann Ryan added that the community was in disbelief at the killing.

She said: "We still can't believe this has happened that to such a lovely woman.
We are all in total shock.

"Mrs Quinn was a lovely, quiet, kind woman. She was always in good form and was
liked by everyone in the area.

"She worked in the local hotel and just lived for her children.

"She was from a very respectable family and was well-liked.

"The whole of city are still trying to take in what happened. It is just beyond
belief."

Mrs Quinn was a member of the well-known Connolly family from Stephen Street in
the city.

She is believed to have been friends with another man who suffered a family
tragedy a few years ago when his brother and two nephews died.

A post mortem was being carried out on the young mother last night at Waterford
Regional Hospital.

A Garda spokesman said: "It's the early stages yet but there is no doubt that we
are treating this death as suspicious.

"The fire broke out shortly after 5pm, but exactly how it started is not yet
known.

"The woman's body was removed to St Lukes Hospital.

"The scene has been preserved and is pending a full technical examination.

"The State Pathologist and a team from the Garda Technical Bureau have been
called in."

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2002 MGN Ltd.


