                              132 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      January 20, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Cancer Genetics Launches Digital Platform to Enable Collaboration with Community
Hospitals, Laboratories

LENGTH: 384  words


Jan. 20 -- US-based Cancer Genetics, Inc. issued the following news release:

Cancer Genetics, Inc., (Nasdaq:CGIX) ("CGI" or "the company"), an emerging
leader in DNA-based cancer diagnostics, announced today the launch of their
ExpandDxTM collaborative testing program. CGI's ExpandDx program, which utilizes
VENTANA digital pathology technology from Roche, allows community-based
hospitals and pathology labs to partner with CGI through remote consultations,
and enables access to a broader range of tests that expand the clinical testing
capabilities of community labs and hospitals. The technical-only testing service
provides community hospitals and pathology labs with the most advanced testing
technologies available, and facilitates increased collaboration on both atypical
and difficult cancer cases.

"We are very excited to partner with Cancer Genetics to provide comprehensive
digital pathology solutions through their ExpandDx testing program," said Rod
Cotton, Senior Vice President at Roche Diagnostics Corporation. "This new
service is an example of their innovation and leadership in the field of cancer
diagnostics. It will enable a more collaborative and responsive diagnosis
process for community-based pathologists and help them fulfill their mission to
empower personalized cancer treatment."

Through CGI's ExpandDx collaborative testing program, the technical component
will be performed at CGI laboratories, and clinicians will have the option of
interpreting and signing out their patients' test results. By allowing
clinicians to sign out cases remotely and share cases with other team members,
the program enables smaller labs to manage resources while still leveraging
CGI's unique tests and expertise in oncology diagnostics.

"As care centers and clinicians look for ways to improve cost efficiency,
technical-only testing offers opportunity for providers to more actively
collaborate in the diagnosis process and manage costs for patients," said Lan
Wang, M.D., Medical Director at Cancer Genetics. "CGI's ExpandDx technical-only
testing will ensure that community-based hospitals and pathology labs have
access to the same cutting-edge oncology testing available at larger centers,
and will allow the clinical community to collaborate on difficult cases."

Source: Cancer Genetics, Inc.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


