                              138 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             October 9, 2016 Sunday

Technical posts vacant in largest teaching hospital of upper Sindh

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 279

LENGTH: 313  words


Due to non-availability of engineering wing at the largest teaching hospital of
upper Sindh known as Chandka Medical College Hospital, Larkana, almost all
development schemes are suffering badly.

There are two sanctioned posts of civil engineer  and  electrical engineers have
been vacant since long, despite repeated letters. In this connection, the CMCH
Medical Superintendent Dr. Javed Ali Shaikh, wrote a letter on Friday to Health
Secretary informing him about the grave position. He said previously Executive
Engineer, Provincial Building Division, Larkana was not only supervising the
civil works but was also providing technical sanction of the new projects of ADP
and M and R who has refused since last year to do the same due to which almost
all works are suffering seriously, which include "Establishment of Faryal Talpur
Cardiac Surgery Complex" having facilities of coronary angiography, cardiac
catheterized Laboratory, cardiac bypass surgery and chest surgery. "The matter
was taken up at various forums but yet to be resolved", the MS wrote. He further
wrote that due non-availability of engineering wing serious technical nature
issues have emerged adding that the Director General (Design), Building
Department, Government of Sindh is not authenticating the estimate of the
hospital  and  technical sanction of the estimates are not given by competent
authorities which are must.

Dr. Javed requested the Health Secretary to approach Communication  and  Works
Department Secretary either to depute an executive engineer/assistant engineer
in CMCH or to authorize XEN District Building Larkana and concerned
Superintending Engineer to extend technical support and supervise civil works
and also direct DG (Design)  and  Chief Engineer Building to authenticate
estimates and given technical sanction respectively to CMCH schemes in the
larger interest of poor patients.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


