                              134 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (Nigeria)

                           August 31, 2016 Wednesday

Lassa fever: Quarantined persons in Delta now 55

BYLINE: Uche Atuma

LENGTH: 402 words


From Paul Osuyi, Asaba THE number of persons under surveillance in Delta State
for Lassa fever is now

From Paul Osuyi, Asaba

THE number of persons under surveillance in Delta State for Lassa fever is now
55, Commissioner for Health, Dr. Nichols Azinge disclosed in Asaba, yesterday.
Following the death of a medical doctor, who was diagnosed of the disease, 32
persons believed to have contacts with the deceased were quarantined. The number
rose to 40 as the state government intensified efforts to prevent the spread of
the disease.


The late doctor, who ran a private health facility, Rainbow Hospital in Umuaji
area of Asaba, had gone for treatment at another private facility, El-Comfort
Hospital at the Bonsaac area.
From El-Comfort Hospital, he was referred to Nnamdi Azikiwe University Teaching
Hospital (NAUTH), Nnewi, Anambra State where he died.
His blood sample, which was taken to Irrua Specialist Hospital, Edo State tested
positive to the disease caused by the eight-breasted rat specie. He has since
been buried according the specification of the World Health Organisation (WHO).
Speaking yesterday when he received in audience the Federal Government rapid
response team on a technical assistance mission, Azinge explained that the 55
persons under watch might have had contact with the dead doctor.
Azinge advised residents not to panic as the state government had put necessary
measures in place to curtail the spread of the disease and in control of the
situation.
The five-man technical assistant team made up of experts from the Nigerian
Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Nigerian Field Epidemiology and Laboratory
Training Programme (NFELPT) was deplored by the Federal Government to help in
tackling the disease.
The team has been in the state for some days working with the state's
epidemiologist and the disease surveillance and notification officer to assess
what has been done so far and proffer technical assistance in closing whatever
perceived gaps.
Azinge said the four persons earlier found negative had not shown any symptoms
of the disease, adding that both the El-Comfort Hospital and Rainbow Hospital
remained shut.
He reiterated that previous committees set up to tackle the disease had been
reactivated while awareness campaigns through the various mass media to
enlighten the public on how the disease was transmitted and could be prevented
to forestall its spread had been stepped up.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1228


                   Copyright 2016 The Sun Publishing Limited
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


