                              136 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Bond Buyer

West Virginia Hospital Recovers From Default

                            July 3, 2002, Wednesday

By Alison Vekshin

DATELINE: WASHINGTON



A rural hospital in West Virginia recently was found to be in technical default
for the third time on almost $2 million of revenue bonds due to late payments,
but has since recovered from the default, according to a hospital executive.

The Richwood Area Community Hospital Inc., an acute-care, 46-bed hospital
located in south central West Virginia, was late in making its loan and
deficiency payments and was found to be in default on June 25, Bank One Trust
Co. NA said in a notice to bondholders. The bonds had also been found in
technical default on Dec. 13, 2001, and March 25 of this year.

The bonds were issued by Nicholas County in August 1999 at the request of the
hospital. The county issued $1.4 million of Series A tax-exempt revenue bonds
and $575,000 of Series B taxable revenue bonds.

The bond sale had been prompted by a measure passed by the Legislature in March
1999 that allowed the hospital to add up to 25 long-term care beds to the
existing facility, according to Rush F. Harding, the chief executive officer of
underwriter Crews & Associates Inc.

"They expected a steady cash flow," Harding said. "But the game plan was not put
in place. This contributed to the inability to repay."

Proceeds from the sale were used to repay bank loans, make improvements to
existing facilities, acquire equipment, pay off taxes that were in arrears,
create a $150,000 operating reserve fund, and purchase assets from the Hospital
Corporation of America Inc., which had owned the hospital, Harding said.

The community of Richwood now owns the hospital.

But Elaine Butler, the hospital's chief executive officer, said the late
payments and subsequent technical defaults were caused by a software glitch and
that the problem has now been corrected.

She said the hospital began using new billing software in January.

"There were some glitches in getting that working correctly," which delayed the
processing of various payments made from the state to the hospital, Butler said.
"For that period of time were weren't able to make bond payments on time."

But the hospital is now in compliance with its payment requirements, having made
a payment on June 25, the day the latest technical default notice was issued,
she said.

Butler said the hospital has had its share of financial difficulties. In August
2001, it had to dip into its reserve fund to pay bondholders.

"We have added new services and extended-care beds," she said. "While we showed
a loss last year, year-to-date in 2002 we are showing a positive bottom line as
of May."

This year, the hospital has gone from nine to 21 long-term care beds, which has
generated additional revenue, Butler said. She added that the hospital plans to
add four more long-term care beds.

While the hospital has a lot of short-term debt, it is turning the corner,
according to Shana Phares, assistant secretary of the West Virginia Department
of Health and Human Services. It will catch up on its utility payments in
December and on its back federal and state taxes in March 2003, Phares said.

Copyright c 2002 Thomson Media. All Rights Reserved. http://www.bondbuyer.com

SECTION: THE REGIONS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 524 words

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2002 The Bond Buyer, Inc.


