                              141 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         Morning Star (Wilmington, NC)

                           January 18, 2003, Saturday

NEW HANOVER HOSPITAL / Fake ID leads to arrest of impostor

BYLINE: Victoria Rouch, Staff Writer

SECTION: Local/State; Pg. 1B, 6B

LENGTH: 429 words


It's not unusual to see hospital workers clad in surgical scrubs and lab coats
walking the halls of New Hanover Regional Medical Center.

But Wednesday, a woman dressed like a hospital staff member was arrested and
charged with first-degree trespassing after an employee noticed she was wearing
a fake identification badge.

On Friday, Hospital Special Police Chief Kathy Strawn said there was evidence
that Amanda K. Taylor, 26, may have been using those tactics to wander around in
the hospital unattended since some time in October.

"We do have numerous people who've claimed to have seen her, but we still need
to confirm that," said Chief Strawn, adding that so far there is no indication
Ms. Taylor became involved in patient care.

The State Bureau of Investigation is assisting with the case, which Chief Strawn
said is expected to yield additional charges against Ms. Taylor.

Chief Strawn said investigators are talking to staff about just where Ms. Taylor
- a student at Miller-Motte Technical College - may have gone while in the
hospital.

So far, she said, it has been confirmed that she was seen on both the ninth
floor and in the Pastoral Care Department, which is near the lobby of the
hospital.

Chief Strawn said the identification badge Ms. Taylor was wearing would not have
allowed her entry into some secure areas that are access-controlled, unless she
managed to slip in behind an employee with access to that area.

It was the fake badge - fashioned to resemble official hospital identification -
that piqued the suspicion of an employee in the Pastoral Care Department, Chief
Strawn said.

Medical center employees participate in a "hospital watch program," similar to a
community watch program, that teaches them to be alert for anything that might
compromise patient safety.

Chief Strawn said the scrubs and lab coat Ms. Taylor were wearing were issued
through Miller-Motte, where Ms. Taylor is training to be a medical surgical
technician. Attempts to contact Ms. Taylor Friday afternoon were unsuccessful.

Miller-Motte Technical College Director Ruth Hodge said while the program
entails some clinical training at the hospital, Ms. Taylor had not yet reached
that portion of the course.

Ms. Hodge said school officials met with Ms. Taylor and her mother shortly after
the incident. They plan to notify Ms. Taylor that she is being officially
dismissed from the course.

"She will be put out of the program," she said.

"There's no way we could have anyone in the surg-tech program that could do
something like that."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2003 Star-News, Inc.


