                              146 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                          September 15, 2011 Thursday

Nursing institutions not up to the mark

LENGTH: 284 words

DATELINE: BUTWAL


BUTWAL, Sept. 15 -- Nursing Colleges in Rupandehi are found operational against
the standards stipulated by the Nursing Council and Council of Technical
Education and Vocational Training (CETVT).

Established after taking approval for the purpose of producing technical human
resource in health sector, the colleges have also been charging high fee to
students in a unitary manner.

Ironically, there are no subject faculty, laboratory and library in almost all
colleges here.

In addition, the colleges here have charged Rs. 800,000 to a student for
three-year certificate course.

The existing fee structure of the colleges is maximum expensive than the fee
that of other similar institutions of the country, complained students.

Every nursing college has to make necessary arrangement of hospital and lab to
provide with on the job training (OJT) to its students, according to the Nursing
Council and CTEVT.

But, most of the nursing colleges here have been doing their business by showing
the only government hospital in Butwal for OJT to students.

More than half dozen nursing colleges of the region have obtained permission
letter from the Lumbini Hospital to conduct OJT and practical sessions of the
courses they are offering.

Among the technical institutions operating classes against the stipulated
standards and norms are Snajeevani Nursing College, Rambadevi Medical Sciences,
Mayadevi Technical College, Deurali Janata Technical Education Centre, Lumbini
Nursing College and Pratima Nima Health Science Bhairahawa. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


