                              148 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            June 15, 2011 Wednesday

Despite blood condition, he fights to get into Civil Services

BYLINE: Dipankar Ghose

LENGTH: 509  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


At first sight, 26-year-old Sukhsohit Singh looks like just another student with
a success story behind him. He topped the commerce stream among Kendriya
Vidyalayas in the Chandigarh region in 2002, and later attained the first
position in Masters in Public Administration at Panjab University. Then, after
studying for 15 hours a day, he achieved the 883rd rank in the UPSC
examinations.

However, what really sets Singh apart from the rest is the fact that he managed
all this while battling thalassemia major, a disease that requires him to get a
blood transfusion once in three weeks.

But what should have been an inspirational tale was cut short when Singh was
declared "medically unfit for all services" by Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital.
Recalling the day his dreams were rudely shattered, he said, "I was called on
February 9, 2011, for a medical check up at the hospital. They gave me a report,
which said I am unfit for all services. It is unconstitutional."

Singh filed an appeal with the department of Personnel and Training challenging
the verdict, after which he was called for a second medical test at the Ram
Manohar Lohia Hospital. "But I am not very hopeful of things working out. The
RML authorities said they were bound by the Government of India Gazette, and so
I don't know if anything different will happen now."

The results of the second medical test are still awaited.

Singh argues that the Government of India Gazette makes a clear distinction
between 'technical' and 'non-technical services'. Non-technical services are of
the kind that do not require physical exertion. For non-technical services, the
Government of India Gazette, Appendix III, says, "To be fit for appointment, a
candidate must be in good mental and bodily health, with no condition that is
likely to interfere with efficient performance."

"I had chosen non-technical services such as the Indian Defence Accounts Service
and the Indian Railway Accounts Service. I am fit for them," Singh said. To back
his claim, Singh had taken with him to Safdarjung Hospital a report from Dr R K
Marwaha, senior oncologist, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and
Research, Chandigarh, declaring him fit for service.

Dr Deepak Chopra, president, Thalassemics India, said, "Thalassemia patients
live absolutely normal lives as long as they get blood transfusions once in
three weeks. The decision to debar him from all services is unfair and will
prove to be a deterrent for other patients like him. The government must realise
what these children go through, and in that light, review this completely unjust
decision."

However, the boy has not lost hope yet. Such is Singh's determination to get
into the Civil Services that he gave the entrance again this year in order to
achieve a higher ranking. "Even though I achieved what I did by working through
all these problems, I still have to run from pillar to post to achieve my
dream," Singh said.

Singh, who is doing his PhD, also has an offer from the University of Kent to
pursue a Masters degree in International Relations.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2011 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


