                              144 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             April 27, 2015 Monday

Soon, for all your medical needs, avail telemedicine;
Govt has taken the opinion of isro for satellite connectivity and technical help

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 332  words


Govt has taken the opinion of isro for satellite connectivity and technical help

Gandhinagar: Seeking medical advice from an expert based in big cities may soon
come within reach of residents of rural Gujarat, as the state government is
thinking of launching a telemedicine service for the entire state, including
rural and urban areas. The biggest beneficiaries, of course, would be those who
live far away from big cities and commercial hubs.

All the primary health centres, community health centres, referral hospitals,
and government hospitals at district levels, will be connected through this
service. Medical emergency services of 108 will also be linked with the
telemedicine platform to manage trauma conditions.

Processes have already started, including the setting up of technical
infrastructure and arranging experts. "Government has taken the opinion of ISRO
for satellite connectivity and technical help. Department of science and
technology and BISAG of state government are also contributing their bit for the
telemedicine services", said a source familiar to the developments in the
direction of putting in place the technical infrastructure.

An official said, "The telemedicine service project is a long pending issue, but
now the process has been speeded up to set up infrastructure. There would be an
effort to make other well-known medical experts available for their service."

However, the government's target is to provide a service primarily run by the
government's own medical experts.

Specialist doctors, surgeons and therapists working in government hospitals will
be available online for their opinions.

After tasting success in implementing Mukhyamantri Amrutam (MA) scheme and MA
Vatsalya Yojana for economically backward families in state, the telemedicine
service seems to be on top of the government's priority list.

Government plans to interconnect all medical centres across Gujarat with experts
being available online

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


