                              145 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                            November 4, 2011 Friday

Crackdown on latecomers

BYLINE: OUR CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 396  words


Balurghat, Nov. 4: The superintendent of the Balurghat district hospital today
stopped 30-odd non-medical technical staff members from signing on the
attendance register for coming late, leading to a demonstration by the employees
for more than two hours.

However, the staff members decided to discharge their duties following protest
from the patients, although the day would be marked as a casual leave.

Hospital superintendent Buddhadeb Mandal decided to crack the whip as there were
complaints from patients that most of the 36 technical staff members reported
for duty beyond the scheduled time of 8.30am.

The technical staff members are needed for physiotherapy, eudiometry, pathology
and USG in the outpatient department and wards. Around thousand patients from
far-flung areas of South Dinajpur district visit the 300-bed hospital for
treatment every day.

When Mandal made a sudden visit to the OPD after 8.30 this morning, he found
that only five technical employees were present.

He took away the attendance register and disallowed the other employees from
signing as they started trickling in 45 minutes to one hour late.

The latecomers were taken aback by the superintendent's decision and raised
slogans against him outside his office.

"We were not aware of the timing. We should have been informed earlier. Hence,
it is wrong on the part of the superintendent to prevent us from signing the
attendance," said Prabir Das, one of the late comers.

As the employees continued with their demonstration, the patients in the OPD
felt restless.

"The patients shouted at the agitators and asked them to attend to them
immediately. Realising that the situation was going out of control, the
employees decided to take casual leave and begin their duty," said a hospital
source.

Mandal had earlier tried to bring about a semblance of proper service in the
hospital by offering prizes for doctors and other staff members who discharged
their duties without fail.

"The hospital head used money from his own pocket to reward the employees and it
seemed to have pay dividends initially. But the situation turned worse again,"
said the source.

The hospital head said some employees were making a mockery of the rules.

"How can they say they don't know their duty hours? This is absurd. This cannot
be tolerated. I didn't allow the latecomers to sign on the attendance register
today," said Mandal

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2011 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


