                              14 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            November 5, 2012 Monday

NSS project to help hospitals wins acclaim

LENGTH: 456 words

DATELINE: KOCHI


KOCHI, Nov. 5 -- The hospital maintenance project undertaken by the National
Service Scheme(NSS) - Technical Cell to create quality care for the patients at
the government hospitals has drawn attention after it won the Indira Gandhi
National Award.

The project envisages the regular repair and maintenance of hospital furniture
by the students of the NSS Technical Cell. So far, the cell has carried out the
maintenance work of 27 government hospitals across the state.

"The instances of patients suffering in general hospitals owing to lack of basic
facilities, are increasing considerably. Hence, we thought of coming up with a
project which could benefit patients who approach the government hospitals for
treatment," said Abdul Jabbar Ahmed, programme coordinator of the cell, who has
also bagged the award for the best coordinator.

NSS Technical Cell of Kerala, comprising every engineering college in the state,
bagged their first national award for its contributions in 2012. This is the
third time that the state is receiving honours from the Central government for
the contributions of the NSS units.

The technical cell officials said that the maintenance works of hospital
furniture,including repair of cots, wheelchairs, drip stands and the like, were
taken up under the programme. The maintenance work of 152 cots, several
wheelchairs and drip stands at Muvattupuzha General Hospital was completed in a
special seven-day camp.

"It is common in various hospitals to see patients forced to lie on the floor
owing to lack of facilities. Though our efforts are a tiny drop in the ocean, we
believe that our project has indeed helped many patients indirectly," he said.

Ahmed said that the cell is planning to adopt three government hospitals in the
district. "Our activities in this regard will be monitored by the Kerala State
Youth Welfare Board," he said. The cell's new website, Portal to Enhance NSS
Technical Cell Activities and Administration (PENTA), and the waste management
project were the other features that brought in the award. "The waste management
project has also received appreciation from the government. It aims at
instilling a new attitude among the people of the state towards waste
management," he said.

Besides, the technical cell has also adopted 124 villages across the state,
where they have been instrumental in bringing about major changes like the
construction of roads, Endosulfan survey, cleaning colonies and training
unemployed youth.

MGU had bagged the award in 1993 and Kerala University in 2003. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


