                              157 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times of India

                               November 22, 2005

7-cr health scam, CBI raids docs.

LENGTH: 547 words



HIGHLIGHT: Delhi


NEW DELHI: The Central Bureau of Investigation zeroed in on a Rs 7-crore scam
relating to supply of sub-standard laproscopes to government hospitals on Monday
and raided 14 places across the country, including seven in Delhi.

This followed registration of a corruption case against seven public servants,
unknown officials of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and
representatives of a private Delhi-based pharmaceutical firm.

"We registered a corruption case late yesterday and the raids were conducted
throughout today," said CBI spokesperson G Mohanty.

"In Delhi, the residential and official premises of Dr Sudha Salhan, Dr Uma Goel
and Rahul Sehgal were searched and we recovered numerous incriminating
documents," said CBI spokesperson G Mohanty.

"Raids were also conducted in Noida, Faridabad, Thiruvananthapuram, Bangalore
and Goa," he added. The raided premises in the capital are located in Vasant
Kunj, Saraswati Vihar, New Friends Colony, Barakhamba Road and Okhla Phase II.

Salhan, a medical consultant and head of department of obstetrics and
gynaecology at Safdarjung Hospital, is the wife of the medical superintendent of
the hospital, Dr R L Salhan, while Goel is a former professor and head of
department of obstetrics and gynaecology at Lady Hardinge Medical College.

Sehgal is a director with Nestor Pharmaceuticals Limited. Other persons named in
the case are officials of Hindustan Latex Limited's Thiruvananthspuram branch,
including V S Bhatt, general manager (procurement), V A Sasidharan, company
secretary and deputy general manager (finance), G Sreekumar, manager
(procurement), Alex Abraham, assistant manager (accounts), and Abraham Mathew,
bio-medical engineer.

The CBI alleged that the accused had abused their official positions in awarding
a contract to Nestor Pharmaceuticals Limited for supply of 250 single and 100
double puncture laproscopes, worth Rs 7 crore, in 2001.

The equipment was procured by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfarefor use
in government hospitals across the country. An expert bid evaluation committee
had been formed to decide on the supplier.

"There were several irregularities and inconsistencies in the basis of the
evaluation and short-listing of the lowest responsive bidder for which the
bid-evaluation committee is accountable," Mohanty said.

"It was further alleged that the technical members were changed with a view to
favour the private firm and an unsatisfactory report of another technical expert
was suppressed," he added.

According to the CBI, though the actual technical evaluation reports were
submitted in February 2001, the decision was taken in the matter much earlier
(on December 5, 2000) by the bid evaluation committee.

Both Salhan and Goel had replaced technical experts on the team before the
decision was taken. The Hindustan Latex officials had allegedly favoured Delhi -
based Nestor Pharmaceuticals in bagging the contract, in connivance with some of
the technical experts in the committee.

"Nestor Pharmaceuticals was neither a manufacturer of laproscopes, nor had the
requisite experience. The bid conditions were changed subsequently.

Consequently though the supplied laparoscopes were of substandard quality, they
were accepted and utilised in different government hospitals," Mohanty
explained.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 5126909

