                              149 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 6, 2015 Saturday

Earl L. Matthews (1928-2015): Area teacher an executive at hospital in Williams
Co.

BYLINE: Mark Zaborney, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 562 words


June 06--PEMBERVILLE -- Earl L. Matthews, who traversed northwest Ohio in his
career as a teacher and professor, then as a high school, college, university,
and hospital administrator, died Wednesday in his Pemberville home. He was 87.

He had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, his daughter Cindy Landwehr said.

Mr. Matthews and his wife, Bessie, returned to Pemberville four years ago after
an absence of more than 30 years. They lived in Bryan at his 1986 retirement
from what was then Williams County General Hospital, where he was an executive.
He had retired in 1983 as vice president for educational services at Northwest
Technical College near Archbold and was recruited by the hospital's president,
whom he knew.

"He was always learning," his daughter said. "He started out as a coal miner's
son in West Virginia and put himself through school and got a PhD at age 50. He
was proud of that -- and humble."

Mr. Matthews had already begun his hospital job when the technical division of
the Ohio Vocational Association named him vocational educator of the year in
1983.

A longtime math and science teacher, Mr. Matthews led adult and continuing
education courses through much of the 1970s at the University of Toledo, where
in 1969 he was named to direct a referral network made up of industries in 13
counties. Before that, he was a vice president of administration at what was
then called Penta County Technical College. He also taught adult students how to
teach others their trade -- and social skills.

"He was teaching car mechanics how to teach car mechanics," his daughter Cindy
Landwehr said. "He really tried to not only teach academics. It wasn't a lecture
style, but getting people involved."

Mr. Matthews started out teaching math and science at his alma mater, Grover
Hill High School in Paulding County. He later taught those subjects at Eastwood
High School.

He was born March 7, 1928, in Clarksburg, W.Va., to Clara and Edward Matthews.
He left home at age 15 to live with a half sister in Grover Hill, where he
graduated in 1946. A Navy veteran, he was an airplane mechanic stateside.

He received a bachelor's degree from Defiance College. Later, a fellowship in
nuclear studies at Oak Ridge National Laboratory led to a master's degree from
the University of Tennessee at Knoxville. He received his doctoral degree from
UT.

For much of their retirement, he and his wife divided their time between homes
in Palmetto, Fla., and on Lake Erie at Catawba Island. He had a joke or comment
-- or funny impromptu song -- for most occasions. He often began, "'Did you hear
the one about ...,' and he would just make the whole room laugh," daughter Sue
Brueggemeier said.

Surviving are his wife, Bessie, whom he married Dec. 18, 1948; son, Dr. Greg
Matthews; daughters, Sue Brueggemeier, Cindy Landwehr, and Jan Middaugh; eight
grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.

Memorial services will begin at noon today in Bethlehem Lutheran Church,
Pemberville, where the family will greet friends after 10 a.m.

Arrangements are by the Marsh Funeral Home, Pemberville.

The family suggests tributes to Bethlehem Lutheran, where he was a member, or
Hospice of Northwest Ohio.

Contact Mark Zaborney at: mzaborney@theblade.com or 419-724-6182.

___ (c)2015 The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) Visit The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) at
www.toledoblade.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150606-TO-Earl-L-Matthews-1928-2015-Area-teacher-an-executive-at-
hospital-in-Williams-Co-0606-20150606

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2015 The Blade


