                              151 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Bond Buyer

Hospital Merger Mystery
IRS Audits Move Forward With Series of TAMs

                          January 17, 2001, Wednesday

By Ola Kinnander

DATELINE: PHOENIX



The Internal Revenue Service took another step forward in its audits of bonds
related to hospital mergers last week when the agency's municipal bond
enforcement group asked the Chief Counsel's Office to resolve some technical
questions.

The announcement that the first of a handful of technical advice memorandums has
been requested on the controversial hospital acquisition issue was made late
Friday by Sunita Lough, senior tax law specialist at the IRS, at the ABA
Tax-Exempt Financing Committee's winter meeting here. Lough also said at the
meeting that the enforcement group "soon" will request advice from the national
office on how payments made by private corporations for naming rights may affect
bonds sold to finance a stadium.

Furthermore, John Cross, a partner at Hawkins, Delafield & Wood, said at the
meeting that he has launched a project to develop ideas how existing laws and
regulations can be changed to simplify the tax code's section on tax-exempt
bonds.

But it was the hospital merger issue that took up the bigger part of the
meeting. Lough said the "seven or eight" audits pending in this area have some
overlapping issues that must be resolved but also have enough differences so
that several TAMs will be requested. She said a total of "three or four"
requests for technical advice eventually will be made.

One of the TAMs, for instance, is expected to focus on MedStar Health of
Columbia, Md. The hospital system said last August it had received a letter from
Charles Anderson, the IRS' manager of tax-exempt bond field operations, stating
it would be "prudent" for the IRS to ask for technical advice before potentially
concluding that the $300 million of bonds sold in 1998 to facilitate the merger
of Medlantic Health with Helix Health are taxable.

"Now we feel it's in the hands of those who can make a determination," John
Marzano, MedStar's spokesman, said yesterday.

In all the pending cases, the IRS is examining whether bonds issued to finance a
merger should be classified as an advance refunding, rather than remaining an
outstanding issue. If the bonds are determined by the IRS to be a refunding,
they could be deemed taxable, since some of the debt has already been advance
refunded prior to the merger.

To reach a conclusion, the IRS first must answer several underlying questions.
Lough said they include: Can a 501(c)(3) membership be acquired with tax-exempt
bond proceeds? What is the value of the membership interest? Who owns the
membership interest in a 501(c)(3)? And, when a 501(c)(3) acquires a membership
interest in another tax-exempt organization, does it automatically acquire the
underlying assets?

"These are very technical questions, and when we get the answers we can probably
apply them to the facts and circumstances of other cases," Lough said.

She also said the IRS' enforcement group, led by Mark Scott, is close to
requesting a field- service advice on stadium naming rights. Some IRS officials
are interested whether the increasingly large big amounts paid by private
corporations to have a stadium named after them may trigger private business use
that violates tax law. Many bond lawyers are fervently arguing that such
payments should not pose a problem, arguing that a naming right is an intangible
asset that does not represent private business use of a physical bond-financed
asset.

On a separate matter, Lough also said the number of tax-exempt bond field agents
has recently decreased to 41 from 43 after one retired and one resigned.

Cross also announced at the meeting that he is developing a "tax simplification"
project, with assistance from other bond lawyers. Areas of tax law that he may
advocate changing include relaxing the rules for small IDB private-activity
bonds. For instance, one proposal may propose broadening the definition of
manufacturing to include industrial facilities, he said. Also, he might push for
some relaxation of the arbitrage rules, such as simplifying the two-year
spend-down exception, as well as eliminating the alternative minimum tax
preference for tax-exempt bonds.

Cross told The Bond Buyer he would like to reach out to groups such as the
National Association of Counties and the Government Finance Officers Association
for help in lobbying the IRS and Congress on these issues.

Copyright c 2001 Thomson Financial. All Rights Reserved.
http://www.bondbuyer.com

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 735 words

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo, Sunita Lough

                      Copyright 2001 The Bond Buyer, Inc.


