                              165 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             June 3, 2010 Thursday

Pakistan: National workshop on 'patients safety in hospitals' concludes

LENGTH: 423  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, June 03 -- A three-day national workshop on

improvement of 'patients safety in country's hospitals' concluded

at Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) on Wednesday.

The workshop was organized with an aim to raise awareness

and capacity building of clinicians, hospital staff and managers

in the implementation of program Patient Safety Friendly Hospital

Initiative (PSFHI).

Addressing the concluding session, speakers said that the

overall objective of PSFHI implementation in Pakistan was to

strive for accreditation with an internationally acknowledged

hospital standard and achieve the ultimate aim of patient safety,

trust and satisfaction in the health care system.

They said Patient Safety Centre in PIMS will serve to

establish its leadership role in the field of quality and safety

in health care. It is envisaged to act as a hub of PSFHI

activities in Pakistan through implementation of the standard

protocols, they added.

They said it will also serve as a training and resource

centre to improve quality and safety of care in other tertiary

and secondary health care hospitals across the country.

They said that patient safety was a WHO strategy in which

member states were urged to develop national standards for

patient safety, making use of WHO technical guiding documents.

The added member states have been asked to formulate

national patient safety programmes in collaboration with the

Regional Office and the World Alliance for Patient Safety besides

establishing mechanisms to promote partnership between regional

patient safety institutions and national health care delivery

systems.

They said Patient Safety Friendly Hospital Initiative aimed

at instigating and encouraging safe health practices in hospitals

and involves the implementation of a set of patient safety

standards in health institutions.

They said the patient safety initiative covers a wide array

of areas including leadership and management measures, patient

and public involvement measures, safe evidence based clinical

practices measures, safe environment measures and lifelong

learning measures.

They added the major steps involved in the process included

assessment of current level of patient safety in the hospitals,

provision of technical assistance for improving the level of

patient safety, follow-up assessment to demonstrate improvement

and technical assistance to develop a national safety progra Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For more information on news
feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


