                              166 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            July 26, 2017 Wednesday
                                Lucknow Edition

100 days on, KGMU VC plans yet to materialise

BYLINE: Yusra Husain

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 417 words


Vice chancellor of King George's Medical University Prof MLB Bhatt completed 100
days in office on Monday . After assuming charge, he had listed certain
decisions to improve functioning of the university and its hospitals within 100
days. However, in a reality check on Tuesday , TOI found that none of them has
materialised fully . TOI also spoke to the VC and chief medical superintendent
(CMS) Prof S N Shakhwar.

Pulling down wall between trauma centre, Shatabdi Hospital: Besides easing
movement of patients and doctors between the two buildings, bringing down the
wall would have cleared space and helped in rescue operations in the July 15
fire incident. \x93Oxygen plant is on the other side of the wall and pipeline
passes through it for supply to trauma centre and Shatabdi Hospital.The
contractor has been asked to bring down the wall but there are some technical
issues,\x93 said the VC.

Patient registration, pat

hology testing, etc to be revamped, put online: Overloaded and crumbling, KGMU's
in-house software was to be upgraded to reduce hospital load. \x93The software
is being upgraded and APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University is extending
technical support,\x93 said the VC.

Stretcher stand around new dental faculty building, between trauma centre, OPD:
Around 20 stretchers were to be provided with staff. \x93Keeping the stretcher
in open would expose them to rains so once a shed is built the stretchers will
be placed there,\x93 said the VC.

More manpower for neurosurgery, paediatrics wards of trauma centre: Both
departments were to

get three more nurses each.\x93New nurses are being recruited,\x93 said the CMS.

Retired army personnel as private security guards: Decision followed gangrape at
Shatabdi Hospital. \x93Around 18 posts have been sanctioned and there will be
new guards at trauma centre, Queen Mary hospital and Gandhi ward by next
week,\x93 said the CMS.

Guidance system for patients from far-off regions: Work has yet to begin in this
direction and patients continue to face problems on the KGMU campus. \x93There
are some points for guidance of patients but more have to be put up,\x93 said
the CMS.

One-point-system for free health services for BPL patients: It was one of the
first decisions. Administration claimed a central office is available for
patients but attendants of patients still run from faculty-in-charge to
unit-in-charge and to the PRO to avail of the benefit.\x93This happens mostly at
trauma centre but system will be streamlined soon,\x93 said the CMS.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


