                              163 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 16, 1997, Wednesday, Final Edition

Former Student Shot in D.C. High School Gym

Cheryl W. Thompson; Todd Beamon, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 632 words


A former student at McKinley Technical High School in Northeast Washington was
shot yesterday while playing basketball in the school gymnasium, apparently by a
student with whom he had had an earlier dispute, police said.

Joseph Bailey, 23, was approached shortly after 1 p.m. inside the school at
Second and T streets by someone who pulled a gun, shot him once in the arm and
fled, according to 5th District police Cmdr. Reginald Smith.

The shooting occurred while several students, faculty members and a D.C. police
officer assigned to the school were in the gym. Smith said that Bailey had been
in an argument Monday night during a neighborhood basketball game with someone
who had vowed "to get him."

Police said Dujuan Hopkins, 18, a student at McKinley, was arrested last night
in the shooting after going to the 5th District police station. They said
Hopkins, of the unit block of Q Street NE, was charged with assault with the
intent to kill while armed and would be presented in Superior Court today.

Bailey was taken to Washington Hospital Center, where he was in stable
condition, hospital officials said.

Bailey visited the school often to do volunteer work and play basketball,
according to police. Yesterday, officials said, he had gone to the principal's
office to discuss a college scholarship.

"He's not a stranger to the school," Smith said. "He's a familiar face, and the
kids know him. The principal knows him." McKinley Principal James Campbell would
not comment about the shooting.

Smith said it was unclear how the assailant, who passed through a metal detector
when he arrived yesterday morning, smuggled the gun into the school.

Security guards at the school said four guards and one D.C. police officer
oversee the safety of 897 students there.

"We've told the company [MVM Security, a private contractor] a million times
that we need more security," said one guard, who asked not to be identified.
"There's nothing we can do. This building is too big just for four people."

Phil Agner, a spokesman for MVM Security in Washington, did not return telephone
calls seeking comment.

After yesterday's shooting, students and outsiders went into the school without
being questioned by guards or school officials and bypassed the unmanned metal
detector at the front entrance.

Ralph Neal, assistant superintendent for the District's high schools, said he
was surprised to learn that the metal detectors were not being used.

"It concerns me, and I will definitely call Mr. Campbell and find out why there
was no one there minding the metal detectors and if the metal detectors work,"
Neal said.

D.C. Council member Harry Thomas Sr. (D-Ward 5) visited McKinley after the
shooting. "I want to find out how a kid can get into the schools with a gun,"
said Thomas, who was attending school budget hearings when he heard about the
shooting.

It was the latest incident in a rash of violence that has plagued the school,
which is one of 16 proposed for closure to save money and eliminate excess
space.

In November, a radio reporter who had just interviewed two McKinley students was
beaten by several youths in front of the school. A day before, two female
students were stabbed in the school.

In October, a television cameraman was roughed up by teenagers as he videotaped
paramedics carrying a stabbing victim from the school to an ambulance.

Neal called the school violence unfortunate and said officials are working to
make schools safer.

"The staff of McKinley Tech is working hard to bring about some changes there,"
Neal said. "We have to be more aware of what is taking place around us, and we
have to encourage our young people to rather than settling disputes with
violence to settle disputes through mediation."


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo, robert a. reeder, Joseph Bailey, 23, is loaded into an ambulance
after he was shot at McKinley Technical High School. He was in stable condition
at Washington Hospital Center.

                       Copyright 1997 The Washington Post


