                              16 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          December 31, 2014 Wednesday

Part Time Healthcare Customer Service-St. Francis

LENGTH: 487  words

DATELINE: Lansing


National Association of Sales Professionals has issued the following job
announcement:


Part Time Healthcare Customer Service-St. Francis
Job ID:  21668899
Position Title:  Part Time Healthcare Customer Service-St. Francis
Company Name:  Telerent Leasing Corp.
Job Function:  Customer Service
Location(s):  Indianapolis, Indiana, 46237

Posted:  December 30, 2014
Entry Level:  No
Job Type:  Part-Time
Min Education:  Associates Degree
Salary:  $11.00 - $14.00 (Hourly Wage)
APPLY FOR THIS JOB
Apply URL:  https://telerent.applicantpro.com/jobs/175811-1944...
Save Job  Email Job  Print Job
Job Description

Are you a technical, computer-oriented person? Are you able to effectively and
professionally interface with customers when trying to explain technical
information to non-technical customers? TeleHealth Services is seeking to fill a
Healthcare Customer Service position to help with hospital staff and patients to
ensure customer satisfaction with patient education systems. You will be
responsible for visiting new patients daily, explain services, coordinate
service issues, and provide support and follow-up to ensure optimum usage as
well as assist with general basic technical servicing of equipment.

The Successful Candidate will:

Have a Technical AA Degree or 4+ years of work experience in a customer service
environment with a minimum of 1 year of work experience in a technical
computer-oriented environment.
    Sound knowledge of personal computers, Microsoft Office and internet
browsers and a willingness to learn and assist with basic technical servicing of
equipment
    Train new and existing hospital staff on product benefits and usage; provide
informational reports as approved to hospital management and promote system
capabilities including underutilized features
    Maintain promotional and instructional materials in rooms or with new
patient admissions
    Replace defective equipment or coordinate repair of the patient education
system or other hospital communications devices as assigned
    Be able to move freely throughout the hospital 100% of the time -- stand,
bend, reach, stoop, carry documents and light equipment. May require occasional
lifting of 25 pounds.
    Be able to work some overtime and two or more weekend days a month required.
Additional schedule changes may be required without much advance notice.
    Able to work 16 hours per week Mondays and Tuesdays.
    Comply with all hospital protocol including all HIPPA requirements

Desired Characteristics:

Candidate must demonstrate excellent interpersonal skills efficiently and
professionally resolving complaints or problems
    Be able to interface effectively with hospital personnel at all levels as
well as patients and answer all inquiries for help
    Team Player

EEO/Minorities/Females/ Protected Vets/Disabled

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


