                              167 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Times

                            October 8, 2016 Saturday

Poor patients at CMCH suffering

SECTION: Vol. 14 No. 278

LENGTH: 334  words


All development schemes at Chandka Medical College Hospital are in crisis due to
the non-availability of engineering wing at the largest teaching hospital of
Upper Sindh.

It has been learnt that two sanctioned posts of civil engineer and electrical
engineer are still vacant since long, which has complicated the situation.

No postings on the said positions have been made yet despite repeated letters by
the hospital administration.

In this connection, CMCH Medical Superintendent Dr. Javed Ali Shaikh wrote a
letter on Friday to Health Secretary informing him about this serious situation.

He stated that previously Executive Engineer, Provincial Building Division,
Larkana, was supervising the civil works and also providing technical sanction
of the new projects of ADP and M and R.

But he has refused to do so for one year due to which almost all development
works came to a standstill including the establishment of Faryal Talpur Cardiac
Surgery Complex, stated Dr Javed.

The center has facilities of coronary angiography, cardiac catheterized
laboratory, cardiac bypass surgery, and chest surgery.

"The matter was taken up at various forums but still to be resolved", the MS
wrote, adding that due to the non-availability of engineering wing serious
technical nature issues have emerged.

He stated that Director General (Design), Building Department, Government of
Sindh, is not authenticating the estimate of the hospital and technical sanction
of the estimates are not given by competent authorities which are must.

Dr. Javed requested to the Health Secretary to approach Communication and Works
Department Secretary either to depute an executive engineer/assistant engineer
at CMCH or to authorize XEN District Building Larkana and concerned
Superintending Engineer to extend technical support and supervise civil works.

Also, he added, direct DG (Design) and Chief Engineer Building to authenticate
estimates and give technical sanction respectively to CMCH schemes in the larger
interest of poor patients.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved


