                              168 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 June 24, 2017

Indore: MPHRC asks commissioner, MY Hosp to clarify deaths

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 457  words


Indore: Taking cognisance of 11 deaths in a single day in Maharaja Yashwantrao
Hospital, allegedly due to obstruction in oxygen supply line on Thursday, Madhya
Pradesh Human Rights Commission (MPHRC) has served notices to divisional
commissioner, Indore, Sanjay Dubey and MY Hospital authorities on Friday, asking
them to give a report and clarification on the incident.

Meanwhile, dean of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College (MGM), Dr Sharad
Thora constituted two committees to probe into the allegations and also, review
the reason of 17 deaths in the hospital alone on Thursday, as claimed by the
hospital management. The committe will also inspect the supply system of oxygen
in the hospital.

"We have formed two teams to probe the matter and the teams will submit their
report in three days. One of the teams will review the oxygen supply system for
any technical snag or other problems as well as check the attendance of staff
and their duty schedule. Another team comprising HoDs of Medicine, Surgery and
Paediatric departments will review and report on the deaths of the patients on
Thursday," Dr Thora said.

The review team for oxygen supply system will be led by HoD of ENT department,
Dr RK Mudra and comprised of ADM Ajay Dev Sharma, professor in Community
Medicine Department, Dr SB Bansal, divisional pension officer, Veena Jain,
administrative officer of Mental Hospital Satish Hirve and executive engineer of
PWD, Nirmal Srivastava.

The other committee comprising HoD of Medicine department, Dr Anil Bharani, HoD
of Paediatric department, Dr Hemant Jain and HoD of Surgery, Dr Arvind
Ghanghoriya will review and report on the deaths of the patients.

On the asked about not including any technical expert in the committee, Dr Thora
said that he will add a technical expert from Sri Govindram Seksaria Institute
of Technology and Science to assist the probe team.

Superintendent of MY Hospital, Dr VS Pal said that all the deaths were normal
and on an average about 12-15 deaths take place in the hospital every day.
However, Dr Pal refuted the allegations of oxygen supply malfunction and also
denied receiving any complaint from junior doctors or staff about the snag in
oxygen supply line.

Dr Razdan suspended for viral audio confirming snag in supply line

Medical education department suspended Dr Ramghulam Razdan, reportedly for
circulating misleading and false information in the media. An audio clipping of
Dr Razdan was circulated in social media, in which he was purportedly informing
the caller about the incident, confirming the deaths took place due to
obstruction in oxygen supply line. The suspension of Dr Razdan was confirmed by
dean Dr Sharad Thora after he learnt about the viral audio from the officials in
Bhopal.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2017 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


