                              175 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                MONTACHUSETT TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                             May 25, 2005 Wednesday

Mural team adds color to Leominster hospital

BYLINE: Anna L. Griffin; STAFF REPORTER

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 462 words

DATELINE: LEOMINSTER


Alyce Sneddon, a student at the Center for Technical Education, knows something
about being a kid and being in a hospital.

Miss Sneddon said she was a multiple-organ transplant recipient when she was
younger. "I've been in a lot of hospitals. They're not pretty."

She said she spent a lot of time thinking about "things" while in one hospital
or the other. She said she often thought that if she was well enough, she would
like to do something to help young children.

"You do a lot of thinking when you're in the hospital," she said. "This seemed
like it was the perfect thing to do."

It was her personal history that led Miss Sneddon to pose the idea of forming a
team to paint murals at the local hospital to CTE graphic arts teacher Jean
Mitchell as a Youth Venture project.

"I really liked the idea," said Ms. Mitchell. "It's one of those ideas that just
pops out at you."

According to information from the organization, Youth Venture is a national
nonprofit organization founded in 1997 and based in Arlington, Va. It strives to
help young people work toward improving not only their own lives but also their
school and their community, by challenging them to create a business or
organization that will have an effect on the community. Those creating ventures
receive, in return, funding and technical assistance for their projects.

The national program was brought to the area by the United Way of North Central
Massachusetts. There are currently Youth Venture programs operating in the
Leominster and Shirley public school systems.

The students, along with teacher Jean Mitchell posed the Community Outreach
Mural Project (COMP) as a Youth Venture program. Their idea was accepted and
this past April, the 11 students working on the COMP team - along with help from
artist Sam Evangelis - started to work painting the murals in the pediatric ward
- both hallways and patient rooms - at the Leominster campus of HealthAlliance
Hospitals.

Ms. Mitchell said the paintings have been very well-received by the hospital
staff, who have invited the young people to come back and paint some more.

"The staff realizes what a positive effect this has on the children," Ms.
Mitchell said. "The comments we were getting were unbelievable. It was very
encouraging."

And the project made giving up vacation time worth it. "Everyone on the team
felt the same way," Miss Sneddon said. The students also recruited the children
on the unit to help with the murals; some of those children were working while
using wheelchairs and crutches.

Participating in a mural project at UMass Memorial - HealthAlliance Leominster
Campus are - standing, from left - Etta Lania and Tania Arseneau; front, Alyce
Sneddon, Kate Lynn Sanchez and Jean Mitchell.

ANNA L. GRIFFIN

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2005 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


