                              170 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 22, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Gold Coast Hospital Improves Patient Care & Reduces Hospital Costs with Hospital
Intranet

LENGTH: 590  words


July 22 -- US based Intranet Connections issued the following news release:

Gold Coast Hospital Emergency Department, a member of the Queensland Health, was
given a commendation at the Intranet Innovation Awards for their award-winning
intranet from Intranet Connections named "EmergencyWeb".

The hospital's intranet journey began as most do when Leo Marneros, Director of
Emergency Medical Training at Gold Coast Hospital, decided to seek out an
intranet platform that would improve collaboration and increase communication
within the hospital. Since there would be over 350 users and two locations,
Marneros knew the hospital needed that would enable non-technical administrators
to add and manage content on the site to ensure the hospital intranet would be
collaborative and communication would flow smoothly.

After evaluating a number of intranet solutions, most relying heavily on IT to
administrate, Marneros found an intranet solution that would not only speak to
the non-technical users, but also deliver on the strong collaboration and
communication components: Intranet Connections.

Marneros summarizes the decision, saying: "Intranet Connections presented a
fully-functional, simple intranet solution that was quick to implement and made
it easy for non-technical users to contribute and manage from day one." Read
more from Marneros about the innovated ways Gold Coast Hospital utilizes their
hospital intranet in the EmergencyWeb Case Study.

Gold Coast Hospital Intranet's, EmergencyWeb, quickly became a success with
Marneros leading the way as the Intranet Champion. EmergencyWeb was quickly
adopted by hospital staff, yielding significant benefits to the hospital,
including:

* Reduced Hospital Costs with Online Credentialing

* Increased Staff Engagement moving Procedural Checklists Online

* Enhanced Staff Training with Multi-Media eLearning Online

* Improved Manual Procedures with Online Intern Assessments

* Eliminated Paper-Waste with Online Communication & Collaboration

The Emergency Department of Gold Coast Hospital continues to innovate with
Intranet Connections, finding new ways to utilize their hospital intranet for
daily tasks and procedures. This includes establishing a "Home Care Team"
through their intranet to improve patient care. The "Home Care Team" is an
intranet application that secures patient information in an online form for
those that require further care after leaving the Emergency Department. For
patients who fit specific treatment criteria, their information is entered,
secured and easily accessed by hospital staff that provide care at the hospital
or in the patients' homes after release. This innovative intranet application
helps keep all staff members that interact with the patient on the same page and
has made for a smoother transition back home, overall improving patient care.

By encouraging all employees to collaborate on EmergencyWeb, Gold Coast has
built several incredible intranet applications and has saved Gold Coast Hospital
thousands in time-cost savings. A simple audit of a single application, the
Intern Evaluation & Assessment application moved online from a paper-based
format, Marneros was able to calculate a total time-cost savings of $10,000 AUD
year-over-year.

Marneros discusses the measurable impact and ongoing innovation Intranet
Connections has had on Gold Coast Hospital saying: "EmergencyWeb allows for
amazing, innovative ways to deliver training. You are only limited by your
imagination on how you want to deliver the education."

Source: Intranet Connections

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


