                              171 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Northlines (India)

                           January 16, 2014 Thursday

BJYM torches effigy of Taj, demands probe into 'GMC-Hospital Scam'

LENGTH: 573 words

DATELINE: JAMMU


JAMMU, Jan. 16 -- State unit of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha on Thursday
strongly protested against the Health and the technical Minister Taj Mohi-ud-Din
in Omar Abdullah led Congress-NC Coalition government over the 'irregularities'
and the 'rampant corruption' in Government Medical College Hospital and its
associate Hospitals in Jammu. Hundreds of BJYM activists led by its State
President Ravinder Raina, State Incharge Yudhvir Sethi and Ajay Vaid, strongly
protested against the Congress Minister Taj Mohi-ud-Din and burnt the effigy of
Minister in front of Super Specialty Hospital-Resham Ghar, Jammu. BJYM activists
raised the Anti-Congress, Anti Minister Slogans and demanded the enquiry into
GMC Hospital Scam through a Sitting Justice of the Supreme Court and Immediate
dismissal of Health and the technical Education Minister from the Cabinet.

Addressing the protesters in front of Super-specialty Hospital Ravinder Raina
said that during the period of NDA government, then Prime Minister Atal Behari
Vajpayee sanctioned an Hospital on the patterns of AIIMS in Jammu to provide
advanced Medical facilities to the patients of the State so that the poor and
the sufferers in J&K Could get the better treatment in the State having six
departments namely Cardiology, Neurology, Neuro-surgery, Cardio Vascular
Thoracic Surgery (CVTS), Nephrology and Urology but the hospital is degraded to
Super Specialty and further the Style of functioning of Congress Ministers Taj
Mohi-ud-Din has destroyed the aims and objectives of this hospital. Raina said
Health and technical education Minister Taj Mohi-ud-Din established has
established three different offices one each in Super Specialty, Government
Medical College and Chopra Nursing Home to earn the ' Motta Mall'.

He said Concerned Minister is trying to privatized the hospital under Public
Private Mode and accused that this being done for personal benefits. He said the
that this biggest institute of Jammu region has become only a reference centre
as no specialized doctors are engaged in the Super Specialty Hospital and the
raised the question over the lapse of 12 crores of rupees granted for the
hospital during last financial year and allotments made on just receiving single
tender. Addressing the protesters BJYM State incharge and Sr.BJP leader Yudhvir
Sethi said demanded a through probe into the purchasing in the GMC and other
hospital during the tenure of Taj Mohi-ud-Din and his predecessor RS Chib. Sethi
also demanded a probe into recruitment during the last one year in GMC and
associated hospitals and alleged that there was total mess in GMC and associated
hospitals.

He said that during the last one year huge purchasing has been made but there
was no transparency and accountability. He said that government has purchases a
large number of medicines worth crores and crores of rupees but poor patients
are not getting medicines. BJYM demanded the high level enquiry into the 'GMC
Hospital Scam' through a Sitting Justice of the hon'ble Supreme Court and the
immediate dismissal of Taj Mohi-ud-Din otherwise BJYM activists will come on
streets against prevailing irregularities and the rampant Corruption the GMC to
provide justice to the poor patients in the State.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Northlines. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Northlines
                              All Rights Reserved


