                              183 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                              June 25, 2010 Friday

Saints Medical bond rating takes a hit from Moody's

BYLINE: By Chris Camire, ccamire@lowellsun.com

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 566 words


LOWELL -- Saints Medical Center's bond rating was downgraded by Moody's
Investors Services this week due to its high debt load, multiyear operating
losses and dwindling cash supply.

The hospital has $51 million of outstanding bonds issued by the Massachusetts
Health & Educational Facilities Authority. The hospital's cash on hand fell to
44 days.

Moody's downgraded the hospital's credit rating to "Ba3" from "Ba2." The
hospital is highly leveraged with its cash-to-debt ratio declining to 42.4
percent with debt-to-cash flow rising to an unfavorable level of about 16 times,
said Moody's

Meanwhile, Saints is negotiating with the federal government over a civil fine
for apparently violating a doctor-referral law that could see the hospital pay a
penalty as low as $785,000 or as high as $14.5 million.

The hospital released a statement expressing disappointment that a change
occurred in the long-term rating of its bonds. The rating will not have any
immediate impact on day-to-day hospital operations, according to Saints.

"The financial data on which Moody's decision is based, and which is included in
the Moody's opinion, is not new information beyond what was reported in May in
conjunction with the release of Saints' audited financial statements," said the
hospital.

Stephen Guimond, Saints' interim CEO, and Gary Campbell, chairman of the board
of trustees, have emphasized that the civil fines the hospital may face involve
"no fraud, no abuse" but technical violations of the federal Stark Law.

The 1989 law adopted to ferret out fraud and abuse in the Medicare system
prohibits a doctor from making referrals to a health-care provider for certain
health services that are reimbursable by Medicare if that doctor has a
"financial relationship" with the health-care provider.

Saints has not been accused of wrongdoing but has -- on its own -- admitted to "
technical omissions" and "technical compliance violations" on contracts between
doctors and the hospital. The hospital said it is working with political leaders
and its legal counsel to resolve these technical compliance issues, which date
back decades.

Moody's three-page report does contain bright spots for the hospital. It notes
that Saints is pursuing a strategy to capture a larger share of the
out-migration market that currently goes to regional community hospitals.

To build referrals for this market, Saints has expanded its employed physician
base, concentrating on placing primary-care physicians in offices in areas where
it seeks to grow market share. The employed physician group has grown to 36 from
only four in 2005 and includes 14 primary-care physicians, according to Moody's.

"As always, we remain committed to providing the highest quality community
hospital care in a compassionate Catholic setting," said the hospital.

Saints is in a very competitive market with Lowell General Hospital, which
offers a similar services, according to the Moody's report. Most specialists
admit patients to both hospitals, but in recent years several physicians in
different specialties, including obstetrics, were recruited away from Saints by
Lowell General.

The report states that strategic capital spending is vital for Saints' ability
to compete with Lowell General, which is a larger hospital with more services,
having 214 beds to Saints' 108 beds. Lowell General captures 32.5 percent of the
market share to Saints' 22.2 percent.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


