                              184 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 3, 2000, Monday

CLUBBED TO DEATH IN AN ALLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 307 words


GARDAI launched a murder investigation last night following the discovery of a
man's body in an alleyway.

Michael Shannon, 34, of Connolly Villas, Ennis, was found unconscious with
serious head injuries at Lysaght's Lane, in the town's market area, at 4.10pm
yesterday.

He was taken to Ennis General Hospital but died shortly afterwards.

A hospital spokesman said Gardai were investigating reports of an assault said
to have taken place in Lysaght's Lane.

Last night the scene was being preserved by forensic scientists to allow an
examination by a team from the Garda Technical Bureau.

A post mortem is to be performed by Assistant State Pathologist Dr Maire Cassidy
at Ennis General Hospital today.

The victim, who is known to Gardai, had served several prison sentences
including one for his part in an attack on an elderly man in Ennis in the early
1990s.

While Garda were last night appealing for witnesses to the incident and were
remaining tight-lipped about the investigation, it is believed developments in
the case are imminent and could lead to a breakthrough as early as today.

Gardai in Ennis last night appealed to anyone who may have witnessed an assault
yesterday afternoon in the vicinity of Lysaght's Lane to contact them on (065)
6848100.

was being preserved by forensic scientists to allow an examination by the Garda
Technical Bureau.

A post mortem is to be performed by Assistant State Pathologist Dr Maire Cassidy
at Ennis General Hospital today.

The victim, who is known to Gardai, had served several prison sentences
including one for his part in an attack on an elderly man in Ennis in the early
1990s.

Gardai in Ennis last night appealed to anyone who may have witnessed an assault
yesterday afternoon in the vicinity of Lysaght's Lane to contact them on (065)
6848100.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.


