                              178 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             Assam Tribune (India)

                            November 29, 2015 Sunday

Training on emergency care at North Guwahati

LENGTH: 345 words

DATELINE: GUWAHATI


GUWAHATI, Nov. 29 -- In view of the mounting fatalities caused by accidental
deaths that have attained epidemic proportions in the North-east ' leading to
thousands of trauma and emergency cases ' the GNRC Hospitals, in association
with the Singapore General Hospital, conducted a three-day 'Integrated Health
Care Clinical Specialist Training' at the GNRC Medical, North Guwahati, from
November 24 to 27.

Participants aspiring to enhance life-saving skills for trauma injuries, from
nursing educational institutes and hospitals of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh,
Manipur, Meghalaya and Nagaland, attended the event to acquaint themselves with
these advanced technical skills.

The training course was on the principles of general trauma management and
focused on emergency, trauma, neurology and patient safety.

Speaking on the occasion, GNRC CMD Dr Nomal Chandra Borah thanked the Singapore
General Hospital for 'empowering and enriching the participants' with advanced
technical skills on general trauma management. He emphasised the need of pre-
hospital care to tackle the growing number of trauma cases.

Led by Prof Lim Swee Hia, trainer Glen Sim Wee Sern provided training on the
principles of general trauma management, which included airway management, ECG
interpretation, cardiopulmonary resuscitation and AED, management of traumatic
brain injury and severe head injury, conscious level monitoring, infection
control bundle, management of patients with external ventricular drain,
management of chest pain and management of arterial line and CVP. They were
assisted by Minnie Koh, assistant nurse clinician, and Cher Lim Shi'Min,
resident nurse.

Dr Unmonna Borgohain, joint director and principal of the Asian Institute of
Nursing Education, said health professionals require such training to be ready
to appropriately manage life-threatening injuries and health conditions.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Assam Tribune. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 Assam Tribune (P) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


