                              18 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Economic Times

                             July 9, 2014 Wednesday

Rail Budget: Several measures proposed for railway staff

SECTION: RAILWAYS

LENGTH: 327 words


NEW DELHI: Keeping in mind the need for welfare and skill development of railway
staff, Railway Minister DV Sadananda Gowda in his maiden Rail budget announced
several measures such as special scheme for the meritorious wards and
air-conditioning in loco cabins.

"Increase in contribution towards staff benefit fund from Rs 500 per capita to
Rs 800 per capita is proposed," Gowda said. A special scheme for the meritorious
wards of railway persons for their outstanding performance in academics and
sports for such children was also announced.

"The Hospital Management Information system will be used to integrate all health
units, Divisional hospitals and Central Hospitals as well as our empanelled
hospitals," he said. Railways is also contemplating on setting up of a Railway
University for both technical and non-technical subjects.

Gowda said that Indian Railways will tie up with technical institutions for
introducing railway oriented subject for graduation and skill development. "In
the meantime, staff at the ground level will be sent for short duration courses
of technical and non-technical nature, involving locally available technical
institutions," he said.

"The exposure for specialized areas like high-speed, heavy haul operations, etc.
will be undertaken for all level of staff and officers at appropriate institutes
in India and abroad," he added.

Stating that extending passenger friendly services is the motto of Indian
Railways, Gowda announced a slew of measures for online booking of tickets and
availability of food on trains and stations.

Gowda said, that the scope of online booking would be extended. "We will provide
ready to eat meals, ensure quality of food," Gowda said. "To improve quality &
hygienic pre cooked meals of reputed brands will be made available."

"There will be a system of collecting feedback from IVRS on quality of food.
Severe action will be taken if food is not hygienic," Gowda said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


