                              181 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           November 9, 2013 Saturday

Cidco invites tenders for setting up three hospitals through PPP

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 390  words


Belapur: In accordance with its proposal to set up three super speciality
hospitals in Kharghar, New Panvel and Ulwe, City and Industrial Development
Corporation (Cidco) has invited tenders from interested parties to undertake
development, operation and management of these hospitals under a long-term lease
agreement structured on public-private partnership principles.

The town planning body intends to select a private developer-cum-operator for
the hospitals through two bids - technical and financial.

According to a senior Cidco official, the hospitals will come up at sector 3 in
New Panvel (opposite NMMT bus depot), sector 23 in Ulwe, and sector 18 in
Kharghar.

"While the New Panvel facility will come up on an area spanning 10,000 sq metre,
the ones in Ulwe and Kharghar will come up on plots measuring 3,600 and 4,000 sq
metres, respectively," the official said.

The Request for Proposal (RFP) document containing details of the scope of
projects, eligibility criteria, bid evaluation process, draft project agreements
and detail tender programme can be downloaded from Cidco's website -
www.cidco.maharashtra.gov.in.

It can also be purchased from the office of chief health officer, seventh floor,
Cidco Bhavan, Belapur, upon the payment of Rs50,000, payable in the form of
Demand Draft  in favour of 'Cidco Limited' on all working days till November 28.

The pre-bid meeting will be held on December 3, between 2.30pm and 5.30pm while
technical bids should be submitted by December 16 between 11am and 1pm.

The opening of technical bids will be on December 17 between 3pm and 5pm while
bidders will be informed about the technical eligibility by December 23. The
date of submission of financial bids by technically eligible and willing bidders
is December 30

The official added that the purpose behind setting up these hospitals is to
provide the best healthcare to residents at affordable rates.

"There are quite a few private hospitals in Cidco-administered areas but many
residents are unable to benefit from the facilities due to high charges. To
facilitate the same, we decided to construct these hospitals so that people can
receive medical facilities at cheaper rates," the official said.

He added that while the hospital at New Panvel will have 200 beds, the ones at
Kharghar at Ulwe nodes will have 80 and 70 beds, respectively.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


