                              187 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                           December 11, 2012 Tuesday
                                   S1 Edition

Premier steps in to fix health collapse

BYLINE:  BALDWIN NDABA baldwin.ndaba@inl.co.za

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 282 words


DAMNING media reports - including patients eating rotten and infested food at
Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital and others dying at Steve Biko Academic
Hospital because of non-functioning machines - have prompted the government to
act.

Gauteng Premier Nomvula Mokonyane placed her own provincial health department
under administration yesterday, hoping that a technical task team will resolve
the ills of all Gauteng's health facilities.

However, the announcement does not affect the position of the MEC for Health,
Hope Papo, who would still remain the department's political boss. The
administrator and technical team would report to him.

Mokonyane explained that the administration would be different to the Limpopo
Health Department's situation, as there was no national government intervention
in Gauteng.

The premier said she was expecting the administrator to set up a technical team
that would focus on bringing changes to health logistics, hospital management,
human resources, financial management and communications.

She emphasised that the administrator and technical team would cease to exist
once the department's problems were over. She also emphasised that this team
would work with the acting head of department Ndoda Biyela until a new head had
been appointed.

The premier and the MEC for Finance, Mandla Nkomfe, promised to settle the
health department's outstanding debt of R883 000 by December 21.

Papo also vowed to crack the whip on staff members who are fraudulently claiming
overtime payments.

The department has also promised to improve its supply chain management, and it
accused some of its suppliers of overpricing their goods.

The DA welcomed Mokonyane's announcement.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2012 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


