                              192 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                            March 31, 2010 Wednesday

The Local Buzz, April 1

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 486 words


The Local Buzz

POMONA

Beer fest to feature

many brands, tastes

Americans consume more than 7 billion gallons of beer a year, which is why beer
ranks as the favorite alcoholic beverage in the U.S.

Fairplex wants to introduce aficionados to some new, exciting flavors via the
Sudzapalooza beer festival. More than 150 imported and micro brews will be
available on April 16 for tasting at Finish Line Sports Grill. Sponsored by
Liquorama of Upland, Sudzapalooza is a fundraiser for the Career and Technical
Education Center at Fairplex. CTEC provides career and technical education in a
hands-on learning environment.

Students are taught by both professional educators and people working in
industry on the Fairplex grounds. They learn at the work site as well as in the
classroom, building a strong foundation of work skills.

Tickets for the event are $35 per person and include specialty finger foods
prepared by a chef.

Sudzapalooza is from 6 to 9 p.m. Parking is at Gate 12.

To purchase tickets, contact Wendy Wright at Fairplex, (909)865-4207 or e-mail
wwright@fairplex.com .

PASADENA

Divorce challenges

to be discussed

Pasadena Public Library will present a seminar on "Managing the Financial
Challenges of Divorce."

Topics will include organizing your financial life, cash-flow strategies and
budgeting. There will also be a section on career development and getting back
to work. The speakers will be Carol Wilshire, first vice president at UBS, and
Nancy Heim, a financial adviser with the company. The seminar will be held from
6:30to 8 p.m. April 15 at the the library, at 285 E. Walnut St.

For more information, call Nancy Heim at 213-972-1742.

HEALTH CARE

Area hospitals receive awards

2010 Thomson Reuters announced Wednesday that Desert Valley Hospital and
Montclair Hospital Medical Center are among the winners of its prestigious Top
100 Hospitals award in the nation.

Desert Valley Hospital in Victorville is now among an elite group of hospitals
that have received this award five times in the category of small community
hospitals.

Montclair Hospital Medical Center in Montclair received the award for the first
time in the class of medium-size community hospitals.

The Thomson Reuters Top 100 Hospitals: National Benchmarks study evaluated
hospitals in 10 different performance categories: mortality, medical
complications, patient safety, average length of stay, expenses, profitability,
patient satisfaction, adherence to clinical standards of care, post discharge
mortality and readmission rates for acute myocardial infarction, heart failure,
and pneumonia.

Thomson Reuters evaluated nearly 3000 short-term, acute care, non-federal
hospitals.

The researchers used public information from Medicare cost reports, Medicare
Provider Analysis and Review (MedPAR) data, and the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services (CMS) Hospital Compare data set for core measures and patient
satisfaction.

From staff and wire reports

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


