                              189 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Hong Kong Government News

                    February 12, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Information Services Department: LCQ3: New Acute General Hospital in Kai Tak
Development Area

LENGTH: 1032  words


Hong Kong, Feb. 12 -- Following is a question by the Hon Wong Kwok-kin and a
written reply by the Secretary for Food and Health, Dr Ko Wing-man, in the
Legislative Council today (February 12):



Question:

The Government proposed in this year's Policy Address to conduct strategic
planning to prepare for the building of a new acute hospital (the new hospital)
at Kai Tak Development Area.  It has been reported that the authorities intend
to raise the plot ratio of the new hospital site so as to increase the number of
beds and to relocate all the existing healthcare services of Queen Elizabeth
Hospital (QEH) to the new hospital.  In this connection, will the Government
inform this Council:

(1) whether the strategic planning will include conducting studies and public
consultations on issues relating to relocation of the healthcare services of
QEH; if so, of the details as well as the relevant initial ideas, timetable and
estimated expenditure; when the new hospital is expected to be completed and
commissioned;

(2) of the number of beds to be provided by the new hospital, and whether that
figure is calculated on the basis of an increased plot ratio; if so, of the
details; how the number of beds in the new hospital compares with the current
number of beds provided by QEH, and whether the former will be sufficient to
meet the additional demand for healthcare services arising from future
population growth in the nearby areas;

(3) of the area of the new hospital site; whether the authorities have assessed
if the site has sufficient space for future expansion; if they have assessed, of
the results; if not, the reasons for that; and

(4) of the land use of the site currently occupied by QEH after relocation of
its healthcare services to the new hospital, and whether the site will continue
to be used for providing public healthcare services; whether the authorities
have assessed the impact of QEH ceasing to provide healthcare services at its
existing site on the demand for services of Kwong Wah Hospital, the other acute
hospital nearby; if they have assessed, of the results; if not, the reasons for
that?

Reply:

President,

To meet the healthcare service demand of the Kowloon region in the long run, we
have reserved a site in the Kai Tak Development (KTD) Area for the construction
of a new acute general hospital.  The proposed hospital will provide clinical
services of major specialties, including accident and emergency services.  The
Hospital Authority (HA) is conducting the relevant strategic planning and
studies to gauge the service needs of Kowloon and the Kai Tak area. Technical
assessment and analysis of clinical needs are also being carried out so that the
provision of medical services can suitably cope with the long-term development
of the area.  The service planning and technical feasibility study for the new
hospital are expected to be completed this year.  We will then seek funding
approval in accordance with the established procedures so as to implement the
project as soon as possible.

My reply to the various parts of the question is as follows:

(1) The HA is reviewing and assessing the overall demand for and supply of
healthcare services in Kowloon, as well as developing the clinical services plan
of the Kowloon Central Cluster (KCC).  The review and the services plan are
expected to be completed within this year.  The key aspects of the services plan
include formulating proposals for the healthcare services to be provided by the
acute general hospital in the KTD Area and mapping out the future development
directions of the existing hospitals in the KCC.   Upon completion of the
planning work, the HA will work out the timetable and estimated expenditure
involved in the development of the new hospital.

(2) At present, Queen Elizabeth Hospital (QEH) provides a total of 1 844 beds.
The HA is developing the clinical services plan for the KCC, setting out its
future development direction as well as the service capacity of and the number
of beds to be provided by the new acute general hospital in the KTD Area.  Upon
completion of the clinical services plan, the HA will start the planning for the
construction of the new hospital and conduct relevant technical feasibility
studies.

In making demand projection and defining the scale of the new acute general
hospital in Kai Tak (including the number of beds), we will take into account
the population in the KTD Area and other factors such as the pace of population
growth and ageing in Wong Tai Sin, Kowloon City and the neighbourhood areas,
cross-district utilisation of medical services, as well as the roles of various
hospitals in the district and the co-ordination of their services and
facilities. This is to ensure that the provision of medical services in the
district can suitably address the overall long-term service demand.

(3) We have reserved about seven hectares of land in the KTD Area for the
development of healthcare facilities, including the Centre of Excellence in
Paediatrics under construction and the proposed acute general hospital.  As
mentioned in the previous paragraphs, the HA is conducting strategic planning
and studies for the development of the acute general hospital in the KTD.
Subject to technical feasibility, the HA will consider development options and
the need for further expansion of the new hospital having regard to the
long-term demand for medical services.

(4) The clinical services plan of the KCC and the technical feasibility study
for the new hospital is expected to be completed in 2014.  During the planning
process, the needs of local residents will be considered, the development of
hospitals in the cluster (including QEH) and their co-ordination with other
hospitals will also be worked out according to the demand projection.

The redevelopment of the QEH is still in the preliminary planning/conceptual
stage and the Administration has yet to finalise a plan.  Nevertheless, with an
increasing demand for overall healthcare services in Hong Kong, there is a need
to provide more healthcare facilities.  Hence, we do not have plan to change the
use of the current QEH site from provision of public healthcare services to
other purposes.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


      Copyright 2014 Hong Kong Government News, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


