                              196 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Argus (South Africa)

                             August 27, 2010 Friday
                                   E1 Edition

'We'll never forget our friends';
School and community mourn 3 pupils who died in taxi-train crash

BYLINE:  NATASHA PRINCE Staff Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 416 words


PUPILS of Kasselsvlei Technical School vowed to "never forget" three of their
fellow pupils who were among nine children who died when their taxi was hit by a
train at a level crossing in Blackheath.

Pupils embraced and comforted one another during a memorial service at the
school yesterday in honour of Jason Pedro, 14, Nadine Martinissen, 16 and Jean
Pierre Willeman, 13.

"People live, people die, people laugh, people cryâ[#x20ac]¦ some say hi, some
say bye - others may forget you but never will Kasselsvlei High," was the ending
of a poem read by Moreese Snell, dedicated to the three pupils.

Others who died in the crash were Liesl August, 11, of Good Hope Primary; Cody
Erasmus, 15, of Bellville Technical; Jody Phillips, 13, of Bellville Technical;
Reece Smith, 7, of Kalkfontein Primary; Nolan Februarie, 13, of Kuilsriver
Technical High School; and Michaelin de Koker, 11, of Kalkfontein Primary.

Parents, relatives and friends of Jason, Nadine and Jean Pierre gathered in the
hall where photos of the pupils were hung on the walls and on a table, alongside
three candles that were lit for each of the |victims.

Pupils hugged, cried and consoled one another as hymns were sung.

Some relatives became so overwhelmed with emotion that they had to be escorted
out of the hall.

Kasselsvlei principal Ronald Bantom told the Cape Argus that not knowing who had
been killed until he had accompanied the parents to the mortuary on Wednesday
was a harrowing experience.

"I was not sure what to tell the staff, or the pupils," he said.

Western Cape Education Department circuit manager for the area Mapungu Qondisa,
said news of the collision had "shaken the whole country".

"This is a national tragedy and it is unbelievable to us," she said.

Police said the taxi driver had passed nine cars and swerved past a boom, trying
to rush across the tracks, when the approaching train hit |the vehicle.

The driver of the taxi was recovering in the Netcare Kuils River Hospital, said
hospital spokeswoman Karen Eagle yesterday. He was in a "very stable" condition.

He faces culpable homicide charges, as well as a charge of reckless and
negligent driving.

The health department said yesterday that one of the four patients admitted to
Tygerberg Hospital had been discharged and another patient had been transferred
to Kuils River Hospital on Wednesday night.

Two of the boys underwent surgery and were reported to be stable, while another
patient taken to Red Cross Children's Hospital was in the ICU, also in a stable
condition.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CA


                 Copyright 2010 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


