                              20 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                      IPR

                       July 8, 2014 Tuesday 8:26 AM  EST

STAFF WELFARE FUND CONTRIBUTION TO BE INCREASED, RAILWAY UNIVERSITY TO BE SET UP
FOR RAILWAY EMPLOYEES

LENGTH: 260  words


NEW DELHI, July 8 -- The government of India issued the following news release:

The Minister of Railways Shri D.V. Sadananda Gowda has announced several
measures for welfare and skill development of railway staff. Presenting the
Railway Budget 2014-15 in Parliament today, the Minister said, these measures
include:

i) Increase in contribution towards Staff Benefit Fund from Rs. 500 per capita
to Rs.800 per capita.

ii) A special scheme for the meritorious wards of Railway persons for their
outstanding performance in academics and sports for such children.

iii) The Hospital Management Information system will be used to integrate all
health units, Divisional hospitals and Central Hospitals as well as our
empanelled hospitals and

iv) To examine feasibility of providing air-conditioning in loco cabins;

He said, Railways is also contemplating on setting up of a Railway University
for both technical and non-technical subjects.

He said, Indian Railways will tie up with technical institutions for introducing
railway oriented subject for graduation and skill development. In the meantime,
staff at the ground level will be sent for short duration courses of technical
and non-technical nature, involving locally available technical institutions.
The exposure for specialized areas like high-speed, heavy haul operations, etc.
will be undertaken for all level of staff and officers at appropriate institutes
in India and abroad. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


