                              207 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  SME Channels

                              June 12, 2017 Monday

Jigme Dorji Wangchuck National Referral Hospital (JDWNRH)

LENGTH: 857 words

DATELINE: India


India, June 12 -- The National Referral Hospital Trusts Matrix Time-Attendance
and Access Control Solutions

Project Highlights:

Application: Access Control, Time-Attendance and Visitor Management

Users: 3,000

Devices: 200+

Locations: Thimphu, Bhutan (Single Location)

Industry: Healthcare

Introduction:

The Jigme Dorji Wangchuck National Referral Hospital is one of the top most
renowned institutions in Bhutan delivering Healthcare services. The hospital
caters to the population of Thimphu and neighboring districts. The hospital not
only functions as the National Referral Hospital for the entire country but also
functions as: Regional Referral Hospital for the Western District, District
Hospital for Thimphu District, Human Resources Pool and Technical Backup for
District Hospitals, Clinical Training Centre for the Royal Institute of Health
Sciences (RIHS) and Technical Support to the Public Health Programs.

Challenges:

As the hospital works round the clock, one of the major concerns was to manage
complex shifts of employees. Elevator control, where only users with access
rights can call the elevator, was another challenge the hospital wanted to meet.
Furthermore, the customer also wanted a solution, with the help of which the
admin could assign entry and exit points for patients, visitors and employees.
Lastly, the management wanted to restrict visitor entry to a pre-defined time
and rooms of the hospital for better visitor management.

Solution Offered:

Matrix pitched its Access Control, Time-Attendance and Visitor Management
Solution along with the different variants of biometric devices, which fulfills
every requirement of this renowned Hospital. Around 206 devices were installed
in the hospital, which are used in controlling access at rooms and elevators.
Devices were installed at the Main Entrance, Ward Rooms, Server Rooms, Outside
Elevators and at Ramps on every floor to restrict access. So, there is no
individual in the building who is not enrolled in the system. As the Hospital
works 24 hours, there are multiple shifts in which the employees work. Through
this, the Hospital could manage multiple shifts of employees. Approximately, 700
visitor profiles were created with constrained time to visit, limited rooms to
enter and a pre-defined route of access. Also, crowd at the elevator was
controlled by restricting the use to only users with elevator access rights.

Results:

JDWNRH fulfilled its requirement with Matrix People Mobility Solution and
achieved the following results:

Simplified Security by Restricting Un-authorized Entry

Reduced Complexity of Shifts

Crowd Controlling through Elevator Access Control

Time based and Zone based Entry Restrictions for Visitors and Patients

The Products

Product Quantity Description

COSEC VEGA FAX 47 Fingerprint and Card based Door Controller for Time-Attendance
and Access Control Application

COSEC VEGA CAX 65 Card based Door Controller for Time-Attendance and Access
Control Application

COSEC PATH DCFE 28 Fingerprint and Card based Door Controller with IP65

COSEC PATH RDCE 66 Card based Exit Reader with IP65

COSEC ENROLL CARD 1 Card Enrollment Station

COSEC ENROLL FINGER 1 Finger Enrollment Station

COSEC VEGA CPM EM PROX 112 EM Proximity Card Personality Reader Module for VEGA
Series Door Controller

COSEC CPM EM PROX 1 EM Proximity Card Personality Reader Module

COSEC CENTRA LE 1 Application Server Platform with 1,000 Users and Expandable up
to One Million Users for basic Access Control and Raw Event Data

COSEC LE TAM 1 Time-Attendance Module for COSEC CENTRA LE Users

COSEC LE ACM 1 Access Control Software Module for COSEC CENTRA LE Users

COSEC LE VMM 1 Visitor Management Module for COSEC CENTRA LE Users

COSEC USER100 5 User license for 100 users

About Matrix

Established in 1991, Matrix is a leader in Telecom and Security solutions for
modern businesses and enterprises. An innovative, technology driven and customer
focused organization, Matrix is committed to keep pace with the revolutions in
the telecom and security industries. With more than 40% of its human resources
dedicated to the development of new products, Matrix has launched cutting-edge
products like IP Video Surveillance, Access Control, Time-Attendance, Unified
Communications, IP-PBX, Universal Gateways, Convergence, VoIP Gateways and GSM
Gateways. These solutions are feature-rich, reliable and conform to the
international standards. Having global footprints in Europe, North America,
South America, Africa and Asia through an extensive network of more than 500
channel partners, Matrix ensures that the products serve the needs of its
customers faster and longer. Matrix has gained trust and admiration of customers
representing the entire spectrum of industries. Matrix has won many national and
international awards for its innovative products

For More Information:

Contact: MATRIX COMSEC

394 GIDC, Makarpura, Vadodara

+91 93744 74302

customer.care@matrixcomsec.com

https://www.MatrixAccessControl.com

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from SME Channels. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                   Copyright 2017 Accent Info Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


