                              205 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (Nigeria)

                             August 2, 2013 Friday

Pillars' coach, others in auto crash

LENGTH: 297 words


·Blame loss on Ramadan

By EMMA NJOKU

The vehicle conveying the technical crew of Kano Pillars was involved in a road
accident yesterday, less than 24 hours after the team crashed out of this year's
Federation Cup.

Media Officer of the club, Idris Mailikawa, who broke the news to Daily
SunSports said the accident occurred along Zaria-Kano Road apparently on their
way home from Wednesday's Federation Cup quarterfinal match against Warri Wolves
in Ilorin, which Pillars lost 3-0.

Although details of the accident were sketchy, Mailikawa, however, disclosed
that the technical adviser, Mohammed Baba Ganaru was among those that sustained
injuries of various degrees. As at the time of filling this report, the
casualties were said to have been taken to the Nasarawa General Hospital in
Kano, where they are receiving treatment.

"The official car of our technical crew was involved in an accident along
Zaria-Kano Road and we are on our way to Nasarawa General Hospital, Kano for
treatment to the technical adviser and other casualties" the media officer wrote
in a text to Nigeria League Menu.

However, Coach Baba Ganaru had blamed his team's ouster from the 2013 Federation
Cup on the ongoing Ramadan.

Two goals from Musa Najare and one from Oghenekaro Etebo in the first half
ensured Warri Wolves move on with a 3-0 victory, and Pillars crash out in the
quarter final game played in Ilorin on Wednesday July 31, 2013. Ganaru watched
his players as they sluggishly trail their more-lively opponent who he described
as a very good side.

When asked why the players conceded such huge defeat, Ganaru did not mince
words. "The fast affected us because we could have played better," he said.
Pillars top the Nigerian Premier League table, and will host Akwa United this
weekend in a week 23 game.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1228


                   Copyright 2013 The Sun Publishing Limited
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


