                              202 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 8, 2016 Thursday

Blast probe: 3-member panel visits hospital

SECTION: INDORE

LENGTH: 310 words


Indore : A day after the blast in air compressor at private Curewell Hospital,
district chief medical and health officer (CMHO ) sent a 3-member team
comprising Dr Mahesh Malviya, Dr G L Sodhi and Dr M C Jinwal to check the faults
that led to the incident. The committee will submit a report to the CMHO for
appropriate action into the matter. Talking to TOI, CMHO, Dr S L Porwal said,
"We have sent a team to probe the incident.

It is duty of the hospital administration to get the technical inspections done
on a regular basis. The committee will be submitting a report following which
further action will be taken."Dr Porwal said that it is the responsibility of
engineers employed by the hospital to periodically check technical aspects. When
asked whether health department conducts routine inspection to avoid any such
incident, he said, "We do look for such loopholes when registration/license is
renewed, which is done once in three years. Random inspections are also done
when required."There are nearly 200 nursing homes operating in the city and over
2000 clinics that cater to the needs of patients. While health department say it
is a responsibility of concerned hospital administration to get the technical
inspections done, the department lacks manpower to maintain a check on hospital
activities. "We do not have people to keep a check on large number of hospitals
and clinics. Also, we cannot carry inspection frequently as it raises question
on our intent," said Dr Porwal. Sources said that MP Nursing Home Act empowers
the health department to give licence/registration to run the hospital following
a series of inspections about infrastructure, staff and equipment. "CMHO is
empowered to take action against the hospital if the norms laid in the act are
not complied," a health department official said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


