                              212 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Valdosta Daily Times (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 22, 2009 Thursday

New nursing program: Associate degree in nursing now offered at Val Tech

BYLINE: Johnna Pinholster, The Valdosta Daily Times, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 554 words


Oct. 22--VALDOSTA  -- An associate degree in nursing is now available at
Valdosta Technical College.

The program enrolled its first 25 students who began class at the end of
September.

The degree was made available at Valdosta Tech through a partnership with
Southwest Georgia Technical College in Thomasville.

An open house on Wednesday introduced the medical community to the program and
its first batch of students.

Darlene Boyd, RN, MSN, a faculty member at Southwest Georgia Technical College,
said students will spend 18 months in the program.

The next class is tentatively scheduled to start in October of 2010, she said.

The program is accredited by the Georgia Board of Nursing and the National
League of Nursing Accrediting Commission.

The students will do clinicals at South Georgia Medical Center, Smith Northview
Hospital, Brooks County Hospital and Greenleaf.

"The intention is to have them stay in the community to serve," Boyd said.

The entire nation is experiencing a nursing shortage, with many hospitals,
including SGMC, having to hire traveling nurses to fill positions, she said.

Much of the equipment in the classroom was donated by hospitals. Students will
be working with IV simulators and iStan, life-size human models that function
much like a real person.

The college has two iStans, one man and a baby, that breath, cry, have a pulse
and tell patients where they feel bad, Boyd said.

"On these, students do simulations that we would not allow on a real life
patient," she said.

The class is served by a part-time instructor and full-time instructor Tamara
Bryant, RN, MSN.

Students who enter the program can take their required core courses at Valdosta
Tech and use HOPE and Pell grants to help cover the cost of the degree.

Before the program came to Valdosta Tech many students were taking their core
courses at the college then transferring to Southwest Georgia Technical College
or Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College to their associate nursing programs,
said Glenn Deibert, president of Southwest Georgia Technical College.

Student Kristin Harrington said the opportunity to be one of the first students
in the program is a great one.

"I love class. We get a good mix of lectures, videos and hands-on things as
well," Harrington said. "I'm looking forward to working with real people."

After she graduates Harrington hopes to work in psychiatric or drug
rehabilitation.

The students start clinicals in two weeks at Presbyterian Home in Quitman and
then head to SGMC in January, Bryant said.

To be an applicant for the program students must have an overall grade point
average of 2.5 and four core courses  -- two in biology, one in English and one
in math.

Prospective students must also pass a pre-admission test that costs $40.

For more information on the Valdosta Associate Degree Nursing program, contact
Southwest Georgia Technical College at (229) 227-2980 or (229) 225-5280.

To see more of The Valdosta Daily Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.valdostadailytimes.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Valdosta Daily
Times, Ga. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20091022-VD-New-nursing-program-1022

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VD


                                 Copyright 2009


