                              217 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            January 23, 2015 Friday

Fresh glitch crashes hospital lab s IT system

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 327 words


The latest fault in the system   which was crippled for several weeks last
August   occurred on Wednesday morning and brought the system down for most of
the day. IT staff responded immediately and managed to fully restore the system
by the evening.

But while the system was down, laboratory staff had to report results manually
and urgent tests were processed before those classed as routine or non urgent.

CUH management apologised to service users for any delays experienced,  the HSE
said last night.  Hospital management also extended their thanks to staff and
all parties who worked to urgently resolve the issue and restore the system.

The centralised computer system supports services at CUH, Kerry General, Mallow
General, Bantry General, and the Mercy Hospital s blood transfusion lab.

Last August the IT system was hit by a major technical fault which lasted
several weeks, forcing lab staff to process tests manually and work extra hours
to cope with the backlog.

The problems persisted until mid-September when it emerged CUH management had
been warned about the system s shortcomings two years earlier.

The HSE insisted last night however, that there have been no technical issues
since those experienced in September.

A spokesperson said additional monitoring was put in place at the time which has
worked well, and which helped identify Wednesday s technical issues at the
earliest opportunity .

The issue was identified by the additional monitoring arrangements in place in
CUH and the hospital s ICT department worked with the system supplier to restore
the system as quickly as possible. The system was fully restored by evening,
she said.

Contingency arrangements were put in place to continue to provide the required
essential diagnostic services to the hospital departments, GPs, and other
community services, all of whom were informed of the technical issues.

It is understood that the HSE has given approval to invest  400,000 in the
system.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


