                              208 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                            October 8, 2016 Saturday

Poor patients at CMCH suffering

LENGTH: 368  words

DATELINE: LARKANA


LARKANA, Oct. 8 -- All development schemes at Chandka Medical College Hospital
are in crisis due to the non-availability of engineering wing at the largest
teaching hospital of Upper Sindh.

It has been learnt that two sanctioned posts of civil engineer and electrical
engineer are still vacant since long, which has complicated the situation.

No postings on the said positions have been made yet despite repeated letters by
the hospital administration.

In this connection, CMCH Medical Superintendent Dr. Javed Ali Shaikh wrote a
letter on Friday to Health Secretary informing him about this serious situation.

He stated that previously Executive Engineer, Provincial Building Division,
Larkana, was supervising the civil works and also providing technical sanction
of the new projects of ADP and M&R.

But he has refused to do so for one year due to which almost all development
works came to a standstill including the establishment of Faryal Talpur Cardiac
Surgery Complex, stated Dr Javed.

The center has facilities of coronary angiography, cardiac catheterized
laboratory, cardiac bypass surgery, and chest surgery.

"The matter was taken up at various forums but still to be resolved", the MS
wrote, adding that due to the non-availability of engineering wing serious
technical nature issues have emerged.

He stated that Director General (Design), Building Department, Government of
Sindh, is not authenticating the estimate of the hospital and technical sanction
of the estimates are not given by competent authorities which are must.

Dr. Javed requested to the Health Secretary to approach Communication & Works
Department Secretary either to depute an executive engineer/assistant engineer
at CMCH or to authorize XEN District Building Larkana and concerned
Superintending Engineer to extend technical support and supervise

civil works.

Also, he added, direct DG (Design) & Chief Engineer Building to authenticate
estimates and give technical sanction respectively to CMCH schemes in the larger
interest of poor patients.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


