                              213 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                               December 24, 2003

25 operations delayed due to power cut at Dublin hospital

BYLINE: By EITHNE DONNELLAN

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 311 words


A cancer patient who was about to undergo surgery at a Dublin hospital this week
had his operation put off for another two weeks after a power cut resulted in a
number of operations having to be rescheduled.

A relative said that the patient, who was only recently diagnosed, was all
"psyched up" for the surgery and is upset at the prospect of having to wait
another fortnight for his operation. He is also concerned about the clinical
consequences of the delay, the relative said.

A spokesman for St James's Hospital said 25 operations had to be rescheduled as
a result of technical difficulties which arose following a power cut at the
hospital on Monday. He stressed that any emergencies scheduled for the day were
carried out late on Monday evening as theatres stayed open for longer than
usual.

Furthermore, he said 14 patients' operations were rescheduled for yesterday.

He added that while the hospital could not comment on individual cases it
appreciated the patient's concerns in this case and was itself concerned that
anyone's operation had to be rescheduled.

The technical problems at the hospital occurred after electricity supplies were
restored and one of the internal electrical breakers failed to reset. This
internal fault disrupted services even though the hospital has its own
generator. A statement from the hospital said: "This caused a power outage to
one of the main patient service areas of the hospital for periods ranging from
one to three hours. The outage disrupted hospital services primarily in
theatres, radiology and cardiology.

"Arrangements are being made to address any consequential backlogs as speedily
as possible. There were no adverse patient clinical occurrences associated with
the outage".

It added the technical difficulties which occurred would be investigated to
ensure they did not happen again.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2003 The Irish Times


