                              216 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Skills certs for house keepers

                                November 4, 1999


HOUSEKEEPERS cleaning hospitals can now earn a Certificate of Competency (COC)
-a basic qualification they need to move up the skills ladder.

The certificate, issued by cleaning contractor UMC ServiceMaster after clearing
a new three-month course, will help open the door for housekeepers to sign up
for other training courses to upgrade their skills.

The qualification, which will be recognised by the Institute of Technical
Education (ITE), will lead to several benefits, said the firm's general manager
Lee Chin Thai yesterday.

These include enhancement of market value, making it easier for them to get new
jobs, promotion with current employers and greater earnings as team leaders.
Many housekeepers are women in their 40s with only primary education, he said.

The course was launched last month with 15 employees of the KK Women's and
Children's Hospital, Mount Alvernia, Changi and Singapore General hospitals
being trained at KK hospital.

Trainees are taught, among other things, how to clean carpets in hospital rooms
and provide services to patients.

UMC ServiceMaster is the first firm authorised by ITE to conduct COC training in
housekeeping operations in the health-care industry.

The Senior Minister of State for Education, Dr Aline Wong, who was
guest-of-honour at a ceremony marking the firm's status as the approved training
centre yesterday, described the award to the company as an example of the
tripartite partnership between the ITE, a restructured hospital and a public
company.

She said: "I hope to see more organisations in the health-care industry work
towards providing better services in other aspects of the industry as well.

"We cannot underestimate the importance of the need for Singapore to develop a
world-class health-care industry, as manpower remains an important economic
resource in our context, and the contribution of older workers becomes more
crucial to Singapore."

SECTION: Home; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 323 words

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1999 The Straits Times Press Limited


