                              214 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Sun (Lowell, Massachusetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 25, 2010 Friday

Saints Medical bond rating takes a hit from Moody's

BYLINE: Chris Camire, The Sun, Lowell, Mass.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 642 words


June 25--LOWELL -- Saints Medical Center's bond rating was downgraded by Moody's
Investors Services this week due to its high debt load, multiyear operating
losses and dwindling cash supply. The hospital has $51 million of outstanding
bonds issued by the Massachusetts Health & Educational Facilities Authority. The
hospital's cash on hand fell to 44 days. Moody's downgraded the hospital's
credit rating to "Ba3" from "Ba2." The hospital is highly leveraged with its
cash-to-debt ratio declining to 42.4 percent with debt-to-cash flow rising to an
unfavorable level of about 16 times, said Moody's Meanwhile, Saints is
negotiating with the federal government over a civil fine for apparently
violating a doctor-referral law that could see the hospital pay a penalty as low
as $785,000 or as high as $14.5 million.

The hospital released a statement expressing disappointment that a change
occurred in the long-term rating of its bonds. The rating will not have any
immediate impact on day-to-day hospital operations, according to Saints. "The
financial data on which Moody's decision is based, and which is included in the
Moody's opinion, is not new information beyond what was reported in May in
conjunction with the release of Saints' audited financial statements," said the
hospital. Stephen Guimond, Saints' interim CEO, and Gary Campbell, chairman of
the board of trustees, have emphasized that the civil fines the hospital may
face involve "no fraud, no abuse" but technical violations of the federal Stark
Law. The 1989 law adopted to ferret out fraud and abuse in the Medicare system
prohibits a doctor from making referrals to a health-care provider for certain
health services that are reimbursable by Medicare if that doctor has a
"financial relationship" with the health-care provider. Saints has not been
accused of wrongdoing but has -- on its own -- admitted to "technical omissions"
and "technical compliance violations" on contracts between doctors and the
hospital. The hospital said it is working with political leaders and its legal
counsel to resolve these technical compliance issues, which date back decades.
Moody's three-page report does contain bright spots for the hospital. It notes
that Saints is pursuing a strategy to capture a larger share of the
out-migration market that currently goes to regional community hospitals. To
build referrals for this market, Saints has expanded its employed physician
base, concentrating on placing primary-care physicians in offices in areas where
it seeks to grow market share. The employed physician group has grown to 36 from
only four in 2005 and includes 14 primary-care physicians, according to Moody's.
"As always, we remain committed to providing the highest quality community
hospital care in a compassionate Catholic setting," said the hospital. Saints is
in a very competitive market with Lowell General Hospital, which offers a
similar services, according to the Moody's report. Most specialists admit
patients to both hospitals, but in recent years several physicians in different
specialties, including obstetrics, were recruited away from Saints by Lowell
General. The report states that strategic capital spending is vital for Saints'
ability to compete with Lowell General, which is a larger hospital with more
services, having 214 beds to Saints' 108 beds. Lowell General captures 32.5
percent of the market share to Saints' 22.2 percent.

To see more of The Sun, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.lowellsun.com. Copyright (c) 2010, The Sun, Lowell, Mass. Distributed
by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information about the
content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit
www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or call
866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100625-LZ-Saints-Medical-bond-rating-takes-a-hit-from-Moody-s-20100625

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LZ


                             Copyright 2010 The Sun


