                              224 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                 April 9, 2002

Hospital moves into future .

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 299 words



PRINCESS Margaret Hospital in Swindon will move its entire operation two miles
east, to the Commonhead site of the new Great Western Hospital in 32 weeks.


Les Meaton, who is overseeing the project, has been drafted in as commissioning
co-ordinator of Swindon and Marlborough NHS Trust's redevelopment team.


He heads a team that has spent months putting together a timetable for the move.


He is working alongside Sheila Moakes, commissioning manager for United Medical
Services, a private company brought in to help facilitate the move.


He said: "Everything has to be worked out in the finest detail.


"You have to almost play devil's advocate to identify potential problems that
might arise," he said.


The move has been broken down into two main areas, technical and operational.


Under the technical heading are issues relating to ensuring the new hospital
building is up and running by November 5.


This includes making sure that every aspect of the new building complies with
building regulations, such as checking water and electricity supplies as well as
all medical gases fitted to every one of the hospital's beds.


Every test has to be witnessed by at least one other person before it can be
checked off the list.


The second stage of the technical commissioning process involves testing all the
large pieces of medical equipment, from scanners to computer networks.


Running alongside this are the preparations for the operational commissioning of
the hospital.


The new GBP 132 million Great Western Hospital at Commonhead will take 464
inpatient beds and 87-day case beds.


It will have 19 per cent more clinical floor space than Princess Margaret
Hospital and will be supported by a 60-bed rehabilitation unit.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited


