                              222 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                              July 10, 2015 Friday
                                  Main Edition

BEST IN CLASS;
Sutton squad triumphs

BYLINE: For the AJC

SECTION: METRO NEWS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 499 words


* A team from Atlanta's Sutton Middle School won the Junior National Academic
Championship in New Orleans sponsored by Questions Unlimited, defeating Jackson
Prep from Mississippi 420-405, in the first double-400 game in the eight-year
history of the competition.

* Jaquilla Reynolds, a seventh-grader from Atlanta, was honored for her artwork
supporting Georgia's manufacturing industry. Reynolds, who was nominated by
Atlanta Technical College, took third place in her division (grades 6-8) of the
2015 Manufacturing Appreciation Week (MAW) student design contest. She received
a $100 scholarship at the MAW Governor's Awards Luncheon at the Georgia
International Convention Center.

* The Greater North Fulton Chamber of Commerce has awarded North Fulton Hospital
the 2015 Partnership in Education Award in recognition of the hospital's
partnership with Gwinnett Technical College. Gwinnett Tech's partnership with
North Fulton Hospital began five years ago, with the hospital serving as a
clinical site for students in Gwinnett Tech's programs in radiologic technology,
computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, diagnostic medical sonography,
echocardiography, and cardiac catheterization. "Clinical rotations are an
integral part of our students' education and allow them to learn from and work
side by side with experienced health care professionals. Many of these
professionals take on a mentorship role for the students, which helps guide them
into very successful health care careers," said Jim Sass, dean of health imaging
and informatics.

* A poster by students at South Hall Middle School in Flowery Branch recently
won an automated external defibrillator package in a nationwide contest
sponsored by a nonprofit called Project ADAM and HeartSine Technologies. It was
one of 11 schools across the country that won the defibrillator and CPR and AED
training for up to 12 people. The student posters had to be about the symptoms
of, preparing for or surviving sudden cardiac arrest.

* The Atlanta Technical College (ATC) team of Cory Way and Michael Harris placed
second in the digital cinema production competition at the National SkillsUSA
Championships in Louisville, Ky., June 24---25. The competition was part of the
SkillsUSA 51st annual National Leadership and Skills Conference, a showcase of
career and technical education students' skills. More than 6,000 contest winners
from different states competed in 100 trade, technical and leadership fields.
Way and Harris represented Georgia in the highly specialized digital cinema
production competition against 22 other state-champion teams.

Connect to the AJC's education notebook

Did your student or academic team win a state, regional or national competition,
award or a major scholarship? Are you a teacher or administrator with an
innovative classroom idea? Is your organization offering scholarships? Send
information to ednotes@ajc.com

Go to AJC.com/s/neighborhoods for coverage devoted to where you live, seven days
a week.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2015 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


