                              226 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                         TendersInfo - Project Notices

                            December 8, 2015 Tuesday

ICT Technical Cooperation Project (St. Kitts and Nevis)

LENGTH: 593  words


Region: Caribbean
Implementation Start Date: 2013/1/1
Implementation End Date: 2017/12/31
Approval Amount: USD1,500,000
Source of Funding: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Republic of China (Taiwan)


Project Description: Joseph N. France General Hospital (JNF Hospital) is St.
Kitts and Nevis main medical institution. At present, however, most of the
hospitals operating procedures involve manual processes, which are inefficient
and can result in inaccuracies; the only operations done electronically are
outpatient registration and the settling of accounts balance. Through this
project, authorities in St. Kitts and Nevis hope to introduce Taiwans abundant
technology and experience of providing ICT-based health care services to all
public institutions, thereby promoting the digitization and workflow automation
of medical management.
Project appraisal found that the main challenge faced in maintaining or raising
service quality at public hospitals is a lack of rigorous operating procedures
and of a systematic approach toward management, resulting in the ineffective use
of health care resources, and affecting the quality of medical services in turn.
The proportion of manual processes being carried out at the hospital is too
high, increasing the opportunity for errors to arise, and posing serious medical
risks.
In assisting St. Kitts and Nevis to improve the overall quality of health care
at public hospitals, the main components of this project will include: (1)
assisting in reforming procedures at the hospital, introducing Taiwans
experience of medical management; (2) building information systems for a range
of medical services and introducing standard operating processes; and (3)
improving the systems management, maintenance and operational capacity of
technicians sufficient to manage medical management information systems
independently.
Specific project work components will include: (1) analyzing the current status
of hospital operations and conducting business process analysis to provide
diagnostic reports and define gaps in processes, assisting in the integration of
processes by and between each hospital department; (2) building information
systems for a range of medical services, including patient registration,
consultations, accounts, pharmacy operations, storeroom operations, medical
histories, examinations, X-rays, blood bank operations and the management of
pharmaceutical inventories; and (3) training for three system maintenance
personnel so as to support the independent operation of the hospital information
system and eliminate technical obstacles.

Project Objectives: Assist St. Kitts and Nevis authorities in conducting
business process analysis and re-engineering in public hospitals, making overall
improvements to operations, introducing a fully functional hospital information
system and improving overall efficiency, thus enhancing the standard of hospital
services and meeting targets for public satisfaction.
Executing Agency
Project completion date : 2017-12-31 12:00:00
Major organization : INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT FUND

Address : Technical Cooperation
12-15F, No. 9, Lane 62,


Tien Mou West Rd.,


Taipei 11157,


Taiwan.

Country :Taiwan, Province of China
Email : t.c.yang@icdf.org.tw

Financier : International Cooperation and Development Fund (ICDF),

Financier address : INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT FUND (ICDF)
Technical Cooperation
12-15F, No. 9, Lane 62,


Tien Mou West Rd.,


Taipei 11157,


Taiwan.
02-28732323 ext.217
c.y.chen@icdf.org.tw
http://www.icdf.org .tw/

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: 811


                          Copyright 2015 Tenders Info
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


