                              219 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Ledger (Lakeland, Florida)

                             May 14, 2002, Tuesday

HOSPITALS TRAVEL TO FIND NURSES

BYLINE: ROBIN WILLIAMS ADAMS The Ledger

SECTION: Life; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 944 words


Hospital officials appreciate Florida lawmakers' effort to help with the nursing
shortage, but they aren't sitting back and waiting for new laws to give them the
employees they need.

They're doing their own recruiting from a variety of sources -- as close as the
nearest middle school and as far away as the Philippines.

Winter Haven Hospital's nursing administrators are awaiting the arrival of 40
nurses that two of them traveled to Manila to interview.

These are nurses with four-year degrees who speak and understand English well,
says Susie Hart, divisional director of Regency Medical Center. They could work
at Regency, Winter Haven Hospital or Lake Wales Medical Centers.

Before being allowed to practice in the United States, she says, they will need
to pass a nursing competency exam required for people trained in foreign
countries to practice here.

Another seven are lined up as alternates, so the number could grow to 47, she
says.

Winter Haven Hospital found these nurses through Nurses to USA, a company
hospital workers heard about from Shands Hospital at the University of Florida
in Gainesville, which Hart says has recruited nurses in the same country.

"Nursing jobs there are scarce," Hart says. "There are waiting lines, because
they have so many nurses. It's just the opposite of what we have here."

Florida hospitals report an almost 16 percent vacancy rate for registered
nurses, the Florida Hospital Association says.

Lakeland Regional Medical Center recruits 20 percent to 30 percent of its nurses
from out of state, says Phyllis Watson, vice president and chief nurse
executive. The hospital also hired a number of nurses from Canada two or three
years ago, about half of whom stayed.

Much of its focus now, however, is on cultivating a greater supply of future
nurses closer to home. That includes a major emphasis on middle-school and
high-school students.

Working with the public school system, Lakeland Regional is sponsoring a
licensed practical nurse program for Lakeland High School. The first one from
LHS graduates this year, Watson says.

LHS students will take their licensed practical nurse classes at Traviss
Technical Center now, but hospital nurses hope ultimately there will be enough
interest to teach a class at the high school

A program to let students shadow health professionals throughout the academic
year was finalized this year, Watson says.

"We need to be recruiting our own people into health care," Watson says, adding
that middle school is the ideal time to interest students in health careers.

The success of these programs and others to persuade more people to become
nurses will determine the quality of care that patients receive in the future,
as many of today's nurses retire.

Polk Community College, hospitals, the school system and others are involved in
a Nursing and Allied Health Advisory Council to address what local health
providers need.

A subcommittee is working to better coordinate activities, such as school
visits, career days, scholarships, visits to PCC and overall marketing of
nursing and other health jobs.

"These activities, at least to some degree, have been going on for a long time,"
says Sharon Davis, the registered nurse who directs PCC's nursing program.

"The difference now will be that they will be coordinated, expanded, done better
and hopefully with more impact."

Billboards, countywide radio messages and pamphlets on health careers are some
of the unified approaches being considered, says Nat West, a Winter Haven
Hospital vice president, who heads the subcommittee.

In addition to schools, he says, hospitals and medical groups may recruit at
Boys Clubs and Girls Clubs, through church groups and through service groups,
such as Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts.

Registered nurses aren't the only health speciality in short supply at
hospitals, nursing homes and other health facilities.

More licensed practical nurses are needed. So are certified nursing assistants,
particularly in nursing homes, which are under a state mandate to increase the
time employees spend doing patient care.

There are some hopeful signs that more people are considering health-related
fields.

Enrollment in PCC's two-year registered nursing program is increasing. About 50
enrolled in the January class, compared to 40 in the August 2001 class, Davis
says. She said she hopes the number will reach 55 or 60 this August.

Davis says she also hopes PCC will be able to hire a recruiter again to promote
nursing full-time.

Traviss Technical Center's LPN class, which starts in August, is full. Ridge
Technical Center will apply for state approval to start an LPN class there,
making the training available on both sides of Polk County, says Lisa Harden,
the Polk school system's director of career, technical and adult education.

Interest also is strong for the technical centers' other programs, she says.

Traviss trains students to become certified nursing assistants, phlebotomists,
health unit coordinators, dental assistants, optometry assistants and massage
therapists. Ridge trains people to be certified nursing assistants, massage
therapists and patient care technicians, a category that includes CNA,
phlebotomy and electrocardiogram aide. Students can take individual parts of the
patient care technician program, Harden says.

In another move that might make nurses' training more accessible, the community
college and technical centers are discussing ways to make training hours more
flexible.

Robin Williams Adams covers health care for The Ledger. She can be reached at
863-802-7558 or robinwadams99@yahoo.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

             Copyright 2002 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation


