                              225 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                          September 21, 2016 Wednesday

Much-needed overhaul: Four hospitals across Punjab to be renovated

LENGTH: 354  words


At least four hospitals across the province are being revamped by the Punjab
government through technical support received from WHO.

The facilities are Jinnah Hospital Lahore, Allied Hospital Faisalabad, Benazir
Bhutto Hospital Rawalpindi and Children Hospital Multan.

Specialised Healthcare and Medical Education Secretary Najam Ahmed Shah said
this while addressing a WHO delegation at his office on Tuesday.

"The main objective of this initiative is to resolve the administrative issues,
rectify deficiencies of infrastructure and improve cleanliness," he added

According to Shah, healthcare service delivery at teaching hospitals will be
improved and quality healthcare facilities would be provided to patients.

"[This is only possible] if gaps in medicine supply and storage system are
removed, a dynamic system for outdoor and emergency patients is developed and a
referral system is introduced for patients," he added.

Shah said the government is welcoming the technical cooperation of international
experts from WHO to revamp the tertiary care hospitals in Punjab.

According to Shah, the decision to revamp tertiary care hospitals and primary
and secondary hospitals has been carried out to minimise workload at teaching
hospitals, address difficulties faced by patients and improve performance and
efficiency at public sector hospitals.

"It would also stop the flow of patients towards tertiary care hospitals as
quality health services would be available at DHQ hospitals," he added.

Shah said the differentiation between OPD and emergency patients is also
essential.

"[This will help hospitals] pay proper attention [to them] and offer health care
to patients who are in critical condition," he said. "It is widely observed that
beds in emergency wards are often filled by patients who are suffering from
minor diseases."

Shah said referral system is being introduced for this purpose to reduce the
workload of tertiary hospitals by 30% or more.

"WHO experts would visit hospitals," he said. "They will submit their technical
recommendations to the secretary within a week after completion of their visit,"
the secretary added.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


