                              218 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                            August 7, 2014 Thursday

ACE probes use of low quality material in Naurang hospital

SECTION: Vol. LXVII No. 216

LENGTH: 364  words


The Anti-Corruption Establishment (ACE) has launched probe into alleged use of
substandard construction material in the building of tehsil headquarters
hospital, Naurang.

A team of ACE paid a surprise visit to the hospital on Wednesday to check the
material used in its building. The probe was ordered by ACE provincial director
Ziaullah Toru, who had received complaints about the use of substandard material
in the hospital's building.

The ACE team, led by its technical officer in Peshawar Attique Farooq and Lakki
circle officer Shahid Adnan, inspected different portions of the hospital and
checked quality of work.

The team noticed that several portions of the building had developed cracks
while the doors and windows were made of low quality wood. It also checked the
material used in the foundation of the building and sanitary work carried out in
the hospital.

Mr Adnan told this correspondent by telephone that they visited the hospital
thoroughly for the second time during the last one and half month. He said that
ACE technical staff would assess losses inflicted on national exchequer owing to
use of substandard material in the hospital's building.

"In the light of the report of technical staff, ACE will initiate action against
the contractors and officials concerned of communication and works department as
per the law," he said.

TRANSFER: District Police Officer Ismail Kharak on Wednesday reshuffled eight
subordinate officers, including two SHOs, and removed two assistant
sub-inspectors (ASIs) for poor performance.

According to a notification, Lakki SHO Inspector Zafrullah Khan was transferred
and posted as Shaheed Haibat Ali Khan police station SHO. His predecessor SI Gul
Mohammad was posted as SHO of Lakki police station.

Likewise, additional SHO of Tajori Ghulam Mohammad and line officer ASI Ajmal
Khan were made heads of Shahbazkhel and Wanda Banochi posts respectively.

ASI Abdul Hakim, who was serving as naib court in district courts, was
transferred and posted at Shaheed Haibat Ali Khan police station.

Two ASIs including chief of Serai Gambila police post Farman Khan and head of
judicial complex post Habibur Rehman were directed to report to police lines.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2014 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


