                              228 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             August 28, 2016 Sunday

Unqualified people working on JPMC technical posts

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 239

LENGTH: 374  words


The administration of Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Center (JPMC) has made a
nursing attendant in-charge of Main Kitchen on the post of dietician while
several other non-technical people are working on the technical posts in
institution. An official of JPMC told PPI that the hospital administration has
made a non-qualified employee as in-charge of Main Kitchen on the post
dietician. He said although qualified dieticians are available in the hospital
to run its kitchen in a better way but the management has appointed a nursing
attendant as the head of hospital kitchen. He said main responsibilities of a
dietician in public sector hospital are to make diet plan for malnutrition-hit
children, diabetic patients and other patients suffering from various diseases
but unfortunately a non-qualified person has been made in-charge of Kitchen.
Similarly, a leaser technician is working as the head of Operation Theater at
Ophthalmology Department while a dresser of Ward-16 is working as the Personal
Assistant (PA) of the head of department. He said interestingly, a sweeper of
Neurosurgery Department is working as an OT attendant in Neuro Operation
Theater. He said hospital administration is openly violating the rule of merit
and appointing favorite persons on key post despite the fact that qualified
people are present.

He said favoritism is on the peak in the healthcare as incumbent administration
has promoted seven senior medical officers of Grade- 17 to Grade-18 as deputy
directors without getting approval from authorities concerned of health
department of Sindh. Focal Person, JPMC, Dr Jawaid Akhtar Jamali, while talking
to PPI, said due to shortage of qualified people, non-qualified employees are
posted on some technical posts. He said about 900 posts are lying vacant
including professors, doctors, paramedical staff, nurses, pharmacists, nursing
attendants, sweepers and other administrative staff, which has badly affected
the smooth functioning of this major government-run healthcare facility. He said
the management is facing difficulties to run hospital due to the vacant posts.
He informed administration has assigned different responsibilities to some
educated sweepers or nursing attendants on purely temporary basis.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


