                              232 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Burton Mail

                          September 17, 2015 Thursday

Excitement over new link-up with technical college

BYLINE: By Andrew Musgrove; andrew.musgrove@burtonmail.co.uk; @ADMusgrove; 01283
245025

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 16-17

LENGTH: 291  words


HOSPITAL chiefs have hailed a new technical college as 'ground breaking' and
revealed their  excitement over what it could mean for future employment.

Bosses from Derby Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust revealed that it will
be one of several employers sponsoring the new Burton and South Derbyshire
University Technical College (UTC),  which is based in Waterloo Street, Burton.

In a report by Neil Pease, director of workforce management, he  announced that
the trust would be involved in 'curriculum development' and that he was pleased
with the 'clear focus' at the site that was based on securing a workforce for
the trust in the future.

He said: "It is clear that significant work has taken place over the summer,
both in terms of operational input as well and longer-term development work, all
with a clear focus on ensuring that we have a representative, skilled and safe
workforce for the immediate and longer term future of Derby Teaching Hospitals
NHS Foundation Trust.

"The development of more formal focused partnerships with Derby College as well
as the Burton UTC will help us to ensure that we have a consistent supply of
staff with the skills we need, in the future.

"It is, however, to be noted that we must now focus on more immediate solutions
to the gaps in our existing workforce and the next report in October 2015, will
focus on workforce supply."

The new technical college, which  is based in new facilities next to Burton Town
Hall, in King Edward Place, was due to open later this month but it has been put
back 12 months due to a lack of students.

It will cater for students aged 14 to 19 who wish to study subjects such as
science, technology, engineering and mathematics.

Janak Patel will be principal of the college.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JANAK Patel is set to be principal of Burton and South Derbyshire UTC.
Tour of the new college facilities that are being constructed in and around the
old Burton Town Hall annexe.
Janak Patel - Principle UTC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


