                              234 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 4, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

How Queen's check-up became a royal BBC cock-up

BYLINE: Valentine Low

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 652 words


The BBC apologised yesterday after sparking internet rumours that the Queen was
dead. The rumours were started by a tweet from one of its journalists saying
that the Queen was being treated in hospital.

The corporation's embarrassment was compounded when initially it denied -
wrongly - that the journalist had sent out a tweet saying the Queen was dead.

However, the journalist responsible did send out a tweet saying: "Queen
Elizabeth has died."

It was deleted so swiftly that few people picked it up. The tweets were prompted
by a technical rehearsal for the broadcaster's future coverage of the Queen's
death.

In an apparent coincidence that compounded the embarrassment at the BBC, it
emerged soon afterwards that the Queen really had been in hospital for a routine
check-up.

"It is deeply weird," a BBC insider said. "It is like an episode of W1A."

The messages were posted on Twit-ter from the account of Ahmen Khawaja, a BBC
journalist who will now face disciplinary proceedings.

One tweet said: "Breaking: Queen Elizabeth is being treated at King Edward VII
Hospital in London. Statement due shortly."

That tweet was swiftly picked up and repeated by other news organisations,
including CNN and Germany's Bild newspaper. Ms Khawaja, a multimedia journalist
for the BBC's Urdu service, later deleted the tweets, apologising for what she
described as a "false alarm" and giving the impression that the message had been
sent by someone else. She tweeted: "Phone left unattended at home. Silly prank.
Apologies for upsetting anyone!" However, BBC sources suggest that Ms Khawaja
sent out the tweets because she believed that the rehearsal was real. When asked
if Ms Khawaja had also sent a tweet saying the Queen was dead, a BBC spokeswoman
said: "As far as I am aware there was no tweet saying that the Queen was dead."

A Buckingham Palace spokesman said: "I can confirm that the Queen this morning
attended her annual medical check-up at the King Edward VII's Hospital in
London. This was a routine, prescheduled appointment. The Queen has now left
hospital."

The BBC apologised for the tweet, which it said had been posted in error. It
said in a statement: "During a technical rehearsal for an obituary, tweets were
mistakenly sent from the account of a BBC journalist saying that a member of the
royal family had been taken ill. The tweets were swiftly deleted and we
apologise for any offence."

The BBC regularly conducts technical rehearsals for the death of a member of the
royal family. Access to the rehearsals is tightly controlled, to ensure that
mistakes do not happen.

Two facts remained unexplained last night. The most serious was why the BBC was
able to tweet that the Queen was in hospital when she really was in hospital.
The possibility that the BBC knew she was in hospital seems unlikely. The Times
understands that not even the Buckingham Palace press office knew she was having
a check-up until it looked into the matter. It also seems unlikely that the BBC
decision to hold a technical rehearsal would be linked to the Queen's check-up.

A BBC insider refused to discuss the chain of events, but said: "It was just a
terrible coincidence."

The other unanswered question is why Ms Khawaja, who is not thought to have had
anything to do with the technical rehearsal, got hold of the information that
prompted her tweet - and believed it to be real. The journalist, a media student
until 2013, joined the BBC in April 2014.

The BBC said: "We have nothing further to add at this stage."

Much exaggerated BREAKING: Queen Elizabeth is being treated at King Edward 7th
Hospital in London. Statement due shortly @BBCWORLD "Queen Elizabeth has died"
@BBCWORLD False alarm to Queen's death! She is being treated at King Edward 7th
hospital.

Statement due @AhmenKhawaja False Alarm: Have deleted previous tweets!
@AhmenKhawaja Phone left unattended at home. Silly prank, Apologies for
upsetting anyone!

@AhmenKhawaja

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2015 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


