                              230 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            National Herald Tribune

                           January 8, 2014 Wednesday

CDA Technical Committee approves three projects including Cardiac Centre at
Capital Hospital: Chairman

LENGTH: 252  words


The meeting of technical committee of Capital Development Authority was held at
CDA Headquarters on Tuesday. Chairman Capital Development Authority Mr. Maroof
Afzal presided over the meeting.

The committee approved three projects including construction of cardiac centre
at Capital Hospital, up-gradation and expansion of operation theatre at CDA
Hospital and matters related to Park Enclave Housing Project as per following
details.

The committee in today's meeting approved the construction of state of the art
cardiac centre at CDA Hospital. The cardiac centre will be constructed at a cost
of Rs. 190 million including cost of machinery, other allied equipment and
staff.

State of the art cardiac centre will be equipped with all latest facilities. It
was informed that CDA spends Rs. 25 million on cardiac patients who are referred
to other hospitals due to non availability of these facilities at CDA hospital.

So after the establishment of this modern cardiac centre CDA would not only save
Rs. 25 million but also earn a handsome amount by treating the non entitled
patients.

During the meeting it was further decided that operation theatre at CDA hospital
would be up-graded, expanded and modernized according to present time needs.

The technical committee in today's meeting also approved in principle to provide
all facilities to the allottees of Park Enclave Housing Project as committed in
the broachers at the time of auction / allotment. The PC-1 for Park Enclave
Housing Project will also be approved soon.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 National Herald Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


