                              241 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              April 4, 2005 Monday

HIGH FIVES

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 974 words


+ EDITOR'S NOTE: Due to a production error, the following items either missed
running or were not run in their entirety in Sunday's Hometown Citrus pages.

Three Citrus Memorial Hospital employees were among the first graduating class
from Withlacoochee Technical Institute's evening Licensed Practical Nurse (LPN)
course under the state-sponsored Nurses Now grant. Graduation took place on Feb.
26.

Janice Fulton and Melissa Slaght of Homosassa and Sherrie Kaneshige of Beverly
Hills worked full-time during the day, attended class three nights each week,
and did their clinical work every other weekend during the 18-month program.
WTI's other LPN courses, lasting 10 months, do not include night or weekend
work.

All three will be transferring as LPNs to into nursing units from their former
assignments: Fulton was in the insurance office, Slaght was in the lab and
Kaneshige was a patient care tech.

"The Nurses Now grant provided funding for the program's tuition, with Citrus
Memorial Hospital picking up the remainder for us," said Fulton. "Our uniforms
and books were also paid through CMH and the grant. We did not have to pay out
of our pockets for any of the essentials. Our whole class is proud of ourselves
because of how hard we worked," she said.

The hospital is also proud of the group.

"We were delighted to have employees in this program," said Chief Nursing
Officer Pam Moore. "We are always looking for ways to support the nursing
profession and increase our resources here at CMH, and "growing our own' is a
great way to do it."

+ + +

Shirley Dibble and Liz Huxley, both registered nurses at Seven Rivers Regional
Medical Center, became Safe Sitter Instructors on March 11. They attended a
workshop in Tampa and are now qualified to teach the nationally recognized Safe
Sitter babysitting training program.

Safe Sitter is a medically accurate program that teaches 11 to 13 year-olds how
to be safe, nurturing babysitters. The goal of Safe Sitter is to reduce the
number of avoidable and unintentional injuries or deaths among children being
cared for by babysitters.

Over 350,000 young adolescents across the country have been trained by Safe
Sitter to handle life-threatening emergencies. Students get hands-on practice in
basic lifesaving techniques so they are prepared to act in a crisis. They learn
safety and security precautions, such as what to do if a stranger comes to the
door. They learn basic child development as well as the business aspects of
babysitting.

To successfully complete the Safe Sitter program, students must pass a rigorous
practical and written test to show that they have mastered the key concepts and
have the skills necessary to handle an emergency.

Seven Rivers Regional will host its first Safe Sitter program in May.
Fordetails, please call Amy Kingery, public relations and communications
coordinator, at 352-795-8344.

+ + +

Has it been 103 years? That's a big question for Inverness resident Velma
Anderson, who turns 103 today.

"How did I get here," exclaimed Anderson. "Am I really 103 years old?"

Yes, Velma, you are. And you've had a lifetime of wonderful adventures to prove
it.

Born Velma Estella Butler on April 4, 1902, in Galton, Pa., her family later
moved to Elmira, N.Y., where she met and married Harry Anderson in 1923.

In May 1970 the couple moved to Inverness. Mr. Anderson passed away in November
1997 after more than 72 years of marriage.

The couple had three sons and four daughters, all but one born at home. Son
Glenn Anderson of California has survived his two brothers, Walter and Arthur.
The four daughters are Joyce Tallbee of Elmira, N.Y.; Lois Anderson, who is Mrs.
Anderson's caretaker and lives with her; Betty Anderson, of Inverness and Mary
Jastrzebski, of Ocala.

Not only did Anderson give birth to seven children of her own, she opened her
home to numerous foster children over a 16 year period.

"I had about 100 foster children," explained Anderson.

She also enjoys crocheting and working jigsaw puzzles.

But more than anything she loves to sing her hymns accompanied by the piano.
Appropriately, for a person of such a sunny demeanor, her favorite hymn is There
is Sunshine in My Soul Today.

NOTE OF THANKS

Editor:

Citrus County Parks and Recreation along with several area community
organizations sponsored an Easter Egg Hunt on March 19 at Floral Park in Floral
City. We had a visit from the Easter Bunny, aka Ellen Sherrod. She gave away
Easter Baskets from ticket drawings at the Egg Return Station.

Due to lots of hard work, commitment, and donations from local organizations and
businesses, this event was a huge success. More than 130 kids and their families
attended. More than 200 people received free hot dogs and soda.

Other donations used as prizes included 116 Easter baskets, 30 bunnies and
several other smaller prizes.

The kids had a lot of fun playing musical chairs, bean bag toss, pin the tail on
the bunny, ball into a basket and fishing for prizes. Every child got a bag of
treats after their egg hunt.

Supporters, donors, and volunteers were from the following groups and
businesses: Citrus County Parks and Recreation; Nature Coast Volunteers RSVP
Clowns; Citrus County Sheriff's Office Community Patrol 5; VFW Post 7122 and
Auxiliaries; Citrus County Fire/Rescue 51 and Auxiliary; Floral City Lion's
Club; Winn-Dixie; Publix of Inverness; Wal-Mart of Inverness; Citrus United
Basket; Charles Davis Funeral Home; Career Choice Uniforms; Marine Corp 1139;,
VFW Post 10087 and Men's Auxiliary; Puttin' on the Ritz; Floral City Foods;
Vineyard Church; and Church With Out Walls.

We want to send out a big THANK YOU to all of these groups for making this
possible.

Pansey Cleaveland and William Tarbox,Recreational Program Specialists,Citrus
County Parks and Recreation

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: HOMETOWN CITRUS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Photo courtesy of Citrus Memorial Hospital; PHOTO, Photo
courtesy of Betty Anderson; Three Citrus Memorial Hospital employees completed
the Withlacoochee Technical Institute's first evening LPN course and will be
taking new assignments in the Nursing Division at Citrus Memorial Hospital:
Sherrie Kaneshige, Melissa Slaght and; Janice Fulton. ; Velma Anderson will
celebrate her 103rd birthday on Monday. She is is surrounded by her daughters
Lois Anderson, Betty Anderson and Mary Jastzebski.

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 Times Publishing Company


