                              240 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                           October 19, 2016 Wednesday

Govt to uphold right of patients to quality health facilities: CM

SECTION: Vol. 39 No. 288

LENGTH: 447  words


Punjab Chief Minister Mohammad Shehbaz Sharif said on Tuesday that provision of
quality treatment facilities to patients was the mission of the government and
all out measures were being taken in this regard.

Punjab Chief Minister Mohammad Shehbaz Sharif presided over a

meeting which was given a briefing  by World Health Organization (WHO) on
reforms in hospitals and further improvement in health facilities for the
masses.

The meeting also reviewed in detail recommendations for improvement

of service delivery system in hospitals. The WHO also expressed

willingness for providing technical assistance in improving medical facilities
in four major hospitals of Punjab.

Addressing the meeting, the Chief Minister said that provision of

quality treatment facilities to patients was the mission of the government and
all out measures were being taken for providing modern health facilities in
hospitals so that ailing humanity could be served in the real sense.

He said that patients had a right to quality health facilities

in hospitals and the Punjab government would uphold this right at

any cost. He said that full benefit would be taken from every

successful experiment and model in order to improve healthcare

system.

He welcomed the willingness of WHO for improvement in treatment

facilities in four big hospitals of the province. He said that all out resources
would be made available for providing quality health services

to the patients.

He said the Punjab government had given the biggest budget to

health sector in the history of the province, however, patients should

also be satisfied with the measures for improving healthcare system.

Shehbaz Sharif directed that practical recommendations should be

finalized at the earliest for making four big hospitals of Punjab as

role model and a final programme should be evolved in the light of the
recommendations for making speedy progress.

The WHO representative commended the vision of Chief Minister Shehbaz

Sharif for provision of quality health facilities to the  patients and said that
they were ready to extend technical assistance  for improving health services in
hospitals.

Provincial Finance Minister Dr. Ayesha Ghaus Pasha, Advisor on Health

Kh. Salman Rafique, Parliamentary Secretary Kh. Imran Nazir, Chief Secretary,
Additional Chief Secretary, Chairman Planning  and  Development besides
representative of WHO in Pakistan Dr. Michel Thieren and medical experts
attended the meeting.

Technical Officer WHO Headquarters Geneva Dr. Ann Lise Guissct, Advisor

Healthcare Delivery WHO Dr. Hamid Tavaghi from Iran and Health Policy Specialist
University of Toronto-Canada Dr. Ben Chan participated in the meeting through
video link from Tokyo.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


