                              246 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                              June 16, 2017 Friday

Rs3.65b UET budget approved for 2017-18

SECTION: Vol. 27 No. 99

LENGTH: 658  words


University of Engineering and Technology (UET) syndicate has approved Rs 3.651
billion budget for the university with deficit of Rs 171.861 million for the
year 2017-18.

According to a press release, the budget meeting was chaired by Vice-Chancellor
Prof Fazal Ahmed Khalid who briefed the participants on budget. UET Treasure
Imran Babar explained that a sum of Rs 4841.285 million had been allocated for
development projects, including Rs 1340.785 million for establishment of UET
sub-campus in Narowal, Rs. 73.500 million for setting up Center for Energy
Research and Development at KSK Campus and Rs 1,000 million for strengthening
UET, Lahore. Moreover, Rs 150,956 million had been earmarked for scholarships to
the students.

The syndicate also approved Rs 267.776 million budget for Rachna College of
Engineering and Technology, Gujranwala, for the year 2017-18, and IB and M
budget of Rs 151.800 million for 2017-18.

LGH: Post Graduate Medical Institute and Lahore General Hospital (PGMI/LGH)
Principal Prof Ghiyas-un-Nabi Tayyab has said under the health vision of Chief
Minister Shahbaz Sharif pathology lab of Lahore General Hospital has been
upgraded through the installation of modern equipment and the patients are not
required to go outside of the hospital for any medical test.

According to a handout on Thursday, the principal in a statement said all kinds
of tests would be conducted in central lab now wherein doctors have better
facilities for research.

The central lab would be connected to all the wards and theatres in the second
phase of this project so that every doctor could watch lab reports on his or her
computer online. He said it would reduce the problems of attendants and the
culture of handwritten reports would also end.

The principal said PCR, DNA/RNA Extraction System Microarray, Total solution for
microbiology, Hematology, Histopathology, Chemical Pathology and Stem Cell can
now be examined in the upgraded lab. He said provision of best available medical
facilities to patients is the mission of LGH administration which can be well
served by a modern and well equipped test lab.

He said today is the age of research and only those nations are progressing
rapidly that are focused on research. He also PGMI is spending Rs 10 million in
the head of research annually and young doctors must utilise this facility at
the maximum as they posses best talent and capability to shine in the
profession.

Tevta: Technical Education and Vocational Training Authority (Tevta) Chairman
Irfan Qaiser Sheikh has claimed that an increase of 300 percent has been
observed in the enrolment of students in technical courses being offered by
Tevta.

Addressing a meeting of Tevta officials here on Thursday, Irfan Qaiser Sheikh
also observed that during last two and half years, there was massive increase in
the enrolment of students in courses of technical and vocational education at
Tevta institutes across the Punjab. He added when he took charge of the
Authority, there were only 60,000 to 65,000 students enrolled in these courses;
however, the number now has been increased up to 190,000. 'This increase is
around 300 percent which is record enrolment since the inception of Tevta', he
added.

He said our first target was to win the trust of parents and we had been
successful in this regard.

Another reason for increase in the enrolment was the demand-driven courses being
offered by Tevta as it started several courses which were the need of the market
and the industry, he added.

Emphasising the need of technical education, Tevta chairman explained that
reason behind Japan's major development was technical and vocational education.
Skilled people always play their vital role in the economic development of any
country, he said and added taking this concept on board, Tevta was offering
latest and updated courses for the students and will continue to add more
courses in the context of China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


