                              242 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            February 3, 2015 Tuesday

NGO takes up HIV+ outreach worker's cause

BYLINE: Aditi Gyanesh

SECTION: LUDHIANA

LENGTH: 572 words


LUDHIANA: One of the nine outreach workers designated in Ludhiana at an ICTC
(Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre) alleged that Dr US Sooch - project
officer (Ludhiana), AIDS Control - disclosed her identity in a discriminatory
statement to the media on January 31. This issue was brought up by an NGO -
Punjab Networking of Positive People Society - actively working against the
discrimination with HIV positive people, and for the rights of the affected
people, and awareness of AIDS.

On behalf of the outreach workers opposing this 'insensitive' step of Dr Sooch,
the NGO has written letters to Punjab health minister Surjit Kumar Jiyani,
Punjab State Human Rights Commission, and the National AIDS Control Society.
They will be submitting a memorandum to deputy commissioner of Ludhiana, Rajat
Aggarwal, on Monday, demanding legal action against Dr Sooch, and an inquiry
into the whole case. Meanwhile, Sooch has denied giving the statement. "I have
given no such statement anywhere. I know the rules, and I also know that if I do
not follow them, no one else will," he emphasized.

President of the NGO, Jagjit Singh Mann, while talking to ToI, said: "When it
comes to keeping the identity of the HIV positive patient confidential, there
are very minute things on which people need to focus, otherwise it can lead to
discrimination against them in society. Keeping in mind the guidelines, some
outreach workers or their family members are supposed to be HIV positive
patients. If Dr Sooch knew that the identity of the HIV positive outreach worker
was being discussed openly, then he should have been taken care to conceal it.
However, until now, none of the staff working with the outreach worker knew that
she was HIV positive. But after this disclosure, she is under threat of
discrimination at her workplace, and also where she lives."

The NGO also brought to light that there is shortage of technical staff in
Ludhiana at many places for the past one year, but there have been no
appointments made by the district AIDS control society.

Non-technical staff doing HIV tests in CMCH

According to present information, both the posts of lab technicians at the ICTC
of the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), Ludhiana, are lying vacant
for about a year, and the lives of patients getting HIV tests done have been put
at stake with non-technical staff doing the tests.

It is to be noted that there are nine ICTCs in Ludhiana district - five of them
in the villages of Payal, Khanna, Jagraon, Raikot, and Samrala; and four of them
in the city at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), Civil Hospital, and
two at the Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). According to the
guidelines of the National AIDS Control Society (NACO), there should be a
counsellor, a lab technician, and an outreach worker at an ICTC, who can then
refer the HIV positive patient to an ART (anti-retroviral therapy) centre in the
city for treatment.

NGO head Mann said: "As the lab technician is not available, other non-technical
staff are asked to perform the task of technical staff. How can we depend on
such lax AIDS control services in the city? The condition is the same at some
other ICTCs also, where lab technicians are available." When Sooch was
questioned about this, he told ToI: "We are looking for lab technicians for the
two ICTCs at CMCH. Very soon, the appointments will be made."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


