                              237 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                              July 27, 2012 Friday
                      FITCHBURG/GARDNER/LEOMINSTER EDITION

Monty grad attends D.C. youth summit

SECTION: NEIGHBORS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 682 words


Serving as an ambassador for career and technical education, Victoria L. Holbert
of Fitchburg, a recent graduate of Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical
School, was selected to join a group of national student leaders meeting
recently with U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan and Assistant Secretary
Brenda Dann-Messier in Washington, D.C.

The purpose of the meeting was to speak in support of the proposed
reauthorization of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act, a
federal grant that supports career and technical schools throughout the country.

Miss Holbert, who is finishing her one-year stint as national president of
Skil-lsUSA, traveled to Washington for the meeting, accompanied by Karen E.
Ward, executive director of SkillsUSA Massachusetts.

Ms. Ward had high praise for the teen's presentation. "Victoria did a
spectacular job. She was well versed, articulate and on point. She drew praise
from Assistant Secretary Dann-Messier for how well prepared she was and for the
quality of her comments," she said.

She added that Mr. Duncan acknowledged Victoria's "thoughts on the issues of
concern within the bill."

"Victoria represented Montachusett Regional and Massachusetts career and
technical education in terrific fashion. It was amazing to see," Ms. Ward said.

Miss Holbert was awarded a full, four-year scholarship from the Naval Reserve
Officers' Training Corps to study political science this fall at Norwich
University in Northfield, Vt.

HealthAlliance Hospital recently hosted an Open House and Survivor's Day
Celebration at the newly renovated and expanded Simonds-Sinon Regional Cancer
Center in Fitchburg. The event brought together more than 200 community members
who wished to show their support for the battle against cancer.

The celebration honored cancer survivors, as well as the contributors to The
Capital Campaign for the cancer center.

Speakers included HealthAlliance Hospital President and CEO Patrick Muldoon,
Capital Campaign co-chairman John Clementi, American Cancer Society Area
Director of Health Initiatives Nanyamka Hales and Simonds-Sinon Regional Cancer
Center Medical Director Dr. Madhavi Toke.

Mr. Muldoon opened the program by acknowledging the survivors, donors, staff and
community members who gathered at the event. "Your attendance is a true measure
of your commitment to fighting the battle against cancer and to our cancer
center. Our new cancer center and patient-centered care programs are here for
everyone in our community and in our region: our survivors, our fighters, our
winners, our warriors and our champions."

A video was shown depicting both patient and employee testimonials of the cancer
center. The patients gave accounts of their personal experiences with the
disease, and the cancer center employees discussed their dedication to providing
care. The video may be viewed at www.youtube.com/everybodydeserves.

The Capital Campaign has raised more than $2.5 million or 65 percent of the
campaign's goal for the cancer center. An additional $1.45 million is needed to
reach the total $4 million dollar goal.

Dr. Mary M. Chiavaras, assistant professor of radiology at McMaster University,
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, and musculoskeletal radiologist at Hamilton General
Hospital, has been awarded a one-year, $40,000 research seed grant from the
Radiological Society of North America Research and Education Foundation.

Originally from Lunenburg, Dr. Chiavaras received her medical degree at the
University of Massachusetts Medical School in Worcester and her Ph.D. from
McGill University in Montreal. She now lives in Ancaster, Ontario, with her
husband and three children.

Brittany Champa, Caitlin Coleman, Ramneek Hoonjan and Jessica Lynch of
Fitchburg, Michael Carpentier of Gardner, Bryana Boudreau, Brian Cosimi, Sophia
El-Hayek, Katie Mazzeo and Anthony Sacino of Leominster, and Shannon Sweitzer of
Lunenburg were named to the dean's list for the spring semester at Assumption
College, Worcester.

Amanda Landry of Leominster was named to the dean's list for the spring semester
at Hofstra University, Hempstead, N.Y.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
TOP DOGS - The recent "Famous Dog" installation at Fitchburg Art Museum was made
up of sculptures by sixth-graders at Applewild School in Fitchburg. The
sculptures were voted on by Applewild students and staff, as well as museum
staff. Medals were awarded for the best sculptures. Sam Sutherland of Leominster
received third prize for his sculpture in the style of Michelangelo.
SUBMITTED PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2012 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


