                              244 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             The Citizen Gloucester

                             May 12, 2016 Thursday

College plan can help with health of care

SECTION: SPORT:OTHER; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 504  words


A BID for a technical college to address a shortage of nurses in the county is
expected to be lodged with the government by this autumn.

Gloucester MP Richard Graham has highlighted the city's interest in a pilot
project that could see 1,000 new nursing associates trained.

The new role would be an alternative route to become a registered nurse,
bridging the gap between healthcare support workers, who have a care
certificate, and registered nurses with degrees.

The University of Gloucestershire is working with Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS
Foundation Trust to launch the bid for a University Technical College.

If the bid is successful, the aim will be to welcome the first intake of
students in September 2019.

Associate Nurses would study at universities with university technical colleges
essentially acting as secondary schools and can involve undertaking more
vocational qualifications.

Mr Graham, inset, said: "I've no doubt that if our university is approved to
offer pre-registration courses, and then run a major pilot scheme for Nursing
Associates in Gloucestershire, that would make a huge difference to the current
shortage of nurses in both city and county.

"Degrees aren't for everyone, so this higher apprenticeship will give everyone
the opportunity to get a qualification and work in the health sector, which is
our biggest employer in Gloucester."

NHS hospitals in Gloucestershire have launched drives to recruit new nurses.

The technical college plans come after the Government scrapped bursaries for
student nurses and midwives in England from 2017, who will have to apply for
loans.

University of Gloucestershire vice-chancellor Stephen Marston, , said: "Given
the importance of the health service, we are keen to work with the Hospitals
Trust and other NHS partners to help ensure they can recruit the staff they need
to provide excellent patient care.

"A technical college could provide a great way of enabling 14-18 year olds to
gain both an excellent education and a wider experience."

The role of nursing associates was created last year to bridge the gap between
registered nurses and senior healthcare assistants.

They will provide hands-on care, allowing nurses to spend more time on their
clinical duties.

They would be trained through on-the-job experience via an apprenticeship,
leading to a foundation degree.

A survey by the public service union Unison last year showed nine in 10 student
nurses would not have applied for a nursing degree without bursaries available.

A spokesperson for Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust said: "This is
an exciting and encouraging opportunity particularly for the young people of
Gloucestershire who in the future could be offered the chance of studying and
training locally with the prospect of full-time employment and a career in
healthcare at one of our two hospitals in Gloucester and Cheltenham.

"The national shortage of key healthcare professionals has been well documented.
This development has the potential to help address some of these issues."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


