                              238 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 30, 2017 Tuesday

After swachh survey, govt to rank its hosps

SECTION: BHOPAL

LENGTH: 395 words


Bhopal: After swachh ranking of cities and railway station, it's the turn of
government run-hospitals. Madhya Pradesh health department is gearing for a
survey and ranking of its hospitals.To begin with, four hospitals would be
surveyed to complete the national quality assurance standards (NQAS)
adherence.On June 1, the first of the assessment would be carried out at
Bhopal's JP hospital.Hectic activity is on at the hospital for the past week to
improve in sanitation. Other hospitals in MP that have been motivated to take
the test are -- district hospital Bhind, Satna, Icchawar and maternal health
facility in Jabalpur.NQAS has two components.

One is based on technical quality on which, usually service providers (doctors,
nurses and para-medical staff) are more concerned and has a bearing on outcome
or end-result of services delivered. Second is the service quality that pertains
to those aspects of facility based care and services, which patients are often
more concerned, and has bearing on patient satisfaction."Experts will evaluate
preparedness of JP hospital. Other hospitals administration has also been
invited. It is a handholding exercise with experts. Once they determine the
shortcomings, we will improve it ahead of NQAS," said national health mission
(NHM) joint director Dr Pankaj Shukla.Indications are that health centres like
district JP hospital will focus on improving processes and outcome. Many of
these hospitals lack the required infrastructure and are short of doctors and
other paramedical staff.The problem plagues much of the Madhya Pradesh health
sector. NQAS has been implemented in various other states over the last two
years. MP health department has been less than optimistic in getting its
hospitals and facilities evacuated, said sources. The inspection at JP hospital
would take place on Thursday. Results from the evaluation would be known within
a week. The team will also visit Satna and Bhind. BOXREALITY CHECKHospitals are
focussing on 'service quality' over 'technical quality'Most hospitals are short
staffed and lack modern infrastructure Technical Quality - Will be assessed by
clinical protocols, infection control, emergency responseService Quality - To be
assessed by service delivery and client satisfaction, privacy and dignity,
hygiene and cleanliness, and behaviour of staff

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


