                              24 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                     October 9, 2001 Tuesday, Final Edition

BATH WANTS TO TURN FORMER HOSPITAL INTO COLLEGE;
Mid Coast Hospital will provide the building, and if voters approve an education
bond issue, the state will get its first community college.

BYLINE: From staff reports

SECTION: LOCAL & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 556 words

DATELINE: BATH


A former Bath hospital will be converted into the state's first community
college, provided voters adopt an education bond issue on Nov. 6.

Officials from Mid Coast Hospital in Brunswick have agreed to turn over to the
city the former Bath Memorial Hospital building on Washington Street.

The city plans to renovate the building and turn the 103,000-square-foot complex
into the Midcoast Center for Higher Education - the first community college in
Maine.

The school would be a collaboration between the state's technical college system
and the University of Maine System, offering two- and four-year technical or
academic degree programs to about 500 students. The University of Maine at Bath
and Brunswick, located on Old Bath Road in Brunswick, would move to the new
campus in Bath.

But the success of the new college depends on voters' approval of a $36.5
million bond issue. Within that education spending package is $1 million to
renovate the hospital. The Legislature has already approved a first-year
operating budget of $380,000 for the college, said state Rep. Art Mayo, R-Bath.

Mayo, who sponsored the bill to pay for the renovations, said classes could
begin as soon as next July. About 25,000 square feet of the building would be
used for education, with the remaining space rented to other tenants.

"We're talking about creating a new community college for students from Freeport
as far north as Rockland," Mayo said. "But we are on a really tight time line."

The building used by the Bath hospital, which opened in 1909, became available
to the city after Mid Coast Hospital announced a few years ago that it would
consolidate services at its Brunswick campus. Since then, the Bath facility has
offered emergency medical care to walk-ins. It will close permanently in
December when the new Mid Coast Hospital opens at Cook's Corner in Brunswick.

Mike L'Abbe, Mid Coast Hospital's spokesman, said the hospital and city have
signed a letter of intent to transfer the property to the city for a nominal
fee, provided the transfer takes place no later than Dec. 31. The city would
then become owners of the 6.5-acre property, paying for its upkeep and
maintenance.

L'Abbe said a group of physicians affiliated with Mid Coast will remain in the
former hospital as tenants for an unspecified period of time. Mid Coast Medical
Group represents about eight physicians and a nurse practitioner.

City Manager John Bubier, who supports the project, said a community college
could train students for technical jobs at local businesses such as Bath Iron
Works. In return, some of those businesses might be willing to offer their
financial support.

High school graduates who are uncertain about their career path would have more
flexibility, he said. They could start out in a technical career, then switch to
an academic degree program.

Bubier said a community college can offer a wider range of technical and
academic courses than a traditional two-year technical school or four-year
college.

"This is something I've wanted to see for a long time," he said. "It's a dream a
lot of us, who came out of the university system, have had. The economic value
of putting in a community college in Bath is undeniable."

Staff Writer Dennis Hoey can be contacted at 725-8795 or at:

dhoey@pressherald.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2001 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


