                              252 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                          February 13, 2008 Wednesday
                                Suburban Edition

Targeted Programs

SECTION: A-SECTION; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 262 words


Examples of programs proposed for elimination in President Bush's fiscal 2009
budget:

Commodity Supplemental Food Program -- $139 million. Provides food and
administrative funds to state governments for low-income pregnant and
breast-feeding women, new mothers, infants, children up to age 6,  and the
elderly.

Manufacturing Extension Partnership -- $90 million. An often-targeted program at
the Commerce Department that teams manufacturers with researchers to improve
efficiency and spread technological improvements.

Career and Technical Education State Grants -- $1.16 billion. The largest of
several  career and technical education programs targeted for elimination.

Even Start -- $66 million. Another perennial target of the Bush administration,
the program offers grants to support local projects that integrate early
childhood education, adult literacy, parenting education and interactive
parent-and-child literacy activities for low-income families.

Weatherization Assistance Program -- $243 million. Offers assistance to
low-income families to insulate their homes and boost energy efficiency.

Community Services Block Grants -- $654 million. Poverty alleviation grants that
focus on the problems of homelessness, migrant labor and broken families.

Children's Hospitals Graduate Medical Education Payments -- $302 million.

Funding for free-standing children's hospitals to address  shortages in
pediatric subspecialists, to train pediatric residents, and to compensate for
the disparity in the level of federal funding for broad teaching hospitals and
pediatric hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Maryland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


