                              25 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             July 2, 2014 Wednesday

Tennessee: Medical Technologist 59806

LENGTH: 906  words

DATELINE: Nashville


The state of Tennessee has issued the following job vacancy:

Job Order Number:   59806
Job Title:   Medical Technologist
Job Duration:   Over 150 Days
Type of Job:   Regular
Full or Part Time:   Full Time (30 Hours or More)
Job Position(s):   1
Date Job Order Created/Updated:   7/2/2014 12:31:00 PM
Last Day Job Order Available Online:   09/29/2014
Source:   Preferred Employer
Site:   JOBS4TN ONLINE
Occupation Information

Employer Information

Employer Name:   St. Jude Children's Research Hospital Inc.
Company Size:   1,000-4,999
Type of Employer:   Non-Profit
Company Profile:   View company profile
Other Local Job Listings:   View other job listings for St. Jude Children's
Research Hospital Inc. located in Tennessee
All Job Listings:   View all job listings available for St. Jude Children's
Research Hospital Inc.
Work Site Information

Location Name:   St. Jude Children's Research Hospital Inc.
Address:   262 Danny Thomas Pl
City, State, Zip, and Country:   Memphis, TN 38105 US
Map Address

Public Transportation Accessible:   No
Worksite Industry (NAICS):   General Medical and Surgical Hospitals (622110)
Education, Training and Work Experience

Minimum Education Level:   Bachelor's Degree
View typical education requirements for Healthcare Practitioners and Technical
Workers, All Other
Minimum Experience:   0 months
View typical work experience requirements for Healthcare Practitioners and
Technical Workers, All Other
Education Programs:   View education programs locally available to train
Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Compensation and Hours

Salary Range:   N/A
View typical labor market wage rates for Healthcare Practitioners and Technical
Workers, All Other
Pay Comments:   DOE (Depends on Experience)
Hours per Week:   Hours Not Specified
Shift:   Not Applicable
Skills Required

Job Skills:  Click here to view these job skills  View this employer's job skill
requirements
Personal Skills:  Click here to view these personal skills  View the personal
skills that are typically associated with individuals that work as Healthcare
Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
General Job Requirements

Test Requirement:   No test required
Driver's License Certification Requirement:   No
Work Interests:   View the typical interests of individuals that are Healthcare
Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Knowledge:   View the knowledge typically needed by Healthcare Practitioners and
Technical Workers, All Other
Abilities:   View the abilities typically needed by Healthcare Practitioners and
Technical Workers, All Other
Work Styles:   View the personal characteristics that can affect how well
Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other perform
Nature of the Work

Work Values:   View what is typically important in a job to Healthcare
Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Work Activities:   View typical work activities for Healthcare Practitioners and
Technical Workers, All Other
Tasks:   View the specific tasks commonly performed by Healthcare Practitioners
and Technical Workers, All Other
Working Conditions:   View the typical working conditions for Healthcare
Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Tools and Technologies:   View the tools and technology generally used by
Healthcare Practitioners and Technical Workers, All Other
Job Description


The Medical Technologist in the Pathology Department is responsible for the
prompt, efficient, and accurate performance, validation, and reporting of
laboratory test results which are utilized for the purpose of prognosis,
diagnosis, treatment, and research. Under the direct supervision of the
Director, Manager or Supervisor, the MT is responsible for the assigned shift as
scheduled. The MT may work under the guidance of the MT II, MT III, or MT IV.
This is a dayshift position in the Clinial Hematology Laboratroy, with duties
related to hematology, coagulation, urinalysis, and body fluid anlyasis (MH)

WORK SCHEDULE:

Monday-Friday, 7:00 a.m.-3:30 p.m. Rotate weekends and holidays.
Job Qualifications:EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS:
Bachelor's degree or completion of medical technology program or equivalent in
concordance with current federal and state regulations required.

EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS:
Medical Technologist entry level skills obtained through clinical rotations are
required.
Experience performing abnormal manual peripheral blood and body fluid
differentials preferred.
Experience performing special coagulation testing preferred.

LICENSURE REQUIREMENTS:
Tennessee licensure as Medical Technologist as a Generalist or Specialist in
assigned laboratory section required.
Eligibility requirements will be in compliance with current State of Tennessee
Division of Health Related Boards.

OTHER CREDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS:
Certification as a Medical Technologist by ASCP or AMT preferred.


.
St. Jude Children's Research Hospital is an Equal Opportunity Employer. St. Jude
does not discriminate on the basis of race, national origin, sex, genetic
information, sexual orientation, age, religion, disability, veteran's status or
disabled veteran's status with respect to employment opportunities. All
qualified applicants will be considered for employment. St. Jude engages in
affirmative action to increase employment opportunities for minorities, women,
veterans and individuals with disabilities.

For further information please visit: https://www.jobs4tn.gov

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


