                              249 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                           February 21, 2015 Saturday

NHTC all set to launch diploma course on BEE

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 481  words


KATHMANDU: National Health Training Centre under the Ministry of Health and
Population is all set to begin a new diploma course on biomedical equipment
engineering in the country, .

The 18-month diploma in biomedical equipment engineering course will be run
under the academic authority of the Council for Technical Education and
Vocational Training. This will be first academic course on this subject in the
country. As many as 24 students have been selected for the year 2015-16. Various
three-month and eight-month trainings were conducted by NHTC to produce
biomedical technicians on this subject since 2005 and 138 technicians have been
produced so far.

MoHP will be launching the course amid a function on Sunday.

Mahendra Prasad Shrestha, Director at NHTC, said, "If all necessary services are
not available in one hospital, it refers patients to another hospital. But if
services cannot be provided due to technical problems in equipment, it is even
more difficult as medical equipment are not available everywhere. Even for minor
repair of equipment in rural areas we need to call technicians from urban
centres, which has been affecting patients."

"If we become capable of producing more capable and professional human
resources, patients in the rural areas will not have to face problems as the
technicians will deal with the equipment," he added.

Shrestha also stressed that detection, prevention, treatment as well as control
of health-related problems were entirely dependent on equipment in today's
world. "Delivery of health service will be badly affected when technical
problems occur," he added.

According to National Health Training Centre, various studies have shown that
more than 40 per cent of the equipment have not been installed in health
facilities in proper manner and users do not take preventive measures while
using the equipment. In some hospitals the equipment remain unused for a long
period of time once they face minor problems, said NHTC, adding hospitals and
users are not aware about the right use of the equipment because of which they
get damaged and remain unutilised.

Human resources produced from diploma in biomedical equipment engineering course
will be appointed as biomedical equipment technician. Till date, no government
posts have been created for BMET.

The Ministry of Health and Population and National Health Training Centre are to
hold discussions with the concerned bodies to create permanent position of BMET
in hospitals. BMET is a key person who takes care of equipment and instruments
used to diagnose and treat disease in a hospital.

According to NHTC, only 10 per cent of the equipment are fully functioning at
central hospitals, 39 per cent at regional/zonal hospitals and 30 per cent at
district hospitals. It stated that the country currently needs 11 biomedical
engineers, 143 BMET and 285 biomedical equipment assistant technicians.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


