                              253 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  The Union-Recorder (Milledgeville, Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 11, 2008 Thursday

CGTC, CSH partner for literacy, education programs

BYLINE: Alexander Cain, The Union-Recorder, Milledgeville, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 789 words


Sep. 11--The Milledgeville campus of Central Georgia Technical College and the
Central State Hospital campus are more than 10 miles away from each other -- but
a newly-formed partnership between the two will bring them closer together than
ever.

Located on the southside of Milledgeville, Central State, one of Baldwin
County's largest employers, and Central Georgia Technical College, located more
to the north of Milledgeville near the Highway 22/212 intersection, have come
together to provide additional opportunities for those in the Baldwin County and
Central Georgia area to access literacy and adult education classes.

"It seemed like there was a lack of literacy service in this area," Demetrice
Bryant, director of staff development and training for Central State Hospital,
said. "Now, if someone wants GED services they can come here."

CSH and CGTC have modified a former storage area in the Yarbrough Building on
the CSH property, turning the space into a classroom that will be used to teach
central Georgians in Adult Basic and Adult Secondary Education -- essentially,
literacy classes that will assist with earning a General Education Development
diploma, or GED, or to assist its current employees who have previous nursing
training in continuing and expanding upon those skills.

Basically, it means that if someone can't make it to the CGTC campus, or someone
is looking to improve and find a better job in Baldwin County, Central State
Hospital now has facilities on the property that can help.

And it's all free to the public, according to Sallie Devero, dean of the Adult
Education Program with Central Georgia Technical College.

"This is our partnership with Central State Hospital to provide adult education
classes to Baldwin County. Classes will begin October 1, and we are currently in
the initial phases of getting people oriented. People who attend the classes are
people who need to earn their GEDs, or build up skills or brush up on their
current skills to pass entrance exams," Devero explained.

Kimberly Boyer is employed as a team leader in the Central State Hospital
Housekeeping Division.

Boyer was among the nearly 100 CSH employees who visited an informational table
set up outside the Yarbrough Building Wednesday as part of a ribbon cutting
ceremony marking the partnership between the two entities.

"I'm looking into CNA and LPN orientation. I've got a lot of interest in the
field, and I really enjoy helping people. It all sounds like a good program,"
Boyer said.

A program that could have long-lasting benefits in Baldwin County, which already
has programs in place to increase its overall literacy rate and improve in areas
such as employment, graduation rates and overall job performances in its
industrial sector.

"A great number of Central State Hospital employees want to finish their
education but may have been out of school for a long period of time, and that
can be intimidating. We do train or provide certified services for CNAs here,
and those are usually free," Devero said.

Kenneth Daniels is an adjunct instructor for the Baldwin County Adult Education
Program run through CGTC, and was present for Wednesday's ribbon cutting
ceremony that introduced potential students to the new classroom at CSH.

"I'm an instructional coordinator, which means I help to train the teachers,"
Daniels said. "Most of what I do is make sure that the classroom is adequate,
supplied with software and I make sure that the teachers are in compliance for
adult education through the Technical College System of Georgia. I think what
they're doing here is a great idea. The expansion into the community is a great
benefit for the program."

For more information on the Baldwin County Adult Education Program or
information on the partnership between Central Georgia Technical College and
Central State Hospital, contact the CSH Staff Development & Training Department
at (478) 445-4425 or the CGTC Baldwin Campus at (478) 445-2230.

"We were looking at a way to serve our employees, but then it grew to looking at
ways to serve the community as well. We're hoping to get the community involved
through orientations and assessments held on campus. This is in part to help
find a way to work with individuals who need the services and couldn't get to
town. We're willing to work with anyone," Devero said.

To see more of The Union-Recorder or to subscribe, go to
http://www.unionrecorder.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, The Union-Recorder,
Milledgeville, Ga. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For
reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080911-UG-CGTC-CSH-partner-for-literacy-education-programs-0911

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UG


                                 Copyright 2008


