                              26 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                               September 6, 2015

Sonography trackers not installed in a single government hospital

BYLINE: SHILPA BHOWMICK

LENGTH: 397  words


Deadline is Sep 15; Lack of technical know how coming in the way

BHOPAL: The process of installation of Sonography trackers, which was to be
completed by September 15, is getting delayed due to lack of technical know-how.
What to speak of private sonography centres, the trackers have not been
installed in none of the government hospitals till date.



These trackers will record each sonography done at the hospitals in its database
along with the number of abortions and babies born. The tracker will store all
information about the date, time, hospital, patient details, doctors conducting
sonography, staff and even the number of attendants present.

The step has been taken primarily to reduce female foeticide. Official notice
has been issued by CMHO regarding the installation of the Trackers till
September 15 but nothing has been done yet by any of the government hospitals in
that direction. Earlier, the date for getting the installations done was August
15, which was extended to September 15 but hospital managements are still
struggling with technical issues.

Dr. Veena Sinha, CMHO, said that orders have been issued to the hospitals after
receipt of orders from the state government and the hospitals are required to
install these trackers compulsorily on their own.

Hamidia hospital and Sultania Zanana Hospital both are facing technical issues
vis-a-vis tracker installation. Dr. DK Pal, superintendent, Hamidia hospital and
Dr. Ulka Shrivastav, Dean, Gandhi Medical College informed that, since this is
an entirely new system, they are enquiring about the trackers and agencies
supplying f them. Dr. DK Pal said that due to lack of any technical assistance
from the department, installation process is getting delayed. They are looking
for government agencies that provide trackers and are also in touch with the
CMHO office for assisting in the installing the tracking systems.

Dr. Ulka Shrivastav on the other hand said that the trackers need proper
computers and staff for handling. They are working to get both trackers and
computer systems installed and are consulting other hospitals and colleges who
have got such systems installed, she said.

Dr. Anil Shukla, superintendent, JP hospital, said that they have started talks
with some agencies regarding the trackers but nothing has been finalised yet.
Very soon, a decision will be taken and installation will be done.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


