                              265 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                   September 7, 1995, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Colleges turning to lotteries for cash

BYLINE: ANDY MARSHALL

SECTION: CITY & LIFE; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 419 words


NAIT, SAIT hope to raise $ 1 million each for programs

Alberta's two technical colleges are launching a multi-million-dollar gamble
they hope will raise up to $ 1 million each for some of their programs.

Two homes in Calgary and Edmonton, valued at about $ 450,000 each, plus major
cash prizes are being offered by the Southern Alberta Institute of Technology
and its sister institute in Edmonton to support "continuing educational
excellence in technical training".

"We have more need for expenditures on equipment than we can otherwise meet in
the budget," SAIT board of governors chairman Bruce Libin said Wednesday. SAIT's
1995-96 budget was set at $ 93 million.

But, he also said raising money was only a third priority in the lottery
campaign which will include a mass mail-out to one million Alberta homes.

"This is an excellent opportunity to publicize technical training," he said. It
is also a chance to form a partnership with NAIT, and "demonstrate how we can
work together."

More details will be announced at a news conference today, but this is believed
to be the first-ever effort by post-secondary institutions to make money in this
way.

The lottery format is based on successful campaigns by the Alberta Children's
Hospital and the Foothills Hospital to make money for equipment to boost patient
care by selling $ 100 lottery tickets.

Another major lottery last year raised funds for a police patrol helicopter, and
three schools in Cochrane made more than $ 200,000 through a big-prize draw.

It is understood that five areas in the institutions have been identified for
help with the hoped-for lottery proceeds. The money will be used to buy or
upgrade equipment, or for new facilities.

Libin said he had no trouble with the idea of gambling proceeds supporting
technical education.

The lottery campaign will be in addition to SAIT's $ 3-million, community
fund-raising program.

A proposal to the board earlier this year suggested SAIT and NAIT could expect
to recoup at least $ 1 million from a $ 2.5-million lottery.

Despite the proliferation of lotteries in Alberta, a provincial gaming
consultant said "the market is not saturated, there is room for lotteries with
good prizes, and well-priced tickets."

SAIT and NAIT will own the lottery, to be run by a professional lottery manager.

Mount Royal College spokesman Hunter Wight said the lottery business was
attracting lots of success, but the college has never considered doing anything
similar.


LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1995 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


