                              259 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                           November 30, 2004 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

The military medical system

BYLINE: Mac Savage, Vancouver Province

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 307  words


Sara MacIntyre makes the following statement: "For example, members of the
Canadian Forces and the RCMP are not restricted to the public [health care]
system."

This is misleading, at least in the case of the military, which has its own
separate health care system! During my 36 years in the military, each base (camp
or station) had its own hospital staffed by military doctors, military nurses
and military technical support personnel who were also "deployed" when required.

About 10 to 15 years ago, base hospitals were closed and the place of employment
of the military medical personnel was moved to local hospitals. These military
medical personnel were integrated into civilian hospitals for general employment
and treat patients, with the clear commitment by the hospital that the treatment
of any military personnel took priority. While this was undoubtedly forced upon
the military by the financial cuts of successive federal governments, it is a
win-win situation for both sides.

The military pays to educate and train its doctors, nurses and technical support
personnel, thus it is not only logical but also right and proper that military
personnel are in a separate queue at those hospitals where this arrangement
exists. If they are referred to a private clinic, the same argument holds true.

The military has a constant and continuing external-to-Canada requirement for
military doctors, nurses and medical technicians for six-month (or longer)
deployments to foreign locations where medicine is not their only concern. They
could be with the navy in the Gulf, for example. Not many civilian practitioners
queue up to volunteer for these dangerous UN missions.

It cannot be the RCMP and the military who are providing the bulk of the
patients to private clinics. One is left with Workers Compensation Board
patients.

Mac Savage,

Surrey

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

