                              262 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             June 2, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan: Three-day national workshop on patient safety starts in PIMS

LENGTH: 433  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, June 02 -- A three-day national workshop on

expansion of Patient Safety Friendly Hospital Initiative (PSFHI)

commenced at Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) on

Monday.

Addressing the opening session of the workshop, Secretary

Health Khushnood Akhtar Lashari said the workshop had been organized

with an aim to raise awareness and capacity development of

clinicians, hospital staff and managers in the implementation of

the PSFHI.

He said the overall objective of PSFHI implementation in

Pakistan is to strive for accreditation with an internationally

acknowledged hospital standard and achieve the ultimate aim of

patient safety, trust and satisfaction in the health care system.

He said Patient Safety Centre in PIMS will serve to establish

its leadership role in the field of quality and safety in health

care. It is envisaged to act as a hub of PSFHI activities in

Pakistan through implementation of the standard protocols, he added.

He said it will also serve as a training and resource centre

to improve quality and safety of care in other tertiary and

secondary health care hospitals across the country.

Country head of World Health Organization (WHO) Dr. Khalif Bile

said that patient safety is a WHO strategy in which member states

are urged to develop national standards for patient safety, making

use of WHO technical guiding documents.

He added member states have been asked to formulate national

patient safety programmes in collaboration with the Regional Office

and the World Alliance for Patient Safety besides establishing

mechanisms to promote partnership between regional patient safety

institutions and national health care delivery systems.

He said Patient Safety Friendly Hospital Initiative aimed at

instigating and encouraging safe health practices in hospitals and

involves the implementation of a set of patient safety standards

in health institutions.

He said the patient safety initiative covers a wide array of

areas including leadership and management measures, patient and

public involvement measures, safe evidence based clinical practices

measures, safe environment measures and lifelong learning measures.

He added the major steps involved in the process included

assessment of current level of patient safety in the hospitals,

provision of technical assistance for improving the level of patient

safety, follow-up assessment to demonstrate improvement and

technical assistance to develop a national safety progra Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For more information on news
feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


