                              263 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           August 22, 1998, Saturday

Clinic gives High Point doctors

BYLINE: AMELIA DAVIS

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1027 words

DATELINE: LARGO



A medical clinic staffed by three physicians, a registered nurse and a
full-time receptionist opened this week in the High Point community.

The clinic, which will provide basic family care, means most residents will  be
within walking distance of a primary care facility.

"Our community has needed this for so long," said Fran Lever, a member of  High
Point Community Pride. "So many of our residents don't have  transportation."

The clinic, on the campus of the Pinellas Technical Education Center, is a
joint project of the Pinellas County school district and health department,  Sun
Coast Hospital and the Suncoast Family YMCAs.

Don Bitting, assistant PTEC director, said it is on the north side of the
campus in Building 17. The technical school is at 6100 154th Ave. N.

In addition to serving residents in the High Point neighborhood, staff  members
and their families at High Point Elementary and PTEC will use the  clinic,
Bitting said.

"We are so proud of this because it is a really nice facility," Bitting  said.
"We believe it will help us build a stronger partnership with the High  Point
community."

Ken Kniaz, director of clinic services for Sun Coast, said the hospital is
pleased to offer medical services within the High Point neighborhood, which is
between Ulmerton Road and Roosevelt Boulevard just east of Largo.

The High Point clinic is the hospital's fourth and the farthest from the  main
facility, an osteopathic hospital on Indian Rocks Road.

Clinic patients with special needs will be referred to Sun Coast  specialists,
Kniaz said.

Rotating doctors on staff at the High Point Clinic are Pamela Karasy,  Gregory
James and Larry Bunnell. Together, the three osteopathic physicians  have more
than 40 years of experience.

Mary Ponshock, a member of High Point Neighbors, said she has heard rumors
about the clinic and believes it will be a welcome addition to the
neighborhood.

"Now, I have to go quite a ways to go to the doctor," Ponshock said.

For the time being, clinic hours are from 1 to 5 p.m. Mondays, Wednesdays  and
Fridays and from 8:30 a.m. to noon Tuesdays and Thursdays.

Kniaz said he hopes hours can be expanded once residents discover the  clinic
and begin to use it regularly.

"We are handing out fliers at the schools and in the mobile home parks,"  Kniaz
said. "Our goal is to have this explode in the community."

He said the clinic will accept patients on almost all insurance plans and  offer
sliding scale fees depending on annual family income to those without
insurance.

Residents are welcome to stop by to see the facility, he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


