                              274 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                           September 17, 2007 Monday

New ventures

LENGTH: 570 words


New ventures

TAS teams with Lifeport to boost offerings for 'flying ambulances'

By AMANDA PEDERSEN Medical Device Daily Staff Writer

Imagine that near-fatal accident during rush hour in the middle of a heavily
populated city. An ambulance gets to the scene through heavy traffic, but it's
unlikely the vehicle would be able to get you to the nearest hospital in time.

The only alternative: an air "ambulance" is called in, a helicopter -- leaping
over all that rush hour traffic to save a life.

"Helicopters offer an unrestricted line of sight," Don Hubbard, a completions
manager at Texas Aviation Services (TAS; Fort Worth, Texas) told Medical Device
Daily. "The quickest way from point A to point B is a straight line -- that's
what you get with a helicopter."

TAS, a helicopter technical services company, said it is boosting its service
offerings to airborne EMS helicopter operations and hospitals.

It has teamed with Lifeport (Woodland, Washington) for new medical interior
configurations, expanding its technical workforce, and investing for broader
technical capacities at its Fort Worth facilities in order to take on more air
ambulance rotorcraft projects, the company said.

Hubbard said develops "flying ambulances" that are equipped with a wide array of
medical equipment for a range of life-saving offerings: multiple stretchers and
mounting devices, defibrillators and monitors. Added to this are communications
devices to allow the air medical crew to coordinate with the hospital about the
patient's status.

Besides responding to emergency scenes, the company's helicopters also provide
hospital-to-hospital transportation, Hubbard said.

TAS has performed 96 new "completions" for EMS fleet operators in the past 10
years, according to Tim Woodward, the company's president. He said the company's
most recent air ambulance helicopter was delivered to Omniflight (Addison,
Texas).

"TAS has over 20 years of experience in creating flying emergency rooms for air
medical customers," said Steve Townes, chairman of TAS and its parent company,
Ranger Aerospace and Aeronautics (Grapevine, Texas). "Our strategic teaming with
Lifeport, combined with Ranger's proven access to growth capital, means we can
focus even more on the unique needs of our air medical customers."

In other new ventures: BioReliance (Rockville, Maryland) said it has contracted
with Gentronix (Manchester, UK) to offer Gentronix's GreenScreen HC in vitro
assay as part of its portfolio of genotoxicity screening services.

GreenScreen HC, in conjunction with Ames II assays, is designed to allow
pharmaceutical companies to test for geneotoxic potential earlier in the
preclinical development process, using only a few milligrams of test compound as
opposed to the gram quantities required by current ICH regulatory tests,
according to the company.

GreenScreen HC is human cell-based genotoxicity screening assay that links the
regulation of human Growth Arrest and DNA Damage gene to the production of Green
Fluorescent Protein (GFP), the company said. Cells that have incurred DNA damage
upon exposure to a test compound express higher levels of detectable GFP.

The GreenScreen HC requires only 1 mg of "starting" material to demonstrate high
specificity, in contrast to other in vitro genetic toxicology assays that often
provide false positive results, according to Gentronix.

Gentronix develops tools for the drug-discovery field.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2007 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


