                              266 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                             August 6, 2010 Friday

Nursing, HA colleges press to scrap deal

BYLINE: Himalayan News Service

LENGTH: 324  words


KATHMANDU: The Forum for Health and Technical Sciences today urged the Council
for Technical Education and Vocational Training to scrap

the agreement reached in the past and allow admissions in the Proficiency
Certificate Level in Nursing and Health Assistant.

CTEVT and nursing college owners had reached an agreement in August 7, 2007 that
any nursing college

affiliated with CTEVT could coordinate with other hospitals for students'
practical classes till they finish

constructing their own 50-bed hospital.

The agreement has it that every nursing college should have its own hospital
within two years of signing the agreement and that the hospital should be in
operation by mid-July 2009. But, most of the colleges could not fulfill the
commitment, thereby resulting in the halt of admission for PCL staff nurse and
Health Assistance/ general medicine this year.

Representatives from FHTS demanded scrapping of the agreement citing hospital
construction was an expensive business.

"CTEVT needs to scrap the 2007 agreement because it was erroneous," said
Khagendra Adhikari, general secretary, FHTS. "With admissions halted, 1,640
students have been deprived of pursuing their staff nurse and HA/ general
medicine course."

According to Adhikari, CTEVT had halted admissions in 21 colleges with staff
nurse programme and 20 colleges with HA programme.

Other speakers stated that they were ready to coordinate with the government to
strengthen primary health centres and districts hospitals instead of
constructing own hospitals because it was costly.

In case government failed to listen to them and did not scrap the earlier
agreement, they would be forced to come to streets, they said.

Dr Devi Ghimire, vice chairperson, CTEVT said that he was positive about their
demands. "The private sector should be encouraged by allowing them to open
admissions on PCL in nursing but as it is sub-judice now, I cannot speak
anything on behalf of CTEVT," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


