                              272 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

ITE: Students still keen on nursing

                            April 12, 2003 Saturday


THE Sars outbreak has not turned students off nursing, going by the number of
appeals for places on the Institute of Technical Education's (ITE) nursing
course.

Early last month, 444 O-level and N-level students applied for the two-year
course, which qualifies them to work as assistant nurses. This was four times
the number of places available.

Despite the Sars outbreak last month, about 150 students who were rejected have
appealed for places. And none of those accepted for the course has withdrawn.

Students currently doing the nursing course are just as keen. Those who are due
to go for their hospital attachments in July are keeping their fingers crossed
that it will not be affected.

ITE, like the polytechnics and universities, has remained open despite the Sars
outbreak. But the 186 nursing students who were attached to hospitals were
immediately withdrawn.

Second-year nursing student Shaffa Reny Saleh hopes her attachment to Singapore
General Hospital in July will not be affected.

The bubbly 23-year-old said: 'I can't wait to get back for more experience;
hopefully the situation will not be so bad by then.

'But even if it is, I would not mind going back. After all, this is the time
when nurses can do with the extra help.'

Even her first-year course mate Gan Thiam San, 34, who has a one-month-old son,
says he is not worried about his upcoming hospital attachment.

'I am more worried that I may not be able to go,' he said.

The former businessman, who gave up his cosmetic jewellery shop to join ITE,
said he has learnt about some of the more serious epidemics that have occurred
in the past.

'If you watch television and read the news, it is quite obvious that our poor
nurses and doctors are stretched. I would like to help, if I can.

'Watching them, I feel fortunate to have chosen the nursing profession.'

The Senior Minister of State for Education, Mr Tharman Shanmugaratnam, who
visited ITE's Bishan campus on Thursday, said he was glad to see that the Sars
outbreak had not scared off students.

He said ITE had done a good job in educating its 17,000 students on its 10
campuses out Sars and by putting in place precautionary measures.

SECTION: SINGAPORE

LENGTH: 365 words

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2003 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


