                              275 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 25, 1995

Safety device fails as two die

BYLINE: Rob Robertson

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 281 words


A LEADING Scottish psychiatric hospital, where four patients committed suicide
within eight weeks, last night admitted a special life-saving device failed to
prevent two of them taking their own lives.

The Royal Edinburgh Hospital admitted that special anti-suicide measures
installed around patients' beds had not worked. They said emergency work was
carried out yesterday afternoon and first thing this morning to rectify the
problem.

Edinburgh South MP Nigel Griffiths last night demanded an inquiry into why
curtain rails, designed to collapse under a weight of five stones or more, had
not done so and two patients had hung themselves from them.

A spokesman for Edinburgh Healthcare Trust, which runs the hospital, said the
victims had found a way round the safety device.

She added: "We needed to find technical solutions to this and work was carried
out yesterday and today. We carried out our own tests on the rails and they have
been shown to collapse but the victims managed to find a way round the safety
measures.

The spokeswoman said the "technical solutions" would be put in place in six
wards at the hospital.

It is believed the second suicide, around eight weeks after the first, was a
copy-cat. Mr Griffiths said questions must be asked over whether the second
death could have been avoided if the "technical solutions" had been put into
place earlier.

The other two suicides within the eight-week period were by patients who had
killed themselves while on passes from the hospital.

Mr Griffiths said he believed the poor conditions at the hospital and the lack
of adequate community back-up might have contributed to the deaths.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.


