                              269 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Miadhu (Maldives)

                            December 30, 2012 Sunday

Gasim determined to build state-of-the-art hospital in Maamigili

LENGTH: 287  words


Maamigili constituency MP and leader of the Jumhooree Party, Gasim Ibrahim has
said that he is determined to build a state of the art hospital in Maamigili.

Founder of the Villa Foundation, business tycoon Gasim Ibrahim made this remark
speaking at the ceremony held at Maamigili.

Gasim said that a technical team from Europe will be visiting Maamigili on
January 7 to initiate the technical works of the hospital. He said that they
will be finishing this work within 10 days. He said that after the work of the
technical team is concluded the construction works will begin according to the
counsel of the team.

Gasim said that the hospital will be managed by Europeon doctors. "I believe
that a thing can be fulfilled by the experts of that field. Therefore, this
hospital will be run with the partnership and assistance of professional doctors
from Europe," he said.

Gasim noted that the construction speed might not be as fast as hoped because of
the economic drawbacks that the world is experiencing today.

Meanwhile, Gasim was recently conferred with the degree of Doctor of
Entrepreneurship (honoris causa) by Open University Malaysia at their 13th
convocation held on 16th December 2012 at Merdeka Hall, Putra World Trade
Centre, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The honorary doctorate award was  conferred on
to Gasim by the Chancellor of Open University Malaysia, Datin Seri Jeanne
Abdullah.

In his acceptance remarks, Gasim spoke about the lack of availability of
educational opportunities during his childhood in Maldives and that he felt that
this honour signifies that what one has learnt over the years can be measured in
broader terms of lifetime accomplishments as an alternative to a conventional
classroom attainment.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                             Copyright 2012 Miadhu
                              All Rights Reserved


