                              273 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 11, 1993

Father of dead child leaves courtrooom after hearing of dangers Expert tells of
ventilator risk for babies

BYLINE: Bill Caven

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 612 words


NURSING staff at a Glasgow hospital were unknowingly putting newly-born babies
at grave risk each time they placed them in a Sechrist ventilator, a technical
expert told a fatal accident inquiry yesterday.

The situation existed at the special baby care unit at the Southern General
Hospital for more than three years until the death of Danielle Gillogley last
year -- 13 hours after she was born.

Mr Alastair Plank, 30, a service engineer with a company which supplies and
maintains hospital equipment, confirmed that the Sechrist ventilator would not
be able to function properly if the medical air pressure exceeded a certain
level.

The result, he said, would be that the ventilator would not be able to deliver
pure oxygen as required, but only air.

Cross-examined by Mr Ian Sharpe QC, counsel for the family, Mr Plank agreed that
a child would receive as much oxygen and air from "an open window" as it would
from the ventilator in this unit.

Mr Sharpe continued: "If we can be clear about this, what you are telling us is
that every baby using this ventilator since 1989, and we are talking about a
considerable number of babies, was at risk, and a substantial risk at that?"

The service engineer nodded and replied: "Yes."

Seconds later, Mr Joe Gillogley, 30, whose daughter died in June of last year
after being born healthy, left the courtroom.

Earlier, Mr Plank told Sheriff Eric Galt that he had voiced his concern with the
hospital's technical staff after discovering that they had changed four-bar
probes to the older style seven-bar type.

He admitted that such a move was "extremely exceptional", adding that, on his
visits to nearly 70 hospitals, the Southern General was the only one operating
in this way.

The reason given, he said, was that the wall-mounted oxygen and medical air
pressure fittings only operated with seven bar fittings, although the actual
pressure was restricted to four.

The inquiry was told by Mr Plank that the pressures were clearly specified in a
document produced by the British Standards Authority. All respiratory equipment,
such as ventilators, operated on four-bar pressure while power tools required
the seven.

Asked by Mr Sharpe how he would react if it became known that a member of the
hospital's estates department was aware that the special baby care unit had been
operating on seven-bar pressure since 1981 despite the BS memo, the technical
expert admitted that he would be "outraged".

Mr Sharpe claimed that almost three months before Danielle's death an order had
been placed by the estates department for four-bar probes, despite knowing that
the existing air-oxygen pressure was being supplied at nearly twice this
requirement.

This was confirmed by Mr Gerald O'Hara, a technical officer at the Southern, who
said that an estates official had passed on this information during an internal
investigation to discover why the Sechrist ventilator appeared to be losing pure
oxygen levels.

Mr O'Hara, who is now at the Victoria Infirmary, said there had been little
contact between the medical physics department, who were responsible for the
equipment, and the estates department who looked after the oxygen-air pressure
pipes.

He agreed with Mr Sharpe when asked if it was a case of the "right hand not
knowing what the left hand was doing" -- "We never crossed over into their patch
and likewise," the technical officer said.

He admitted his total surprise on learning that the medical air and oxygen
pressures were substantially greater than that actually required by the
equipment.

The inquiry will resume at the beginning of January.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.


