                              283 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Moscow Times

                                  July 3, 1998

Doctors Rule Out Cholera Epidemic

BYLINE: By Bronwyn McLaren

SECTION: No. 1487

LENGTH: 556 words


Staff Writer

Investigators have tracked down the source of the cholera bacteria that infected
a father and son, and there is no risk of a cholera epidemic in Moscow, the
chief doctor at the city's health inspection service said Thursday.

"Yes, it was an unpleasant incident, but I can now guarantee you that this
threat (of a cholera epidemic) remains in history," said Dr. Nikolai Filatov.

Moscow's first cholera victim of 1998 was hospitalized June 22, five days after
he fell ill. The second victim - the man's son - was hospitalized with the
disease a week later. The two men are Moscow's only registered cholera cases
this year.

Their infection raised fears of a citywide epidemic, and 548 people who came
into contact with the infected men were tested. Of these, only eight remain
under observation in Infectious Diseases Hospital No. 2, and all have tested
negative for the disease, a hospital spokesman said.

A city government commission established to find the source of the disease
presented its conclusions Thursday.

The source of the cholera was tracked down to Moskovsky Podshipnik, the ball
-bearing factory in southeast Moscow where the elder cholera patient, works. He
became infected after drinking unpotable "technical water."

Technical water is not purified to the same level as drinking water. It is
therefore cheaper and used only for industrial purposes, such as cooling.

Under Russian health regulations, technical water should remain completely
enclosed and should not be accessible through common household faucets.

A sign hung over the offending tap, warning workers not to drink the water. The
victim was the only one out of 6,500 workers at the factory to drink from the
tap, Filatov said.

The chief doctor said it is possible that criminal proceedings will be brought
against whomever is found responsible for allowing contaminated, technical water
to flow freely.

"All the results from our investigations have been handed over to Moscow's
prosecutor general," Filatov said.

The ball-bearing company could not be reached for comment Thursday.

Police, water-system workers and emergency personnel joined in the frantic hunt
for the cholera's source, which Filatov said cost "a colossal amount of money."

The commission carried out 2,500 cholera tests on food and water at a cost of 16
rubles ($ 2.60) each. The first patient, 65, remains in serious condition in
Infectious Diseases Hospital No. 2. He is suffering from a chronic kidney
disease that was exacerbated by the cholera. Doctors fear for his life. His son,
35, remains ill in the same hospital, but there is no longer any threat to his
life.

Cholera is an infectious disease caused by contaminated water. It is usually
found in Third World countries where sanitation is poor.

Although last year Moscow health authorities found rivers contaminated with
cholera bacteria in five places, this year, no traces have been found, Filatov
said.

Every year, Moscow experiences some five or six cases of cholera, brought into
the capital by visitors from other regions, Filatov said. He also said the
federal health inspection service has placed doctors at railway border crossings
and airports to check people coming from places like Kazakhstan and Dagestan,
where the risk is considered high.


LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                        Copyright 1998 Independent Press


