                              278 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 15, 2014 Monday

Montana: Clinical Specialist CRDM Montana 10077389

LENGTH: 283  words

DATELINE: Helena


Department of Labor & Industry, The State of Montana has issued the following
job announcement:

10077389
Job Title:  Clinical Specialist CRDM Montana
Employer:  Medtronic
Location:  MISSOULA MT, 59801
Description:  Medtronic is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer
Position Description Provide technical, educational and sales support to assist
the district in meeting brady and tachy sales and customer service objectives.

CRDM seeks candidates who will meet our customer expectations by striving
without reserve for the greatest possible reliability and quality in our
products, processes and systems by being accountable, having a voice, and taking
action. Position Responsibilities 1. Technical Support: (a) Represents Medtronic
during surgeries and implants of products to provide troubleshooting and other
technical assistance. (b) Provides technical support with reprogrammings and
follow-ups in hospitals and clinics. (c) Provides support with field clinical
investigations in assigned institutions. Ensures completion of necessary
documentation. (d) Receives technical inquiries by telephone. Researches
solutions to questions or problems (e.g., pacing system malfunctions, product
selection issues, when appropriate, etc.) (e) Provides on call support as needed
for surgeries, reprogrammings, troubleshooting, follow-up enrollments, etc. on
evenings and weekends. 2. Educational Support: (a) Educates and trains
physicians, hospital personnel and office staff on technical matters relating to
our products and pacing through conducting and/or coordinating: 1. One-on-one
training sessions. 2. In-service education programs. 3. Seminars and/or outside
symposiums. (52028188)
Open

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


