                              279 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (AsiaNet)

                            January 13, 2014 Monday

Fully equipped cardiac centre to be constructed at CDA hospital

SECTION: Vol. 16 No. 13

LENGTH: 262  words


The technical committee of CDA has approved three projects including
construction of cardiac centre, up-gradation and expansion of operation theatre
at CDA Hospital and matters related to Park Enclave Housing Project.

The meeting of technical committee of Capital Development Authority was held at
CDA Headquarters. Chairman Capital Development Authority, Maroof Afzal presided
over the meeting.

The committee approved the construction of state of the art cardiac centre at
CDA Hospital.

The cardiac centre will be constructed at cost of Rs 190 million including cost
of machinery, other allied equipment and staff.

State of the art cardiac centre will be equipped with all latest facilities. It
was informed that CDA spends Rs 25 million on cardiac patients who are referred
to other hospitals due to non-availability of these facilities at CDA hospitals.

After the establishment of this cardiac centre CDA would not only save Rs 25
million but also earn a handsome amount by treating the non-entitled patients.

During the meeting it was decided that operation theatre at CDA hospital would
be up-graded, expanded and modernized according to present time needs.

In this regard it was decided that the operation theatre at CDA hospital would
be upgraded and expanded to enable it to conduct four operations simultaneously.

The technical committee also approved in principle to provide all facilities to
the allotees of Park Enclave Housing Project as committed in the broachers at
the time of auction / allotment. The PC-1 for Park Enclave Housing Project will
also be approved soon.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


