                              285 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                            March 23, 2016 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Ambitious hopes for Health University Technical College

BYLINE: Matt Discombe

SECTION: SPORTS; FRONT PAGE; TEASERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 361 words


GLOUCESTER could become home to a state-of-the art health university training
doctors and nurses to fill the county's skills gap.

The University of Gloucestershire, the NHS Gloucestershire Hospitals Foundation
Trust and MP for Gloucester Richard Graham announced the plan yesterday.

They will submit a bid in October to the Baker Dearing Trust for a new
Gloucestershire Health University Technical College based within the grounds of
Gloucestershire Royal Hospital.

It will enable 14 to 18-year-olds to gain qualifications and experience in the
NHS.

The bid, a joint statement said, "reflects the vital importance and size of the
health sector in our county - almost 50,000 jobs in Gloucestershire - and
recognition that there isn't enough training for the skills needed at the moment
in the county".

Dr Frank Harsent, the outgoing chief executive of the hospitals trust, added:
"Much needs to be done to address this and a UTC focused on health futures, with
work experience in a variety of different institutions and roles, will make a
huge difference."

Mr Graham has led discussions exploring the potential for such a facility since
hearing from Lord Baker, chairman of the Baker Dearing Trust, which was set up
to explore the viability of new university technical colleges, about the new
West Bromwich Health Futures UTC.

Mr Graham said: "I thought there was enormous potential for a UTC based in
Gloucester, close to the city centre transport links, so that students could
come from all over the county."

Overseas recruitment drives for nurses to staff hospitals have become a common
theme in recent years, with 200 Filipino nurses hired last March and many more
coming from Spain and Portugal.

University vice-chancellor Stephen Marston said: "Given the importance of the
health service, we are keen to work with the hospitals trust and other NHS
partners to help ensure they can recruit the staff they need to provide
excellent patient care, particularly through increasing the supply of qualified
nurses."

Dr Harsent said Gloucestershire Royal was the right site: "We have the space
and, if the bid is successful, the capital expenditure from the Baker Dearing
Trust."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2016 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved


