                              280 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                              June 21, 2013 Friday

SAfrica's University of Witwatersrand issues apology over Mandela "obituary"

LENGTH: 496 words


Text of report by South African newspaper Pretoria News on 21 June

[Report by Angelique Serrao: "Wits Sorry Over Obituary for Madiba"]

WITS University issued an apology yesterday after an obituary written on Nelson
Mandela became public. The university said it had prepared the document, for
when the former statesman died, and had hidden it on its system.

"However, a technical error made this available via the search function on
Google," Wits said.

The institution said that at no stage did it issue the obituary as a statement
or publish it on its website.

The obituary, titled "Hamba kahle Tata Mandela [Rest in Peace Mr Mandela]",
spoke about Mandela's history with the university, mentioning that he studied
there and received an honorary doctorate at the institution.

Wits apologised to "family members, friends, fellow South Africans and global
citizens" for the obituary making its way on to the internet.

It regretted the mishap and has launched an investigation to get to the root of
the technical glitch to find out which department was responsible for the
incident, it said.

This is not the first time Nelson Mandela's death has been announced mistakenly.

In April, the last time Mandela was in hospital with a respiratory infection,
DStv's Universal Channel ran a documentary, titled "Remembering Madiba
1918-2013".

The ANC was outraged at the broadcast, and branded it insensitive. Universal
Channel apologised for the broadcast, saying it had obituaries ready for major
statesmen. It also said the documentary was run owing to a technical error.

In December, again when Mandela was in hospital, e.tv was also forced to
apologise when it included file footage of Mandela's wife Graca Machel saying
the former statesman had lost his sparkle. The footage was in fact taken in 2009
and was not related to Mandela's hospital stay at the time.

eNCA news anchor Jeremy Maggs apologised to viewers that the file footage had
made its way into a news story.

Meanwhile, Mandela's wife Graca Machel yesterday arrived at the MediClinic Heart
Hospital in the city where Mandela is being treated for a lung infection.

Mandela's daughter Zenani Mandela-Dlamini, who is South Africa's ambassador to
Argentina, also visited with Madiba's grandchildren Zoleka and Zaziwe
Dlamini-Manaway. They were with Zaziwe's husband, US businessman David Manaway.

He was "doing very well", MandelaDlamini said while collecting get-well cards
outside the hospital on Monday.

ANC MP Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, also arrived at the hospital accompanied by
her daughter Zindzi.

The elderly statesman was spending his 13th day in hospital. Mandela, 94, was
admitted to hospital on June 8. The Presidency said he was in a "serious but
stable" condition.

Several close relatives of the antiapartheid icon have visited him daily.

Well-wishers have adorned the hospital's perimeter wall with get-well-soon
cards, bouquets of flowers, balloons, sculptures, and flags.

Source: Pretoria News, Pretoria, in English 21 Jun 13

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2013 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


