                              292 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            February 14, 2005 Monday
                          FIVE STAR LATE LIFT EDITION

Getting technical can be exciting, some have found

BYLINE: BY ROBERT KELLY Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: NORTH POST; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 386 words


* Graduates are celebrating National Career and Technical Education Week this
week.

When Jamie Helms of St. Louis County enrolled in the veterinary technology
program at Jefferson College in Hillsboro, she had no idea about the exotic
internship awaiting her less than a year later.

What she knew was that she wanted to work with animals and help them stay
healthy.

"I didn't have a clue that I'd be working on a gorilla," she said. "Cats and
dogs don't compare."

Helms, now 29 and working for the Bridgeton Animal Hospital, found herself
cleaning the mouth of a sedated gorilla with a suction tube while preparing the
animal for some dental work when she worked as an intern at the St. Louis Zoo in
the summer of 2003.

She said such experiences at the zoo helped prepare her for her a job assisting
veterinarians at the animal hospital at 3148 McKelvey Road in Bridgeton.

"I love what I'm doing now," Helms said.

She noted that she primarily works with dogs and cats at the Bridgeton clinic.
"I'm basically a nurse to the veterinarians," she said.

Helms said the associate's degree she earned at Jefferson College helped her get
ready to care for animals large and small. It's a much more rewarding job than
the billing and title work she did for auto dealers before enrolling in the
veterinary technology program, she said.

Helms earned her associate's degree last May and started her current job in
June. She credited Jefferson College for lining up her zoo internship. The
program provided good, hands-on training for the working world, she said.

College officials said they viewed their role at a community college as giving
students both educational and practical job experiences. The college is joining
other schools in observing National Career and Technical Education Week this
week.

Jefferson College offers more than 20 technical education programs. In most of
them, students have the choice of pursuing either an associate degree or a
career education certificate.

College officials said they can find immediate jobs for almost all of their
technical education graduates.

"In most of Jefferson College's technical programs, we receive many more job
leads than we could ever fill," said Frank Thoendel, the dean of technical
education. "For students, this often results in a variety of job opportunities
to choose from."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  * Note: This report also ran in the Jefferson County Post, page 01, with
the photos.

GRAPHIC: photo
 Photos by JORGEN GULLIKSEN / POST-DISPATCH Jamie Helms checks on a dog named
Lucy during an operation at Bridgeton Animal Hospital.   RIGHT: Helms carries
Lucy. Helms worked in an office before earning a degree at Jefferson College.

