                              287 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                           February 16, 2016 Tuesday

No technical guidelines issued

BYLINE: Muhammad Qasim

SECTION: Vol. 25 No. 353

LENGTH: 565  words


The district health department and the three teaching hospitals in town received
no technical guidelines from the government so far to check incidence of Zika
virus disease and to manage its cases in case they appear.

Ironical it is to hear from top health officials that the government issued no
directives so far regarding surveillance and treatment of Zika virus disease
because the incidence of the infection has not been reported anywhere in
Pakistan as yet.

Benazir Bhutto Hospital has not received any directives so far from the
government about management protocol of suspected patients with Zika virus
disease nor the hospital has any testing facility for confirmation of the
infection in a patient, said Medical Superintendent at BBH Dr. Asif Qadir Mir
while talking to 'The News' on Monday.

He added that the BBH can provide supportive medication to suspected patients of
Zika virus disease in case of its incidence as there is no medication available
for Zika virus disease around the globe.

To date, the District Headquarters Hospital has received no technical guidelines
on management of suspected patients of Zika virus disease nor has the hospital
administration been informed of availability of testing facility for
confirmatory tests in case of suspected patients, said DHQ Hospital chief Dr.
Khalid Randhawa while talking to 'The News'.

To a query, he however admitted that the situation is alarming as the breeding
of vector for dengue fever and Zika virus disease, 'aedes aegypti', could not be
controlled in the region.

It is important that the mosquitoes 'aedes aegypti' and 'aedes albopictus' are
considered as the main vectors for transmission of Zika virus disease like that
of dengue fever virus. Also it is important that there is no testing facility
available in Pakistan for confirmation of Zika virus infection in a patient.

Executive District Officer (Health) Dr. Arshad Ali Sabir, when contacted, said
the Punjab government has not issued any directives on measures to check Zika
virus disease as no case of the infection has so far been reported in the
country. Mode of transmission of Zika virus is same like that of dengue virus
and we are already working for elimination of mosquitoes 'aedes aegypti', he
said.

To a query, he said that no special precautions are needed at the time for
surveillance against Zika virus disease because the virus does not exist in
Pakistan. In case its cases are reported, what the health department can do is
to only work for controlling vector of the disease, he said.

Zika virus disease is not fatal; he said and added that it may only cause
congenital microcephaly, which causes babies to be born with abnormally small
heads. For quarantine at airports, provincial governments can do nothing instead
the federal government should frame a national policy, he said while responding
to a query.

Zika virus infection is more alarming because it symptomatic in only about one
out of every five cases. When symptomatic, Zika infection usually presents as an
influenza-like syndrome, often mistaken for other arboviral infections like
dengue or chikungunya.

It is important that the government has done nothing so far for surveillance of
Zika virus disease even at international points of entry, ports and airports nor
the ports and airports are being monitored to ensure early detection of any
exotic mosquitoes from endemic countries.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


