                              294 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                             June 1, 2016 Wednesday
                               Advertiser Edition

A test of patience as new RAH stays empty until 2017

BYLINE: BRAD CROUCH MEDICAL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 614  words


THE State Government must wait until at least September before it is handed the
keys to the $2.1 billion new Royal Adelaide Hospital and ongoing delays mean
patients will not move in before 2017.

Building consortium HYLC has briefed stakeholders and the State Government on
its latest technical completion target, telling them it now looks like
mid-September, but without a firm date. It has missed three target dates so far
this year.

These delays have repeatedly pushed back the opening date for patients and
Health Minister Jack Snelling says the new target means plans for a belated
November 30 opening will now likely be abandoned.

Technical completion is when the Government takes ownership for three months of
testing to ensure the complex is built to specifications.

This latest timeline, combined with the complexity of shifting from the existing
RAH to the new building, means the new RAH is not expected to be operational
until well into 2017. Mr Snelling is taking the latest target with a grain of
salt after HYLC repeatedly missed its earlier stated targets.

"That is the builder's date, they have not had a great track record of providing
accurate dates in the past so we are independently assessing whether it is
realistic or not," he told The Advertiser.

"If it was to be September, it would be unlikely that we would be in the new
hospital by the end of the year.

"My main priority is we move into the hospital when it is safe to do so and it
is not rushed." The builders do not face any penalty for the delay.

The latest delay means a saving for the State Budget - the Government does not
begin paying SA Health Partnership the agreed $1 million a day until after the
three-month testing period.

SAHP is the project consortium responsible for the financing, design,
construction, commissioning and facility management under a public-private
partnershipPrivate Partnership with a 35 year contract.

SAHP chief executive Duncan Jewell said builders HYLC - which is part of SAHP -
has submitted an updated Recovery Plan and Program which SAHP and the State
Government are reviewing.

"Until this review is complete and all parties agree, no updated technical
completion date for the new RAH can be set," he said.

"Technical completion marks the point at which the state can commence clinical
commissioning, scenario and staff training sessions that lead to Commercial
Acceptance, and ultimately the handing over of the facility to the state.

"As the project nears completion, additional resources continue to be employed
on site, and will do so until technical completion is achieved, with every
effort to progress the works in a timely and safe manner." Meanwhile, the
troubled EPAS system will "go live" at The Queen Elizabeth Hospital on June 29.

Central Adelaide Local Health Network chief executive Julia Squire has told
staff the $422 million electronic patient record system will be 'a major
improvement to how we deliver care.' "The hospital will be the first Central
Adelaide Local Health Network site to 'Go-Live' with EPAS and the eighth site to
be activated across South Australia," she told staff in a memo seen by The
Advertiser.

Opposition health spokesman Stephen Wade said EPAS was an ongoing fiasco. "EPAS
is a slow moving train wreck threatening patient care and the state budget," he
said.

"EPAS is currently $200 million overbudget. It was meant to be operating in 10
metropolitan hospitals two years ago - it is currently only operating in two.

"The QEH will be first large hospital to receive EPAS and doctors have expressed
alarm at the risks - this is the biggest test that EPAS has faced yet."TIMELAPSE
VIDEO: HOW THE NEW RAH EVOLVED OVER 12 MONTHSADVERTISER.COM.AU

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Advertiser


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


