                              290 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             June 3, 2010 Thursday

Pakistan: PIMS patient safety initiative to be replicated across Pakistan

LENGTH: 485  words

DATELINE: Islamabad


Islamabad, June 03 -- Having been piloted at the Pakistan Institute of Medical
Sciences (PIMS), the Patient Safety Friendly Hospital Initiative (PSFHI) will
now be introduced at the national, regional and institutional levels,
participants of a three-day workshop held at PIMS to build the capacity of
clinicians, hospital staff and managers in implementation of the PSFHI were
informed.

The workshop is being attended by doctors from 12 hospitals from all over the
country including Mastung, Skardu, Muzaffarabad, Jhelum and Peshawar. Secretary
Health Khushnood Lashari was the chief guest at the workshop's inaugural
session. He was flanked by WHO Representative Dr. Khalif Bile, WHO EMRO trainer
Dr. Sameen Siddiqi, acting executive director of PIMS Professor Mehmood Jamal
and Joint ED Dr. Jehanzeb Aurakzai. The participants were informed that a
national network of trainers and surveyors for PSFHI will be developed, along
side a mechanism for communication with WHO country and regional offices. PSFHI
aims to encourage safe health practices in hospitals and involves implementation
of a set of patient safety standards.

The major steps involved in the process include assessment of current level of
patient safety in the hospital, provision of technical assistance for improving
the level of patient safety, follow-up assessment to demonstrate improvement;
and technical assistance to develop a national safety programme. Infection
control is a key prerequisite for attainment of patient safety, as it
contributes to a significant reduction in the burden of disease attributable to
health care-associated infections. Another challenge is to improve the safety of
surgical care in all healthcare settings.

Patient Safety is a WHO strategy in which member states are urged to develop
national standards for patient safety, making use of WHO technical guiding
documents; formulating national patient safety programmes in collaboration with
the Regional Office and the World Alliance for Patient Safety; and establishing
mechanisms to promote partnership between regional patient safety institutions
and national health care delivery systems.

PSFHI aims to instigate and encourage safe health practices in hospitals and
involves the implementation of a set of patient safety standards in these health
institutions. Patient safety standards and implementation guidelines have been
developed at Eastern Mediterranean Regional Office (WHO/EMRO). The Patient
Safety Initiative covers a wide array of areas, which are divided into the five
section including 'Leadership and Management Measures', 'Patient and Public
Involvement Measures', 'Safe Evidence based Clinical Practices Measures', 'Safe
environment Measures' and 'Lifelong Learning Measures Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For more information on news
feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


