                              291 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      St. George & Sutherland Shire Leader

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday
                                 First Edition

The (new) doctors are in the house;
STAFF ROTATIONS

BYLINE: Murray Trembath

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 469 words


EXCITEMENT, nervousness, pride and relief after many years of study are emotions
running through 67 medical graduates who have begun work as interns at St George
Hospital and Sutherland Hospital.

During the year, the new doctors will work between the two hospitals, gaining
experience in various departments.

Five of the new interns come from the St George district, while another five
hail from the shire.

Addison He, of Bexley, attended Sydney Technical High School and Fort Street
High School before medical studies at the University of Sydney.

His first posting was to the aged-care department at Sutherland Hospital.

"Despite having learnt and undertaken similar processes at Westmead Hospital,
which was my clinical school, it is really different putting it all into
practice at Sutherland," he said.

"I was a bit nervous on my first day, but a lot more confident after that."

Laura Fitzgerald, of Brighton-Le-Sands, and Andrew Inglis, of Blakehurst, are
also working in aged care at Sutherland Hospital.

Dr Fitzgerald, who attended St Vincent's College Potts Point before studying at
the University of NSW, said she was "excited, but a bit nervous".

Dr Inglis's path to a career in medicine was unusual.

After attending Sydney Technical High School, he gained an engineering degree at
the University of NSW and a PhD in chemistry at the Karlsruhe Institute of
Technology in Germany.

This was followed by medical studies at the University of Sydney.

"Engineering sets you up with a really good skills set and problem-solving
[ability]," he said.

"I had an interest in diseases and general health care, so I thought, 'Why not
put the two together?' "

Tim Duong, of Kogarah, who also attended Sydney Technical High School, obtained
a degree in pharmacy before studying medicine at the University of Sydney.

Along the way, he gained a diploma of paramedical science, and worked on
weekends as a paramedic at Port Botany, caring for people with workplace
injuries and, occasionally, medical conditions.

Dr Duong's initial work at St George Hospital involves 10 weeks of night shifts.

"It is a bit nerve-racking because there are fewer doctors at night, and you
have more responsibility, but it is exciting to be able to put into practice all
the things we have learnt over the last eight years," he said.

Andrew Tse, of Kogarah, attended Sydney Boys High School before medical studies
at the University of NSW.

His internship began in liver surgery at St George Hospital.

"Do you think young doctors get the support they need? Have your say at
theleader.com.au

"Forty-three interns were appointed to St George Hospital, and 24 to Sutherland
Hospital.

"During the year, they will rotate between the two hospitals, gaining experience
in various departments.

"A total of 980 medical graduates were given internships at NSW public
hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Home grown: Andrew Tse (left), Addison He, Laura Fitzgerald, Andrew
Inglis and Tim Duong. Picture: Jane Dyson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


