                              289 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            December 29, 2014 Monday

Medical Equipment Lie Idle Sans Tech Staff

LENGTH: 313 words

DATELINE: BENGALURU


BENGALURU, Dec. 29 -- Medical equipment worth crores of rupees bought in the
last three years are lying idle in government hospitals across the State due to
shortage of technical staff to operate them.

The situation in some hospitals is so acute that doctors are doubling as
operators in the interest of patients.

This startling information was given in a written reply by Health and Family
Welfare minister UT Khader to Puttaranga Shetty of Congress in the Assembly
during the recent Belagavi session. He said that hundreds of crores of rupees
had been spent in the last three years to provide modern equipment for
government hospitals all over the state to improve the quality of medical
services for the poor.

The minster had admitted that posts of medical equipment operators and lab
technicians were vacant in many hospitals, including district hospitals in the
State. However, he said that measures were taken to fill these posts. "We have
started the recruitment process for filling 377 posts of lab technicians and 37
X-ray machine technicians. Personnel for operating scanning machines too are
being recruited," he said.

He stated that costly scanning machines were being operated by doctors
themselves in many places to ensure that the patients did not suffer due to
non-availability of technical staff. But this would be a thing of the past soon
as technical staff were being recruited, he assured the House.

The hospitals all over the State have been instructed to provide a list of their
demands for modern equipment to ensure that they are provided without any delay.
"We are committed to providing high class medical services to people even in
rural areas," he added.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


