                              296 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Namibian (Windhoek)

                                October 02, 2013

N$9,4 Million Plot for Hospital in Katutura

BYLINE: Shinovene Immanuel

LENGTH: 557 words


PLANS to set up a private health centre in Katutura suburb in Windhoek went a
step forward after the municipality approved the sale of a N$9,4 million plot
for the construction of the hospital.

The plot which measures about 27 000 square metres has been sold to Otjomuise
Hospital Property Limited which is co-owned by well-known medical practitioners
Thomas and Puleinge Ihuhua.

The two doctors are part of a six-member team that has decided to set up a
private health centre at the plot situated on Katutura's Claudius Kandovazu
Street. The other co-owners are Alugodhi Kanyama, Ingrid Muhenye and Zimbabwean
nationals Orippa Madziwa and Daniel Bengesai.

The Development Bank of Namibia approached the council in 2011 about the
proposal to set up the Otjomuise Hospital on behalf of the six medical
practitioners.

The council decided last week to sell the plot that has an estimated market
value of N$11,4 million.

Although the initial application for the development of the hospital was made in
2011, the matter was referred back by the council after it informed the
applicants that there was need to get an input from the municipality technical
team since the plot had overhead power lines which affected the erven. According
to council documents, the technical team was also worried about the lack of
access to the road although provision for this could be made.

The municipality earlier said that the issue with regard to the negative impact
the power lines have on the erven has hampered the evaluation and eventual sale
of the erven.

The municipality thus proposed that the 118,971 square metre plot be divided
into two - A and B erven. The estimated value of the two plots were N$9,4
million and N$11,4 million.

"The subdivisions that is now proposed indicates how the power lines can be
accommodated and thus solves the problem," the municipality expert team said.

As a result, the technical team proposed that portion B be sold for the
development of a hospital.

The municipality recommended "that all the utility services, including the
street, be extended to portion B and that it is considered that the cost thereof
be subtracted from the set price [N$9,4 million]".

The plot is centrally located with several schools in the immediate vicinity and
also in close proximity with the Katutura State Hospital.

The department of infrastructure, water and technical services also gave the
green light for the sale as a sewer connection is available and water supply
services to the area are adequate.

The urban planning and property management department wanted clarity on where
the hospital will fall as it is seen as a 'business entity', recommending that
the council considers this as a private treaty sale because Windhoek has a
shortage of hospitals.

According to the property management team, road extension or improvements should
be done while provisions should also be made to improve intersection of Bondel
and Hans-Dierich Genscher Streets to accommodate transport to and from the
hospital.

The management committee made about 30 recommendations, one of which is for the
Otjomuise Hospital to finalise the sale within 18 months from the date of the
council resolution otherwise the sale will be canceled and the plot re-sold.

Other conditions are a reverting clause and restrictive resale conditions to be
registered in favour of the council.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


