                              298 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Brunswick News (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             January 6, 2014 Monday

Legislator pushing for Camden campus

BYLINE: Gordon Jackson, The Brunswick News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 482 words


Jan. 06--WOODBINE -- Obtaining funding for a new technical college campus in
Camden County is the No. 1 priority for state Rep. Jason Spencer when the
General Assembly convenes for its annual legislative session Jan. 13.

Spencer, R-Woodbine, said he and Sen. William Ligon, R-St. Simons Island, will
work together to make a technical college a reality in Camden County.

Funding for the $16 million campus at a 31-acre site in Kingsland off Interstate
95 at Exit 7 was pulled unexpectedly last year after concerns were raised about
the simultaneous construction of new Altamaha Technical College campuses in
Brunswick and Kingsland.

The city of Kingsland and the Camden County Joint Development Authority have
already spent an estimated $500,000 to build the infrastructure needed to
support a campus at the site.

Spencer said he will ask for funding for the Kingsland campus and for
improvements to a technical college in Waycross that will be part of the merger
between Okefenokee and Altamaha technical colleges. The two colleges will be
named Coastal Pines Technical College after the merger goes into effect in July.

"It really looks good this year," Spencer said of the possibility of funding for
a technical college in Kingsland.

Spencer said he will be among a group of elected officials to introduce
legislation to prohibit the state from implementing the Affordable Health Care
Act. Spencer, a physician's assistant, said his proposal is to ask for
legislation that will prevent the state from using resources to support the
federal health care act.

"This will break the bank," Spencer said of Obamacare.

He will also introduce legislation to revise how hospital authorities are
managed and how members are appointed.

Spencer said the court resolved his concerns with the St. Marys Hospital
Authority this year. But the debate over how the proceeds from a nursing home
should be spent led him to discover other concerns.

"We've got problems across the state," he said.

Spencer said he plans to ask for approval for the St. Marys authority to change
its name to the St. Marys Senior Citizens Service Authority. He expects the bill
for the name change and mission statement will be approved by fellow
legislators.

He wants to encourage physicians to volunteer more often by introducing
legislation that will reduce the risk of malpractice lawsuits if they provide
indigent health care.

Spencer also wants to make it more difficult for voters to raise taxes.

He plans to ask for legislation requiring 60 percent of voters to approve any
Special Purpose Local Option Sales Tax in the future.

SBlt Reporter Gordon Jackson writes about Camden County and other local topics.
Contact him at gjackson@thebrunswicknews.com, on Facebook or at 464-7655.

___ (c)2014 The Brunswick News (Brunswick, Ga.) Visit The Brunswick News
(Brunswick, Ga.) at www.thebrunswicknews.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140106-GE-Legislator-pushing-for-Camden-campus-0106-20140106

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GE


                       Copyright 2014 The Brunswick News


