                              301 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo)

                           September 12, 2004 Sunday

Student 'doctors' heal kid's toys

SOURCE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 454 words


The mobile hospital where high school students repair broken toys free of charge
has become a popular enterprise among residents of Toyama Prefecture.

Students of Tonami Technical High School in Tonami established the workshop in
1998, and have opened it a few times a year ever since.

"I'm so happy," said Risako Tamaru, a 9-year-old girl of Fukunomachi, while
holding a toy that had just been repaired at the hospital.

She brought a tape recorder with a microphone to the students, who operate out
of a six-square-meter tent set up in a shopping mall in the city.

According to Risako's mother, Atsuko, 39, the girl bought the machine seven
years ago. Even though it broke a few years later, Risako insisted on keeping
it, so they brought it to the hospital in August.

"This toy is old, and I thought it wouldn't work anymore, so I'm really grateful
to the hospital," Risako said.

The hospital already has opened three times this year. Its last opening for the
year will be in Shogawamachi as a part of a festival in November.

Students who belong to the prefectural high school's engineering club work as
"doctors" at the hospital. Among the 50 members of the club, a group of 10 to 20
students who take courses in mechanics and electronics volunteer at the
hospital. The students sometimes receive up to 30 orders at a single event and
work on a wide variety of toys, including model trains and keyboards.

"Most of the toys are easy to fix. Sometimes it's just a matter of wiring," said
Satoshi Tomita, 43, a teacher at the high school and the club's adviser.

The students are very serious about repairing toys that children are deeply
attached to--carefully soldering wires together on internal substrates and
checking mechanics.

The students repaired 20 toys in August.

"I felt nervous when I couldn't understand why the toys didn't work. But I was
really happy when the kids said thank you," said Yuji Takata, a second-year high
school student studying electronics.

Tomoyuki Akahoshi, also a second-year student in electronics, who had joined the
hospital for the first time, said with a smile: "I really enjoyed it. The work
is satisfying."

Through the activity, the students are given the opportunity to meet the members
of their community. The way students explain why the toys did not work to
children and passersby has gained them trust within the community.

From time to time, the club receives letters thanking the students for their
work.

Vice Principal Naoki Ikeda, 50, said: "Students in the club learn about the joy
of creating things, and at the same time, they discover the rewards of
thoughtfulness for others. So this activity assists in the children's
education."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2004 The Yomiuri Shimbun


