                              295 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            July 15, 1993, Thursday

NEWS BRIEFS School to expand medical programs

SECTION: EXTRA; Section G; Page 2

LENGTH: 585 words


Chattahoochee Tech is adding three new medical technology programs this fall,
pending final budget authorization from the state for equipment.

The new programs would be diplomas in respiratory therapy and surgical
technology and an associate degree in biomedical engineering technology. The
programs would expand the technical institute's health care curriculum, which
includes medical assisting programs and practical nursing.

The new programs were recently authorized under the school's 1994 budget, which
includes seven new faculty positions. Chattahoochee Tech officials planned to
meet this week with representatives from Cobb Hospital and Medical Center and
Kennestone Hospital to discuss course curriculum.

"Through feedback from area hospitals, it became very clear that there is a
shortage of medical technicians," Harlon Crimm, president of Chattahoochee Tech.

Smyrna cracks down on holiday DUIs: Smyrna police say they put an early end to
Independence Day partying for about 25 people whom they cited for driving under
the influence. Chief Stanley Hook said that 15 DUI citations for a weekend is
average. Part of the crackdown involved a sobriety check roadblock on Spring
Road east of Atlanta Road for several hours late on July 4. Lt. Mike Brown, head
of the traffic enforcement program, said the holiday crackdown was in response
to the weekend's history of auto crashes, injuries and fatalities. "Last year,
there were 14 fatalities in Georgia over the July Fourth weekend," the
lieutenant said. "We wanted to do our part to cut down on that."

GED ceremonies tonight at North Metro: Graduation ceremonies for approximately
300 students who have earned GEDs at North Metro Tech will be at 7 tonight in
the Economic Development Building on the North Metro campus in Acworth.

GEDs are awarded to students who have completed courses of study that are
approximately equivalent to the course work required to receive a high school
diploma. The commencement speaker will be Edward F. Meehan, general manager of
the Learning Concepts Group, a vocational training group based in Atlanta.

Writing workshop lined up at Southern Tech: High school students can learn how
to sharpen their writing, spelling and grammar skills by attending a summer
workshop at Southern Tech in Marietta.

The program will run July 19-23 and July 26-30 from 1 to 5 p.m. in Southern
Tech's Academic Building. The programs will be designed for individual needs.
Susan Morrow, a language arts con sultant for the Cobb County school system,
will critique assignments daily to monitor students' progress.

The cost is $ 150. For information, Call 528-7240.

Rainwater to succeed Traylor on Austell Gas board: Grant Rainwater has been
appointed to the board of Austell Gas Co., replacing J.L. Traylor, who is
resigning for health reasons. Current members R.E. Long Jr. and Hank Floyd were
reappointed by the Austell City Council, and all three will serve through July
31, 1995. Austell Gas is owned by the city.

Scott Gresham has been appointed to the Austell Industrial Development Committee
to fill out the remainder of the term of Marlin Lamar Jr., who resigned last
year. Mr. Gresham, a sales representative for Conwood Corp., will serve through
December 1996.

Lura Chacon and Connie Kelley have been appointed to four-year terms on the
Downtown Development Authority. Ms. Chacon is the owner of Animart and
Sweetwater Pet Supplies and Ms. Kelley owns The Grapevine antiques. They will
serve through April 1997.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH931980110

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


