                              300 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                              June 5, 2015 Friday

Apollo & Medanta in race

BYLINE: Shuchismita Chakraborty

LENGTH: 399  words


Apollo and Medanta have emerged as the prospective private players who would be
awarded the work of constructing super-speciality hospital at Jaiprabha
Hospital's land.

The representatives of both the hospital groups on Thursday submitted the
technical bid documents to the health department.

Commissioning of a super-speciality hospital in the state is one of the most
ambitious projects of the state government as the state does not have a single
such hospital at present. Though the state-run hospitals have many
super-speciality departments but none of them is fully equipped. So far as
private hospitals are concerned, the state only has multi-speciality hospitals,
which have limited number of departments unlike a super-speciality hospital
which has department of all disciplines.

Pankaj Sinha, investment officer, International Finance Corporation (IFC), the
agency playing the role of consultant in the project, said: "Of the six groups
which took part in the pre-bid meeting, only two noted groups have submitted
their technical bid document on Thursday - Medanta and Apollo. The rest - Asian
Institute of Medical Sciences (Faridabad)), Glocal Healthcare Systems Private
Limited (Calcutta), Narayan Hrudayala (Bangalore) and Abengoa (a Spanish
multi-national company) - did not submit their technical bid documents."

Pankaj added that the financial bid of the project would be opened after a week
and based on its evaluation, the health department would decide about the
private player, which has to be handed over the project. "The department wants
to clear out the uncertainty about the private player's name, whom the project
has to be awarded, within this month only," he added.

Sources said that according to plan, a 500-bed super-speciality hospital has to
be developed by a private player on Jaiprabha Hospital's seven-acre land. The
private player would be given the land of Jaiprbha Hospital on a 30-year lease.
The total expected expenditure on this project is something around Rs 300 crore.

Bihar Health Services Association general secretary Ranjit Kumar said the
government should first strengthen its existing hospital, then it should think
about taking up these kinds of projects.

"The state government has opened super-speciality hospital for eye. There is
also a super-speciality hospital for orthopaedic disorder but none of these
meets the international standard," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2015 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


