                              299 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    November 8, 1993, Monday, Final Edition

Navy Chemist W.B. Moniz Dies at 61

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D7; OBITUARIES

LENGTH: 611 words


William B. Moniz, 61, a research chemist who worked for the Naval Research
Laboratory from 1962 until retiring in 1991, died of cancer Nov. 4 at Georgetown
University Hospital. He lived in Fort Washington.

Over the years, Dr. Moniz, an authority on nuclear magnetic resonance research,
was the author of 50 technical journal articles and received three Navy patents.
He had led a Navy technical team that solved the shipboard problem of sonar dome
covers that cracked.

He had participated in the Defense Department's technical cooperation program,
which compiled and shared technical data with selected allied governments. He
also had served as president of the lab's chapter of the Sigma Xi science honor
society.

Dr. Moniz, who moved here in the early 1960s, was born in New Bedford, Mass. A
cum laude graduate of Brown University, he received a doctorate in chemistry
from Pennsylvania State University. He served in the Navy during the Korean War.

He was a member of St. Ignatius Catholic Church in Oxon Hill.

Survivors include his wife, Virginia, of Fort Washington; four sons, John, of
Alexandria, David, of Columbia, S.C., Paul, of Seabrook, and Billy, of Fort
Washington; two daughters, Stephanie Oetjen of Alexandria and Linda Moniz of
Fort Washington; a brother, John, of Portage, Mich.; two sisters, Ezaltina Moniz
of Silver Spring and Thelma Desautels of Lusby, Md.; and eight grandchildren.


DORIS COEN

Hillel House Worker


Doris Coen, 96, a Washington area resident since 1937 who did clerical work at
the University of Maryland's Hillel House from 1966 to 1979, died Nov. 7 at
Fairfax Hospital after a heart attack. She lived in Annandale.

Mrs. Coen was born in Indiana and moved to the Washington area after working in
Chicago as executive secretary at a Jewish temple and teaching music. She was a
former Arlington resident.

Over the years, she had chaired the Arlington women's division of the United
Jewish Appeal and had been president of the sisterhood of the Arlington-Fairfax
Jewish Congregation. She had done volunteer work for the Virginia Jewish Service
Council and was a member of the B'nai B'rith Women, Hadassah and ORT.

Her husband, Julius Joseph Coen, died in 1960. Survivors include three
stepgrandchildren.


MILDRED M. TITUS

Math Teacher


Mildred Mitchell Titus, 85, a retired mathematics teacher with the Fairfax
County public schools, died of cancer Nov. 6 at her home in Goodwin House in
Alexandria.

She moved to the Washington area in 1960 and taught for the next four years at
Washington Irving Intermediate School. She then served on the faculty at Thomas
Jefferson High School until retiring in 1973.

Mrs. Titus was a native of Henry County, Va., and a graduate of Radford College.
Before moving to Northern Virginia, she taught high school math and Latin in
Bedford, Va.

She was a member of Episcopal Church of the Resurrection in Alexandria.

Her husband, Dr. Clifton R. Titus, died in 1953. Survivors include two sons,
Clifton, of Alexandria, and Harry, of Annandale; a daughter, Carolyn Titus of
Alexandria; and five grandchildren.


HAZEL M. BLAIR

Treasury Employee


Hazel Mildred Blair, 95, who worked for the Treasury Department for 27 years
before retiring in 1968 as a claims adjudicator, died Nov. 7 in the Carriage
Hill nursing home in Bethesda after a stroke.

Miss Blair, who was born in Evansville, Ind., lived in the District before
entering Carriage Hill 2 1/2 years ago. Before moving here in 1941, she had
attended what is now the University of Evansville and had done teaching and
social work in Indiana.

Survivors include a sister, Delores M. Johnson of Evansville.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: OBITUARY

                       Copyright 1993 The Washington Post


