                              31 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                      August 27, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Dalian Municipal Government: Collaboration with County-Level Hospitals

LENGTH: 374  words


Beijing, Aug. 27 -- No. 1 Hospital Affiliated to DLMEDU (Dalian Medical
University) renewed again its technical collaboration agreement with seven
county-level hospitals in three northern cities and Yingkou City recently. For
the last few years, No. 1 Hospital Affiliated to DLMEDU has developed a medical
pattern of "the big helps the small, the rich helps the poor, and the strong
helps the weak", treating ordinary illness, common diseases and
frequently-occurring diseases at primary hospitals, and serious illness and
difficult and severe diseases at bigger hospitals.

In 2007, the Liaoning Provincial Department of Public Health proposed a new
development idea to build technical collaboration among hospitals. No. 1
Hospital Affiliated to DLMEDU signed the agreements, one after the other, with
seven county-level hospitals: Central Hospital of Wafangdian City, Central
Hospital of Zhuanghe City, Central Hospital of Pulandian City, No. 1 People's
Hospital of Jinzhou District, Central Hospital of Yingkou Economic and
Technological Zone, the Geriatric Hospital of Dalian University, and the
People's Hospital of Ganjingzi District. In recent years, by means of technical
collaboration and counterpart aid, and in forms of regular or irregular medical
technical guidance, lectures and training classes, free therapies and
consultations, and free refresher training, No. 1 Hospital Affiliated to DLMEDU
helped its collaborating hospitals with more than 30 new technologies and
businesses, and trained about 300 academic leaders and backbones for them;
helped Central Hospital of Yingkou Economic and Technological Zone, Central
Hospital of Wafangdian City and Central Hospital of Zhuanghe City set up
interventional therapy departments; and initiated research and practice in
two-way patient referral with its collaborating hospitals. Besides these, they
started a "Remote consultation platform" at the collaborating hospitals,
enabling patients in remote areas of Dalian to enjoy experts'
tele-consultations. Meanwhile, the tele-consultation platform can also invite
domestic and international experts to give remote diagnosis in difficult cases,
helping patients in rural areas to more easily access high-level diagnosis and
treatment.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


