                              314 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                 April 9, 2002

Boy dies, sister injured in flats fire in Dublin

BYLINE: By ALISON HEALY

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 331 words


Three-year-old Clayton Maher, has died and his twin sister, Kim, is in a
critical condition, following a fire in a flat in Dublin city centre early
yesterday morning.

Garda and fire investigation officers were still trying to establish the cause
of the fire last night but early indications were that it was accidental.

The emergency services were alerted at 4.20 a.m. when the fire broke out in a
bedroom of the three-storey flat in Ross Road, close to Christchurch in Dublin
8.

The three-year-old twins were rescued from the flat in a critical condition and
taken to Our Lady's Hospital for Sick Children in Crumlin. Clayton died at about
1 p.m. yesterday. Kim remained critically ill last night.

Their six-year-old sister, Chelsea, was taken to Temple Street Hospital
suffering from smoke inhalation and serious injuries.

The children's 24-year-old mother, Ms Tracey Maher and their babysitter were
taken to St James's Hospital, also suffering from smoke inhalation.

Neighbours tried to rescue the family before six units of the Dublin Fire
Brigade arrived.

Fire fighters brought the blaze under control in about two hours.

One fireman received facial injuries during the incident and needed medical
treatment.

The scene was preserved for a technical examination yesterday. A fire brigade
spokesman said investigators were examining the scene to determine the cause of
the fire.

Forensic officers from the Garda Technical Bureau were also investigated the
scene.

While foul play was not ruled out, nothing was found to indicate suspicious
circumstances.

The fire did not spread to other flats in the building.

Meanwhile, garda in Newbridge are still investigating the cause of the fire in
which Newbridge Courthouse was burned down last week.

Samples of the debris have been removed from the scene and are being examined
for traces of accelerant.

A Garda spokesman said it could be several days before the cause of the fire was
determined.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2002 The Irish Times


