                              312 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Eureka Times Standard (California)

                           December 16, 2014 Tuesday

More St. Joseph Hospital workers vote to unionize

BYLINE: By Aaron West awest@times-standard.com Technical workers at St. Joseph
Hospital in Eureka voted to unionize late last month, amid concerns that their
benefits were being unfairly cut and their best i

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 790 words


The vote, which passed among the hospital's 84 tech workers by a 4-to-1 margin
on Nov. 20, according to a National Union of Healthcare Workers release, follows
a similar decision made last April when more than 200 of the hospital's service
employees voted in favor of joining a union.

And the reasons that drove the service workers' vote last spring   having a
voice at the table, negotiating wage increases and receiving fair benefits   are
the same as now, according to pharmacy technicians at the hospital, as well as
Charlie Ridgell, chief negotiator for St. Joseph's union negotiations in Eureka.

"If you don't have a union, an employer can do whatever they want," Ridgell
said. "It's you as an individual bargaining with a big company, and you don't
have any leverage. As an individual, what are you going to do? You can say, 'If
you don't give me a big raise I'm going to quit,' and the employer will ask you
which door you'd like to use."

Ridgell said that typically both the service and technical divisions would
unionize at the same time   like they're currently discussing at Redwood
Memorial Hospital in Fortuna   but when the service workers voted last spring,
the technical workers couldn't quite garner the support. Then, after a
system-wide memo stating employees who weren't part of a union would have
certain benefits cut was sent out, Ridgell said more technical workers got on
board.

"In August, (the hospital) imposed unilateral cuts on anyone who didn't have a
union," he said, specifying that the hospital eliminated certain benefits
surrounding the amount of paid time off employees received, as well as
post-retirement benefits and extended sick leave.

"When they imposed the cuts the employer put out a memo that said 'anyone who
doesn't have a union   you're getting these cuts,'" he said.

Tech workers at the hospital include positions like pharmacy techs and X-ray
techs. Service jobs include positions in housekeeping and food service.

On the hospital's part, St. Joseph and Redwood Memorial hospitals President
David O'Brien said the benefit cuts were carefully studied and made in
accordance with larger changes in the health care system.

"There were some benefit adjustments across the health system, and the ones that
were done here came after a review of benefits across the country," O'Brien
said. "(The cuts) didn't involve pay reductions or loss of medical benefits, and
I don't want to minimize it, but fortunately we haven't had to make major
changes in other areas."

In regard to unions, O'Brien added that the hospital administration would prefer
to deal with its employees directly, but that it supports the employees'
decision.

"Our preference is to have a direct relationship with our employees whenever
possible," he said. "But we respect our employees' rights to be represented by a
union, and if that's their choice we respect that and we'll work positively and
collaboratively going forward."

For the pharmacy technicians, that may involve getting some of their benefits
back   which Ridgell said could be part of future negotiations once a contract
is signed   as well as wage increases.

Adam Dozier, who has worked for the hospital for six years, described wage
increases there as "minimal."

"When I got hired, they told us there would be no wage increases for a number of
years and that was just kind of the status quo." Dozier said. "I can't speak for
all departments, and I don't know how it was elsewhere, but for me, the wage
increases over the past six years have been minimal. I'm from a place where you
can go to the boss and say 'Hey I've been working hard for a couple years,' and
they at least think about the request. Here we haven't even been given a chance
for a fair evaluation."

Information on how many raises hospital technicians have received over the past
six years wasn't immediately available, but the most recent raise   a 2 percent
wage increase   came in October, Dozier said.

"To me a 2 percent raise doesn't really help me out a lot," he said. "If I'm
making 20 bucks an hour, I'm getting what, like 45 cents more? If I was going to
go to my boss and ask for a raise I'd ask for at least a dollar more, if I
deserved it. It just doesn't seem employees are evaluated on their actual
skills."

O'Brien said the hospital values its employees and that he'd worked side-by-side
with cafeteria staff, as well as attended nearly 40 workshops in the past few
months, in order to discuss the hospital's mission and the purpose of its work.

"I've done quite a bit of job shadowing and working in various departments,
spending time with people." O'Brien said. "We have some of the best people
working for us. I'm very proud of them and the work that they do."

Contact Aaron West at 707-441-0509

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Times - Standard
                              All Rights Reserved


