                              309 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             June 21, 2012 Thursday

Arunachal to get first private university

SECTION: GUWAHATI

LENGTH: 450 words


ITANAGAR: Arunachal Pradesh is all set get its maiden private university -
Indira Gandhi Technical & Medical Sciences University - which will start
functioning at Ziro, headquarters of Lower Subansiri district, from next month.
Chief minister Nabam Tuki will formally inaugurate the varsity on July 6 next,
official sources informed here on Wednesday.

The first private university of the state, set up in the
public-private-partnership (PPP) mode, is the outcome of an act passed by the
state legislative assembly in March this year.

P R Trivedi, chancellor of the varsity, who along with director Arvind Kumar
Das, called on the chief minister at his office here last evening, informed Tuki
of the proposed inaugural function that would commemorate the Dree celebrations.

All the formalities, including placement of the endowment fund of Rs 3 crore,
have been completed in accordance with the act. Besides, a site measuring 150
hectare has been acquired for establishment of the university, which was donated
voluntarily by the villagers of Hong in the picturesque Apatani valley. Trivedi
requested Tuki to facilitate adoption of the Ziro District Hospital by the
university under a joint-venture project with a view to strengthen rural and
urban medical facilities.

He said once the hospital is adopted by the varsity, it would be equipped with
all necessary equipment and modern facilities and cater to the needs of patients
from all the neighboring districts, particularly Kurung Kumey and Upper
Subansiri.

He said the hospital would be equipped with the latest medical gadgets and
equipment like a CT scanner and an MRI scanner besides ultrasound, blood
chemistry and parametric machines.

Trivedi further said that the varsity has decided to immediately launch
bachelor's and master's degree programmes in the fields of medical laboratory
technology, nursing, optometry, radiology, imaging technology, hospital
management, hotel management, catering technology, information technology,
business administration, disaster management etc.

There are also plans to launch the first batch of BTech and MTech in
hydro-electric and power engineering from the next academic session. The
university has already submitted a proposal to the Medical Council of India
(MCI) to start MBBS course.

On a query of the chief minister, Trivedi assured him that maximum benefit would
percolate down to the locals by way of employment as well as technical
education.

Tuki appreciated the promptness of the varsity authorities in clearing the
formalities as per the norms laid down in the act and expressed optimism that
the institution would fill the void in technical education in the state.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


