                              310 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                          November 23, 2016 Wednesday

Peshawarites suffer as protest causes logjams on roads

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 323

LENGTH: 534  words


The roads in Peshawar city witnessed the worst traffic mess when non-technical
employees of health department went on strike to demand professional allowance.

The members of Paramedical Association (Class-IV) belonging to different
districts gathered at Jinnah Park from where they marched towards the provincial
assembly building. The protest caused logjams on all roads in the city.

Later, Provincial Minister for Finance Muzaffar Said met the protesting
employees and accepted their demand of granting them health professional
allowance. The protest ended after people faced great hardships on roads for no
fault of theirs.

The government employees are in the habit of coming on roads for petty matters,
without thinking about ensuing problems for the people visiting the provincial
capital from all over the province.

Minister promises health dept employees allowance

Bumper-to-bumper vehicular traffic also made it difficult for the ambulances to
pass by.

Addressing the protesters, Nabi Ameen, president of the association, said that
19,583 staffers of health department had been left out of the allowance. He said
that they were also at risk like other employees and deserved to be given the
allowance.

"There is growing unrest among the non-technical employees including IT
technicians, maintenance staff, electricians, ward orderlies and sweepers. They
are part and parcel of the hospitals and demand equal rights for all the
employees," said Mr Ameen.

He said that the minister had assured them of granting them health professional
allowance within a week. He said that they would again take to the streets if
the minister didn't fulfil his promise.

Mr Ameen said that they also risked their lives while performing duty.
Deprivation of Class-IV employees of the allowance had created unrest among the
members of the association. He said that they were ready to render any sacrifice
for getting the allowance. "However, we called off the strike after the
assurance of the minister," he added.

Enraged by the road blockade, the commuters and motorists cursed the protesters
and also criticised government for its failure to prevent people from creating
obstacle in smooth flow of traffic. Patients in local hospitals also faced
inconvenience owing to absence of technical staff but operation theatres,
laboratory, radiology and emergency departments operated as usual.

In teaching hospitals, attendants themselves shifted their patients on
stretchers from OPD to wards and operation theatre. They also worked as ward
orderlies and gatekeepers in the hospitals during the course of the protest.

Senior officials said that the non-technical staff didn't fulfil prescribed
criteria for entitlement to health professional allowance. They said that only
doctors, nurses and paramedics were entitled to the allowance as they came into
contact with all sorts of patients and were vulnerable to infections.

However, the protesters believed that they would get something out of the
protest. In the past, the building of provincial assembly had seen similar
protests by doctors, nurse and paramedics to be able to get health professional
allowance. The Class-IV employees have taken the same path to get the allowance.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


