                              311 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                           January 8, 2014 Wednesday

CDA technical committee gives nod to three projects

LENGTH: 427  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


The technical committee of Capital Development Authority (CDA), which met here
on Tuesday, gave nod to three projects including development of Park Enclave and
expansion and upgradation of cardiac centre and operation theatre of the
CDA-owned Capital Hospital.



The committee during the meeting chaired by Chairman Maroof Afzal approved the
construction of state-of-the-art cardiac centre at CDA Hospital. The cardiac
centre will be constructed at a cost of Rs190 million including cost of
machinery, other allied equipment and staff. State-of-the-art cardiac centre
will be equipped with all latest facilities. It was informed that CDA spends
Rs25 million on cardiac patients who are referred to other hospitals due to
non-availability of these facilities at CDA Hospital. After the establishment of
this modern cardiac centre, CDA would not only save Rs25 million, but also earn
a handsome amount by treating the private patients. The meeting also decided
that operation theatre at the CDA Hospital would be upgraded, expanded and
modernised according to present time needs.

In this regard it was decided that the operation theatre at CDA Hospital would
be upgraded and expanded to enable it to conduct four operations simultaneously.


The technical committee in Tuesday's meeting also approved in principle to
provide all facilities to the allottees of Park Enclave Housing Project as
committed in the brochures at the time of launch of the housing scheme. The
Rs3.68 PC-1 for development of the Park Enclave would also be approved soon.

It may be pointed here that former chairman Nadeem Hasan Asif had ordered to
exclude many attractive features of the project with directives to reduce the
PC-1 from Rs3.68 billion to Rs1.7 billion.

Meanwhile, on the directions of CDA Chairman Maroof Afzal, CDA has launched a
special campaign against the non-confirming use of residential areas in
different sectors of Islamabad.

Responding to the complaints of Islamabad Chamber of Commerce and Industry
different trade associations, the CDA chairman has constituted a team to launch
this operation. The team consists of Director Municipal Administration (DMA),
Assistant Commissioner (City) ICT, Deputy Director Building Control Section
(BCS) and Deputy Director Trade License DMA.

The spokesman further said that this team has started working from Tuesday and
visited F-6 and F-7 sectors to serve notices to all violators.

The CDA chairman has directed the team to take action across the board without
any fear or favour. This operation will be extended to the whole city.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


