                              322 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Ledger (Lakeland, Florida)

                            March 2, 2000, Thursday

UNION TARGETS LRMC TECHNICAL EMPLOYEES

BYLINE: ROBIN WILLIAMS ADAMS The Ledger

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 327 words


LAKELAND -- The union representing Lakeland Regional Medical Center's 800-plus
registered nurses is seeking to represent about 475 technical employees at the
hospital.

United Food and Commercial Workers Union Local 1625 filed its request Monday
with the National Labor Relations Board, whose closest office is in Tampa.

"We have wanted to organize the technical unit for a long time, and we feel
we're in a good position now," said Glenn Harris, a union representative who
supervises the Lakeland effort.

Cindy Sternlicht, public relations director for Lakeland Regional, said the
hospital is "committed to having a factual and informational campaign."

Employees have the right to choose, she said.

The technical category includes licensed practical nurses, radiologic
technologists, CT technologists, vascular technologists, catheterization lab
technologists, ultrasound technologists, nuclear medicine technologists,
radiation therapy technologists, respiratory care practitioners, registered
respiratory therapists, operating room technicians, cytology technicians,
histology technicians, medical laboratory technicians, physical therapy
assistants, paramedics, biomedical equipment technicians and biomedical
equipment control technicians.

In April 1997, registered nurses approved having the union represent them in
collective bargaining. They approved a two-year contract in November 1998.

While the union was organizing registered nurses, union supporters distributed
fliers outside the hospital. This time, no outside demonstrations are planned.

The union is being allowed to provide information in the cafeteria from 7 a.m.-7
p.m., Sternlicht said. Both sides predict an election in April.

Sternlicht and Harris said the current campaign won't become a referendum on how
the union represents registered nurses.

"It's not going to be as adversarial as it was," Harris said. "It's going to be
a somewhat friendly campaign."

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

             Copyright 2000 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation


