                              318 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                          November 25, 2015 Wednesday

Human, technical errors to blame for Afghan hospital strike: NYT

LENGTH: 488  words


US forces who launched an air strike on an Afghan hospital last month intended
to attack a nearby Taliban-controlled compound, military officials told American
media, citing an investigation set to blame human and technical error for the
deadly strike.

The October 3 air raid on a Doctors Without Borders (MSF) hospital in the
Taliban-held northern city of Kunduz killed at least 30 people, sparked an
avalanche of global condemnation and forced the French charity to close the
hospital.

Two military officials told the New York Times Tuesday that a combination of
human and technical errors meant that a Special Operations AC-130 gunship
aircraft hit the hospital instead of an Afghan intelligence compound hundreds of
feet away that was thought to have been commandeered by Taliban fighters.

The gunship's crew relied on location information relayed to them by US and
Afghan special forces rather than their aircraft's instruments, according to the
officials, who discussed the report on condition of anonymity ahead of its
formal release.

The findings will be officially announced by US General John Campbell at Nato
headquarters in Kabul at 7:00pm on Wednesday (1430 GMT).

The officials' account as quoted by the NYT does not address why the attack
which lasted more than one hour  was not halted despite frantic telephone calls
from MSF staff, nor why US ground forces failed to intervene when they saw the
wrong building being hit.

One official told the Times the crew did not receive a full preflight briefing
that would have told them the Kunduz hospital was protected under the Geneva
Convention.

The US military also failed to follow its own rules of engagement for calling
air strikes  that American or Afghan troops must be in extreme danger  while the
Special Operations Forces did not positively identify that the area targeted was
legitimate, the paper said.

"There was certainly some confusion over what they were shooting at," an
official told the Wall Street Journal, which received a similar briefing. "If
there wasn't, then this wouldn't have happened."

The US military offered a series of shifting explanations for the bombing raid
before President Barack Obama admitted in a call to MSF chief Joanne Liu that
the strike was a mistake and apologised.

A Nato statement released hours after the attack on Saturday, October 3 would
not confirm the hospital was targeted, characterising it instead as "collateral
damage" as Afghan forces came under fire. The next day the US confirmed the
hospital was hit directly, but did not offer further details.

Later General Campbell suggested that Afghan forces had called in the strike,
before offering a fourth account in four days admitting US special forces had
been in touch with the aircraft.

Nato and the Afghan army are conducting their own investigations. MSF has called
for an independent international investigation, saying the attack could be
determined to be a "war crime".

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


