                              32 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                           May 13, 1998, CITY EDITION

Mid-west workers place one-day picket on hospitals

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 294 words


Technical and trades workers went on a one-day stoppage in the mid-west
yesterday over pay conditions. They were members of the Technical Engineering
and Electrical Union and crafts unions who placed pickets on hospitals
throughout the Mid-Western Health Board region, including Limerick, Clare and
north Tipperary and the health board headquarters in Catherine Street, Limerick.

All local authority offices, depots and yards were also picketed, and refuse
collections in Limerick were halted.

The stoppage affected Limerick Regional Hospital, the Regional Maternity, St
Joseph's, St Camillus's, St Ita's, Newcastle West, Ennis General and County
Hospitals and St Joseph's, Nenagh General Hospital and the hospital in Thurles.

The workers blamed a breakdown in communications for the strike. A nationwide
strike was averted on Sunday night after the intervention of the Labour
Relations Commission. But pickets were placed at Waterford Regional Hospital on
Monday and the dispute escalated to the mid-west.

A spokesman for the workers, Mr Jim McNamara, said they were not stopping any
other unions passing the pickets and were providing a backup emergency service.

Workers passed the pickets at the regional hospital building construction
development at Dooradoyle.

The chairman of the regional action committee of the craft group of unions, Mr
Philip Dee, stressed that it was not a pay claim, but an entitlement.

"We are entitled to (pounds) 25.26 per week back-dated to July 1st, 1997. This
was awarded to us under the terms of the 1979 Sligo agreement. This is a
subsistence allowance only," he said.

He added: "Our action is directed at the union leadership in Dublin who are not
pressing our claim and are not taking direction from the membership."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 1998 The Irish Times


