                              319 of 998 DOCUMENTS


            Colorado Springs Business Journal (Colorado Springs, CO)

                                December 7, 2007

Colorado Springs Medical Briefs: December 7, 2007

BYLINE: Amy Gillentine

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 743  words


Penrose-St. Francis Hospital is one of 45 hospitals in Colorado that is
participating in the "5 Million Lives Campaign," a nationwide effort designed to
curtail practices that lead to patient injuries and death.

To support the nationwide effort, designed by the Institute for Healthcare
Improvement, the Colorado Trust has given participating Colorado hospitals and
support groups grants totaling $3.9 million.

The 45 acute-care hospitals received grants averaging $40,000 to participate in
the campaign. An additional $255,000 will provide resources for staff at
participating hospitals to attend learning and networking events throughout the
18-month campaign. Additionally, $5,000 grants from The Colorado Trust are
available to the state's 29 other hospitals to participate in educational
programs and technical assistance training.

The Colorado Hospital Association will receive $90,000 to work with
participating hospitals' CEOs and boards of directors to provide professional
development and leadership training.

The Colorado Foundation for Medical Care, the state's health care quality
improvement organization, will receive $535,000 to share knowledge among the
hospitals and provide technical assistance support to the hospitals. As
components of this technical assistance, the Colorado Rural Health Center will
work with participating hospitals to address rural patient safety issues and
help hospitals develop communications that support the spread and sustainability
of interventions among staff and patients.

The Institute for Healthcare Improvement will receive $120,000 to support
professional development for hospital front-line providers and quality
improvement directors focused on the science of improvement.

The campaign will implement systems and safeguards that prevent problems such as
hospital-acquired infections, adverse drug events, surgical errors, pressure
ulcers and other complications.

The effort is to prevent 5 million incidents that could cause patient harm or
death during a two-year period.

The grants build on the success of the 100,000 Lives Campaign, the institute's
first effort to assist hospitals with patient safety protocols by instituting
six improvement practices within hospitals. The campaign exceeded its goal -
participating hospitals across the country saved an estimated 122,300 lives by
implementing changes in patient care recommended by IHI and other initiatives.

In Colorado, the trust supported 62 hospitals during the campaign, representing
96 percent of all hospital beds in the state.

The new campaign will add six improvement practices, including the first
non-clinical intervention focused on greater trustee engagement and
accountability for reducing medical harm.

Hospitals adopt 12 interventions to improve care, with the goal of protecting
patients from 5 million incidents of harm.

The interventions include rapid response at the first sign of patient decline,
making certain that patients receive the right medications at every transfer
point in care, adherence to best practices known to prevent heart attacks and
ventilator-associated pneumonia, reduction of infections and drug-resistant
staph, reduction of bed sores and incorporating hospital leadership into patient
safety efforts.

Aetna provides cost information

In the age of increased transparency in health care, one insurance company is
providing more information about the costs of several surgical procedures.

Aetna has a Web-based resource that allows members to compare the cost ranges
for services provided at specific facilities.

The site shows a range for the costs of more than 30 common procedures -
including colonoscopies and hysterectomies - from admission through discharge.
This includes the facility charges, physician fees and any supplementary charges
such as anesthesia services.

Aetna started offering physician-specific pricing information two years ago.

Research shows that consumers vastly underestimate the cost of health care. For
example, the average consumer believes that a day in the hospital costs a little
more than $1,000 - the actual cost is three times that amount.

Surveys also show that the majority of Americans are demanding specific cost
information, with more than 80 percent indicating that hospitals and physicians
should be required to disclose the cost of medical services to the public.

The Web site also provides physician-specific clinical quality and efficiency
information, as well as price transparency.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

