                              316 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Cumberland Times-News (Maryland)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 29, 2008 Sunday

Grant commissioners trying to keep EMS service available to county residents -
Part Two: Hospital can no longer afford to provide the service

BYLINE: Mona Ridder, Cumberland Times News, Md.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 631 words


Jun. 29--Editor's note: This story is the second in a three-part series on West
Virgnia medical services.

PETERSBURG, W.Va. -- In 1975, the West Virginia Legislature passed a bill
obligating county commissions to provide emergency ambulance service to all
residents of the county unless there is no money to provide such service.

The counties had five options:

--To provide service directly through their agents and employees.

--Through private enterprise.

--By contracting with individuals, groups, associations and corporations.

--Through an authority.

--Do nothing.

In response to the legislation, counties throughout the region began looking at
how they could provide service.

A number of counties, including Mineral and Grant, chose to create an ambulance
authority.

Mineral County continues to operate seven volunteer emergency medical services
squads through its authority funded by an excess levy that generates about
$172,000 for the authority. Only one of the eight squads uses any paid
personnel. The squads also bill for services.

Grant County formed its authority in early 1978. At some point shortly after
that, it was reported that the authority was disbanded by the county commission.
Without evidence to support that report, the authority still exists legally,
according to a Technical Assistance Team Report provided to the county in early
2007.

While other counties in the state are looking at how to provide service
utilizing more paid personnel because of the reduced number of available
volunteers in recent years, Grant County's paid personnel are faced with losing
their jobs because their employer, Grant County Memorial Hospital, can no longer
afford to provide the service.

A technical assistance team was formed by the West Virginia EMS Technical
Support Network on behalf of the state Department of Health and Human Resources
to study the history, current status and future of Grant County's EMS efforts.

The team made several suggestions, including to maintain the status quo, which
hospital officials say is not an option and doing nothing, which the county
commissioners said is not an option.

Hospital representative Sandy Michaels said the cost of maintaining the service
is too great.

"There was a (hospital) board vote that the county take over the service or
reimburse the hospital $300,000 a year," she said.

County Coordinator Cindy Whetsell said the county commission does not have the
money to fund the service and an excess levy is not likely an option for voters
in the county.

County commission president Charlie Goldizen said the commission recognizes the
service is an essential one and the county officials want to find a way to make
the service available to county residents.

He also said he does not want to ask citizens to pay more through a levy.

One option the county is looking at is contracting with providers for the
service.

Jim Cosner, manager of the Fraley Ambulance Service in Moorefield, Hardy County,
said the Grant County commissioners approached the service informally to see if
it would be interested in expanding into the Maysville/Petersburg area.

He said Fraley's is a combination paid/volunteer squad that serves most of the
western portion of Hardy County. He followed up by calling a meeting and
inviting people who might be interested in serving with an expanded squad.

Contact Mona Ridder at monaridder@verizon.net

To see more of the Cumberland Times News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.times-news.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, Cumberland Times News, Md.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20080629-UM-Grant-commissioners-trying-to-keep-EMS-service-available-to-county-r
esidents-Part-Two-0629

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UM


                                 Copyright 2008


