                              325 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                     The Times Higher Education Supplement

                                 April 17, 1998

Patients - a real virtue in biomedical innovation; Research Monthly; Business
Spinoffs

BYLINE: JENNY GRISTOCK

LENGTH: 600 words


Government science policies focus on developing links with industry but that is
not the only place fruits of academic research can be applied. Jenny Gristock
reports

A hidden research network based on United Kingdom hospitals that could be as
important for innovation as collaborations between business and academia has
been uncovered by researchers Diana Hicks and Sylvan Katz of the Science Policy
Research Unit.

Hicks and Katz call this web of links, neglected by analysts and in government
policy, the biomedical innovation system. Within it, collaborative partnerships
involving UK hospitals, medical research institutes, non-profit organisations
and research councils stimulate exploitation of the science base.

The duo developed a database, using information from co-authored papers to track
research links in science. By looking at patterns of co-authoring in papers
published in the 1980s, they have found two groups of sectors that collaborated
with each other more than expected. In the first group, researchers from
government, industry and universities were seen to be working together. In the
second, authors from hospitals, some medical research institutes, non-profit
organisations and research councils collaborated.

The researchers say that companies, as 'sites of application' of research, seek
to link up with sources of technical opportunity - universities and government
laboratories. Similarly, hospitals make connections with sources of biomedical
technical opportunity: non-profit organisations, certain research institutes
(special health authorities and institutes of the former British Postgraduate
Medical Federation Institutes), research councils and universities.

The researchers distinguish between hospitals and universities, despite the fact
that many hospitals are attached to universities, because 'doctors can't be
trained from textbooks and blackboards alone'. The crucial element of patient
contact gives hospitals a separate identity, which defines them as both users
and sources of technical opportunity.

'Most analyses of interactions between users and sources of technical
opportunity examine only industrial collaborations,' says Katz, a senior fellow
at SPRU. 'This is unfortunate because the biomedical system is quite different:
hospitals contribute more substantially to the science base than companies, and,
of course, biomedical research needs access to patients.'

Hicks and Katz point out that while hospitals use research results to improve
treatment, universities rarely apply the results of their research internally.

They illustrate this using a parallel with engineering departments. 'Sometimes
engineering training is said to be inadequate. But if engineering departments
were intermingled with companies to help their students solve real-world
problems, those companies would not become universities,' say Hicks and Katz.

Hospitals, special health authorities and postgraduate medical institutions are
responsible for approximately a quarter of all British scientific output. The
SPRU research indicates that the hidden biomedical research network to which
they belong stimulates the innovative application of British science, but their
contribution to the UK's capacity to innovate is not well understood. 'The 1993
white paper, Realising Our Potential, doesn't even mention them,' says Katz. And
yet, he points out, the role played by the bacterium Helicobacter pylori in
causing stomach ulcers, a major surprise in recent medical discovery, was
uncovered by a medical doctor working in a hospital.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 1998 TSL Education Limited


