                              327 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Images (India)

                           November 26, 2015 Thursday

Human, technical errors to blame for Afghan hospital strike

LENGTH: 462 words

DATELINE: Kabul


Kabul, Nov. 26 -- US forces who launched an air strike on an Afghan hospital
last month intended to attack a nearby Taliban-controlled compound, military
officials told American media, citing an investigation set to blame human and
technical error for the deadly strike.

The October 3 air raid on a Doctors Without Borders (MSF) hospital in the
Taliban-held northern city of Kunduz killed at least 30 people, sparked an
avalanche of global condemnation and forced the French charity to close the
hospital.

Two military officials told the New York Times yesterday that a combination of
human and technical errors meant that a Special Operations AC-130 gunship
aircraft hit the hospital instead of an Afghan intelligence compound hundreds of
feet away that was thought to have been commandeered by Taliban fighters.

The gunship's crew relied on location information relayed to them by US and
Afghan special forces rather than their aircraft's instruments, according to the
officials, who discussed the report on condition of anonymity ahead of its
formal release.

The findings will be officially announced by US General John Campbell at NATO
headquarters in Kabul at 7.00 pm today (1430 GMT).

The officials' account as quoted by the NYT does not address why the attack -
which lasted more than one hour - was not halted despite frantic telephone calls
from MSF staff, nor why US ground forces failed to intervene when they saw the
wrong building being hit.

One official told the Times the crew did not receive a full preflight briefing
that would have told them the Kunduz hospital was protected under the Geneva
Convention.

The US military also failed to follow its own rules of engagement for calling
air strikes - that American or Afghan troops must be in extreme danger - while
the Special Operations Forces did not positively identify that the area targeted
was legitimate, the paper said.

"There was certainly some confusion over what they were shooting at," an
official told the Wall Street Journal, which received a similar briefing. "If
there wasn't, then this wouldn't have happened."

The US military offered a series of shifting explanations for the bombing raid
before President Barack Obama admitted in a call to MSF chief Joanne Liu that
the strike was a mistake and apologised.

A NATO statement released hours after the attack on Saturday, October 3 would
not confirm the hospital was targeted, characterising it instead as "collateral
damage" as Afghan forces came under fire.

The next day the US confirmed the hospital was hit directly, but did not offer
further details.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Kashmir Images. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Kashmir Images
                              All Rights Reserved


