                              329 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Gloucestershire Echo

                              May 7, 2016 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Partnership's bid for nursing college moves a step forward;
HEALTH NHS and uni working together to fill skills gap

BYLINE: Matt Discombe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 390 words


BID for a technical college to address a shortage of nurses in the county is
expected to be lodged with the Government by this autumn.

AGloucester MP Richard Graham has highlighted the city's interest in hosting a
pilot project which could see 1,000 new nursing associates trained in
Gloucestershire.

The new role would be an alternative route to become a registered nurse and aims
to bridge the gap between healthcare support workers, who have a care
certificate, and registered nurses with degrees.

The University of Gloucestershire is working with Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS
Foundation Trust to launch the bid for a University Technical College.

If the bid is successful, the aim would be to welcome the first intake of
students at the technical college in September 2019.

Mr Graham, pictured, said: "I've no doubt that if our university is approved to
offer pre-registration courses and then run a major pilot scheme for nursing
associates in Gloucestershire, that would make a huge difference to the shortage
of nurses in both city and county.

"Degrees aren't for everyone, so this higher apprenticeship will give everyone
the opportunity to get a qualification and work in the health sector which is
our biggest employer here in Gloucester." NHS hospitals in Gloucestershire have
launched drives to recruit new nurses this year.

The technical college plans come after the Government scrapped bursaries for new
student nurses and midwives in England from 2017. They will have to apply for a
student loan.

Stephen Marston, the University of Gloucestershire's vice-chancellor, said:
"Given the importance of the health service, we are keen to work with the
hospitals trust and other NHS partners to help ensure they can recruit the staff
they need to provide excellent patient care.

"A technical college could provide a great way of enabling 14 to 18-year-olds to
gain both an excellent education and a wider experience."

Nursing associates will be drafted in to provide hands-on care allowing nurses
to spend more time on their clinical duties. They would be trained in a more
vocational way through on-the-job experience via an apprenticeship leading to a
foundation degree.

A survey by the public service union Unison last year showed nine out of 10
student nurses would not have applied for a nursing degree without having
bursaries available.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GLE


                      Copyright 2016 Gloucestershire Echo
                              All Rights Reserved


