                              338 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            August 21, 2014 Thursday

HSE server failure delays lab results

BYLINE: Louise Roseingrave

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 418 words


A breakdown in the HSE South's IT server system is resulting in delayed access
to patient pathology results in five Munster hospitals.The five hospitals,
including Cork University Hospital (CUH), have reverted to accessing handwritten
laboratory results due to problems transmitting information across computers and
electronic devices such as smartphones.

Technical difficulties with the Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS)
are causing delayed access to patient records affecting CUH, Mercy University
Hospital, Bantry General, Mallow General and Kerry General in Tralee.

The laboratory service in HSE South uses LIMS as a regional system to provide
prompt access to patient pathology results.

Ward theatres and GPs are experiencing significant delays, as laboratory staff
have resorted to hand-writing results and are relying on "less than satisfactory
means" to deliver results, according to a hospital source.

It is understood a server system failed last Saturday, and continued efforts to
fix the problem have failed.  Blood transfusions The situation is of particular
concern for medics treating patients requiring blood transfusions as "there is
no or very limited access to patient's historical blood requirements," according
to an informed source.

Responding to a request for comment, HSE South confirmed problems with the LIMS
system and said efforts to rectify the issue were ongoing.

"Some technical difficulties have occurred in the Laboratory Information
Management System at CUH and the hospital's Information and Communications
Technology (ICT) Department is working with the suppliers of the system to
correct these technical issues as quickly as possible," it said in a statement.

The laboratory service has implemented "contingency arrangements" to continue to
provide "essential diagnostic services to the hospital departments, GPs and
other community services".

The HSE said its laboratory service was working extended hours as the problem
continued.

"All urgent samples are being prioritised but some delays are being experienced
for the results of samples classed as routine or non-urgent due to the system
reverting to a manual process until the IT issue is resolved," the HSE said.

"CUH management wish to extend their thanks to staff in CUH for their efforts
and all parties are working to resolve this issue as quickly as possible."

Pathology services carry out investigations on specimens from patients and are
therefore central to the diagnosis, management and treatment of disease.

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


