                              339 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                      February 18, 1998, Wednesday Edition

PICTURE: MARTIN JONES NURSING TECHNICAL OFFICER MICHELLE LAMBERT WITH AN OLD
INHALER FROM THE UC COLLECTION. ;
DAYS OF STARCH AND FEARSOME MATRONS

SECTION: Part A; Page 13

LENGTH: 345 words


NURSING undergraduates at the University of Canberra may think themselves lucky
when they visit the History of Nursing Museum which has just opened in the
School of Nursing.

For one thing, they may well be relieved that pay rates have increased from 10 a
year since the early 1900s.

They may also appreciate that uniforms no longer have to be starched and that
much of the hospital equipment has been revolutionised many times over.

According to UC Senior Lecturer in Nursing Carmel O'Meara, the museum (planning
for which began over 18 months ago), will give students a historical overview of
their profession.  "They will know how far we have come and I'm sure the
perspective will enhance their education," Mrs O'Meara said.

With artifacts ranging from 1950s and 1960s Royal Canberra Hospital uniforms, an
old metal hospital bed and rather gruesome mortuary table, cane baby scales, and
a myriad of technical but old-fashioned looking instruments, the museum succeeds
in taking observers back through the decades.  Old nursing guides and manuals
which suggest nursing is a suitable career for a married woman to have  and
medical books are also on display.

Much of the material collected for the exhibition  which is a permanent display
  comes from the Warren-Newman collection from the Royal Canberra hospital and
from regional hospitals.

Janet Newman and Jenni Warren wrote Royal Canberra Hospital: An Anecdotal
History of Nursing  1914 to 1991.

According to Mrs O'Meara, "Nursing is still very much a vocation where you need
to be a people person who enjoys caring for other." Yet the fact that registered
nurses now need a university degree is a major difference.

"Nurses are now very highly trained and much of the course is science-based, "
she said.

Yet according to Mrs O'Meara the biggest change to the profession has been the
entry of males, who now make up 15 per cent of the UC undergraduate intake.

"Fifty year ago that would have been completely unheard of," she said. - EMMA
MACDONALD

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

             Copyright 1998 The Federal Capital Press of Australia
                                  Pty Limited


