                              343 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday
                         BROOKFIELDS/LEICESTER EDITION

Harrington helps students to advance in health care field

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 529 words

DATELINE: SOUTHBRIDGE


Harrington Hospital Auxiliary presented several scholarships to students in the
health care field at an awards ceremony at the hospital on June 13.

Four $4,000 scholarships were given to high school graduates who have been
accepted at an institution of higher health care learning in the fall. The
auxiliary received 86 applications, with at least one student representing each
of the 13 communities in the Harrington Hospital service area.

Auxiliary Scholarship Committee members Lillian Talbot, Grace Kirk and Janina
Swiacki presented the awards.

Johanna Burke is a 2011 graduate of Oxford High School. Johanna will attend
Springfield College and plans to pursue a career in physical therapy. She is No.
1 in her graduating class and an avid sports enthusiast.

Abby Girouard is a 2011 graduate of Tantasqua Regional High School. Abby will
attend the University of New England in Biddeford, Maine, where she plans to
pursue a five-year program in occupational therapy. Abby is very involved in
community activities, annually participating in the Relay for Life and the Pan
Mass Challenge.

Ashley Peters is a post-graduate recipient. She is a 2001 graduate of Bay Path
Regional Vocational Technical High School and has been a full-time student at
Becker College since 2010. Ashley is enrolled in a degree program in nursing.
She is studying to become a registered nurse, specializing in pediatric care.

April Travers is 2011 graduate of Bay Path Regional Vocational Technical High
School's Bay Path Health Technologies Program and a Certified Nursing Assistant.
April will attend Worcester State University and will pursue a career in
nursing, specializing in geriatric care.

Two $1,000 Dr. Robert VanVooren Scholarships were presented by Cardiac Rehab
Supervisor Judy Flannery to current Harrington Hospital employees planning to
pursue further education in the health care field. The scholarship is in memory
of Dr. VanVooren, a pioneer in advocating cardiac rehabilitation services long
before they became common practice. Recipients are:

Jennifer Carron, a full-time employee, has worked in the emergency room since
2005. Jennifer is a full-time student at Anna Maria College and is in pursuit of
a bachelor's degree in nursing. Glen Duke, also a full-time employee, has worked
in the emergency room since 2004. He attends Liberty University in Lynchburg,
Va., and is pursing bachelor's and master's degrees in nursing.

The Olsen-Fournier Scholarships were presented by Lois Fay, chairperson and
retired nurse, in the memory of two former Harrington Hospital nurses. The two
$1,000 scholarships were awarded to recent high school graduates who plan to
pursue a career in nursing and are fluent in Spanish. Recipients are:

Arianys Dejesus is a 2011 graduate of Bay Path Regional Vocational Technical
High School's Health Technologies Program and a certified nursing assistant.
Arianys volunteers at Harrington Hospital and is an avid salsa dance enthusiast.
She will attend Anna Maria College.

Lismarie Gonzalez is a 2011 graduate of Bay Path Regional Vocational Technical
High School's Health Technologies Program and a Certified Nursing assistant. She
will attend Anna Maria College.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


