                              334 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                   Arab Times

                            January 22, 2017 Sunday

Widespread 'wasta' used for overseas healthcare - Need to curb favoritism: Audit
Bureau

LENGTH: 388 words


KUWAIT CITY, Jan 22: Recent statistics of State Audit Bureau (SAB) indicate that
6456 citizens received overseas treatment from Jan 2014 and Jan 2015 via 'wasta'
and interference of some MPs and other personalities. It called for relevant
steps to avoid the repetition of such incidents, while limiting the phenomenon
of favoritism, reports Al-Seyassah daily.

In response to the observations of SAB, Ministry of Health said overseas
treatment is a completely technical issue determined after health check by the
relevant committee. However, SAB indicated many cases referred to the technical
committee were rejected more than once before their approval, which confirms the
interference of some influential people in changing previous decisions of the
committee.

It pointed out that many cases were referred directly to the committee with
signatures of the Minister of Health and the Undersecretary of Health. This
reveals the extent of inequity in the issue of sending patients for treatment
abroad that led to suspicions of embezzlement and forgeries in documents.

Meanwhile, the ministry stressed that patients are given more than one chance
with the technical committee, indicating patients have the right to go for
another checkup even if the initial request is rejected, because the supreme
committee may have a different opinion.

Report indicated reservations on the part of some health offices that rejected
advance payments since the process prevents supervision and audit of hospital
receipts and impedes financial monitoring. It stressed the importance of
limiting dealings with the hospitals that accept financial guarantee and avoid
hospitals that require advance payment.

In response, Ministry of Health said the technical committee has considered the
recommendations of the medical offices taking into account the quality of
medical services offered to patients to facilitate their recover.

It suggested the development of an integrated automatic system connecting
different directorates of the Health Ministry with the adoption of TPP system
that connects concerned directorates with the Overseas Treatment Directorate and
other health offices abroad, indicating the ministry is waiting for response of
the Ministry of Finance and approval of necessary budget for that purpose.

Share 2016 Arab Times Kuwait English Daily.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1143


                 Copyright 2017 Arab Times Kuwait English Daily
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


