                              335 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                             March 16, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bosses who go under the bonnet;
Technical knowledge can improve the credibility of a chief but good management
skills are much more important, writes Hannah Prevett

BYLINE: Hannah Prevett

SECTION: APPOINTMENTS;FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1001 words


If you want to lead a company, do you need to be an expert in what it does? For
nearly a decade Amanda Goodall has focused on the premise that "successful
leaders are those who have a deep understanding of the core business of their
organisation". The senior lecturer at Cass Business School argues that technical
experts will more easily establish credibility with employees, and they will
have a better understanding of the culture of the organisation and its sector.

One sector she has looked at is hospitals. Goodall found that while the number
of them headed by doctors has declined, those that are led by doctors are often
more financially successful.

The Cleveland Clinic in Ohio has been managed by physicians since its inception
in 1921. There is a clear correlation between the institution's leadership
principles and its continued success, said James Stoller, chairman of the
Education Institute at the clinic. "[Doctors] have an ... intrinsic appreciation
of the front-line experience of clinicians and therefore are more sensitive to,
and mindful of, the realities of those, as opposed to being channelled into a
bottom-line, ROI [return on investment] orientation alone," he said.

That's not to say all doctors are ready for management, said Mark Alexander,
consultant radiologist and director of medical education at Luton & Dunstable
Hospital. "Although they may have led their departments ... and they may be very
good in technical realms, clinicians often aren't skilled as managers - and
that's a skill they need to be effective leaders."

This may explain the scarcity of hospital bosses from a clinical background,
added Alexander. "There's a very small number of expert clinicians who have gone
on to be chief executives. Some of them perform very well and they are often
sought out for failing hospitals. But they are a tiny number." The Cleveland
Clinic Academy was established in 2002 to address this skills gap. As well as
providing leadership training for the Cleveland Clinic's own nurses, doctors and
administrators, it now caters for clinicians turned managers from 18 nations.

There are other sectors to which Goodall's theory can seemingly be applied.
Francis Griffiths is the European head of National Instruments, a Texas
technology company with customers in the science and engineering sectors. He
studied electrical and electronic engineering at university, and this has stood
him in good stead.

"It helps to have management and leadership that really understand our vision
and our technology because that's a big differentiator for National Instruments.
We combine hardware and software, so having senior people in the organisation
who understand that is very, very important."

His technical training also makes an impression on staff and customers, he
added. "When you are trying to inspire and lead an engineering-based
organisation, being able to demonstrate that you understand the technology - and
that you understand and can connect with the customers, who are also engineers
and scientists - gives you a tremendous amount of credibility."

However, for Simon Hayward, chief executive at Cirrus, a leadership consultancy,
being able to demonstrate technical ability is just one part of the jigsaw. "A
certain amount of expertise is important to understand the dynamics of an
organisation. Whether it's a hospital, a large digital company or a fashion
brand, knowing the nuances of the operating model is important if you are
leading the organisation and technical experience can help with that. But we
would put much more emphasis on leadership attributes."

There are several examples of leaders who have moved seamlessly between sectors,
bringing to each a fresh pair of eyes, said Hayward. Angela Ahrendts, the former
Burberry chief, will soon join Apple to head its retail division. "She [will
bring] a different perspective from that of people who have been with Apple for
a long time. That can be hugely beneficial. You see the organisation from a
different perspective. It's easier to see it objectively and to understand its
strengths and weaknesses," Hayward said.

Yvonne Sell, director at Hay Group, a management consultancy, predicted that it
will become harder for individuals to be expert leaders as organisations grow
ever more diverse and projects call for collaboration between many departments
and businesses.

"An example of this is the marrying up of cognitive scientists and IT
technicians to create iPhones," she said. "One person can't be an expert in all
of those things, and as organisations get more global, it's going to mean that
it will be close to impossible at any of those big businesses for the chief
executive to be an expert in everything."

The credentials of the board as a whole may need to come under scrutiny, as
opposed to solely those of the chief executive, said Hayward. "Does a chief
executive or a leader need to come from a technical background to be a good
leader of an organisation? No, clearly not, because the majority of leaders
don't come from a technical background.

"But they do need to surround themselves with people who understand the nuts and
bolts of each part of the business."

Sure grip on his tyres

John McNaught, UK managing director of the tyre company Bridgestone, has spent
35 years in the industry. Having earned his stripes in all areas of the
business, he is trusted by colleagues and customers alike.

"I spent 18 years in distribution and I have now worked 17 years for a
manufacturer. Having experience on both sides means that when I visit customers
at their premises, I know what's happening within that business," said McNaught.
"When I first joined Bridgestone 12 years ago, there were a lot of people
involved in the business who had no distribution experience. This meant that
they had a manufacturing viewpoint but they didn't really understand the
industry they were trying to sell into.

"I was able to come in and complement their knowledge, and over a period of time
we became a far better organisation."

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John McNaught's knowledge of distribution gave Bridgestone a boost

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


