                              345 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           August 29, 1990 Wednesday

Scrutiny of technology inadequate, study says   Hospitals accused of not
considering costs

BYLINE: CHRISTIE McLAREN; GAM

LENGTH: 358 words

DATELINE: Toronto ONT


BY CHRISTIE McLAREN
Health Policy Reporter
  TORONTO
 New technology, considered a major cause of soaring health-care costs
around the world, is welcomed into most Ontario hospitals with very little
scrutiny, a new study has found.

Hospital managers often fail to consider potentially expensive factors
such as long-term operating costs when they decide to buy complex new
medical equipment, Raisa Deber, author of the study and a professor of
health administration at the University of Toronto, said yesterday.

Although hospitals spend millions of dollars annually on new
technology, few of them have a formal system to evaluate whether the new
equipment works, whether it is needed, and how it will affect tight
hospital budgets, Ms Deber told the Canadian Conference on Health
Economics in Toronto.

That kind of scrutiny "is virtually non-existent," Ms Deber told the
gathering of about 200 economists and hospital and government officials.

Ms Deber surveyed 120 Ontario hospitals, 415 key hospital managers and
74 official hospital forms used by staff to request new pieces of
equipment.

Ontario hospitals are spending an average of about $2-million each in
capital costs per year, with the range from $4,000 to $45-million, she
said. Half of this money is spent on medical equipment and technology.

Yet most hospitals rely on what could be considered biased information
when deciding whether to purchase new equipment, according to the survey.

The vast majority - 82 per cent - get their information about new
technology from the doctors or other employees who are demanding it. More
than 70 per cent said they get information from the manufacturer, and just
over half say they look at written assessments of the technology prepared
by technical experts.

Hospital committees making these decisions usually consist of
administrators and physicians, and rarely include staff nurses, whose
working conditions are often the most affected by new equipment, or
technical experts, Ms Deber noted.

She called it "rather striking" that a third of them ask only the
purchase price and fail to ask whether extra employees and supplies will
be necessary to operate a new piece of equipment.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1990 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


