                              344 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             July 5, 2014 Saturday

High school students get prepared for working world;
Interns paired with pros at restaurants, hospitals, banks

BYLINE: ERIN KOURKOUNIS; Tribune staff

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 559 words



HIGHLIGHT: Each summer, a couple hundred Hillsborough County high-school
students enrolled in career and technical programs land internships with local
businesses. In addition to internships in the finance, maritime, agriculture and
health services industries, new this summer are culinary internships. Many of
the companies, like Sun Coast Credit Union, end up hiring some interns full time
once they turn 18.


TAMPA - More than 150 students who attend Hillsborough County high schools are
getting a taste of what it's like to be in the working world this summer.

Depending on their field, the teens are working in internships alongside
professionals at local establishments such as restaurants, hospitals and banks.
Internships are required of students enrolled in career and technical programs
at their schools.

Career and technical education is all about preparing the student to go into the
workforce, said Chris Jargo, the school district's assistant director for career
and technical education. The school-based experience is important to give them
basic skills, but the work-based experience is just as important.

The summer programs help students get a feel for whether they would enjoy a
career in the field in which they are interning.

So maritime interns work at the Port of Tampa, and finance interns work in banks
and credit unions. Those studying agribusiness work in seed stores or as
farmhands. Health science students are doing clinical internships in hospitals.

New this year is a short-term internship program for about 25 culinary students.
Those students spend up to two weeks rotating through jobs in local eateries
such as the Columbia Restaurant and Mise en Place.

If they do a great job, sometimes they get hired, Jargo said.

Suncoast Credit Union hired 11 interns out of 30 candidates from Jefferson,
Brandon and Armwood high schools this summer. For six weeks, the students work
40 hours per week at the administrative office on Hillsborough Avenue,
collecting a paycheck and attending weekly training sessions.

The credit union's internship program is more than 10 years old. The students,
who are paid $9 per hour, are halfway through their internships.

Johnathan Navarro, who will be a senior at Jefferson High in the fall, is in the
learning and development department at Suncoast. He has taken classes through
Jefferson's finance academy since his freshman year.

The internship isn't his first job, but it is the first one that has made him
feel like a professional adult with a career, he said.

He starts off the workday at 8:30 a.m. with a cup of coffee before checking
emails at his desk. He spends the rest of the day working on projects he's been
assigned.

His latest assignment is photographing historical documents for a collage that
will be displayed in the credit union's boardroom.

I've always wanted to get into the financial world, he said. I didn't think I'd
be so involved coming into an internship. I'd expect to do grunt work. I feel
I've been placed perfectly.

After high school, Johnathan plans to study film production and business in
college.

Working for a company that's this big, established and successful will only help
me in the long run, he said.

Shameka Archer, 33, was an intern in the credit union's accounting department as
a senior in Jefferson's finance academy in 1998. In May, she began working there
again, but this time as a recruiter in human resources.

From her intern days, Archer remembers getting a foundation in professionalism
and working as part of a team. Now, she encourages this year's interns to learn
from their experience there.

The opportunity gave me a good idea of how to learn what I wanted to do for my
future, she said.

ekourkounis@tampatrib.com

(813)259-7999

Twitter: @ErinKTBO

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


