                              348 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Financial Daily

                            August 4, 2012 Saturday

Dialysis center made functioning by orders of Punjab CM

LENGTH: 305  words


On the special directions of the Punjab Chief Minister Muhammad Shahbaz Sharif,
the dialysis center has been made functioning by the district administration of
Sialkot. The said dialysis center had been lying out of use for the last one
month at Government Allama Iqbal Memorial DHQ Hospital due to some undisclosed
technical faults in the machinery and prolonged non-availability of any
qualified urologist, technical assistants and paramedics there.

Sialkot DCO Zahid Saleem Gondal visited the dialysis center and told the newsmen
that the said dialysis center has been brought in working order. As the new
blood filtration plants and new related machinery has been replaced there with
the help of the local philanthropists. He said that now a qualified urologist
and technical staff have also been deputed there.

DCO said that the Punjab Chief Minister Muhammad Shahbaz Sharif has taken very
serious notice of the news item published in national dailies regarding the lock
up of said dialysis center. The CM ordered immediate functioning of this
dialysis center in the larger interest of the local kidney patients, in this
regard.

It was the only facility at the above-mentioned DHQ hospital for the kidney
patients from Sialkot district's all the four Sialkot, Daska, Sambrial and
Pasrur tehsils.

Instead of making some practical efforts, the administration of Govt. Allama
Iqbal Memorial DHQ Hospital Sialkot had finally locked up this dialysis center,
putting the poor kidney patients at the mercy of the private hospitals and
clinics.

Three years ago, the Punjab government had established this dialysis center for
providing the better and advanced treatment to the deserving and poor kidney
patients. Since then, no qualified urologist and technical assistants had yet
been appointed there by the provincial health department there

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Financial Daily
                              All Rights Reserved


