                              351 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                             August 22, 2014 Friday

IT glitch at hospitals causes major test result delays

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 303 words


The problem arose last weekend, and some patients attending Cork University
Hospital who are awaiting test results described the situation as "chaotic".

One man, who did not wish to be identified, said a relative with cancer had
treatment held up as they waited for blood test results. Another patient said
diabetics attending an outpatient clinic were told to go home and return another
day.

The HSE confirmed that problems arose last Saturday in the Laboratory
Information Management System at CUH and that its ICT department was "working
with the suppliers of the system to correct these technical issues as quickly as
possible".

It is a centralised IT system which supports services at CUH, Kerry General,
Mallow General, and Bantry General, as well as the Mercy Hospital's blood
transfusion lab.

GPs have already been notified by the HSE and asked not to send samples for
testing to the hospitals. Urgent cases are being "prioritised", the HSE said.
However, it added that "some delays are being experienced for the results of
samples classed as routine or non-urgent due to the system reverting to a manual
process until the IT issue is resolved".

The HSE said the lab service had implemented contingency arrangements "in order
to continue to provide the required essential diagnostic services to the
hospital departments, GPs and other community services", all of whom have been
informed of the technical issues. The lab service is working extended hours at
this time.

A HSE spokeswoman said the technical issues did not mean pathology tests were
not being carried out, but that results had to be written up manually. She said
they were "working around the clock" to resolve the problem.

She said a number of the lab IT systems are being restored on a phased basis and
it is hoped to be fully restored in the coming days.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


