                              354 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            January 27, 2003 Monday

PREPSCOOPS

SECTION: SPORTS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1122 words


Boys basketball

* Hawks' Koger out of hospital Riverton sophomore guard Matt Koger, who was
hospitalized last week because of a mysterious infection in his left hand and
forearm, was discharged Saturday from St. John's Hospital.

Matt's father, former Riverton head coach Jeff Koger, said Sunday that the
problem finally was diagnosed as a staph infection caused by a small cut on
Matt's left thumb. Matt was admitted to St. John's on Tuesday, and he was kept
on intravenous antibiotics until the swelling in the hand and arm subsided.

There is, however, still a small lump on the arm, and Matt is taking an oral
antibiotic for that. If the lump isn't reduced sufficiently by Wednesday, it
probably will be removed surgically.

Matt is scheduled to be back in school today, when he can resume basketball
conditioning. If the lump is reduced enough by Wednesday, he can rejoin the team
and prepare for Friday's game against Nokomis and Saturday's home showdown
against Quincy Notre Dame.

Matt missed the 13-3 Hawks' wins over Illini Central and Athens last week, and
he'll miss Tuesday's game at Petersburg Porta. But he said he wasn't surprised
by the team's performance. That includes the effort of fellow sophomore Richie
Combs, who has started during Matt's absence.

"I hate missing the games, but I knew the guys would step up, especially
Richie," Matt said. "It got pretty boring in the hospital, being in bed all day.
I watched a lot of ESPN."

Matt said the team visited him at St. John's on Wednesday night. He also got a
phone call from another Sangamo Conference player who, unfortunately, will be
out of action the rest of the season with a knee injury: Buffalo Tri-City senior
Walter Patton.

"Walt Patton called me at the hospital, just wondering what was wrong," Koger
said. "That was pretty nice of him. I feel bad for him, especially since he's a
senior."

* Technical difficulties for Mount Olive

It was merely the consolation championship game of the Macoupin County
Tournament. But Virden's 71-70 win over Mount Olive Saturday at the Virden gym
was a thriller that wasn't decided until the Bulldogs' Tyler Lewis hit an
18-footer with about 6 seconds left.

Doug Zehr just wishes he could've been there to see it.

Zehr, the Mount Olive head coach, spent the last 7 minutes of the game in the
locker room after a series of technical fouls caused him and his volunteer
assistant coach, Mike Favre, to be ejected from the game. Zehr had received a
technical earlier in the game, and then Favre got two "T's" about a minute into
the fourth quarter.

Favre's double-technical meant he was ejected from the building. As the head
coach, Zehr had to leave the gymnasium because a total of three technicals had
been given to the Mount Olive bench. That left two other assistants, Al Downing
and Tim Rhymer, to coordinate things the rest of the way.

It reminded many of the scene in "Hoosiers" when the head coach, Gene Hackman,
is ejected, leaving Dennis Hopper to run the show for Hickory. But Zehr, who
cited several differences he had with Saturday's officiating, said the real-life
situation was unfair to Downing and Rhymer.

"It's not a situation you'd want to be in," Zehr said. "Al was uncomfortable,
and I can understand that. We talked afterward, and there might have been a few
things I would've done different. But the kids also coached themselves quite a
bit.

"I think the kids really came together under some tough circumstances. We had a
discussion in the locker room afterward, and we told them it was just a lesson
in life."

Favre, formerly the head coach for the Wildcats, will have to sit out Tuesday
night's game against Mulberry Grove because he received two direct technicals.
But Zehr will have his whole staff back Friday when the Wildcats play host to -
you guessed it - Virden.

* Warrensburg, Miners on collision course

The marquee matchup for the Riverton Subway Shootout Feb. 15 is the 7:30 p.m.
game between Warrensburg-Latham and Gillespie.  The odds are increasing that it
will be a battle of unbeatens.

The Cardinals (16-0) probably have a tougher schedule than the Miners (18-0)
between now and Feb. 15. Assuming Warrensburg plays three games in the Okaw
Valley Conference Tournament Jan. 31-Feb. 7, the Cardinals have seven more
contests before coming to Riverton.

Warrensburg has a potential title-game matchup against Monticello (16-2) in the
OVC Tournament, and the Cardinals also face Maroa-Forsyth (12-5) Feb. 11.

Gillespie, meanwhile, has four games prior to the Riverton Shootout: Tuesday
against Roxana (6-11); Friday at home against Piasa Southwestern (14-5), which
lost to the Miners 76-60 in the Macoupin County title game Saturday; Feb. 4 at
Carlinville (6-11); and Feb. 7 at home East Alton-Wood River (6-16).

The Gillespie-Warrensburg game also could be a preview of the Shelbyville
Sectional semifinals. Gillespie is assigned to the Raymond Lincolnwood Regional,
while Warrensburg plays in the Mount Pulaski Regional. Winners of those two
regionals will meet at Shelbyville.

* COMING THIS WEEK: The January tourney schedule is winding down, but the 75th
annual A-C Central Invitational will be in full swing in Ashland. Top-seeded
Auburn meets improving Pittsfield at 6:30 p.m. today, followed by No. 2 Calvary
Academy against Franklin, an upset winner over Winchester on Saturday. An Auburn
win tonight would send the Trojans to a semifinal against Athens at 6:30 p.m.
Thursday. Auburn beat Athens 61-49 for the Waverly Holiday Tournament
championship. A Calvary win tonight would mean a semifinal date against White
Hall North Greene at 8 p.m. Thursday. The championship game is set for 4 p.m.
Saturday. ... Class A coaches meet one week from today to seed the regional
tournaments.

Girls basketball

* Bluffs gets rare win over Rushville

Brian Bettis has coached some very good girls basketball teams at Bluffs over
the last eight years. But the Lady Bluejays never could solve one of the
traditional Class A toughies of west central Illinois: Rushville.

That finally changed a week ago, when Bluffs - which co-ops with Meredosia -
traveled to Rushville and came away with a 56-41 victory. Rushville was No. 4 in
The State Journal-Register Class A area ratings, while Bluffs was not ranked in
the top 10.

Bettis said the victory was especially pleasing because his team was without one
of its key players, freshman forward Rene Evans, who was ill.

"We played exceptionally well, even though we didn't have Rene," Bettis said.
"We've probably had some other years where we should've beaten (Rushville), but
we really were hitting on all cylinders this time.

"I think we might have beaten them back in 1989 or '90, before I was coach."

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LOCAL

                   Copyright 2003 The State Journal-Register


