                              357 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 12, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

NEW QUESTIONS POSED ABOUT TAPES IN INQUIRY ON MONTEFIORE ASSAULT

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 597 words


New questions emerged yesterday about two tape recordings that have become the
focal point of an investigation into an attempted murder of a Bronx hospital
administrator.

A Bronx assistant district attorney said in court that Acting Justice Archie A.
Gorfinkel of State Supreme Court, who unsealed the tapes, had reported having
technical difficulties in listening to one of them.

The assistant district attorney, Steven R. Kartagener, said the technical
problems experienced by the judge had raised questions about ''the integrity of
the tapes'' and whether they had been altered before being turned over to the
judge. Mr. Kartagener said that the judge had called the District Attorney's
office and reported '' 'something is not working properly with the tapes.' ''

Mr. Kartagener said the technical problems that the judge said he had
experienced ''raises the question of the integrity of the tapes.''

Tapes Made on Jan. 3

Later, outside the court, Mr. Kartagener said: ''There is a possibility some
interested party could have altered these tapes. At the very least the grand
jury has the right to know if the tapes are pure and pristine.''

The tapes were made on Jan. 3 by Dr. Richard G. Rosen, a surgeon at Montefiore
Hospital and Medical Center, who has been identified by the Bronx District
Attorney's office as the ''primary suspect'' in the near-fatal hammer beating of
his assistant, Clara Vanderbilt. She was found unconscious in Dr. Rosen's office
across the street from the hospital in the North Bronx on New Year's Eve.

Mrs. Vanderbilt, who is 41 years old, was reported in satisfactory condition
yesterday at the hospital. She has been unable to identify her assailant, but
she has said she did not believe the 51-year-old Dr. Rosen was responsible for
the attack.

Mr. Kartagener raised the tampering issue before the Appellate Division of the
State Supreme Court in Manhattan. He said that on Feb. 1, Justice Gorfinkel, the
first judge to examine the tapes, telephoned the District Attorney's office's
and said: ''I need some assistance, something is not working properly with the
tapes.''

Found Irrelevant to Inquiry

Justice Gorfinkel - without citing any technical problems in hearing the tapes -
ruled on Feb. 3 that the tapes were irrelevant to the investigation and that
District Attorney Mario Merola of the Bronx had no right to examine them.

Justice Gorfinkel, reached by telephone yesterday, declined to comment on the
statements by Mr. Kartagener.  Dr. Rosen's lawyer, Jonathan Rosner, told the
five-member court there was no evidence to support the suggestion that the tapes
had been altered.

Dr. Rosen, the vice chairman of the hospital's department of surgery, has
refused to turn over the tapes, citing constitutional and other legal grounds.

Mr. Merola has described the tapes as ''oral suicide notes'' made by Dr. Rosen
after he had learned that Mrs. Vanderbilt would recover. The District Attorney's
office has said that Dr. Rosen, who is married, a nd Mrs. Vanderbilt, who is
divorced, were romantically involved and that the tapes are ''essential'' to the
investigation.

The appellate court, which now has the tapes, gave no indication when it would
rule. Both sides said they would appeal an unfavorable decision to the state's
highest court, the Court of Appeals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


