                              358 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                             October 6, 2014 Monday

Agency selection for setting up super-specialty hospital

LENGTH: 293 words

DATELINE: Raipur


Raipur, Oct. 6 -- The Directorate of Medical Education (DME) will select a
Technical Agency for establishing super-specialty hospital at Dau Kalyan Singh
(DKS) Bhawan by the end of October 2014.

The Request for Proposal (RoP) for selection of the Technical Support Agency
(TSA) has been issued by DME and the process will be completed by the last week
of this month, sources said.

The proposed super specialty hospital will provide services in six disciplines
including Renal Sciences, Neurosciences, Endocrinology, Pediatric surgery,
Burn-plastic and Reconstructive surgery besides setting up of an Infertility
Treatment Centre. It will also have a 20 bed emergency ward.

The DME has decided to establish a super specialty hospital with a capacity of
250-300 beds at DKS Bhawan after the Secretariat was shifted to Mahanadi Bhawan
in Naya Raipur.

The Directorate of Medical Education has invited RoP for selection of agency
while the pre-bid meeting is scheduled on October 10. The bids will be opened
and the Technical Agency will be selected on October 21.

DME has mentioned that the work for establishing the super-specialty hospital
will start from December 1, 2014 and the work will be completed in one year. It
has been planned that the super specialty hospital will start providing services
from January 2016.

The TSA will have to set up a Project Management Unit (PMU) in the DKS Bhawan to
deliver the services. It will also have to depute a two-member team comprising a
doctor with experience in hospital administration and a professional in hospital
management.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


