                              359 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                            August 14, 2008 Thursday

Dedicated team leads drive for cleanliness;
The Architects Design Group (ADG) has set up a dedicated team to support its
growing client base in the healthcare sector.

BYLINE: David Wilcock

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 589 words


Adg Healthcare, led by group director Phil Burgess, pulls together a range of
health-related expertise within the Plymouth-based architectural practice and is
recognition of its growing stature in the healthcare market.

ADG has already carved out a national reputation for its work in creating
disinfection and sterilisation units across the UK for the private healthcare
Nuffield Hospitals group and the NHS is now showing interest in this area of
expertise.

ADG has also recently been appointed as technical adviser to the Torbay NHS Care
Trust for a planned healthy living centre in Paignton in Devon that will bring
together a range of health and community care services under one roof.

And ADG's planning and regeneration team was appointed earlier this year by the
Plymouth Hospitals NHS Trust to provide planning consultancy services for a
range of potential projects in and around Derriford Hospital in Plymouth.

Mr Burgess, a Fellow of the Institute of Healthcare Engineering and Estate
Management, said: "ADG Healthcare brings together all these disciplines, from
planning consultancy and design to highly specialised technical advice. It's a
market where we are seeing significant growth so we wanted to structure our
business in a way that best suits the needs of our clients."

ADG has a strong track record in the healthcare sector ranging from GP and
dental surgeries to hospital extensions, operating theatres and sterilisation
units. Most recently the practice celebrated the completion of an extension to
the Nuffield Hospital in Plymouth, including new operating theatres.

Mr Burgess added: "Our role extends far beyond the design process. Increasingly
we are being asked to advise on a range of technical and compliance issues for
clients in the public and private sector because the rules governing healthcare
facilities are becoming increasingly stringent."

ADG Healthcare has extensive knowledge of the Department of Health's Health
Building Notes, which govern best practice in the planning and design of
healthcare facilities, and its Health Technical Memoranda which set specific
standards for healthcare building features like windows and sanitary ware, and
the design and operation of engineering services like medical gas installations
and fire safety systems.

A particular area of expertise is offsite disinfection and sterilisation units.
These are centralised facilities serving a number of local hospitals to clean
surgical instruments after operations and have stemmed from new EU regulations
introduced in 2006.

With infection control very high on the Government's agenda, and the first new
guidance in 10 years on this issue only published last year, the private sector
has taken the lead in developing new units that can handle millions of
instruments a year.

ADG Healthcare has designed six such centres for Nuffield Hospitals in Devon,
Hampshire, Warwickshire, Cambridgeshire, Yorkshire and Staffordshire, three of
which are already up and running. The centres will serve 39 hospitals between
them once completed.

It has also carried out a study for a sterilisation centre for an NHS Trust in
the South West and has designed a centre for a group of independent hospitals in
central London.

ADG Healthcare's experience includes adult mental health, audiology, cardiology,
critical care, dental, endoscopy, hydrotherapy, diagnostic imaging, laser
treatment, ophthalmology, pathology, pharmacy and physiotherapy, together with
reception and waiting areas, records, administration, training and outpatient
treatment.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 83


                 Copyright 2008 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved


