                              353 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             March 8, 2002, Friday

ASYLUM PROBE AT HOSPITAL;
 EXCLUSIVE GOVERNMENT EXPERTS READY TO ASSESS SITE

BYLINE: Peter Collins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 301 words


HOPES that Sully Hospital would be removed from the list of sites that could
become centres for asylum seekers have suffered a setback.

Planning consultants for the Home Office have confirmed that they will be
carrying out further "technical evaluations" of the former psychiatric hospital
in Sully.

But John Smith, MP for the Vale of Glamorgan, says he remains confident that the
Sully site will be rejected once the technical studies are completed.

A spokesman for the MP said Mr Smith had explained to Lord Rooker, Minister for
Citizenship and Immigration, that there were severe technical difficulties
involved in the use of Sully Hospital as a centre for refugees. These are now
being investigated by the Home Office.

At a full meeting of the Vale of Glamorgan Council, leader Coun Jeff James said
leading councillors and officers were seeking an urgent meeting with the Home
Office.

He said Rob Quick, the Vale council's director of environmental and economic
regeneration, had already written to the Home Office outlining "the widespread
opposition to the proposal".

A council spokesman said: "The council has already voiced major concerns about
the proposal.

"The authority feels that the site is not suitable or safe for the asylum
seekers, particular as the former hospital was closed, at least in part, because
of health and safety concerns at the site."

Sully Hospital is on a shortlist of eight sites in the country, which are under
consideration by the Home Office. Four will be chosen as centres for asylum
seekers.

Brian Harwicke, a member of the Sully Residents Action Group, set up to oppose
the proposal, told the Echo: "We will press ahead with our campaign.

We want to see the hospital used as a children's hospital or a convalescence
centre."

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd


