                              36 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           February 05, 2002, Tuesday

Contested votes negate union win

BYLINE: MATTHEW WAITE

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 266 words

DATELINE: BAYONET POINT



(ran PW, PS editions)

Seven contested ballots in the Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point union
elections have reversed what first  appeared to be a union win.

In October, the hospital's nurses and technical unit employees voted separately
to join the Teamsters. But the hospital filed unfair labor charges against the
union on the nurses' election, and the Teamsters challenged seven votes in the
technical unit election.

A hearing officer from the National Labor Relations Board ruled in December that
there was no merit to the hospital or the union's objections and that the
nurses' vote should be upheld. The officer also ruled that the challenged votes
for the technical workers should be opened and counted.

Those seven votes were opened recently, and all of them went against
unionization. The final tally was 53-51 against unionizing the technical
workers.

In October, the first tally of technical worker votes came out at 51-46 to
unionize, so the unopened votes were enough to swing the election.

The union challenged the seven votes from the Hospital Information Management
department, saying those workers were not eligible to vote. The board overruled
the union's objections in December.

The hospital's nurses voted 167-136 in favor of joining the Teamsters, and the
board certified those results after overruling the hospital's objections in
December.

In all, nearly 400 employees took part in the unionization vote.

- Matthew Waite can be reached in west Pasco at 869-6247 or toll free at
1-800-333-7505, ext. 6247. His e-mail address is waite@sptimes.com.


LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


