                              369 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 17, 2015 Tuesday

Texas: Program Specialist VII

LENGTH: 1678  words

DATELINE: Austin


Department of Health and Human Services, The State of Texas has issued the
following job opportunities:

Posting Type:  Open to All Applicants
Category:   FLSA Exempt/
Non-Exempt:  Exempt
Agency:  Health & Human Services Comm  Department:  HHSC & HHS Rate Analysis
Job Title:  Program Specialist VII  Posting Number:  282932
Full Time/Part Time :  Full Time  Regular/Temporary:  Regular
Job Location:  4900 N LAMAR BLVD  City:  AUSTIN
Contact:  AccessHR Service Center  Telephone:  888-894-4747
Salary Range:  $5,258.66 - $8,413.91  Salary Group:  B25
Shift:  Days (First)  Travel:  10%
Closing Date:  03/02/2015
Job Description:
The Program Specialist VII performs highly advanced business process oversight,
policy and rule development, and technical analyses for the Financial Services
Division, Rate Analysis Department (RAD) under the supervision of the Director
of Rate Analysis for Hospitals. This position will act as the primary subject
matter expert (SME) on regulatory and business process improvement issues
relating to supplemental payments and rate setting for hospitals. The position
oversees: 1) development and implementation of policies and procedures, Texas
Administrative Code rules and State plan amendments pertaining to hospital
payments including supplemental payments, rate methodologies and rates; 2)
compliance with state and federal statutes and rules, including the development
and implementation of effective techniques for monitoring, evaluating and
updating procedures pertaining to the collection and review of provider cost
data to ensure that these processes and procedures comply with state and federal
rules and statutes; 3) coordination of operations, processes, and functions in
the RAD Hospitals section to ensure efficiency and effectiveness in achieving
program goals; and 4) RAD Hospitals section litigation risk management and
litigation responses. Duties include: managing the development and
implementation of hospital supplemental payment and hospital rate setting
methodologies, Texas Administrative Code rules and State plan amendments;
identifying and supporting business process improvement activities; providing
effective regulatory, planning, organization, and other guidance to rate analyst
staff; identifying needed areas of change, facilitating coordination among the
various functions in the Hospitals section,; and overseeing the development of
alternative strategies and recommendations; interacting with providers and other
stakeholders with regard to regulatory and compliance issues related to rate
analysis for hospitals. The position: 1) provides regulatory and technical
guidance and oversight on cost and payment analysis and research projects to
evaluate the feasibility and cost implications of various rate and supplemental
payment structures, program initiatives or enhancements, and regulations; 2)
ensures appropriate documentation of policies and procedures, and periodically
reviews such policies and procedures for business process improvement and to
achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness; 3) oversees collection of
appropriate data necessary to determine supplemental payments and hospital
payment rates to ensure such data collections are conducted in compliance with
governing statutes and rules; 4) oversees the development of briefing documents
for executive and legal staff regarding complex hospital reimbursement
regulations; and, 5) provides technical assistance to contracted vendors
including consultants and auditors. Performs other duties as assigned and
required to maintain efficient program and agency operations.
Essential Job Functions:
Oversees development and implementation of, and compliance with, policies and
procedures, guidelines, agency rules, State plan amendments and other associated
documents pertaining to reimbursement methodologies and payment rates.
Undertakes business process improvement activities to help improve efficiency
and effectiveness of Hospitals section operations Provides guidance and
management to RAD Hospitals section staff on interpretation of complex,
technical regulations governing rate determination including the development of
policies and procedures. Represents RAD at meetings with external and internal
stakeholders concerning hospital rate issues. Manages major hospital rate
analysis projects. Assists in hiring and conducts training of junior staff,
including regularly participating in interview and selection teams, training new
hires on various legal and regulatory aspects of their positions. Prepares
written briefing documents and other documents related to the results of policy
and regulatory research and analysis for decision making by executive staff.
Makes presentations of research or analysis to a variety of audiences including
hospital industry stakeholders and HHSC executive staff. Interacts with various
RAD staff, hospital industry representatives, HHS Enterprise staff, legal staff,
advisory committees, workgroups and other interested parties concerning payment
rate and supplemental payment policy issues. Coordinates interactions with
Enterprise and stakeholder legal staff. Provides primary support to RAD
Hospitals section regarding litigation risk management and responses to
litigation. Advises and supports staff on all administrative appeals, settlement
negotiations, auditor interactions, negotiations with CMS related to cost
reporting and rate setting, and legal disputes between providers and HHSC
regarding rate setting, supplemental payments and associated recoupments. Acts
as primary witness, works with attorneys to develop legal strategies and
prepares less experienced staff to act as witnesses in all hospital rate-related
litigation and legal disputes. Communicates complex information to internal and
external parties to provide, exchange or verify information, answer inquiries,
address issues or resolve problems or complaints. Engages with various
providers, provider representatives, other agency staff, advisory committees,
workgroups, attorneys and other interested parties concerning rate setting and
supplemental payment policy issues. Assists in the design and conduct of special
cost and statistical research and analysis to evaluate the feasibility and the
cost implications with regard to hospital inpatient and outpatient rate
structure and supplemental payment options, new program initiatives or
enhancements, special payment rate initiatives, and new regulations. Develops
and conducts surveys to collect cost data from providers for use in payment
analysis. Designs cost data collection instruments and detailed instructions to
collect cost data from contracted providers for use in payment rate analysis.
Develops and conducts on-line and/or class room based educational training
programs related to the completion of the data collection instruments. Provides
technical assistance related to data collection instrument completion, policy
guidelines and rule requirements. Conducts training of junior staff on various
technical aspects. Performs other work as assigned or required to maintain and
support the office and HHSC operations.
Knowledge Skills Abilities:
o Knowledge of and ability to analyze state and federal laws and regulations
relating to Medicaid reimbursement and public administration. Knowledge of
health and human service programs, services, and procedures, specific
familiarity with hospital rate setting and supplemental payment programs. o
Knowledge of management principles, and experience in business process
improvement techniques. o Knowledge of accounting, business and management
principles and practices and procedures. o Skill in developing, implementing,
interpreting and evaluating policies, procedures, regulations, and laws. o
Ability in assisting in the development of litigation risk management strategies
and litigation responses. o Knowledge and skill in development of hospital
reimbursement methods and payment fees, formulas, and procedures. o Ability to
exercise independent judgment, set priorities, meet deadlines and adapt to
shifting technical and political developments. o Ability to manage projects
effectively, and produce quality work within short deadlines. o Ability to plan,
organize, and coordinate the work of others. o Ability to establish goals and
objectives, coordinate the achievement of established goals and objectives and
identify problems and develop creative solutions. o Skill in interpersonal
relationships and in establishing and maintaining effective working
relationships. o Ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing
with a variety of agency staff, medical/provider associations, legislative
staff, lawyers, state/federal auditors, and interested parties on Medicaid
reimbursement issues.
Registration or Licensure Requirements:
None required.
Initial Selection Criteria:
Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university; Masters degree
preferred. Knowledge of, and experience in, analyzing state and federal laws and
regulations relating to Medicaid reimbursement and public administration.
Knowledge of, and experience in, administration of health and human service
programs, services and procedures, business process improvement, and specific
familiarity with hospital rate setting and supplemental payment programs.
Additional Information:
College degree in business, accounting, law, financial management, statistical
analysis, public policy or health care policy preferred In compliance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), HHS agencies will provide reasonable
accommodation during the hiring and selection process for qualified individuals
with a disability. If you need assistance completing the on-line application,
contact the HHS Employee Service Center at 1-888-894-4747. If you are contacted
for an interview and need accommodation to participate in the interview process,
please notify the person scheduling the interview. req 282932

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


