                              371 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (AsiaNet)

                            November 28, 2016 Monday

Rs 25 bln package for PIMS's expansion submitted for approval

SECTION: Vol. 18 No. 328

LENGTH: 673  words


Vice Chancellor, Shaheed Zulfikar Ali Bhutto University, Dr. Javed Akram has
said that a package of Rs 25 billion had been submitted to the government for
approval to meet the growing healthcare needs of people in the hospital.

"On the instruction of the Prime Minister, we have prepared a PC-1 of the
expansion plan and submitted to the ministry of planning, development and
reforms," he said in a briefing to media and officials of Japan International
Cooperation Agency (JICA) here.

Under the package, the existing facilities would be enhanced besides some new
projects would be initiated for the patients.

Explaining further he said, the Trauma center, mortuary, thalassemia center and
new paediatric specialties would be made available.

While briefing about JICA financial support to PIMS, he informed that Japan had
been assisting this organization since 1980s, just after its establishment, not
only through constructing the Children Hospital, the Maternal and Child Health
Care Centre and the Colleges of Nursing and Medical Technologies, but also
through technical assistance by Japanese experts.

He said, the amount of Japanese assistance throughout the years is more than US$
60 million.

Dr. Javed Akram said, now, PIMS had become a central hospital serving patients
from across the country and also work as a center of the human development in
the field of medicine.

Responding to a question regarding Japanese assistance to PIMS, he said, it
consisted of 10 grant aid projects amounting to 10.8 billion Japanese Yen
besides technical cooperation.

About Children Hospital, Japan provided grants for construction of building in
1980s.

In order to alleviate neo-natal mortality rate, 200 bedded in-patient department
and OPD that could accommodate maximum 2000 patients per day were constructed
with the cost of JPY 4.3 billion.

Through technical cooperation project by JICA, capacity building of the staffs
on pediatric services were provided, he added.

He said, in total, 81 Japanese experts were dispatched to PIMS, and 30 staffs
from PIMS went to Japan for training.

About expansion of facility and provision of equipment, he said, due to the
increased number of operation and patients and expiration of life of medical
equipment, Japanese government provided assistance to build new operation
theater block, renovate old operation theater and provide medical equipment
amounting to Japanese Yen 600 million and Japanese Yen 650 million respectively.

The Vice Chancellor said, in order to alleviate the maternal mortality rate of
Pakistan, the Japanese government built Maternal and Child Health Care Centre
(MCH Center), a 125 bedded in-patient department and outpatient department that
can accommodate maximum 200 patients per day at a cost of Japanese Yen 1.9
billion, and  Japanese Yen 560 million.

About capacity building programme, he said, through technical cooperation
project by JICA, the training on safe motherhood and nutrition were conducted
for female medical staffs/workers.

Around 41 Japanese experts were dispatched while 11 Pakistani staffs were sent
to Japan for training.

Regarding College of Nursing and College of Medical Technologies Construction of
Schools, he said, in order to improve the quality of service delivery, these
schools were built to produce approximately 200 nurses and medical technicians
at a cost of Japanese Yen 1.59 billion.

About capacity building, he said, through technical cooperation project of
nursing education, seven long term and five short term Japanese experts were
deputed at this College to improve the education of nursing. In addition, 13
Pakistani nurses were trained in Japan.

Regarding provision of other equipment, he informed that under non-project grant
aid for Provision of Industrial Products,  industrial products such as forklift
at cost of Japanese Yen 110 million that were produced in the disaster-affected
areas in Japan were provided to PIMS.

The medical equipment such as radiography and operation table amount to Japanese
Yen 110 million were also provided.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


