                              364 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                             March 23, 2014 Sunday

No strike at UC hospitals on Monday; agreement is reached on contract

BYLINE: By Paul Burgarino Contra Costa Times

SECTION: BREAKING; My Town; Eastern Contra Costa; Alameda; Oakland-Berkeley;
Education; Contra Costa; News; Local

LENGTH: 287 words


OAKLAND -- A planned strike of about 13,000 UC hospital workers starting Monday
has been cancelled, as a tentative contract agreement for patient care technical
workers has been reached.

The deal was struck Sunday morning after marathon bargaining sessions over the
weekend, both UC and union officials said.

The four-year agreement, which covers 13,000 patient care technical workers at
medical and student health centers, includes "union priorities of fair wage
increases, secure benefits, and staffing protections, while addressing UC's top
priority of pension reform," AFSCME said in a news release.

The agreement includes across-the-board and step increases totaling 24.5
percent, along with a ratification bonus, health rate freezes for lower-salaried
employees, and revised language on layoffs, UC officials said.

AFSCME officials said strike talks were prompted by UC's decision last summer to
impose contract terms that included new layoff powers.

"This proposed agreement reflects compromise on both sides, improves safety in
UC hospitals, and honors the important contributions to patient care technical
worker," AFSCME 3299 President Kathryn Lybarger said.

"There was true compromise by both sides to reach this agreement," said Dwaine
Duckett, UC vice president for human resources, in a news release. "This ends
nearly two years of very challenging negotiations and serves as a foundation for
UC and AFSCME to build on going forward."

The union will hold a ratification vote later this week.

"Our members are looking forward to ratifying this agreement, returning to work,
and doing what they do best -- caring for patients," Lybarger said.

Contact Paul Burgarino at 925-779-7164. Follow him atTwitter.com/paulburgarino .

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


