                              363 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                            January 3, 2017 Tuesday

Health technical wing set up

SECTION: Vol. 71 No. 03

LENGTH: 304  words


After facing criticism about the lack of expertise in the health sector, the
Ministry of Capital Administration and Development Division (CADD) has finally
established the Health Technical Wing (HTW) to provide input on matters relating
to the health sector in the capital city.

Through the new unit, CADD will be able to interact with international
organisations and donor agencies on issues of health and population.

The head of the wing will be appointed from outside while experts already
available with CADD will be transferred to it.

After the 18th amendment, the health sector was devolved to provinces. However,
hospitals and other health institutions in the federal capital were placed under
CADD.

As CADD had no expertise to run the health department, proposals were flouted
that the healthcare institutions should be placed under the Ministry of National
Health Services.

An official statement issued on Monday said the new wing would work under the
chief/director general health, a grade-20 officer, who would be responsible for
scrutinising the proposals and recommendations presented to CADD on the health
sector.

'The technical wing, which was established on the directions of the minster for
CADD Dr Tariq Fazal Chaudhry, will augment CADD's ability to administer health
services in a professional manner.'

The wing will perform development, monitoring and evaluation of technical
matters of all hospitals, matters relating to the quality assurance of services
provided by the hospitals and their planning and public health projects.

The wing will also oversee matters relating to the cooperation and coordination
with international agencies besides participating in international seminars and
workshops.

Furthermore, the wing will also provide input in matters relating to the
population welfare and population control.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2017 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


