                              37 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 16, 2015 Monday

Technical Analyst (Ambulatory) - Phoenix, AZ (Arrowhead Hospital)

LENGTH: 917  words

DATELINE: Lansing


National Association of Sales Professionals has issued the following job
announcement:


Technical Analyst (Ambulatory) - Phoenix, AZ (Arrowhead Hospital)
Job ID:  22016026
Position Title:  Technical Analyst (Ambulatory) - Phoenix, AZ (Arrowhead
Hospital)
Company Name:  Dell, Inc.
Location(s):  Phoenix, Arizona, 85001, United States

Posted:  February 15, 2015
Job Function:  Other
Entry Level:  No
APPLY FOR THIS JOB
Apply URL:  https://dell.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.f...
Save Job  Email Job  Print Job
Job Description

Job Description

Technical Analyst (Ambulatory) - Phoenix, AZ (Arrowhead Hospital)-150003LV

Field Services Support Technician - Phoenix, AZ  (Arrowhead Hospital)

Dell Healthcare connects people to the right technology and processes to
accelerate innovation. Dell believes information is the foundation on which
healthcare will move forward. We are committed to helping the world create an
information-driven healthcare system. Dell has 20+ years of experience serving
the healthcare community and helping to solve business and technology
challenges.

We have an excellent opportunity for a Field Services Support Technician in
Phoenix, AZ to provide value to our largest and longest serving Healthcare
client in our Services' business unit. You will work with a fast-paced global
leader in IT and have the ability to learn from the best and brightest in the
industry.

The Technical Analysis Analyst position will work onsite at our client hospital
facility for Dell Services. This position requires direct interaction with the
hospital's end users in support of their desktop computers. This position will
report to the hospital IS Director. The Technical Analysis Analyst will provide
system support for all client workstations. They will investigate and suggest
new, or enhancements to, current practices, policies, procedures, or other
actions that result in enhanced workflow, reduced costs, increased productivity,
increased employee satisfaction, as well as continual compliance with company
requirements. They are responsible for installing and maintaining all
workstation hardware and client software. They will educate the user on basic
applications with basic training and support as needed. This position also
includes ensuring customer satisfaction while providing service and support for
all customer service requests.

We are only considering local applicants at this time.

Local travel between supported sites within market, and up 10% out of market
travel may be required.


Qualifications

Required:
- A minimum of a high school diploma or GED equivalent.
- Four year's experience in a medium to large networked computer support
environment.
- Experience with Microsoft Operating Systems.
- Strong knowledge of computers and computer software, with emphasis on hospital
supported software applications (IE: Office productivity applications email
clients, Citrix clients and various other applications).
- Ability to effectively prioritize and execute tasks in a high-pressure
environment.
- Ability to absorb and retain information quickly.
- Desire to learn and progress.
- Excellent interpersonal skills, with a focus on listening and questioning
skills
- Exceptional customer service orientation.
- Must be able to communicate effectively in English, both in writing and
verbally.
- Professional appearance acceptable to the department is required.

Preferred:
- Some college experience or computer trade school.
- Experience in a hospital environment.
- Experience setting up and conducting classroom style training.
Dell offers:
-Opportunity to work with a strong brand at one of the world's largest IT
solutions providers
-Dynamic, challenging, international work environment
-A team with a high level of energy, integrity and motivation to win
-Exciting internal career opportunities
-A commitment to diversity and inclusion
-Competitive compensation including bonus plans & a great benefit package
-An individual professional development plan

Company Description
With more than 100,000 team members globally, we promote an environment that is
rooted in the entrepreneurial spirit in which the company was founded. Dell's
team members are committed to serving our communities, regularly volunteering
for over 1,500 non-profit organizations. The company has also received many
accolades from employer of choice to energy conservation. Our team members
follow an open approach to technology innovation and believe that technology is
essential for human success.

Why work with us?
- Life at Dell means collaborating with dedicated professionals with a passion
for technology.
- When we see something that could be improved, we get to work inventing the
solution.
- Our people demonstrate our winning culture through positive and meaningful
relationships.
- We invest in our people and offer a series of programs that enables them to
pursue a career that fulfills their potential.
- Our team members' health and wellness is our priority as well as rewarding
them for their hard work.

Dell is an Equal Opportunity Employer. To learn more about our commitment to
Diversity & Inclusion, visit:Equal Employment Opportunity Policy Statement

Life at Dell Learn about Dell culture, the interviewing process and benefits
offered in your location:Life at Dell
Equal Opportunity Employer/Minorities/Women/Veterans/Disabled

Job Information Technology - Analysis
Primary Location North America-US-AZ-Phoenix


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


