                              38 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Japan News

                            November 30, 2015 Monday
                                   S Edition

Pharmacists' fees under microscope for budget cuts;
Pharmacies near hospitals prime targets

BYLINE: Takeshi Yonekawa and Koji Sobata, Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writers

SECTION: POLITICS; Pg. 2; No. 23396

LENGTH: 762 words


A key element of the government's move to revise the scale of medical service
fees downward for fiscal 2016 is to reduce the technical fees paid to
pharmacists for filling prescriptions.

Pharmacies have been under intense criticism, with some government officials
saying pharmacies near hospitals are making too much profit.

In the envisaged revision of the standard for medical service fees, the
government intends to cut the overall payment of technical fees by about 30
billion yen. However, some observers say that most of the cut will be made to
fees paid to pharmacies.

"Drugstore chains, whose stocks are listed, have made a tidy profit," a member
of the government's Regulatory Reform Council said.

Criticism of pharmacies situated next to hospitals or nearby started at the
council, with another official saying, "I think doctors are unhappy that only
the scale of service fees to pharmacies has not been revised."

Beginning around this spring, many council members have raised questions about
high service fees for pharmacies.

The Finance Ministry, which hopes to limit social security costs, is aiming
squarely at technical fees for pharmacists in revising the scale for next fiscal
year.

Medical service fees are categorized into the medical, dental and prescription
fields, and each field consists of fees paid to doctors and hospitals, and the
fees for drugs and medical supplies.

Unlike the Finance Ministry, the Health, Labor and Welfare Ministry has a
tendency to give consideration to the management of medical institutions, among
others.

However, health minister Yasuhisa Shiozaki said the ministry plans to reconsider
the current prescription system.

Of about 40 trillion yen in expenses for medical treatment, only 1.8 trillion
yen is for technical fees paid to pharmacists. There has been significant growth
in the technical fees for pharmacists in recent years, but it has not attracted
much attention in past revisions because the total amount of money involved was
relatively small.

In drafting the fiscal 2016 budget, however, the government plans to trim the
growth in social security expenses by about 170 billion yen.

Through the revision of the scale of medical service fees, the government aims
to reduce the fees for drugs and medical supplies by 140 billion yen, whose
prices drop in accordance with market prices. It also intends to trim technical
fees paid to doctors and hospitals by about 30 billion yen.

Disarray among organizations

Amid some government officials' criticism of technical fees, the Liberal
Democratic Party and organizations connected to pharmacists are trying to
prevent fees in other fields from falling as much as possible, in exchange for
ratifying the downward revision of technical fees for pharmacies in the vicinity
of hospitals.

An LDP lawmaker lobbying for health and welfare interests and who is
knowledgeable about pharmacist organizations said there was a danger the whole
30 billion yen could be cut from technical fees for pharmacists.

"Don't put all the responsibility for the increase in medical fees on
pharmacists," the lawmaker said.

This issue led to a clash at a sectional meeting of the Health Ministry's Social
Security Council held on Oct. 22. A Japan Medical Association member criticized
the growing dispensing fees, prompting a Japan Pharmaceutical Association member
to fire back at him.

Lobby pressure

If the main body of the scale for medical service fees is revised downward, the
management of hospitals and other medical institutions will be significantly
affected.

Lobby organizations for doctors, dental surgeons and pharmacists have often
taken concerted actions toward the government to demand upward revision of the
scale.

But if technical fees for pharmacists suffer a large cut this time, the
reduction in technical fees for doctors and dental surgeons is highly likely to
be small. Therefore, sources close to the issue said the lobby organizations may
not be in step with each other.

"It was the Finance Ministry's strategy to separate the doctors association and
the pharmacists association," a government source said.

Some organizations representing the interests of the medical industry plan to
field candidates from inside their circles as candidates endorsed by the Liberal
Democratic Party in the House of Councillors election next summer.

One source said that was why pharmacists' technical fees was targeted in this
time's revisions. "The government and ruling parties cannot create hostile
relations with all the lobby organizations for doctors, dental surgeons and
pharmacists," the source said.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


