                              382 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                           October 14, 1993, Thursday

Enterprise THE BUSINESS OF THE CITY Bigger store site sought

SECTION: EXTRA; Section N; Page 4

LENGTH: 560 words


The Buckhead Home Depot is in search of a larger location, says Home Depot
spokesperson Jerry Shields. The Piedmont Road location suffers from its own
success: at under 80,000 square feet, it's small compared to newer facilities of
102,000 square feet.

"The size was dictated by the land," says Shields. The parking lot is cramped
and no left turns are allowed off Piedmont into the property. "It's a good
store; we'd like it to handle business better," says Shields.

No deal has been struck for a new site, he says. There's been speculation Home
Depot's looking at a site near Georgia 400.

Adult industry targeted

The Buckhead Coalition, a group of business leaders, is throwing its support
behind moves to put more controls on all forms of adult entertainment, including
lingerie modeling and escort services.

The group recently petitioned the Atlanta City Council to adopt tighter controls
on these types of businesses.

It said it is troubled by the experiences in other communities where adult
entertainment has been associated with disorderly conduct and prostitution.

"The time to promulgate tighter regulations is before the proliferation protects
proprietors under 'grandfather' clauses," said Julian LeCraw, the coalition's
chairman.

Fund-raiser under way

The Kroger Co.'s fourth annual Kroger Children's Challenge is under way. It runs
through Oct. 30 and raises money for children's hospitals in Georgia, Alabama
and South Carolina.

Each time a customer purchases products marked with Kroger Children's Challenge
signs, Kroger and its vendors donate money to the hospitals.

In the past three years, more than $ 1 million has been donated to Egleston and
Scottish Rite children's hospitals in Atlanta, as well as other children's
hospitals across Georgia and South Carolina.

Contracts official named

Sharon Shuttlesworth has been appointed Female Business Enterprise (FBE)
coordinator with the Fulton County Department of Contract Compliance.

Shuttlesworth will handle certification, provide technical assistance during the
bidding process and review and monitor the awarding of country contracts. She
will help the county achieve its annual goal of awarding 5 percent of county
contracts to female-owned businesses.

Shuttlesworth once owned and operated a ladies' retail specialty shop.

Minority and women-owned businesses wanting to do business with the county must
be certified and listed in directories used by county departments and prime
contractors.

For more information on certification, contact the Fulton County Department of
Contract Compliance at 730-6300.

Omni names marketer

Beth Searls has been appointed director of marketing for the Omni Hotel at CNN
Center.

Searls will be responsible for sales, catering/convention services, public
relations and reservations departments.

She previously was director of sales for the Omni Shoreham in Washington, D.C.
Searls has been employed with Omni Hotels for 10 years and has been in the
hospitality industry for 18 years.

Design VP joins firm

Joyce E. Raedel has joined AiGroup/Architects as a vice president of design.

Raedel brings 11 years of experience in hospitality design to the position.

A graduate of the University of Colorado, Raedel has done design work for Hyatt
Hotels and Hyatt International in Aruba, Paris, Atlanta, Cincinnati and St.
Louis.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH932990328

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


