                              392 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                            December 18, 2016 Sunday

Special cancer hospital in limbo

BYLINE: Daulat Rahman

LENGTH: 492  words


Dispur misses deadlines for institute, building costs escalate

Guwahati, Dec. 18: Dispur has been missing one deadline after another to
inaugurate a super-speciality cancer hospital here, at a time when cancer is
spreading fast in Assam.

The BJP-led government, soon after taking charge in May this year, had assured
that a cancer hospital would be inaugurated at the earliest.

The state government had even procured a PET-CT scanner system, along with a
cyclotron, to detect cancer at a very early stage, spending several crores of
rupees for the proposed hospital.

On August 18 this year, health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the 200-bed
cancer hospital at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital would be inaugurated
on October 2.

Sources told The Telegraph that more than two months after missing the October 2
deadline, the state government is still nowhere close to inaugurating the
hospital.

"Doctors, nurses and other technical and non-technical staff, required to run a
super-speciality cancer hospital, are yet to be appointed by the government for
reasons best known to it. The government recently gave an advertisement to fill
up certain posts of technical staff," a source said.

Sarma, who was the health minister in the erstwhile Congress regime as well,
announced in 2008 that construction of the proposed speciality hospital at a
cost of Rs 52 crore would be completed within March 31, 2009.

Dispur had missed the first deadline and accordingly, the construction cost of
the hospital escalated.

On January 10, 2010, Sarma again announced that the cancer hospital would be
completed during the last part of 2011 at an estimated cost of Rs 85 crore.

After missing the 2011 deadline, Dispur again continued with fresh deadlines
only to miss those.

On January 5 last year, the then health minister Nazrul Islam said the cancer
hospital would start functioning from April.

The deadline again remained unfulfilled till Sarma declared an October 2
deadline after becoming the health minister in the BJP government in May this
year.

Sources said the development was a matter of serious concern as the state -
having the highest number of cancer cases in the country - lacks both machines
and manpower for cancer treatment.

According to the guidelines of the World Health Organisation (WHO), one
tele-therapy machine is required per 10 lakh population.

For the 3.1 crore population of Assam, there is a requisition of 30 such
machines and the state has only nine machines at present.

The B. Borooah Cancer Institute (BBCI), the lone full-fledged cancer care
organisation, is now overburdened with patients from different parts of the
region.

Sources said patients have to wait for long to get beds in the institute. Under
such circumstances, patients who can afford the treatment, are moving outside
Assam for treatment. Those who cannot, run from pillar to post for cancer care
in Assam due to non-availability of adequate treatment facilities, a source
said.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


