                              386 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                           September 16, 2016 Friday
                               Australian Edition

EMERGENCY AT ROYAL ADELAIDE

BYLINE: REBECCA PUDDY

SECTION: INQUIRER; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1916  words


Costs mount and battles rage over new hospital

Today the doors of the nation's most expensive building, the -imposing 10-storey
Royal Adelaide Hospital, standing tall on the banks of the River Torrens, should
swing open to receive patients.

The $2.3 billion facility, which has earnt the accolade of the world's third
most expensive building (after New York's One World Trade Centre and Bucharest's
Palace of the Parliament), is set to be Australia's first paperless hospital
delivering state-of-the-art healthcare, with private rooms and lush gardens.

But in reality, the site remains a 24-hour building site, a mecca for workers in
hard hats and high-vis vests. Delays and mistakes in the building of the
nation's most -advanced hospital have continually pushed back deadlines,
prompting a bitter legal battle -between the state government and its builders.

Today is meant to be another milestone for the 800-bed facility, the day the
keys are to be handed to the state Labor government, after the initial January
deadline was extended.

Instead, construction conglomerate Hansen Yuncken Leighton Contractors and the
-operators of the hospital, SA Health Partnership, are in court arguing with the
government over the many defects that cannot be fixed. Now, the promise is that
the works will be completed by March.

The disaster is labelled a "vanity project" and its stuff ups "the stuff of
comedy", and that is just the Australian Medical Association's assessment.

The defects and the delays come on top of a looming safety crisis, amid concerns
that the electronic -patient record system for the -paperless hospital will not
be ready. With ward floors not strong enough to withstand the weight of paper
records, the government is still to reveal its plans to store them off-site.

Of the key defects, The Australian can reveal that nine are deemed unfixable.
They include room sizes, ceiling heights, ventilation for a nuclear medicine
laboratory, room temperature, fresh air control and poorly laid floor vinyl. The
builder contends that the -alleged defects pose no or limited loss in
functionality.

They are on top of additional costs caused by unexpected con--tamination of a
section once part of Adelaide's railyards, the failure of the building's
condenser water system and the replacement of fixtures following internal
flooding.

Health Minister Jack Snelling says there is no date for when the new hospital
will open.

"As we have said before, no -decisions will be made about the timing of the
hospital move until we have confidence that the -timelines provided to us are
realistic and reliable," Snelling says. "The state government will not pay one
cent in service payments until commercial acceptance has been achieved." Since
the building was commissioned in 2011, its construction costs alone have nearly
doubled, from $244.7 million to more than $417m.

For its part, the construction consortium blames the state government for the
delays, accusing it of failing to meet time frames and modifying project
requirements.

The builder has unsuccessfully sought more than $500m in compensation for the
delays.

The finger-pointing in South Australia follows similar experiences in Western
Australia, where the builders of the $2bn 783-bed Fiona Stanley Hospital
abandoned plans to develop the state's first paperless hospital, which opened in
late 2014 nearly a year behind schedule. A post-build -review found the ambition
to create a paperless hospital went "a step too far" and time frames were
optimistic. Hospital contractor Serco was paid $118.8m to provide services to a
hospital that was empty for the first six months and then substantially
under-utilised for another half year.

Commercially sensitive documents obtained by The Australian show similar
problems are arising in South Australia with staff -employed by hospital
contractor Spotless. One proposal includes putting staff to work in the new
Royal Adelaide Hospital kitchens and then transporting the meals across the city
to the present -hospital.

Now the $1.2bn Perth Children's Hospital is under the microscope, with WA
Auditor General Colin Murphy investigating its building contracts. That build is
at least one year behind schedule and asbestos was found in roof panels imported
from China.

AMA president Michael Gannon says the lessons learned in WA and SA should be
considered a cautionary tale for other states looking to replace their ageing
health infrastructure. "Other state and territory governments will need to be
very careful and constrain their ambitions on these vanity projects," he says.
"There have been basic design mistakes in all of these hospital builds." The
Royal Adelaide Hospital's inability to hold paper records "would be the stuff of
comedy if it wasn't true", he says.

In 2014, the nation's top hospital chief executives met in Melbourne to discuss
the massive disconnect between the aspirations for new hospitals and what was
actually delivered, identifying the rapid move towards digital hospitals and new
IT systems as key risks.

SA opposition health spokesman Stephen Wade describes the Royal Adelaide
Hospital build as a "rolling disaster".

"It is already seven months -behind schedule and $640m over budget," he says.
"The hospital is an impressive health asset but I have deep concerns that Labor
is unable to deliver quality healthcare. Their poorly thought out plans for
outpatients, electronic patient records, clinical research and a reduction in
cardiac beds are just the tip of the iceberg of an -unfolding health disaster."
Last month, Minister Snelling, barely concealing his anger, said the government
had lost patience with the builders and had no confidence in their deadlines. In
a show of brinkmanship, he said a dispute with the builders over fixing -defects
would be hashed out in the state's Supreme Court.

"The position they've been trying to arrive at is one where we -accept the
hospital and start moving patients in and, most importantly, start paying for a
hospital, and some of the defects we leave to be fixed up after we've moved in.
Now that's just not acceptable," he told reporters.

"We're sick of being mucked around by the consortium. We want to send an
unambiguous message to SAHP that we will not be accepting a hospital that's
anything other than first best." For Premier Jay Weatherill's government,
further delay to the hospital opening affects Labor's positioning before the
2018 election, with pundits predicting a close result.

Next June is now the earliest the government can start moving patients - peak
flu season. Both the nurses' union and public hospital doctors' -asso-cia-tion
say they will oppose an -attempt to shift hospitals in winter, when demand for
hospital services is at its highest.

Australian Nurses and Midwifery Federation state president Elizabeth Dabars says
it will be "particularly dangerous" to move hospitals in winter. "We would be
opposing that. Fundamentally in order to make a safe transition you need to have
the best possible scenario," Dabars says. "On its face, it is the most
inappropriate time of the year." The government and SAHP -return to the Supreme
Court next Friday in an attempt to negotiate a way for the government to accept
the hospital defects, especially those that cannot be fixed.

UNHEALTHY PROGRESS July 2007 South Australian government decides to build new
Royal Adelaide Hospital at a cost of $1.7 billion.

May 20, 2011 Contract signed between SA Health Partnership and state government
to design, construct and finance new Royal Adelaide Hospital and provide
specified services for 30 years of its operations. Contract runs until 2046 and
foreshadows a five-year build, including a technical completion date of January
19, 2016, and commercial acceptance date of April 18, 2016 Mid-2014
Implementation of electronic patient record system scheduled at old RAH to allow
staff to learn new IT system ahead of transfer to new "paperless" hospital.
Timeframe not met March 2015 SA Health abandons implementation of paperless
record system into old RAH, paper records still required June 2015
Auditor-General warns against implementing electronic record systems directly
into new hospital January 19, 2016 First technical completion deadline missed
January 29 to May 10 State government issues 12 defect notices February
Independent certifier reports that hospital project is "in a distressed state"
March 23 Amid concern the troubled $422m electronic records system will not be
ready when the new hospital opens, it emerges ward floors are not strong enough
to store paper records. They will have to be stored off-site April 4 Second
technical completion deadline missed April 5 State government issues major
default notice April 26 First draft cure plan submitted by builder, prompting SA
Health Partnership's request for extension. New deadlines: technical completion,
June 10 to July 7; commercial acceptance, November 30 May 27 Second draft cure
plan submitted by builder, another SAHP request for extension. Outage of the
condenser water system requires technical completion on September 16. Commercial
acceptance in December June Auditor-General warns that medical staff at new
hospital may not have timely access to patients' full clinical history, with
emergency department staff unable to confirm allergies and intolerances July
Media reports on lack of space in RAH for 300-plus clinical research trials.
Government subsequently announces that space in or near hospital will be found
for all trials but no details provided. Australian Medical Association remains
sceptical August 1 SA Health report reveals that only 80 per cent of present
hospital's pathology services will fit in new hospital. It warns that a
"dislocated pathology service lays the framework for errors, lost specimens and
delays in reporting" August 17 Independent expert Steven Goldstein appointed by
SAHP and state government to mediate a solution to alleged building defects
preventing technical completion August 25 State government launches legal action
in Supreme Court against SAHP and Goldstein. Court hearing deferred to September
23 August 26 SAHP due to provide revised cure plan to government September 16
AMA raises serious concerns about outpatient and ambulatory care services at new
hospital. Third technical completion deadline missed September 21 Goldstein
decision due March 2017 New date for technical completion

THE PATIENT Royal Adelaide Hospital Conceived: July 2007 Due date: 19 January
2016 Delayed until: March 2017 Size: A healthy 800 beds, 80,000 patients a year
Initial cost: $1.8 billion Cost: $2.3 billion THE PROMISE 100 per cent single
inpatient rooms with natural light 40 operating theatres Patient weighing beds
Automated vehicles to move equipment around the hospital About 2300 car spaces
Creche, mini-mart, cafes and gym

THE REALITY * Room sizes insufficient. Not curable without substantial rework *
Problems with air circulation * Faulty electronic tracking of medically
sterilised equipment. Additional computers needed * No external exhaust vent for
the nuclear medicine hot lab. Vent could be built to car park * Sections of
vinyl floor not watertight * Confusion over installation of medical gas outlets
in trauma rooms in Emergency * Concern about meeting 35 decibel target for noise
inside the hospital * Hot water delivery taking up to 15 seconds is
"problematic," costing up to $50m to fix* Concerns about adequacy of the mobile
duress and nurse call system. Security consultant assessing

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


