                              387 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Pueblo Chieftain (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           August 20, 2014 Wednesday

Union confident it will survive

BYLINE: Jeff Tucker, The Pueblo Chieftain, Colo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 264 words


Aug. 20--The union representing 73 employees at St. Mary-Corwin Medical Center
said recently that it believes it will survive a decertification election.

"The National Labor Relations Board only requires 30 percent of the workers to
sign a decertification petition in order to trigger an election," said Al
Kogler, District 7 administrative director for the Communication Workers of
America. "We are very confident there is still strong majority support for union
representation at St. Mary-Corwin and welcome the chance to prove it through an
election."

Employees at the hospital filed a petition to decertify the union, which
represents positions in a number of the hospital's support departments.

The hospital said it supported the election and said the employees would get the
opportunity to vote once "blocking charges" were investigated by the NLRB.

But Kogler said the charge was filed in 2012 over previous negotiations and
decisions in that case were appealed by the hospital.

He said the union and the hospital are trying to negotiate a settlement and if
successful, an election will be held then.

The CWA's collective bargaining unit covers positions in the nutrition services,
environmental services, patient scheduling, maintenance and facilities, clinical
support, technical and technical support departments.

The hospital's threeyear collective bargaining agreement with the union is set
to expire this year.

jtucker@chieftain.com

___ (c)2014 The Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo, Colo.) Visit The Pueblo Chieftain
(Pueblo, Colo.) at www.chieftain.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140820-PB-Union-confident-it-will-survive-0820-20140820

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PB


                      Copyright 2014 The Pueblo Chieftain


