                              39 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 March 20, 2006

Playing a healthy role

BYLINE: By Barry McDonald

SECTION: JOB SEARCH; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 325 words



HIGHLIGHT: KEY SERVICE: Technical staff behind the scenes can work in a variety
of departments once fully trained


DOCTORS and nurses may be at the frontline of the health service but behind the
scenes a small army of technicians are working hard to ensure a smooth delivery
of service.

Decked out in their white lab coats, they provide an essential function.

Glasgow's Southern General Hospital is recruiting both technical officers and
assistant technical officers on an ongoing basis.

Fiona Walker, deputy pharmacy manager at the Southern General, said: "We have
two different grades of staff - assistant technical officers and technical
officers.

"We like to describe being an assistant technical officer as a bit like doing a
shopping list you might take to the supermarket - you have to make up all the
orders for the hospital ward."

As well as fetching essential items from the pharmacy, the list of duties for
this role can vary on a daily basis. Fiona added: "There are lots of other
duties as well, for example any potential candidate must have good computer
skills. They will also cover reception duties and handle prescriptions.

"There is also a lot of walking around and heavy lifting involved, so you have
to have a cheery disposition."

There is also a strong emphasis on training. We send all our trainee technicians
to college to earn a National Certificate in pharmaceutical science on a
dayrelease basis.

"At the same time, they study for an SVQ Level 3. The assistant technical
officers will study for a Level 2."

Once fully trained, hospital technicians can find themselves working in a
variety of departments.

Fiona said: "Once they've qualified they can either work in dispensaries or the
labs, helping prepare sterile products. We also see more and more clinical
technicians working on the hospital wards."

It may be serious work, but Fiona insists it can also be fun. "It's a great
place to work. It's a busy department and people will have to work hard when
they join us but it's good fun."

For more details, contact the chief technician on 0141 201 1392.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2006 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved


