                              402 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 21, 2012 Saturday

Oxygen supply disruption in CMC: Three held responsible

SECTION: KOCHI

LENGTH: 665 words


KOCHI: A preliminary investigation by Kochi Co-operative Medical College
authorities has found three persons morally responsible for the shortage of
oxygen supply in the hospital.

The two-member committee consisting of Dr P G R Pillai, medical advisor, and Dr
Mohan P Sam, medical director, however, found that the death of three patients
was due to their illness and not due to disruption in oxygen supply, as alleged
by the nurses' union.

The committee has asked Dr K G R Mallan, medical superintendent of the hospital,
to step down from the post. Rajesh, the technical assistant who was in charge of
the oxygen cylinder system, and Akkamma Jacob, ICU head nurse, have been
suspended pending inquiries. Meanwhile, a committee headed by three professors
of the college has been asked to conduct a detailed inquiry. into the incident.

The report will be submitted on Saturday, said Dr Pillai. "We have not
pinpointed any reason for the disruption in oxygen supply, but decided to take
action against those morally responsible. The technical assistant was on
unauthorized absence and we found there should be regular, trained hands to
monitor the supply to the ICUs and operation theatres," he said.

The government has also asked for a detailed inquiry as the hospital's nurses'
organization - the Co-operative Academy of Professional Education registered
nurses' association - had sent a complaint to the chief minister, alleging that
the three patients died in the hospital ICU last week

due to lack of oxygen supply. Now, the association has come out saying that the

says the management took action against the nurse in a bid to suppress the
union's activities.

"There has been utter mismanagement of services in the hospital, and that is
what we want to highlight," the association office-bearers said. Meanwhile,

Political parties protested on hospital premises on Friday to seek action
against those responsiblefor the failure in providing uninterrupted oxygen
supply.

.A preliminary investigation by the Kochi Co-operative Medical College
authorities has found three persons morally responsible for the shortage of
oxygen supply in the hospital. The two-member committee consisting Dr P GR
Pillai, medical advisor, and Dr Mohan P Sam, medical director, however found
that the death of three patients was the final culmination of their illness and
was not caused by the disruption in the supply of oxygen, as alleged by the
nurses' union.

The committee has asked Dr KGR Mallan, medical superintendent of the hospital,
to step down from the post. Rajesh, technical assistant who was in charge of the
oxygen cylinder system, and Akkamma Jacob, head nurse in the ICU, have been
suspended pending inquiries.

A committee headed by three professors of the college has been asked to conduct
a detailed inquiry into the incident. The report will be submitted on Saturday,
said Dr PGR Pillai.

"We have not pinpointed any reason for the disruption in the oxygen supply, but
decided to take action against those morally responsible. The technical
assistant was on unauthorized absence, and we found that there should be
regular, trained hands to monitor the supply to the ICUs and operation
theatres," he said.

The government has also asked for a detailed inquiry as the hospital's nurses'
organization, the Co-operative Academy of Professional Education registered
nurses' association, had sent a complaint to the Chief Minister, alleging that
three patients died in the hospital ICU last week due to the lack of oxygen
supply. Now the association has come out saying that the management took action
against the nurse in a bid to suppress the union's activities.

"There has been utter mismanagement of services in the hospital, and that is
what we wanted to highlight," say the association office-bearers.

Many political parties staged protest on the hospital premises on Friday to seek
action against those responsible for the failure in providing uninterrupted
oxygen supply.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


