                              393 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Trust (Abuja)

                              May 10, 2011 Tuesday

Uniabuja Hospital Sensitizes Staff on Cleanliness

BYLINE: Abubakar Sadiq Isah

LENGTH: 332  words


THE University of Abuja Teaching Hospital (UATH), Gwagwalada in collaboration
with Aids Support and Technical Assistance Resources (AIDSTAR) last Thursday
organised a two- day campaign for staff of the hospital on the importance of
washing hands after attending to patients.

In his welcome address, Chief Medical Director of the hospital, Dr. Peter Alabi,
said the hand washing campaign is an annual event that is promoted by the World
Health Organization (WHO) as well as Making Medical Injection Safety Initiative
(MMSI) to train hospital staff, those in the medical section on the need to wash
their hands after attending to patients.

According to him, the hospital has always observed the annual hand washing
campaign for the past four to five years, which he said has created awareness
inside the hospital's community.

He explained that hand washing is a very important vehicle that helps in
avoiding a lot of infections after attending to patient, saying after each
contact either through direct handling of a patient or through materials, it is
adviced that such medical personnel should wash his or her hands thoroughly.

"We don't want a situation where a patient that comes to the hospital gets
infected through our own contact and we don't also want to get infected through
any contact," he said.

The chief medical director however said that the hospital provides liquid
detergents, especially alcohol base liquid detergent and running water for such
purposes.

Earlier, the head of logistic of Aids Support and Technical Assistance Resources
(AIDSTAR), Pharmacy Bala Muazu, said the aim and objective of the hand washing
campaign is to bring people together on May 5th yearly to make commitments'
towards enhancing a hygienic society by sustaining the action on hand hygiene.

"Hand hygiene is very essential in health service delivery and it is only when
you have proper health care facility that passes hygiene, you are likely to
reduce a lot of patients' infection in hospitals," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


