                              398 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           December 10, 2009 Thursday

Hospital claims loss of EUR 0.4m in fraud

SECTION: IRELAND; In the Courts; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 452 words


DUBLIN S BEAUMONT Hospital has claimed it suffered losses of more than EUR
400,000 as a result of an alleged conspiracy by a former technical services
manager and others to forge tenders so as to ensure contracts were awarded to a
particular building company, now in liquidation.

The hospital alleges Douglas Browne, Kiltipper Drive, Aylesbury Estate, Dublin
24, had conspired with AMS Construction Limited, in liquidation, with registered
offices at Walkinstown, Dublin, and its directors and owners, Adrian Millar,
Glenlyon Crescent, Knocklyon, Dublin, and Michael Shortt, Aylmer Park, Naas, Co
Kildare, to falsify tenders resulting in the hospital losing about EUR 413,324.

The defendants deny the claims. The case came before the Master of the High
Court Edmund Honohan yesterday who made a number of discovery orders concerning
the defendants  bank statements and other documents.

It is alleged that, from 1997 to 2001, Mr Browne conspired with the other
defendants to cause contracts to be awarded to AMS by preparing and submitting
falsified or forged tenders on behalf of third parties. It claims Mr Browne
personally benefited.

The hospital is claiming damages on grounds of alleged fraudulent
misrepresentation, deceit, breach of trust and breach of contract and unjust
enrichment.

The hospital claims it engaged Mr Browne as technical services manager in 1997.
After he resigned following inquiries resulting from an internal audit,
investigations revealed that Mr Browne had altered a certificate issued by the
South African Council for Professional Engineers, the hospital said.

In an affidavit, Liam Duffy, chief executive of the hospital, said an
examination of eight contracts awarded to AMS Construction Limited during the
years 1999 to 2000 had disclosed that, in five cases, purported tenders were on
file from entities that either did not exist or denied having submitted any
tenders.

Mr Duffy said a review by an independent quantity surveyor of those eight
contracts had indicated AMS had been paid some EUR 400,000 more than the value
of the works and an allowance for a reasonable profit margin.

In his defence, Mr Browne denies the claims and pleads they are statute barred.
He admitted he had represented he was an engineer registered by the South
African Council for Professional Engineers when this was not the case but denied
this was done fraudulently or with intent to defraud.

He claims it was very difficult to interest building firms in working on small
contracts and that the general manager was fully informed of the manner in which
tenders were obtained.

In their defence, AMS and its directors deny the claims against them and deny
they induced Mr Browne to act in breach of his contract.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2009 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


