                              399 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                          December 17, 2008 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Kiwanis Collects Toys For Sick Kids

BYLINE: JOYCE McKENZIE, jmckenzie@tampatrib.com

SECTION: NORTHEAST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 463 words


Tampa Bay Technical High School students join the effort.

By JOYCE McKENZIE

jmckenzie@tampatrib.com

TEMPLE TERRACE - With the economy in a slump, more and more people are finding
it difficult to make ends meet. The problem can be particularly prevalent in
families where there are major medical expenses.

No matter the circumstances, the Temple Terrace Kiwanis Club wants to make
certain Santa visits every child in the greater Tampa Bay area - especially
those in children's hospitals.

To accomplish that goal, the club, in partnership with the Key Club at Tampa Bay
Technical High School and Live@Home, a business that provides caregivers for the
elderly and infirmed, is sponsoring a toy drive..

Kiwanis president-elect Jamie Klingman, Live@Home owner and toy drive
coordinator, said the club had two reasons for selecting the project:

* Kiwanis was founded on the principle of serving of children.

* Because parents of ill youngsters often face exorbitant medical bills, they
are left with little or no money to pay for anything but the essentials.

Unwrapped new or like-new items may be dropped off at the Greater Temple Terrace
Chamber of Commerce office, Tampa Bay Tech or Live@Home. The toys will be
collected, wrapped and distributed by local representatives from Children's
Miracle Network, a global alliance of 170 hospitals.

"We've been assured that gifts will stay locally," Klingman said.

Temple Terrace Kiwanian Terry Mishler said he intends to provide as many gifts
as he can.

"More and more people are in need. So we need to step forward even more than
ever," Mishler said.

"I think this particular event is in keeping with our mission to serve the
children of the world," said Joe Gross, a club director.

Debra Conn, a Tampa Bay Tech guidance counselor and the Key Club sponsor, said
the students are having fun with the project.

The Key Club is the high school equivalent of the Kiwanis Club.

"Some of them have brought in some really nice things," she said. "They are
especially enjoying it knowing the toys are going to kids in the hospital and
that they will help them both physically and emotionally."

(CHART) HOW TO HELP

WHAT: Temple Terrace Kiwanis Toy Drive

FOR WHOM: Patients in area children's hospitals

DROP-OFF SITES: Greater Temple Terrace Chamber of Commerce, 9385 N. 56th St.;
Tampa Bay Technical High School, 6410 Orient Road; and Live@Home, 8910 N. Dale
Mabry Highway

INFORMATION: Jamie Klingman, (813) 908-8303 or (727) 447-6832

Reporter Joyce McKenzie can be reached at (813) 865-4849.

Photo credit: Tribune photo by JOYCE MCKENZIE

Photo: Jamie Klingman, left, Ami Patel and Richard Meyers admire a wrestler's
belt and other gifts donated for the toy drive.

Copyright © 2008, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Publishing Company


