                              396 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                         The Gympie Times (Queensland)

                           January 30, 2014 Thursday

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 663  words

25 years ago

A THANK-you and farewell dinner was held for former Gympie Hospital
superintendent Dr Mark Waters and former Hospital Board chairman Peter
Hardcastle, SM, recently. Both have resigned from their positions and the Waters
have moved to Ipswich. The Hardcastles are remaining in Gympie. Both men were
presented with a gift.

THE familiar sight around Gympie of a man wearing a towelling hat with a camera
slung around his neck will be missing from today. Yes, you have guessed it.
Keith Brown, or as he is affectionately known "~Flashbulb Brownie,' is retiring.
Mr Brown who has worked as a photographer for The Gympie Times since 1954 has
decided to call it quits. He is also retiring from his position as a law clerk
at the Gympie firm of Jeffery and Cuddihy. Mr Brown's interest in photography
began while he was a student at Gympie State High School. He said that you could
buy a Box Brownie then for about 50c and printing paper was a shilling (10c) a
packet, but that was still a lot of money for those days. When he began taking
photographs professionally he was shooting a couple of ten by eights
(photographs) each week. Gympie Times editor Michael Roser said Mr Brown had
contributed greatly to the success of newspaper over the past 34 years.

50 years ago

THE possibility of more practical training for apprentices emerged from a
meeting in Gympie on Thursday, attended by representatives of the Technical
College Board, Gympie Apprenticeship Advisory Committee, Mr A.M. Hodges, MLA,
and the Director of Technical Education. It is understood the opinion of the
meeting was that it might be possible in the near future to institute fulltime
day and evening training for woodwork apprentices and to make arrangements for
apprentice motor mechanics, fitters and turners and plumbers to do practical
work one day a month at the Maryborough Technical College.

YELLOW Cabs, Gympie, comes into operation officially today with a radio-control
hook-up operation from 247 Mary Street, phone 2-2255. Ten local taxi owners have
amalgamated to form Yellow Cabs, Gympie and members with distinctively painted
cars will operate from all three city taxi ranks. By group operation and working
by radio-control these taxi owners feel that they can give the public a reliable
and efficient service.

100 years ago

IT IS stated by an old and consistent visitor to the Noosa Heads that the mail
services between that place and Tewantin is most unsatisfactory as it occupied
the best part of a week to get a reply to a letter sent from Gympie to the
Heads. By some peculiar arrangement the mailbag leaves the Heads for Tewantin on
Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday about 3pm returning from Tewantin with the mail
for the Heads about 7pm. The answer to any letter thus received cannot be sent
until the afternoon of the second day, unless by special messenger. The remedy
suggested is that there should be a daily mail service to the Heads upon the
arrival of the mail coach at Tewantin and that the return mail (also daily)
should reach Tewantin next morning sufficiently early to catch the mail coach
leaving for the Cooroy railway station. It is also suggested that residents and
visitors should sign a petition asking for the desired alteration.

A TEAM of cricketers from Gympie representing the Gordon Club visited Cooroy
last Saturday and met the local club on the sports ground wicket. Cooroy batted
first and were not disposed of till late in the afternoon for 152 (Rees 38,
Wheeldon 34, and Ronalds 31, being the top scorers for Cooroy). The Gordons with
a limited time at the wicket knocked up 94 for three wickets (Bruce Smith 23,
Steve Smith not out 31, and J. Donovon not out 30). The match was consequently
declared a draw. During the Cooroy innings, Rinilds hit three fives and Wheeldon
1, while for Gordons, Donovan hit two consecutive fives.

THE local croquet and tennis courts in the Park are at present undergoing a
complete process of top-dressing and planting with couch grass.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GGT


                    Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


