                              401 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            Lowell Sun (Lowell, MA)

                           November 12, 2005 Saturday

Nursing shortage draws adults to training programs

BYLINE: MARIE DONOVAN, Sun Correspondent

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES

LENGTH: 690 words

DATELINE: TYNGSBORO


http://extras.mnginteractive.com

Francis Gatui, a Kenyan native who moved to Lowell five years ago, is part of a
growing trend.

Gatui decided at age 35 to enroll in Greater Lowell Technical High School's
daytime program in licenced practical nursing so he could land a steady job,
after having difficulty keeping work as an electrical engineer, despite solid
qualifications.

"I got really frustrated getting laid off, and I couldn't find a job," Gatui
said.

With a 1-year-old son already, and his wife Angelica pregnant with the couple's
second child, Gatui was concerned he would not be able to support them.

"Having a family, I needed stability," Gatui said.

That stability, fueled by a growing demand for nurses, is attracting more adults
to the profession. And yes, many of them today are male.

"We have a lot more men in nursing and health care, in general," said Nancy
Harrington, nursing program director at Greater Lowell Tech.

Because of a shortage of nurses fueled by both the aging of America and
hospitals' efforts to streamline costs by redelegating work formerly performed
by physicians, "it's one of those professions where you're going to have a job
all the time," Harrington said.

According to the Burlington-based Massachusetts Hospital Association, the
current vacancy rate statewide for licensed practical nurses [LPNs] is at 6.4
percent. While that is down from a high of 14.2 percent in 2002, the rate shows
steady employment opportunities still exist for graduates of LPN programs like
those offered by both Greater Lowell Tech and Shawsheen Valley Technical High
School in Billerica. Nashoba Valley Technical High School in Westford does not
have an LPN program.

Tuition for Greater Lowell Tech's 10-month LPN program is $4,900 for in-district
students and $5,700 for out-of-district students, Harrington said. After
finishing the program, graduates can earn $28 to $30 per hour working as nurses
at area hospitals and nursing homes.

As a result of the nationwide nursing shortage, both Greater Lowell Tech and
Shawsheen Tech have had a big uptick in interest for their adult LPN programs in
recent years, school officials said. Tuition for Shawsheen's program, which also
runs 10 months, is $6,900.

This year, Greater Lowell Tech received about 500 applications, Harrington said.

Of those applicants, the school could only enroll 80 total, between its day and
evening courses, she said.

At Shawsheen Tech, Community Services Director Roger Bourgeois said the school
could only enroll 40 students in its evening adult LPN program, out of about 150
applicants, so only the most talented are admitted.

"It's a rigorous program," Bourgeois said.

Greater Lowell Tech's program is rigorous too, said nursing student Brandy Nash,
24, of Lowell, but well worth the effort.

"The classes are all fast-paced, but you've just got to push yourself," Nash
said.

Students in Greater Lowell Tech's LPN program learn to administer medications,
change surgical dressings, monitor IV machines and fluid intakes, administer
catheterizations -- virtually everything a registered nurse does, minus the
patient assessment and treatment assignation, Harrington said. They also train
at area hospitals, including both Saints Memorial Medical Center and Lowell
General, in addition to doctors' offices and nursing homes, she said.

Nash has worked for Heritage Nursing Care Center in Lowell as both an activities
aide and an administrative assistant for the Social Services Department, since
her 1999 high-school graduation from Greater Lowell.

Heritage is paying Nash's tuition to the LPN program, in the hopes she can
expand her responsibilities with the company in the future.

"There are just so many opportunities in the medical field. I definitely love
long term care," Nash said.

With job opportunities in many other fields slim these days, it's no wonder the
waiting lists for both Greater Lowell and Shawsheen's LPN programs are so long,
Bourgeois said.

"It's a huge market now, it's such a huge shortage nationwide. They just can't
keep up with the demands."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Amanda Santos of Lowell, left, checks the results of a blood test with
Brandy Nash of Lowell, center, and Francis Gatui of Dracut during a recent LPN
class at Greater Lowell Technical High School. SUN / MICHAEL PIGEON

                      Copyright 2005 MediaNews Group, Inc.


