                              395 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                              April 2, 2010 Friday
                                 CITY-C Edition

Angry over lost benefit, Temple nurses, techs picket

BYLINE: By Chris Mondics; Inquirer Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; P-com Biz; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 416 words


Shouting slogans and hoisting placards, hundreds of Temple University Hospital
nurses and technical employees walked a picket line Thursday amid a standoff
over management demands for benefit cuts and other union concessions.

Some 1,500 nurses and technical staff walked off their jobs on Wednesday,
incensed that the hospital had eliminated a popular tuition assistance program
and had failed to add nurses in what they described as understaffed units, among
other grievances.

"It's a matter of respect," said nurse Lisa Antenucci. "They broke the contract
that we had, and we don't feel they will keep the contract that we will get."

The hospital, which brought in 850 replacement workers to staff the hospital
during the strike, said that patient care had been unaffected and that the
hospital was providing all of its normal services on Thursday.

Rebecca Harmon, spokeswoman for the Temple University Health System, said the
tuition benefit, for dependent children, had been eliminated for all hospital
employees, including the striking members of the Pennsylvania Association of
Staff Nurses & Allied Professionals (PASNAP). She said the employees themselves
still were eligible for the tuition benefit.

"This is not something that applies only to PASNAP; this is throughout the
house," Harmon said.

The nurses and technical staff, who have been working without a contract since
September, marched outside the hospital with placards that read "We Demand
Respect and Recognition" and "Nurses On Strike For Respect." Motorists
periodically sounded their horns in encouragement.

The nurses have warned that bringing on new staff will cause patient care to
suffer. But a brief tour of the hospital Thursday revealed no obvious sign of
dysfunction. At a nursing station on the fifth floor of the hospital's west
wing, three nurses sat in front of computer monitors as physicians strolled
unhurriedly past.

In a waiting area on the first floor, one young woman who declined to give her
name, had brought her father in for a blood test. She said the wait seemed
unusually long, about an hour and half. But the atmosphere in the room, indeed,
throughout the hospital, seemed calm and orderly.

Harmon said there had been no contact between hospital management and the union,
although she said that the hospital had been in contact with a state appointed
mediator. Both sides said they had no indication when direct talks might begin.

Contact staff writer Chris Mondics at 215 854 5957 or cmondics@phillynews.com.


LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Feed Loader

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


