                              400 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   Pioneer Press Newspapers, Suburban Chicago

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 28, 2017 Monday

Park Ridge news briefs: Oncologist, molecular biologist named to Maine South's
alumni Wall of Honor

BYLINE: Jennifer Johnson, Pioneer Press Newspapers, Suburban Chicago

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 873 words


Aug. 28--Names added to 2017 Maine South Wall of Honor

Maine South High School has announced that Dr. Ravi Salgia and the late Dr.
Susan Lindquist are the 2017 inductees to the school's alumni Wall of Honor.

Salgia, a 1977 Maine South graduate, is a medical oncologist, researcher and
professor, specializing in lung cancer. In 2016, he joined City of Hope, a
cancer research hospital in Duarte, Calif., as a professor and chairman of the
Department of Medical Oncology and Therapeutics Research, according to the
hospital's website.

The University of Chicago, where Salgia has also spent time as a professor,
called Salgia "an expert in thoracic oncology" -- the treatment of lung cancer.
Maine South, in a news release, reported that Salgia's life's work "has led to a
variety of therapies that are matched to and most effective for any particular
stage of lung cancer."

A 1967 graduate of Maine South, Dr. Susan Lindquist was a molecular biologist,
professor and researcher. She died in 2016 at age 67.

According to her obituary in the New York Times, Lindquist's work with yeast
proteins "opened new avenues to understanding gene functioning and degenerative
diseases like Parkinson's and Alzheimer's." Maine South noted that Lindquist's
career "is all the more noteworthy because it was launched in an era when women
in science research were few and far between."

Both Salgia and Lindquist will be honored during a Sept. 21 dinner at Cafe La
Cave in Des Plaines.

Maine South's Wall of Honor was launched in 2013, and new names are added every
two years based on nominations.

Other alumni who appear on the Wall of Honor are Hillary Clinton, Pulitzer
Price-winning journalist Patricia Callahan, climate scientist Nathan Hultman,
attorney and former federal judge Mark Filip, and former Microsoft executive Ray
Ozzie.

District 207 superintendent named 'Champion of the Year'

Ken Wallace, superintendent of Maine Township High School District 207, was
recently named 2018 Champion of the Year by the Association for Career and
Technical Education and its board of directors, the district announced.

According to ACTE, the Champion of the Year Award is given to individuals who
have contributed to "the improvement, promotion, development and progress of
career and technical education."

ACTE's announcement of Wallace's selection referenced District 207 as the first
school district in the world to partner with Google and use Google applications
and email for educational purposes; Tech Insider's naming of District 207 as
"one of the 14 most innovative school districts in America;" and Wallace's
emphasis on career exploration for students, which has included an expanded
student internship program (reportedly growing by 126 percent over the past two
years) and the hiring of a career coordinator.

"Schools offer students flexibility in their schedules that allows them to take
advantage of shadow days, job fairs, career panels and non-traditional
internships," the district said in a statement. "[Wallace] has also integrated
career readiness into the district's counseling programs, grading system and
curriculum development."

Wallace will be recognized with other national ACTE award winners on Dec. 6
during the annual ACTE Awards Banquet in Nashville. The banquet is taking place
during ACTE's CareerTech Vision 2017, which features thousands of career and
technical education professionals from around the country.

Advocate Lutheran General Hospital ranked on 'Best Hospitals List'

Advocate Lutheran General Hospital in Park Ridge was ranked 8th within the top
10 hospitals in the state on a new "Best Hospitals List" published by U.S. News
and World Report.

Lutheran General tied with University of Chicago Medical Center for the 8th spot
out of more than 200 Illinois hospitals, and was ranked 7th among hospitals in
the Chicago metro area, according to the publication.

Nationally, the hospital was ranked 42nd in gastroenterology and GI surgery, and
given a "high performing" rating in colon cancer surgery, hip and knee
replacements, heart failure treatment, and treatment of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease.

U.S. News and World Report ranked Northwestern Memorial Hospital as the top
hospital in the state, followed by Rush University Medical Center and Loyola
University Medical Center.

An explanation of how hospitals are ranked can be found on the publication's
website.

Changes made to police 'Text a Tip' program

The Park Ridge Police Department has announced changes in its anonymous "Text a
Tip" program due to the selection of a new vendor.

To provide an anonymous tip to police, enter the number 888777 in the phone
number area and start the text message with TIP ICARE, the police department
said. In the text field, tipsters are asked to provide "as much information as
possible," including exact locations.

All tips remain anonymous, according to the department.

Emergencies and in-progress crimes should continue to be reported by calling
911, police said.

For more information, visit www.parkridgepolice.org.

jjohnson@pioneerlocal.com

___ (c)2017 Pioneer Press Newspapers (Suburban Chicago, Ill.) Visit Pioneer
Press Newspapers (Suburban Chicago, Ill.) at www.chicagotribune.com/suburbs
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20170828-PIO-Park-Ridge-news-briefs-Oncologist-molecular-biologist-named-to-Main
e-South-s-alumni-Wall-of-Honor-0828-20170828

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PIO


                          Copyright 2017 Pioneer Press


