                              411 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 April 6, 2002

Call goes out for schools grand reunion
A REUNION is being arranged to mark the 70th anniversary of the founding of a
school. Pupils who attended Stanfield Technical High School - now Haywood High,
in High Lane, Stanfield, between 1932 and the early

BYLINE: by Tideswell Martin (Sentinel)

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER:Others, Pg.16

LENGTH: 247 words


Call goes out for schools grand reunion

A REUNION is being arranged to mark the 70th anniversary of the founding of a
school.

Pupils who attended Stanfield Technical High School - now Haywood High, in High
Lane, Stanfield, between 1932 and the early Seventies, are being urged to attend
a reunion in September.

The school was established in Moorland Road, Burslem, in the buildings of the
original Haywood Hospital in 1932, as the County Technical School. It became
Stanfield Technical High in 1960 and moved out of Moorland Road to new premises
at High Lane.

Re-organisation of education in the city brought further changes as the school
became comprehensive, feeding into the Sixth Form College. It was first
Stanfield High and then finally became todays Haywood High.

To mark this 70th anniversary year, old boys of the former Technical School are
organising a reunion which is to take place on the evening of September 20.

Proceeds from the event are to be donated to the present-day Haywood High
school.

David Moore, who left the school in 1965, is helping to arrange the reunion. He
said: "There has already been some inquiries from people in California and
Australia."

Further details and the GBP 8 tickets are available from: Stanfield Reunion, c/o
Mr. D. Moore, 6 Pennine Way, Biddulph, Staffs, ST8 7EJ or by e-mail
dmoore@lnw1.demon.co.uk

Cheques payable to Stanfield Tech. Reunion. Ex-students should also enclose a
stamped SAE with all correspondence.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2002 The Sentinel


