                              410 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Leyland Guardian

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

IT issues fixed at Royal Preston Hospital but appointments still subject to
delays

LENGTH: 379  words


Appointments at Royal Preston Hospital will be delayed todayafter a technical
glitch with the computer system led to appointments being cancelled yesterday.

Hospital chiefs say that the issue was  fixed at around 11pm yesterday evening
but that some outpatients can still expect delays today as they work to get back
to normal.

It initially prompted fears the hospital was under a cyberattack.

But a spokesman for Lancashire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust was quick to quash
the rumour saying that this was not the case and the technical problems pose no
risk to patient safety.

The spokesman confirmed that life-saving equipment in the hospital is not
affected.

They said the problems mean that the network has lost the ability to link all
its systems together.

In an official statement the Trust said: "This afternoon some of our IT systems
have been affected by a technical component which has malfunctioned.

"We have put in place our tried and tested contingency plans to minimise
disruption to ensure we can maintain services and continue to provide safe care
and treatment for our patients.

"These plans are working well and there's no risk to patient safety.

"We have postponed some outpatient clinics today and sincerely apologise to
everyone whose appointment has been affected.

"We will be in touch to reschedule these appointments as soon as possible.

"A team of IT experts are currently working on the issue and we expect the
system to be up and running within the next 24 hours."

The network began to malfunction at 3.30pm this afternoon.

Bosses at the Trust said they had no idea at this stage how many patient's
appointments have been cancelled'.

It is not the first time IT problems have caused the NHS to cancel appointments.
Only last month, hospitals across Lincolnshire were forced to shut down major
operations after a malware attack.

Hospitals in Scunthorpe and Grimsby found their IT networks had been infected at
the end of October and the Lincolnshire and Goole Trust called a major emergency
while the virus was dealt with.

And in September Leeds hospitals confirmed a crash in their pathology computer
systems led to non-urgent appointments being postponed.

Have you been affected by the problem? Let us know below or email
copydesk.northwest@jpress.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WLGD


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


