                              419 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Scottish Daily Mail

                             August 11, 2017 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Cladding to be stripped from city's top hospital

BYLINE: Kate Foster

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 429 words


SCOTLAND'S biggest hospital is to have cladding panels removed after tests
revealed they are similar to those used on the Grenfell Tower.

The move was announced last night following 'forensic checks' at the £842million
Queen Elizabeth University Hospital . Panels will be removed from three external
sections 'at the earliest possible opportunity', NHS bosses said. But they
insisted the superhospital, in Glasgow, is one of the most 'fire-safe' in the
country.

At least 80 people are believed to have died in the Grenfell Tower fire in June.
Its exterior cladding, made from an aluminium composite material (ACM), is
thought to have contributed to the blaze's rapid spread. A review of building
and fire safety is now being carried out nationwide.

The showpiece hospital, opened in 2015, has already been affected by a series of
problems, including poor cleanliness and long waiting times.

Yesterday, NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde said: 'The Queen Elizabeth University
Hospital is one of the most fire-safe buildings in the country, having been
designed and engineered to meet building and fire safety regulations.

'Last month we brought in external technical advisers to give the board further
assurance on fire safety following concerns arising about external cladding as a
result of the Grenfell Tower fire.

'We have identified a type of aluminium composite material on parts of the Queen
Elizabeth University Hospital of a similar type to, but not the same as,
Grenfell.

'As a purely precautionary measure - and to make sure the public, our patients
and our staff have full confidence in the safety of the hospital - we have taken
the decision to remove the panels. We are working with contractors and technical
advisers to assess how this work can proceed.' Scottish Fire and Rescue Service
assistant chief officer David McGown said that as part of the service's 'regular
risk-based audit programme', safety assessments at the hospital were
'satisfactory'.

Health Secretary Shona Robison said: 'Patient safety is paramount and that is
why further forensic checks are taking place across the whole NHS estate in
Scotland.' The Scottish Government yesterday said a meeting of the Ministerial
Working Group on building and fire safety had taken place. It has decided to
compile a 'detailed inventory' of the design features of all high domestic
buildings to get a clear picture of possible ways to improve fire safety.

A Scottish Tory spokesman said: 'The health board is doing the right thing.
People are understandably concerned about these panels.'

'Patient safety is paramount'

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Forensic checks': At the QEUH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DMLscot


                    Copyright 2017 Associated Newpapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


