                              415 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                          September 22, 1998, Tuesday

Class use of public building a surprise

BYLINE: BRYAN GILMER

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 690 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



Mayor Frank DiDonato said he thought he was doing the right thing when he  told
school district officials they could hold vocational classes in the  former
library building at Craig Park.

But City Manager Costa Vatikiotis said the City Commission must approve the  use
of city buildings by outside groups and ensure that activities there serve  a
public purpose. And DiDonato never asked for a vote.

Vatikiotis said he did not know that classes had been scheduled for the
building until a coordinator for a nursing class called Sept. 14 to ask for a
key to get into the building for an orientation meeting that night.

Commissioner Karen Brayboy said she thought DiDonato took the project  further
by himself than the commission intended. DiDonato had mentioned to
commissioners at public meetings that he was talking with people from the
Pinellas Technical Education Center about where classes could meet.

"I believe the consensus was that he would come forward with more detail  on
what they were going to do," she said. "We were not updated on what came  out of
these meetings."

There has been disagreement over a new use for the Craig Park building  since
the public library moved into a new building on Lemon Street early last  year.

Groups that regularly use city buildings must sign agreements that cover  issues
of liability and responsibility, Vatikiotis said.

No such agreement was signed by the school district.

The item was put on the agenda for tonight's special City Commission  meeting
after Vatikiotis raised concerns. However, DiDonato said Monday the  issue would
be removed because Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital told him it would  host the
nursing class.

The hospital said earlier it had no room for the class. But hospital
administrator Joseph Kiefer said that changed when staff learned it was a  night
class, not a day class as originally thought.

DiDonato said Monday that it was frustrating that anyone would suggest he  acted
improperly.

"People tend to react instead of check into things," he said. "I'm not  stupid.
I'm going to include everybody I can include. It would have been  brought in
time to the commission."

He said he has been focusing on much larger issues, such as the vacancy  created
by Vatikiotis' recent resignation, and the date that classes were to  begin at
the center sneaked up on him.

Vatikiotis said the confusion is an example of problems that contributed to  his
decision to quit at the end of the month.

"To me, it all boils down to communication," he said. "These things can  be
easily avoided."

DiDonato, who campaigned before his election in March on a promise to bring
such vocational classes to the city, said commissioners and city officials
would do well to focus on the courses' benefits to the city.

"This is kind of the first time through it for everybody involved," he  said,
adding that snags are to be expected.

Commissioner David Archie also promised better vocational training when he
campaigned. He said the issue of whether the nursing class had permission to
use the Craig Park center sounded to him like miscommunication.

However, holding the class at Helen Ellis means that no new vocational  training
has been brought to Tarpon Springs, he said. Classes overseen by PTEC  have been
held there and at the Union Academy Cultural Center occasionally, he  said.

Archie said PTEC needs a permanent place to hold classes in the city, and  he
hopes the City Commission can give it one.

"I'm not looking as far as placing blame and pointing fingers," he said.  "If
there have been some problems, what do we have to do so that the project  can go
forward?"

Brayboy said she thought DiDonato miscalculated.

"I would suspect that after this, he is probably going to be more  sensitive in
the future, and decide - with the commission - how we would like  to go forward
with it."

The commissioners tonight will discuss whom to appoint as interim city  manager
after a city department head withdrew her candidacy last week.

The meeting begins at 6:30 p.m. in City Hall at 324 E Pine St.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, JOAN KADEL FENTON; The former Craig Park
Library.

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


