                              42 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Farmington Daily Times (New Mexico)

                            March 4, 2015 Wednesday

Event at Navajo Technical University teaches dog herding skills

BYLINE: By Noel Lyn Smith The Daily Times

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 277 words


FARMINGTON   The skills and training it takes to teach a dog to herd livestock
will be the focus of an event at Navajo Technical University.

The university's Veterinary Teaching Hospital in Crownpoint is hosting a Herding
Dog Demonstration at 8:30 a.m. Friday.

Certified canine trainer Shawna Davis, of Ignacio, Colo., will talk about
various techniques and training used to teach dogs to herd livestock.

She will also talk about dog breeds and the importance of exercise and
nutrition.

Following the presentation, three of Davis' dogs will demonstrate their skills
by herding rams from the veterinary program.

Germaine Daye, director of the Veterinary Teaching Hospital and Land Grant
Program, said this is the first time the university will host the event.

"I think it's something our local sheep producers will enjoy," Daye said.

She added that having a trained dog is valuable to livestock owners because dogs
learn to protect the herd from attacks by predators and assist in rounding up
livestock.

"People should think about having well trained dogs to handle herds," Daye said.

The idea for hosting the event derived from the sheep conference the veterinary
program hosted in May.

"A lot of people wanted to see something like this," Daye said.

Noel Lyn Smith covers the Navajo Nation for The Daily Times. She can be reached
at 505-564-4636 and @nsmithdt on Twitter. IF YOU GOWhat: Herding Dog
Demonstration When: 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. FridayWhere: Navajo Technical
University's Veterinary Teaching Hospital, located near the intersection of N.M.
Highway 371 and Navajo Route 9.More info: Call Navajo Technical University's
Veterinary Teaching Hospital at 505-786-4150.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A dog herds ducks in this undated courtesy photo. The Herding Dog
Demonstration will take place Friday morning at Navajo Technical University's
Veterinary Teaching Hospital in Crownpoint.
A dog herds a cow in this undated courtesy photo. The Herding Dog Demonstration
will take place Friday morning at Navajo Technical University's Veterinary
Teaching Hospital in Crownpoint.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2015 Farmington Daily Times, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


