                              414 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                           December 20, 2014 Saturday
                                Kolkata Edition

IAS officer dies without treatment

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 417 words


An IAS officer died without treatment on Thurs day after suf fering a heart
attack at his of fice in Kariga ri Bhavan in New Town's Action Area III. There
was no medical aid available in the office complex or in the vicinity except for
medicines stored in a kit since the beginning of this year.

Government officials failed to get hold of a doctor in New Town and took him to
a nearby cancer hospital instead. However, all attempts to resuscitate him
failed.

Prithish Chandra Sarkar, a joint secretary of technical education and training
department, was in office and held a meeting with departmental secretary Hridesh
Mohan at noon. He returned to his chambers around 1pm.Around 2pm, Sarkar was
found collapsed on the floor of his office room by a Group D staffer who took a
file to his office. The staffer raised an alarm and senior officials were
informed. Minister of technical education Ujjwal Biswas, too, was informed.

"We forced some emergency medication in his mouth before we rushed him to the
hospital," said Sufal Mondal, an employee.

Since a cancer hospital was the nearest, Sarkar was taken there. The emergency
team was ready as the hospital

was informed over the phone.However, even after repeated efforts, attempts to
resuscitate Sarkar failed.

Sarkar was cremated by his family on Friday . His wife, Shipra, who came to the
Karigari Bhavan office, said that her husband was a heart patient. "He was
averse to going to the doctor. He only took homeopathic medicines and used to
consult homeopathic books," she said.

The staff and officers held a condolence meeting on Friday in their office. They
spoke about the need of medical aid in Karigari Bhavan. They said there are
dispensaries only at Writers' Building, Nabanna and Bikash Bhavan, and most of
the government offices lack such facilities.

"We are not sure if a doctor in this office could have saved him. But we could
have been consoled thinking that at least we tried our best," said Indrajit Pal,
an employee.

This office was shifted to New Town at the end of January this year. There is no
dispensary within a square kilometer of it even though it houses over 450
people.

Biswas said, "It is unfortunate that the officer died while at office. The chief
minister was informed of his death and she conveyed her condolences to the
family . As he has a daughter studying in Class XII and a son in Class IX, the
chief minister has asked to take care of the bereaved family . We are
considering if a doctor can be posted in this office complex."

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


