                              413 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                               September 9, 2004

Two men held after death of stabbing victim

BYLINE: Barry Roche, Southern Correspondent

SECTION: Ireland; Regional News; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 415 words


Gardai investigating the murder of a 33-year-old man, who died in Waterford
Regional Hospital early yesterday morning, have arrested two men and are
questioning them at Waterford Garda station.

Detectives believe that Simon Carton was stabbed at least six times in the back
and the neck after a row broke out with another man in his flat in Barrack
Street, Waterford city, at around 8.20 p.m. on Tuesday.

According to a Garda source, Mr Carton got into a row when one of three men
visiting his flat wanted to borrow a UB40 tape. While they were tussling over
the tape, another man picked up a knife and lunged several times at Mr Carton,
said the source.

It is thought that a third man, who was not involved in the row, ran downstairs
to a neighbouring flat to raise the alarm.

Gardai and emergency services were called.

Mr Carton, who was single and unemployed, was taken by ambulance to Waterford
Regional Hospital, Ardkeen, where he died at about 1.45 a.m yesterday. Gardai
immediately launched a murder inquiry.

Officers sealed off Mr Carton's flat and a team from the Garda Technical Bureau
in Dublin arrived yesterday afternoon to carry out a forensic examination of the
scene.

State Pathologist Prof Marie Cassidy was also called to carry out a post-mortem
to establish the exact cause of death.

Detectives immediately began a search for the men who were in the flat at the
time, and one of them, a man in his 20s, arrived into Waterford Garda station at
around 11.30 a.m. yesterday.

He was arrested under Section 4 of the Criminal Justice Act, which allows for a
detention period of up to 12 hours.

A second man, also in his 20s, was arrested yesterday afternoon and brought to
Waterford Garda station for questioning about the killing.

Meanwhile, detectives searched the area for a murder weapon and carried out
door- to-door inquiries.

It is understood that Mr Carton, a native of Gorey, Co Wexford, had been living
in Waterford for some time. His parents still live in Gorey and yesterday were
being comforted by family and friends.

Mr Carton's killing is the second violent death in Waterford in 10 days.

Mary "Maimie" Walsh (54) from Woodale, Glendalligan, Kilrossanty was murdered on
August 30th, 2004.

Mrs Walsh's body was found locked in the boot of her blue Hyundai Coupe car in
Cathal Brugha Street on September 1st, two days after she went missing. A
58-year-old Scottish man has since been charged with her murder.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2004 The Irish Times


