                              421 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                     PR.com

                     October 12, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Operative Experience to Deliver First Commercial Sale of World's Only
"Hands-In-The-Body" Emergency Obstetric Simulator, C-Celia

BYLINE: Operative Experience, Inc.

LENGTH: 386  words


North East, MD,  October 12, 2016 --(PR.com)-- Operative Experience, Inc., a
fast rising developer of high-fidelity human simulators for surgical and pre-
hospital education, today announced the first commercial sale of its
state-of-the-art emergency obstetrics skills simulator, C-Celia to Manatee
Technical College (MTC), a post-secondary, career and technical education center
with campuses in Bradenton, Lakewood Ranch and Palmetto, Florida. C-Celia is the
world's first "hands-in-the-body," open surgery simulator designed to prepare
surgical practitioners and students for life-saving procedures such as emergency
c-section delivery, postpartum hemorrhage control, emergency hysterectomy and
fetal delivery complications.

Lisa Graham-Coonrod, MTC's Surgical Program Director, had been looking for a
simulator that could give her students the true-to-life experience of a real
operating room but until she tried C-Celia, had not been able to find anything.
"It's the most awesome thing ever! The patient bleeds, the uterus looks like a
real uterus and the baby, umbilical cord, placenta and amniotic fluid are all
incredibly accurate," said Graham-Coonrod.

Operative Experience is already expanding sales of C-Celia to obstetrics and
surgical technology teaching programs as well as nursing and military markets.
"This is a tremendous milestone for the company," said Jane O'Reilly, VP of
Global Sales for OEI. "The reaction to C-Celia throughout the marketplace has
been unbelievable and we are thrilled that Manatee Tech is already using the
simulator to help elevate the training and capabilities of their learners."

Manatee Technical College was able to purchase the C-Celia emergency obstetrics
skills simulator with the help of Perkins IV Federal Career and Technical
Education funding.

About Operative Experience, Inc.

Operative Experience, Inc. is on a mission to revolutionize surgical and pre-
hospital training. Using medical simulators with unprecedented anatomical and
surgical fidelity within a rigorous experiential instructional paradigm, OEI
reduces training costs while increasing training effectiveness and retention.
OEI is dedicated to applying this technology to reduce combat and civilian
surgical mortality, and to provide humanitarian support to developing countries
with limited medical resources.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2016 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


