                              416 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 30, 2014 Tuesday

Wyoming: Epic Technical Project Manager in Cheyenne Wyoming United States

LENGTH: 470  words

DATELINE: Cheyenne


Wyoming Jobs has issued the following job vacancy:

Epic Technical Project Manager in Cheyenne Wyoming United States
Description

CTG Health Solutions (CTGHS), a division of Computer Task Group, Inc., is a
full-service provider of IT and business consulting services devoted exclusively
to the healthcare industry. Our understanding and expertise in healthcare
systems, processes, and operations is grounded in almost 25 years of providing
healthcare IT systems and services to over 600 hospitals, physician groups and
healthcare insurance organizations.

CTG Health Solutions combines consulting and technical expertise with innovative
solutions to meet the needs of healthcare providers, health insurers, and life
sciences companies in the United States and Europe. We bring the most
operationally and technically savvy healthcare consultants to our
clients--consultants with extensive executive, management, clinical, and
information services expertise. We have provided business solutions to over 500
healthcare organizations and over 2,00 physician practices in the last two
decades through our broad, deep experience with major healthcare provider and
payer vendors.

CTGHS is looking for outstanding consultants with significant experience to fill
the following specifications:

We have a need for an Epic Technical Project Manager to lead the technical
components of the Epic install including, but not limited to, hardware,
interfaces/data conversions, devices and environment management.
Qualifications

Required Skills/Experience Include:

Seasoned Epic Technical Project Manager.

Must have proven PM skills.

Multiple Epic implementations as a Technical PM in a multi-facility environment
and 5 plus years of hospital IT experience.

Epic certification in one or more areas is a major plus.

Computer Task Group, Inc. is an international IT solutions and services company,
publicly traded on NASDAQ under the symbol CTGX, with more than 3,700 employees
in North America and Western Europe. CTG's healthcare division, CTG Health
Solutions (CTGHS), is a leading IT consulting firm dedicated solely to helping
organizations achieve strategic, clinical, financial and operational objectives
by more effectively leveraging IT.

CTG Health Solutions has some of the best consultants in the industry, who
thrive in a collaborative, team environment which enhances their skills.CTGHS is
a premier client partner that rewards valuable contributions and where careers
flourish in a high-growth, stable environment.

Job Posting: Sep 9, 2014, 10:53:25 AM

Job: Healthcare & Hospital Implementations - Epic

Primary Location: United States

Education Level: High School Diploma/GED (±11 years)

Travel: Yes, 100 % of the Time

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


