                              426 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Americus Times Recorder (Georgia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           September 3, 2011 Saturday

Myers retires from S. Ga. Technical College

BYLINE: Americus Times-Recorder, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 490 words


Sept. 03--AMERICUS -- South Georgia Technical College (SGTC) President Sparky
Reeves presented Carolyn S. Myers with a plaque recognizing the veteran medical
assisting instructor for 10 years of service to the college at a special
retirement reception in the John M. Pope Industrial Technology Center recently.
Myers is retiring from full-time teaching.

Myers, who is also a registered nurse, taught at Georgia Southwestern State
University (GSW) as an assistant professor of nursing from 1976 until 1984. She
also worked as a clinical instructor at GSW part-time from 1985 to1997,
supervising students in the clinical labs at Magnolia Manor Nursing Center and
Sumter Regional Hospital.

"First of all, I would like to thank you and recognize you for your dedicated
service to South Georgia Technical College," said Reeves. "We appreciate you and
wish you the best," said Reeves as he presented Myers with a plaque and a small
gift on behalf of the college and the SGTC Retirement Committee.

Myers received her bachelor of science and  master's of science in nursing in
1973 and 1975, from the Medical College of Georgia in Augusta. She worked at
Eugene Talmadge Memorial Hospital in Augusta for two years as staff nurse for
the Coronary Care Unit and Medical Intensive Care Unit. She moved to Americus
and worked as the supervisor of the CCU and Surgical ICU unit at Sumter Regional
Hospital for a year before accepting a teaching position at Georgia
Southwestern.

She taught there for eight years full-time and served on numerous committees.
She also worked as a clinical instructor part-time for 12 years. After her
career at GSW, Myers served as a R.N. Certified Red Cross instructor for the
Sumter County Unit of the American Red Cross office.

In February 2002, Myers returned to teaching full-time at SGTC. She served as a
medical assisting instructor for 10 years and during her tenure at SGTC, she and
her colleagues trained over 2,650 students. She was the program chair of her
department and also served as the advisor for the college's National Technical
Honor Society for a number of years.

"We will definitely miss Carolyn Myers in the medical assisting department,"
said Dianna Skipper, a fellow instructor. "She made all the difference. She
brought a level of professionalism and expertise that will be hard to replace.
I know I am going to miss her."

Myers thanked Reeves, the members of the retirement committee and her fellow
faculty and staff members.

"I really appreciate this and I know that I am going to miss you. You have been
an important part of my life for the past 10 years and I wish all of you the
best," said Myers.

Carolyn Myers is married to Dr. Cecil Myers of Americus and the couple has three
grown children, Trey, Michael and Meredith.

___ (c)2011 The Americus Times-Recorder (Americus, Ga.) Visit The Americus
Times-Recorder (Americus, Ga.) at www.americustimesrecorder.com Distributed by
MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110903-AF-Myers-retires-from-S-Ga-Technical-College-0903-20110903

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AF


                     Copyright 2011 Americus Times Recorder


