                              422 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday

Sales Technical Representative

LENGTH: 587  words

DATELINE: Lansing


Association of Sales Professionals has issued the following job announcement:


Sales Technical Representative
Job ID:  20790981
Position Title:  Sales Technical Representative
Company Name:  Phoenix Data Systems, Inc.
Job Function:  Other
Entry Level:  No
Location(s):  Michigan, United States

Posted:  October 22, 2014
Job Type:  Full-Time
Job Duration:  Indefinite
Min Education:  BA/BS/Undergraduate
Min Experience:  1-2 Years
Required Travel:  0-10%
APPLY FOR THIS JOB
Contact Person:  Human Resources
Email Address:  hr@goaims.com
Save Job  Email Job  Print Job
Job Description

If you are seeking an environment that encourages skill improvement and personal
growth, consider a career with Phoenix Data Systems!  We are a small, growing
company looking for a Sales Technical Representative to assist our customers
with our industry leading hospital Computerized Maintenance Management Systems
(CMMS) Software and to assist Sales with demonstrating its many features.

Excellent analytical, communication and problem solving skills are required to
research and resolve software user inquiries received via telephone or email.
The selected candidate should have a strong Help Desk service orientation and be
able to diagnose and resolve technical software issues.  Excellent presentation
skills are also required to fulfill the qualifications for performing sales
demos.

Key Responsibilities

?     Phone and e-mail customer support of our AIMS software which includes
installations, operational and technical issue resolutions and workflow advice

?     Test new and modified software components in a structured and methodical
manner

?     Demonstrate Phoenix' AIMS CMMS software to customers and prospects

?     Develop and execute weekly, informative webinars

?     A variety of special projects

Phoenix Data Systems, Inc. is an established leader in computerized maintenance
management software for hospitals.  We have over 30 years' experience with
national and international clients.

Benefits include Medical, Dental, Life & a 401K-type plan.

Please forward resume with salary requirements directly to HR@goaims.com

No phone calls please.
Job Requirements

Required Qualifications and Skills

?     BA or BS in Information Systems, 1 - 3 years related experience or
equivalent combination of education and experience

?     1 -2 years of Help Desk experience supporting a complex software product

?     The ability to rapidly learn and fully understand a comprehensive software
product to the point of being able to resolve reported issues, perform

quality testing and demonstrate and explain our products' value, functionality
and use in sales situations

?     Experience with Windows Server, Windows OS, Apple iOS, and Android OS

?     Experience with Microsoft Office products particularly Word, Excel, and
PowerPoint

?     Excellent verbal and written communications skills with the ability to
interact with all levels of staff, management and customers

?     Solid inter-personal skills with a customer service focus

?     Must be focused, detail oriented, quality minded and have excellent
problem solving skills

?     Participate fully as a member of the team and contribute to a positive,
ethical and respectful working environment and communicate openly with

others

?     Demonstrate accountability in all assignments

?     Complete all project related tasks and ensure on time delivery of all
project deliverables

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


