                              424 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                            February 23, 2015 Monday

Bio-med equipment engineering diploma course launched

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 425  words


KATHMANDU: Biomedical Equipment Training Centre (BMET), Teku, under the Ministry
of Health and Population, in association with National Health Training Centre
and Nick Simons Institute formally launched a diploma in biomedical equipment
engineering course today.

BMET had been providing a 12-month biomedical equipment technician course since
2013. It will now provide a more advanced 18-month diploma course in bio-medical
equipment engineering.

At the inauguration programme, Minister for Health and Population Khagaraj
Adhikari said diploma course in biomedical equipment engineering would enhance
the expertise of human resources for managing medical equipment in hospitals
throughout the country.

"Lack of biomedical technicians in hospitals and medical institutions is one of
the reasons behind insufficient scientific medical diagnosis of various
diseases," he said.

Due to shortage of biomedical equipment engineers in the country, the health
sector has had to incur huge costs while hiring foreign experts and engineers to
fix dysfunctional medical equipment.

Referring to a defunct CT scan machine at Bir Hospital, Adhikari said, "The
government has spent Rs 14 crore on the machine. It will be far cheaper to
repair it than to make a huge investment on a new machine."

The diploma course in biomedical equipment engineering run by BMET is affiliated
to the Council for Technical Education and Vocational Training (CTEVT). Higher
secondary graduates from science stream are eligible to enroll in the course. As
many as 24 students have been selected for diploma in biomedical equipment
engineering for the academic session 2015-16. Of them, seven are female
students. The 24 students were selected out of 70 students who had appeared in
the entrance test held by CTEVT.

Gopal Khanal, vice-chairman of CTEVT said, "The students enrolled in the diploma
course in biomedical technical engineering will be experts in dealing with
medical equipment in hospitals after completing the course." Biomedical
engineers, equipment technicians and equipment assistants will be produced
through the 18-month course and they will be outsourced to various hospitals to
maintain and repair medical equipment.

Mark Zimmerman, executive officer, NSI, said the government should announce
permanent positions for bio-medical engineers so as to employ medical equipment
technicians in all hospitals. This will make the health sector efficient. He
stated that NSI would provide technical and financial support to BMET to produce
experts in management of medical equipment.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


