                              43 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                            February 17, 2017 Friday

BJP exposes own minister's failure in handout

LENGTH: 355 words

DATELINE: JAMMU


JAMMU, Feb. 17 -- Notwithstanding tall claims of the BJP leadership to provide
good governance to the people, not only common people but party's own people are
exposing "false claims and lies" of their ministers.

On Thursday, BJP's lawmaker Ramesh Arora issued an official handout in which
failure of the machinery at the SMGS Hospital was exposed. The handout was, in
fact, a direct attack on a senior BJP minister who is holding Health portfolio.

According to the handout issued by the BJP, Arora, who is an MLC, on Thursday
visited SMGS Hospital (Shalimar) and inspected different units along with the
hospital Superintendent.

Arora found that some arrangement was made in addition to already existing beds
for the mothers near NICO Unit where premature children are kept on ventilator
or incubator. Arora asked the Superintendent t

Train them!

We cannot compromise on medicare and there is need to educate doctors and
technical staff for using new technology and they must interact with the
technical staff and doctors of renowned hospitals like AIIMS and PGI to update
the knowledge.

make more arrangements and the old canteen hall can be suitable place for the
mothers. Arora also felt that there is shortage of technical staff, doctors,
ventilator and other medicine facilities and assured that matter will be taken
at appropriate level.

He said, "We cannot compromise on medicare," and felt that there is need for
educating doctors and technical staff for using new technology and they must
interact with the technical staff and doctors of renowned hospitals like AIIMS
and PGI to update the knowledge.

Arora said that being a social welfare state "we are all duty bound to provide
free medical assistance as far as possible because we are committed for all
around development and wanted the benefit and programs of the government should
reach to the poor."

It is not the first time Arora has exposed misdeeds in the Health Department.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


