                              427 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Trust (Abuja)

                                August 03, 2013

Coach Ganaru Improves As Maikaba, Baleria Leave Hospital

BYLINE: David Ngobua

LENGTH: 268 words


The high degree of anxiety that enveloped the management and players of Kano
Pillars on Thursday when the team's acting Technical adviser, Coach Mohammed
Baba Ganaru and his assistants were rushed to hospital after a ghastly auto
accident has subsided as they are said to be in very stable conditions.

It will be recalled that the official car that was conveying members of the
Pillars technical crew from Ilorin to Kano had a burst tyre at Gangarida in
Ikara Local government Area of Kano State resulting to the fatal accident that
claimed the life of a road side vulcanizer.

The injured coaches,Baba Ganaru, Abdullahi Maikaba and Umar Baleria were rushed
to kwnar Dangora clinic from where they were later transferred to Murtala
Hospital for treatment.

Even though Maikaba and Baleria were discharged yesterday, the technical adviser
who suffered serious head injuries is still in hospital but the team's Media
Officer, Malam Idris Malikawa told Weekly Trust yesterday that his (Ganaru)
condition has improved.

He said the life of the tactician is no more in danger but he needs to stay back
in the hospital for more treatment and observation.

"I want to confirm that the condition of our coaches has improved tremendously.
All of them are now in a stable condition. Maikaba and Baleria have been
discharged but Ganaru who suffered more serious injuries on his head is still in
hospital.

"However, there is no more danger. I was with him not long ago and he went to
the toilet all by himself and when he came back, he sat up and we discussed for
a long time. All he needs now is enough rest and sleep", said Malikawa

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


