                              428 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 13, 2016 Tuesday

Pending bills delay repair of MRI machine at GMCH

SECTION: AURANGABAD

LENGTH: 335 words


AURANGABAD: The defunct MRI awaiting repair since the past one month at the
Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has left poor patients in the
lurch. The non-functional MRI machine used to make major radiological
investigations has taken the waiting list of patients to more than 200.
According to the hospital authorities, the machine became defunct as one of its
parts developed a technical snag and the company concerned has been asked to
carry out the repair work.In absence of the MRI machine, poor patients are left
with no option than to turn to private hospitals or private centres. GMCH
officials said they are making efforts to get the machine repaired at the
earliest.However, highly placed sources in the GMCH said, "The concerned company
with which the GMCH has signed a comprehensive maintenance contract has refused
to resolve the technical fault of the machine over pending bills."Sources said
the bills amounting to Rs 72 lakh have been pending with the hospital since the
past two years."It is an indication of the dismal state of diagnostic facilities
in government hospitals in the state.

This is the only government hospital in the city which provides MRI facility.
Poor patients have to wait for their turn for four months to get diagnosed,"
said a patient, who had come all the way from Sillod, 80km from here. He was
suffering from orthopaedic problem.He said nearly 15 patients who were given
appointment on Saturday at the GMCH were sent back citing that it will take time
to repair the defunct machine.Suhas Jewlikar, medical superintendent at the
GMCH, said, "There is some technical fault in one of the parts of the MRI
machine resulting in its failure. The company concerned has been told to repair
it. The machine will start functioning soon.""Around 15-16 patients go for MRI
every day. They are definitely suffering for the last one month. We hope that
the machine is repaired soon and put to use for the welfare of patients," he
added.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


