                              425 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                            April 27, 2017 Thursday

SZMC to conduct technical scrutiny of upgradation of liver transplantation
scheme

SECTION: Vol. 40 No. 117

LENGTH: 342  words


The 45th meeting of Board of Governors of Shaikh Zayed Medical Complex (SZMC)
Lahore was held on Wednesday under the chairmanship of Punjab Minister for
Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education Khawaja Salman Rafiq at Civil
Secretariat.

Besides, Chairman SZMC Prof. Farid Ahmad Khan, Ghazali Saleem Butt MPA,
Secretary Law Abul Hassan Najmi, Prof. Anwar A. Khan, VC UHS Prof. Junaid
Sarfraz Khan, M.M. Khan, President LCCI Abdul Basit, Additional Secretary
Technical Dr. Salman Shahid, Additional Secretary Finance and Health Consultant
Dr. Naeem-ud-Din Mian attended the meeting.

The BoG gave approval for conducting technical scrutiny and evaluation of
up-gradation of liver transplantation scheme for which Minister Health directed
to constitute a technical committee headed by Dr. Naeem-ud-Din Mian.

The BoG also approved upgradation of Executive Clinic of the hospital. On this
occasion, Kh. Salman Rafiq said that Executive Clinic should be made a
state-of-the-art center so that private patients also be get benefited from the
facilities and it could also generate revenue for the hospital.

The BoG also directed to improve the quality of food provided to the patients in
the hospital. The meeting also discussed the issues of recruitment and promotion
of faculty members, doctors and other staff. Kh. Salman Rafiq directed that the
process of promotion of the doctors and staff in the next grades should be
carried out on fast track.

He approved to constitute Departmental Promotion Committees for this purpose.
Chairman SZMC Prof. Farid Ahmad Khan informed that tenders have been issued for
setting up a pharmacy in the hospital for which piece of land already
identified. He informed that evaluation committee has been constituted for
considering the tenders.

The BoG also deliberated on the issue of defreezing of Health Allowance of the
staff and constituted a committee consisting upon the officers of Health,
Finance and Regulations Departments to evaluate the issue in detail and submit
its report for resolving the issue at the earliest.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


