                              423 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                           November 23, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Lab techs at jail fear for their safety: Female health workers at Wilkinson Road
often left alone with potentially dangerous inmates

BYLINE: Rob Shaw, Times Colonist

SECTION: CAPITAL & VAN. ISL.; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 559  words


Health workers who collect blood samples from inmates at the Wilkinson Road jail
say they are left unsupervised with potentially dangerous inmates and will
refuse to enter the prison unless security improves.

A technical assistant from Royal Jubilee Hospital travels once a week to the
Vancouver Island Regional Correctional Centre -- better known as the Wilkinson
Road jail -- to draw blood from inmates for medical testing.

A guard is required to be within sight of the inmate and technical assistant at
all times.

But technical assistants claim guards have frequently walked out of the room,
leaving a female lab worker alone with a male prisoner from the maximum-security
jail.

The Hospital Employees' Union, which represents the technical assistants, told
members yesterday not to enter the jail if they feel unsafe.

Sources told the Times Colonist that prison management was notified of the
concerns approximately two weeks ago when a guard left two technical assistants
alone with an inmate more than five times. Technical assistants threatened to
suspend service.

The techs have called the situation a "ticking time bomb" and fear someone will
be hurt.

"Some of the lab techs are afraid the syringes might be ripped out of their
hands and used against them. They are quite concerned for their health and
safety," said Mike Old, HEU communications director. He added that there seems
to be staffing problems among the guards.

"So if there's something going on down the hall, [the guard] will often close
the door and leave the lab tech alone with the prisoner."

The techs have the right to refuse to enter an unsafe workplace according to
Workers' Compensation Board Regulations, said Old.

Wilkinson Road jail houses inmates awaiting trial for charges that could be as
serious as murder.

It also houses prisoners convicted of crimes and some inmates who have
blood-borne diseases such as HIV/AIDS or hepatitis.

Jail officials are aware of the safety complaint and are investigating, said
B.C. Corrections spokesman Bruce Bannerman. "There are protocols in place
already to address safety and those are being reviewed," he said.

Health workers who already work in the jail could provide services if the
technical assistants refuse to enter the building, said Bannerman.

Eight technical assistants rotate weekly through blood collection shifts at
VIRCC. They are employed by the Vancouver Island Health Authority, which also
services William Head Institution.

"We take the security and safety of our staff really seriously," said VIHA
spokeswoman Suzanne Germain. "Following the incident a couple of weeks ago, VIHA
withdrew the collection services for one week to allow an internal review."

Since then, discussions between VIHA and B.C. Corrections have been ongoing, she
said. The two sides plan to meet before the end of the month.

Bannerman would not comment on the HEU allegation that staffing shortages was
creating the problem.

When a guard was allegedly assaulted by an inmate earlier this month at the
Wilkinson Road jail, the guards' union went public with complaints the facility
is overcrowded.

The prisoner-to-guard ratio has risen to as high as 40:1 in some cases, when it
used to be half that amount, the guards' union said.

Those concerns have been echoed at other B.C. correction centres, which are
running at 100 per cent capacity throughout the province.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

