                              430 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                  December 23, 1987, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Gynecologists' plan to charge for laser surgery investigated

BYLINE: By Paul Watson Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 572 words


   Health Minister Elinor Caplan has ordered an investigation into a plan by
five gynecologists to charge patients $75 above the OHIP rate for laser surgery
in a private clinic.

Caplan is concerned that the doctors in Cambridge, Ont., will break the ban on
extra-billing if they go ahead as planned early next year, a spokesman for the
minister told The Star yesterday .

"The minister is aware of the situation and she's reviewing it to see how it can
be discouraged," the aide said.

Caplan is afraid Ontario will end up with a "two-tiered" health care system that
gives special treatment to people who can afford to pay more than the Ontario
Health Insurance Plan covers, her spokesman said.

But she's also worried the free trade deal with the United States will invite
American companies to set up "surgi-centres" that might skirt the ban on
extra-billing by charging for the use of high-tech equipment, he added.

Cost of later

The Cambridge doctors plan to collect their standard operating fee from OHIP,
said Dr. Miln Harvey, one of the walk-in clinic's gynecologists.

But they need the extra $75 from each patient to cover the cost and maintenance
of the carbon dioxide laser, he said.

The local Cambridge Memorial Hospital "is already running a $1.5 million deficit
and they're not terribly keen to cough up another $50,000" to buy the new laser
equipment, he said.

So women who want surgery for cervical lesions, a pre-malignant condition, now
have to join the waiting line that lasts six weeks or more at hospitals in
Kitchener, Toronto or elsewhere, Harvey said.

"You argue about the cost for people who can't afford it," he said. "Well if you
have to take a day off work to go to London for treatment, what does that cost
you?"

The doctors may decide not to buy the laser if the local hospital gets one,
Harvey said.

Technical costs

Doctors who use the laser equipment in a provincially funded hospital could not
charge patients an extra fee for it, said Peter Fraser, executive director of
the Ontario Medical Association.

Fraser said he believes doctors in privately owned clinics won't violate the ban
on extra billing if they charge for technical costs that aren't covered by OHIP.

But he admitted the Cambridge doctors are "on somewhat uncharted ground" and the
courts may decide they can't charge for the technical part of a service that is
clearly covered by OHIP.

Tax dollars pay for equipment, supplies and support staff in hospitals, so it's
logical to argue that doctors in private clinics should be allowed "to charge a
technical fee that clearly isn't covered in the procedural (OHIP) fee itself."

But the health ministry "is on record as saying there cannot be economic
barriers to (OHIP) insured services," ministry spokesman Rick Winston said.

'Cause for concern'

The province's health service appeal board is expected to rule soon on a similar
extra-billing dispute, added Dr. David Cow, the ministry's chief of medical
claims policy.

Harvey conceded the five doctors hope to make a profit on the laser, but said
"we are in this primarily to provide a service.

"We can't afford to provide this service for nothing because it's going to cost
us a lot to put up the facility," he said. "We expect to cover those costs by
recovering the money from the people who use it."

The doctors plan to start taking "walk-in" patients on Jan. 4.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


