                              44 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Ledger (Lakeland, Florida)

                            November 3, 2000, Friday

LRMC NURSES APPROVE CONTRACT; MOST RNS AND TECH WORKERS WILL GET 7 PERCENT
INCREASES.

BYLINE: ROBIN WILLIAMS ADAMS The Ledger

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 891 words


LAKELAND -- Registered nurses and technical employees at Lakeland Regional
Medical Center approved contracts Thursday that give most of them 7 percent wage
hikes.

That reflects a 2 percent wage increase for all employees and a 5 percent
increase in pay ranges.

The contracts include a provision for lump-sum longevity bonuses for employees
receiving less than a 4 percent wage increase because their salaries are above
or at the maximum in their new range. That would bring their initial increase --
raise and lump-sum bonus -- to 4 percent, according to United Food and
Commercial Workers Union Local 1625.

That was a key difference from what the hospital announced last month for
non-union employees.

"Any time you have negotiations and both sides are upset, you've probably got
the best deal possible," said Ed Chambers, president of UFCW Local 1625. "We
took less than we wanted. They gave a lot more than they wanted."

Sixty-five percent of registered nurses and 70 percent of technical employees
will get the 7 percent increase, retroactive to Oct. 22, he said.

At least one in five registered nurses are above the maximum in their pay range,
bringing the longevity bonus into effect for them, Chambers said. One in 10
technical employees are in that situation.

The contracts cover two years for technical employees and three years for
registered nurses. They were finalized in a five-hour session Wednesday.

Technical employees -- licensed practical nurses and various technicians and
technologists -- voted 6-1 in favor of their contract, the first for that group.
Nurses voted 2-1 in favor of theirs, Chambers said.

"Votes against it were the senior nurses who didn't feel it was enough,"
Chambers said. "If you weren't on top, it was a substantial raise."

Hospital officials said they're pleased to be through with negotiations and
return their full attention to providing quality care.

"We've negotiated a contract we believe to be reasonable and fair to all
employees, with recognition of our longest-term employees," the administration
said in a statement released by Public Relations Director Cindy Sternlicht.

Registered nurses will get pay-range adjustments in spring 2001 and spring 2002,
if area hospitals are higher than Lakeland Regional, with the union allowed to
see that market data. They will get minimum 2 percent wage increases each of
those years, with lump sums for those over the maximum pay, Chambers said.

Technical employees' contract has that guarantee for 2001.

Those contracts cover about 1,400 of slightly more than 3,300 employees.

Tuition reimbursement will be $ 1,500 a year for technical employees and $ 2,000
for registered nurses. The hospital will contribute $ 10,000 for each bargaining
unit to the union's education fund, which will give scholarships and continuing
education.

Nurses with 20 years or more experience get two additional vacation days in
2002, a change hospital officials said also will apply to other employees.

The 2 percent longevity bonus will extend to non-union employees at the top of
their pay range also, now that unionized employees have it, Sternlicht said.

In dollar amounts, registered nurses whose salaries are below the maximum will
receive increases ranging from 98 cents to $ 1.24 per hour, Chambers said.

Licensed practical nurses would receive between 69 cents and 90 cents more an
hour. The biggest increase for technical employees would be for radiation
therapy technologists, whose base pay increase would be between $ 1.35 and $
1.75 an hour. The smallest would be between 64 cents and 83 cents for
paramedics.

These votes come as hospital employees are disappointed and angry with last
month's announcement that the hospital wouldn't give lump-sum bonuses for
1999-2000.

These bonuses are based on the hospital meeting or exceeding its goals. Bonuses
for 1998-99 were 10.3 percent of salary.

But the hospital didn't reach its financial goals last year, leading to a letter
saying bonuses wouldn't be paid for 1999-2000.

"They promised, promised, promised, right until the letter came out, there would
be something," said George Delamarter, a nurse. "That's what everybody's mad
about."

Employees did everything from turning off lights to having co-leaders work as
staff to reduce costs, said Debra Walker, another nurse.

"I think people thought they would get something," she said.

"I feel they misled us," said nurse Cindy Courtney. "They had meetings and said
'We're cutting back so you'll be able to get your lump-sum bonuses."'

She was lukewarm about the contract, saying it didn't bring as much increase as
she had hoped.

"I'd be a lot happier if we got the bonuses this year," Courtney said, adding
that she encouraged her daughter and others to work at Lakeland Regional because
of the potential of bonuses.

Although the hospital said last month no bonuses would be paid, its board of
directors did approve changes in pay that gave some non-union employees up to 7
percent increases.

That includes the 2 percent periodic wage adjustment and a 5 percent increase in
pay-range minimums and maximums.

The hospital changes limited those at the top of the range to a 2 percent wage
adjustment. It wouldn't have given a lump-sum bonus to people making more than
the top pay in their range.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

             Copyright 2000 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation


