                              435 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                             October 1, 2006 Sunday
                                  ALL EDITION

ON THE MOVE

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D05

LENGTH: 1020 words


Michelle A. Redd has been promoted to assistant vice president for electronic
banking at Georgia Bank & Trust Co. She was previously the electronic banking
officer.

Dr. Elena Carmen Nichita has joined the Medical College of Georgia Department of
Psychiatry and Health Behavior as a faculty member. She was previously employed
by the University of South Carolina School of Medicine in Columbia. Her area of
expertise is forensic psychiatry with a focus on civil and criminal proceedings.

Selwyn Godbee has opened the Avis Augusta Mall location as owner and operator.
He was previously employed by John Deere Inc. The Augusta resident's
responsibilities include overall operations management and providing rental
vehicles and pickup service to corporate and individual clients.

Kati Allen has been named the closing coordinator by Keystone Homes.

Donna Wendt has joined Augusta Technical College as admission and recruiting
specialist. She was previously employed by Troy University and also worked for
several years as an undergraduate assistant admissions counselor and traveling
recruiter for Georgia Southern University.

Kathleen Youmans has joined Augusta Technical College as a mathematics
instructor at the Thomson/McDuffie County campus. She was previously employed by
East Georgia College in Swainsboro. She has worked for Ogeechee Technical
College in Statesboro, Ga., and the public school systems in Bulloch and Screven
counties.

Kevin Baldwin has joined Augusta Technical College as an instructor in the
electronics technology department. He was previously employed by the Army and
has more than 30 years of technical and educational experience in electronics
maintenance.

Posey B. Carey has joined Lazard Dana LLP as audit senior. She was previously
employed by Bowles Construction Inc. The Martinez resident's responsibilities
include preparing financial statements and compliance audits for postsecondary
institutions as a member of the education services group team. She will also
work with the Employee Benefit Plan Audit Group.

Robert R. Zeyfang has been named the director of development for MCG's School of
Medicine. He was previously employed by Medical Oncology Associates of Augusta,
where he managed the private medical practice. He also served as director of
University Hospital's Georgia Heart Institute, where he directed a campaign that
reduced costs and increased revenue from cardiovascular services.

Eileen Brandon has been named the director of development for MCG's School of
Nursing. She was previously employed by Augusta magazine. Ms. Brandon spent more
than 10 years in health-care marketing and public relations at Birmingham,
Ala.-based ReLife/Lakeshore Rehabilitation System and Walton Rehabilitation
Hospital in Augusta.

Julie Kerlin has been named MCG's director of state relations. She was
previously employed by the Georgia Department of Community Health. Her
responsibilities include strategic legislative planning and advocacy and serving
as MCG's liaison to the General Assembly. She has more than 25 years of
governmental public relations experience.

Jessica Clanton has joined the tax department at Elliott Davis LLC as a senior
tax accountant. The Brunswick, Ga., native was previously employed with KPMG in
Atlanta and completed her experience requirement for certified public accountant
certification in September.

David M. Tierney has joined Elliott Davis LLC as a staff accountant in the audit
and advisory services department. The Ohio native resides in Aiken and is a
recent graduate of Ohio State University.

Greg Barton has been named director of the Masters Housing Bureau. The Augusta
native has several years of experience in the golf and hospitality industry and
was previously employed by Champions Retreat Golf Club. His responsibilities
include managing hundreds of clients and properties, and providing for patrons
during their stay.

Biz Bitz

Walter C. Sprouse Jr., the executive director of the Development Authority of
Richmond County, was re-elected to the board of directors of the International
Economic Development Council at the group's annual meeting in New York. He also
serves on the organization's Performance, Oversight and Monitoring Committee.

Gwen Fulcher Young, the president and broker of Gwen Fulcher Young & Associates
Real Estate Co., attended the Association of Real Estate License Law Officials'
Commissioner's College in San Antonio. Mrs. Young serves as vice chairwoman of
the Georgia Real Estate Commission.

Frances Williford, the lead clinical resource management coordinator at St.
Joseph Hospital, has been elected the 2006-07 president of the Georgia Society
for Clinical & Resource Management, an affiliate of the Georgia Hospital
Association.

Dade Moeller & Associates Inc. announced it is working with the U.S. Department
of Homeland Security as a member of the National Preparedness Month Coalition to
urge emergency preparedness and planning throughout the United States.

Margaret Looney has earned the American Association of Medical Assistant's
certified medical assistant designation for graduating from the medical
assisting program at Savannah River College.

Shaun Feeser, a loan originating specialist at Advanced Mortgage & Investment
Corp., was the top producer in Georgia for August.

Golden Harvest Food Bank announced its 2006-07 board officers: William R.
Thompson, chairman, president of SunTrust Bank Augusta; Gary L. Snyder, vice
chairman, vice president, SCO Supply Chain; JoAnn J. Herbert, corporate
secretary, vice president, Herbert Homes; and David C. Crews, treasurer, David
C. Crews CPA firm. The following people were named to the board of directors:
Phil Gaffney, Club Car/Ingersoll-Rand; Helen Sapp Godbee, Women Helping America
Move; Honor Hartzog, community volunteer, Blackville, S.C.; and the Rev. K.B.
Martin, the pastor of Antioch Baptist Church.

ON THE MOVE/BIZ BITS IS A FREE PUBLIC-SERVICE LISTING OF THE AUGUSTA CHRONICLE.
SUBMIT TEXT AND PHOTOS USING OUR ONLINE FORM AT
WWW.AUGUSTACHRONICLE.COM/BUSINESS/ONTHEMOVE. SUBMISSIONS MAY BE EDITED. ITEMS
RECEIVED BY NOON TUESDAY WILL BE PUBLISHED THE FOLLOWING SUNDAY.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


