                              431 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                             June 19, 2014 Thursday

Protest held, Khyber Road blocked for hours

BYLINE: Fariduddin Shinwari

SECTION: Vol. XXVII No. 968

LENGTH: 334  words


Technical and non Technical staff of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, blocked the Khyber Road
for five hours in a protest against Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government on Wednesday
and demanding up-gradation of their services like other official crew in
province.

A large number of protestors staged a demonstration at Soori Pul area on Khyber
Road. They chanted slogans against KP government while they holding placards and
banners in their hands were also full of anti-government writings. All the
personal and commuter's vehicles were stopped to travel and only pedestrians and
patients were permitted to move.

President KP of all technical and non-technical staff led the protest and
protestors kept stones at the middle of Khyber Road. He also addressed the
participants on the occasion and used harsh words against the KP led coalition
government. He said the KP government did not announce their up-gradation in the
current fiscal year of 2014, 14 and they have been deprived of their basic
rights since long.

Technical and non-technical staff of Lady Reading Hospital, Hayatabad Medical
Complex, Khyber Teaching Hospital, Mardan Complex, Abotabad Complex, University
of Peshawar, Agriculture, Engineering University of Peshawar, Islamia College
Peshawar University and other departments participated in protest.

Speakers also informed that KP government had planned to expel daily wagers,
working in various departments in Peshawar, from their services and it was not a
justice with poor employees.

One of the electricians, Dooran Shah, while talking to The Frontier Post said
that he had joined the duty prior to 16 years in six grade but still in 2014 he
performs his duty in six rank. He asked they should be up-graded like other
department's staff and saying it was their basic right. About the KP, he said it
had come into power with the manifesto of change and justice but it had also
resorted injustice and brutality.

Later on the demonstration was called off and protestors opened the Khyber Road
and left the area.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


