                              439 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    Cape Cod Times (Hyannis, Massachesetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           November 28, 2013 Thursday

Upper Cape Tech students help build own school

BYLINE: C. Ryan Barber, Cape Cod Times, Hyannis, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 646 words


Nov. 28--BOURNE -- As early as 2004, Upper Cape Cod Regional Technical School
officials could see that the need for nurses was growing.

But belts were tightening. And the Massachusetts School Building Authority's
policy prohibited reimbursements for post-secondary education projects, putting
the technical school's plans to construct a nursing building on hold for lack of
funding.

That is, until the officials realized its high school students could lend a hand
in constructing the nursing building on the hilltop campus overlooking the Cape
Cod Canal.

Earlier this month, Upper Cape Tech cut the ribbon on its Nursing and Allied
Health Education Center, a two-year project that gave its younger students a
real-world lesson in carpentry, electricity, landscaping, information technology
networking and plumbing. The total cost: $1.3 million -- about a third of the
estimated $3.5 million cost if the school had contracted all the labor.

"This is the largest student-built project in the commonwealth," Superintendent
Robert Dutch said on a recent Thursday morning, as he walked past classrooms of
students training to become licensed practical nurses.

The 10,000-square-foot center features classroom and lab space, replete with
hospital beds, monitoring equipment and fake patients.

One mannequin, known as "SimMan," responds to mock injections and can be
programmed to suffer from kidney stones or a heart attack, among a host of other
ailments.

Judith Pelletier, the director of Upper Cape Tech's practical nursing program,
said the SimMan allows the school to expose post-secondary students to
situations that they might not otherwise encounter in a clinical setting.

Students -- who must have a GED or high school diploma to be accepted into the
program -- split their time between the classroom and health clinics. The
program prepares them for careers in rehabilitation and long-term care, among a
variety of other health care settings, but it also can be a stepping stone into
programs to become a registered nurse.

The building will accommodate 60 full-time students in the 10-month day program.
In January, 20 students will begin an 18-month part-time program, Dutch said.

David Augustinho, executive director of the Cape and Islands Workforce
Investment Board, said the need for LPNs is especially acute at long-term care
facilities. The part-time program will enable Cape health care workers to grow
their careers, he said.

"It's easier for someone with a certified nursing assistance certificate to go
back to school," said Augustinho, who advises the technical school about labor
trends. "It's much easier to do on a part-time basis than a full-time basis."

Pam Almada, director of professional development at Jordan Hospital, said the
need for nurses only will continue as baby boomers retire and, eventually,
require medical assistance.

Staff from the Plymouth hospital serve on Upper Cape Tech's nursing advisory
board, and Almada said the technical school's students are looked to whenever
the hospital wants to hire licensed practical nurses.

"They're organized, they hold their students accountable and responsible, and
they don't seem to bring issues into the building," Almada said. "It's just an
overall well-run program."

Upper Cape Tech used to have its nursing program within the same core building
where high school-age students attend class.

But, with that building already overcrowded, it leased classrooms at Cape Cod
Regional Technical High School in Harwich.

With the Nursing and Allied Health Education Center, Dutch said Upper Cape Tech
can now bring all 60 students under the same roof and into a more professional
setting.

"This gives them that sense that they're not in high school anymore," Dutch
said.

___ (c)2013 the Cape Cod Times (Hyannis, Mass.) Visit the Cape Cod Times
(Hyannis, Mass.) at www.capecodonline.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131128-CA-Upper-Cape-Tech-students-help-build-own-school-1128-20131128

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CA


                         Copyright 2013 Cape Code Times


