                              438 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             June 22, 2013 Saturday

NSS nurturing 500 student entrepreneurs in the state

LENGTH: 492 words

DATELINE: THIRUVANANTHAPURAM


THIRUVANANTHAPURAM, June 22 -- The Technical Cell of the National Service Scheme
(NSS) has started nurturing student entrepreneurs from engineering colleges and
polytechnics in the state, a move that has the potential to create 5,000
employment opportunities within a year.

In the initial phase, preliminary training was given to 500 students under the
NSS Entrepreneurship Training (NET) programme. Around 300 students have already
started preparations to execute their entrepreneurial projects.

NSS State programme coordinator Abdul Jabbar Ahammed told 'Express' that by the
end of

this financial year, around 500 successful entrepreneurs will be created in the
state. The enrolled students are given training in entrepreneurial motivation,
counselling, project identification, project preparation and technical aspects.

"These students are guided to procure financial and technical aids for their
ventures. This initiative will help tap their hidden potential and make them
self sufficient," Jabbar Ahammed said.

The NSS is now focusing on curriculum-based activities with the support of those
who have completed the studies. The Social Engineers of NSS Alumni, a majority
of them entrepreneurs, will share their experience and guide the students on how
to become a successful entrepreneur.

As part of the energy conservation efforts of NSS, 'Urja Kendras' will be opened
at 100 selected engineering colleges and polytechnics in the State by August
this year. These centres, which functions from 4 pm to 5 pm on all working days,
will clear the doubts of the consumers as well as create awareness on energy
conservation.

According to Jabbar Ahammed, the social engineers of NSS will undertake the
repair works of three hospitals in each district. Hospital beds, chairs and
other equipments which needs repairs are usually abandoned due to lack of
manpower.

"Students with technical orientations will repair the hospital equipments to be
used by the patients. The Youth Welfare Board Club will regularly monitor the
hospital equipments and repair works will be undertaken based on their reports,"
said Jabbar Ahammed.

NSS which completed the energy audit of government offices found that the
majority of the offices are using incandescent lamps, ballast tube lights,
ceiling fans and ordinary coil type electrical heaters which consume more power.

In the initial phase, the NSS volunteers will utilise the CFL lamps available
with KSEB to replace the incandescent ones.

The service provided by the NSS volunteers is part of their bid to gain field
experience in the specific branches they are studying. There are also plans to
install 10,000 solar panels in buildings with the support of Anert.

There are around 152 NSS units in the State with 15,200 volunteers.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


