                              434 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Nursing that ambition

                                 August 5, 2000

Cheong Suk-Wai


NURSING AWARDS

Courage, discipline and dedication are still the qualities that drive today's
Florence Nightingales

NURSES' DAY here came into its own this year with the inaugural President's
Award for excellence in nursing.

More than 350 dedicated nurses with outstanding service records were nominated
for the new accolade, but the Ministry Of Health shortlisted only seven for the
final round.

At the end of all that, three women -- Ms Catherine Chua of Woodbridge Hospital,
Ms Cher Sok Kew of KK Women's & Children's Hospital and Ms Tan Wee King of the
Institute of Technical Education (ITE) -- were saluted for their exemplary
contributions to health care in Singapore, and then feted at the Istana at an
awards ceremony on Tuesday, graced by President S. R. Nathan.

In separate interviews with Life! on Wednesday and Thursday, the three nurses
cited their supportive families as being instrumental in enabling them to pursue
their calling.

For theirs is a battle fraught mostly with emotional lows, waged daily as it is
with such non-negotiables as pain and disease.

Their only weapon? Courage of a quieter, deeper kind, the sort, says Ms Chua,
52, that steels latter-day Florence Nightingales to accept that a now-empty bed,
which had just recently been allocated, may mean that the patient has either
been discharged or deceased.

Ms Tan, 45, who teaches the National Certificate of Nursing course at ITE Bishan
says: "It is generally recognised that the rigorous discipline expected in
nursing is second only to that in the military."

The drop-out rate for the course she teaches used to be 50 per cent, she says.
But since the school of nursing moved from Outram Road to ITE in January this
year, more students have signed up to do nursing as an alternative course
subject.

The larger available pool of applicants, says Ms Tan, means that she is able to
select only those whom she thinks can make the final grade.

Thus far, the school's January 2000 student intake stood at 68 (dwindling later
to 62) and the July 2000 intake is holding firm.

Says Ms Tan: "We are so short of nurses in Singapore that the opening of many
new hospital wards is being held back till they recruit suitably-trained
nurses."

She adds: "Health-care planners should rope experienced nurses into their
discussions because it is the nurses who, after all, know best what makes a ward
tick and why."

<sol,box> Send your comments to stlife@sph.com.sg


SECTION: Life; Life! Cover Story; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 413 words

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2000 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


