                              450 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                          September 26, 1996, Thursday

Student dies in U.S. 41 accident

BYLINE: JIM ROSS; KELLY RYAN

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 745 words

DATELINE: INVERNESS



A Withlacoochee Technical Institute student was killed in a vehicle accident
Wednesday morning as she drove to school on U.S. 41 S. Two passengers, both  WTI
students, suffered minor injuries.

The driver was Peggy Ann Griffis, 19, of Webster. Her passengers were Yja
Michelle Russell, 19, of Bushnell and Ammanda Phillips, 17, of Webster.

The women were driving north on the highway in a 1996 Ford Ranger pickup  that
belonged to Griffis' fiance, the Florida Highway Patrol reported.

About 8:30 a.m., when she was a half- mile south of the county fairgrounds,
Griffis moved into the southbound lane and tried to pass another vehicle. When
a car came toward her, Griffis veered onto the west shoulder.

By then, Trooper G.W. Reaves reported, the pickup truck was out of control.
Griffis traveled back onto the highway and the vehicle overturned, ejecting
her.

Witnesses and authorities said the truck rolled three to five times before
landing on the west shoulder. It never struck another vehicle.

Griffis was dead on arrival at Citrus Memorial Hospital, hospital  spokeswoman
Megan Carella said. Russell and Phillips were treated for minor  injuries.

The women were not wearing seat belts, said Chuck Russell, Yja's father.

Chuck Russell said the three women were friends. Most days, they took a  school
bus from South Sumter High School to WTI, a regional vocational school  that
takes in students from Sumter, Hernando and Citrus counties.

Wednesday, however, Griffis' fiance was scheduled to work a late shift.  Since
his truck was available, the three decided to drive.

Phillips went to the Russell home to meet Yja and Griffis, who had stayed  the
night at her fiance's home.

"My daughter told me they weren't running late," Russell said.

The accident came just as Griffis was embarking upon a major change in her
life. Griffis became engaged to Arron Sovocool in December. The couple planned
to move to New York next month, where she hoped to become a kindergarten
teacher.

"She was gung-ho," Sovocool said. "She was high-spirited, always happy,
cheerful. Always, everybody came first before her."

Griffis had lived in Sumter County on and off for many years, with a brief  time
in Mississippi about six years ago. "Just being around her would make  you
smile," Sovocool said. "She was always there for me."

Employees at the Winn-Dixie food store in Bushnell, where Griffis worked  behind
the deli counter, shared that sentiment.

Though only employed at the store the past three weeks, Griffis was well  liked
and considered a hard worker who was not afraid to get on her knees to  clean.

"She's a real sweet, pretty girl," said Mary Riggs, who helped train  Griffis
and worked a shift with her Tuesday night. "She had her life planned  out ahead
of her. She just worked her way into my heart."

Russell said his daughter - whose name is pronounced WHY-ja - is known as
"Lady" to family and friends.

She received state certification as a child care worker and is on track to  earn
her high school degree in December. She hopes to attend college in  Alabama,
where her grandmother lives.

In May, she and Griffis were among the dozen WTI students who participated  in a
class project called "Campaign '96, C-SPAN in the Classroom." Their  teacher,
Donna Olsen, received an honor from Time Warner Cable and C-SPAN.

The women also teamed up with a third classmate, David French, to win first
place in the physical science team competition in the 1996 county science  fair.

The academic camaraderie mirrored their home lives. The women had been  friends
for years and when Griffis' parents moved to North Florida, Griffis  stayed with
the Russell family.

Phillips' mother, Deah Hammond, said her daughter is learning to repair  auto
bodies, among other things.

About two hours after the accident, Russell was crying outside Citrus
Memorial's waiting room. He had just learned that his daughter was injured and
the woman he treated like a daughter had died.

During an interview later, Russell said he had dramatically mixed feelings.

"I'm very pleased," he said, "and again, sad, because Peggy was such a  good
friend for her."

Though he does not know how the accident occurred, Chuck Russell is  confident
about one fact: "From now on," he said of his daughter, "she will  be wearing
her seat belt."

- Information from Times files was used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITRUS TIMES; HERNANDO TIMES

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, STEVE HASEL; COLOR MAP; Rescue workers place an accident
victim into an ambulance Wednesday on U.S. 41 near a wrecked Ford Ranger
pickup.; Locates the site of the accident on S Florida Ave. in Inverness

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


