                              441 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                       Qatar News Agency (QNA) (English)

                             August 28, 2016 Sunday

HBJ Foundation Signs MOU with Moroccan State of Marrakesh

LENGTH: 634  words


The MOU was signed by HBJ Foundation's Chief Executive Officer Sa'eed Mathkar
Al-Hajri and for Marrakesh by its Chief Ahmed Akhshaisin in the presence of  a
number of officials from both sides.



In remarks he gave on the occasion, HBJ Foundation Chief Executive Officer said
"the MOU signing reiterates the brotherhood bonds  between the Qatari and
Moroccan people as well as strengthening bilateral cooperation for implementing
a number of charitable projects in the fields of health and housing in
Marrakesh".





According to the MOU, Al-Hajri explained, HBJ Foundation will build a 45-bed
local hospital and will equip it as per the technical specifications required by
the Moroccan Ministry of Health  at Sidi Yousif  bin Ali in Marrakesh at a cost
of QAR 17 million. ( MD 45), Al-Hajri added that  the hospital's foundation
stone will be laid on the 6th November 2016.



The partners agreed to build a  number of vocational  training centers  with a
view to empowering  youth in addition to the  provision of support to the
existing centers, the establishment of a number of schools  for the different
educational  levels and  a housing  project,  which was designed to include
around 200 housing units, Al- Hajri said noting that HBJ Foundation will also
focus on improving maternal and child health in this area where health centers
will be established in small villages and will be linked to the hospital. A
kidney dialysis centre will also be provided with all the necessary equipment,
Al- hajri said.



HBJ Foundation Chief Executive officer said cooperation will be maintained for
the implementation of different development projects, stressing that the
foundation will provide all necessary medical and technical equipment needed to
commence its work.



Concluding his remarks, Al- Hajri referred to the existing cooperation between
HBJ Foundation and Princess Lala Salma Foundation for the Prevention and
Treatment of Cancer  for the establishment of a number of projects intended for
the delivery of health services to the needy in Marrakesh and Bani Mallal areas.




For his part,  Chief of Marrakesh State Ahmed Akhshaisin has expressed pleasure
for the MOU's signing, praising HBJ Foundation for the care it gives to health
and housing projects in Morocco.



The two sides have agreed on the different arrangements for the implementation
of the hospital's project in Sidi Yousif bin Ali in Marrakesh have been made,
noting  that work on the project will go on stream during the forthcoming weeks
and is expected to be completed within two years.  The hospital was part of a
plan intended for meeting health needs in the area, and is viewed as the
cornerstone for the collaboration with HBJ Foundation, which  came in response
to the officials requests, Akhshaisin said  "a steering committee was formed to
follow up all the steps until the completion of the project".



The five-year MOU stipulates the commitment of the State of Marrakesh to provide
land plots on which the projects will be built as per the areas and the
specifications defined in the architectural designs

of each project as well as the issuance of the administrative and technical
licenses and approvals needed for  implementing and operating  health and
housing projects.



According to the MOU,  it was agreed that the hospital shall  be named after
Sheikh Jassim bin Jabor Al- Thani,  and the State of Marrakesh shall issue the
necessary licenses in addition to the administrative and technical supervision
of the projects. The foundation shall bear the cost of their equipment.



The State of Marrakesh shall abide, immediately after the completion of the
construction works and without infringement on the plots of land allocated for
the projects for at least a period of time not less than 50 years starting from
the date of operation.

(QNA)

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1281


                        Copyright 2016 Qatar News Agency
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


