                              45 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                            August 22, 2017 Tuesday
                             Print & First Editions

Woden line 'Technical constraints' may stand in way of residents' wishes: report
Light rail hospital doubt

BYLINE: Daniel Burdon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 485 words


The next stage of Canberra's light rail project is unlikely to extend as far as
Canberra Hospital, despite more than half of Canberrans surveyed on the project
backing the extension.

A report on public consultations for the Stage Two light rail route to Woden
shows a range of "technical constraints" on the capital's main public hospital
could stop the train going all the way to the hospital.

While the government has not released an official costing of the Stage Two
project, Transport Minister Meegan Fitzharris has said it would be "comparable"
to the Gungahlin line, which is expected to cost around $939 million. Of the
1364 residents who responded to the ACT government's online survey on the
project, 56 per cent, or 761 people, backed option 2b, which would run through
Parkes and Barton and all the way to Canberra Hospital. The second most popular
route was option 2a, which ran through Parkes and Barton but stopped in Woden
town centre, followed by the two options going past Parliament House, instead of
through Parkes.

Given the technical issues with the extension to Canberra Hospital, the
government is likely to pursue option 2a, but a final decision is expected to be
made in September.

If the route does travel through Parkes and Barton, it could potentially add
five or six minutes to the travel time from Woden to Civic, although detailed
technical studies are under way to confirm that difference.

The report also shows that recent investigations since the four options were
announced revealed a range of technical constraints to the entire southern
expansion and "potential operational and hospital access issues".

Across the entire project, constraints found so far included heritage buildings,
sensitive landscapes, the gradient of the bridge over Lake Burley-Griffin, radii
of bends and traffic volumes that could affect the final route.

A range of other concerns were also voiced by residents groups, business owners
and property developers, including maintaining green space and concerns around
heritage and property zoning along the light rail corridor.

Residents also reported their concerns about whether the light rail would
replace existing bus services, the cost of the project and cost of light rail
tickets as well as any potential impact it could have on bus ticket prices.

Others voiced concerns about the distance from stops in Barton to Manuka for
shopping and the Manuka Oval for sporting events.

The most popular stop locations identified in the report were along Canberra
Avenue, Kings Avenue, in Barton and on Melbourne and Brisbane avenues.

While Woden Valley Community Council wanted to ensure it helped develop Woden
town centre, residents groups in Deakin and Yarralumla wanted to protect green
space along the corridor, particularly horse paddocks along Adelaide Avenue.

The Property Council and Inner South Canberra Community Council supported
rezoning land along the route.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


