                              442 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                              June 21, 2013 Friday

Mural has lofty goal: `Take the Stairs'

BYLINE: Susan Spencer

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 435 words

DATELINE: MILFORD


MILFORD - Employees, visitors and patients at Milford Regional Medical Center
now have more reason to take the stairs instead of the elevator.

Besides the cardiovascular and weight control benefits of walking up a flight or
two, stair climbers can explore a mural created by painting and design students
from Blackstone Valley Regional Vocational Technical High School. The students
worked with some 50 hospital employees and the medical center's Healthy Balance
Committee.

The mural, "Take the Stairs," evolved over several months under the guidance of
Boston-area "community muralist" Tova Speter, 34, who uses art as a way to bring
diverse groups together to create change. It was dedicated at a ceremony
Tuesday.

The mural features health-and-wellness-inspired images, including a runner whom
hospital CEO Francis M. Saba painted adorned with a "Boston Strong" shirt, and
marathoner and triathlete Dick Hoyt, who pushes his son, Rick Hoyt, in a
wheelchair during races.

The Hoyts are members of the Hockomock Area YMCA, which was one of the mural's
sponsors. Other sponsors include Stop & Shop, a hospital employee fund, and
Benjamin Moore, which donated paint.

"Things were local and meaningful," said Ellen Freedman, community benefits
manager at Milford Regional.

Ms. Freedman said staff members from across the hospital worked with

students on the painting. Medical interpreters, for instance, added encouraging
messages in Spanish and Portuguese guiding people to the stairwell, which is
across from the cafeteria near the main entrance.

"Everyone found it incredibly rewarding," Ms. Freedman said. "It was different
from what they do each day."

Ms. Speter said, "It was great as an artist to see the interaction between the
students and the employees. My whole goal is to bring out the talents that
people have within them that they might not know they have."

The details in the design draw people back to look at it again and again, Ms.
Speter said.

"We tried to incorporate different subtleties in the design so there's always
something new to discover," she said. "The impact of the project will hopefully
inspire people at the hospital to take the stairs."

Samples of Ms. Speter's work can be seen at www.tovaspeter.com.

Contact Susan Spencer at susan.spencer@telegram.com Follow her on Twitter
@SusanSpencerTG.

ART: PHOTO

CUTLINE: From left, Blackstone Valley Regional Vocational Technical High School
teacher George Creely and students Samantha Sadwin and Courtney Leonard work on
a community mural, "Take the Stairs." The mural was dedicated at Milford
Regional Medical Center Tuesday.

PHOTOG: Submitted Photo

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MILFORD - Employees, visitors and patients at Milford Regional Medical
Center now have more reason to take the stairs instead of the elevator. Besides
the cardiovascular and weight control benefits of walking up a flight or two,
stair climbers can explore a mural created by painting and design students from
Blackstone Valley Regional Vocational Technical High School. The students worked
with some 50 hospital employees and the medical center's Healthy Balance
Committee.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


