                              449 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                      April 5, 2001 Thursday FINAL EDITION

Privatization would help nurses make more money

BYLINE: Michael Campbell

SOURCE: Vancouver Sun

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. F1 / Front Michael Campbell

LENGTH: 579 words


Our attitudes about monopolies are inconsistent, to say the least.

On the one hand, very few of us who get cable TV, insure our cars through ICBC,
or have enjoyed Air Canada lately would argue that monopolies are the most
cost-effective, innovative and customer-sensitive organizational models.

Yet when it comes to government services, many of us are ready to take to the
barricades to defend their public-sector monopolies in a number of areas,
including health care and education. What's even more amazing is employees of
those monopolies defend the status quo, even when it's to their detriment.

The current unrest in the health-care sector provides a vivid example. It's easy
to see why the Health Employees Union, which represents hospital cleaners,
painters, gardeners and other non-technical support staff, would want to
maintain their monopoly. Their compensation is higher than counterparts
performing the same duties in other industries. Their staffing levels are higher
in public hospitals than in private medical facilities.

The most recent study I've seen that compares unionized non-technical workers in
a B.C. hospital with unionized workers in the hotel industry was conducted in
1995 by the Fraser Institute. While the numbers are now out of date, the trend
they illustrate is not.

Comparing Royal Colum-bian Hospital in New Westminster and private hotels in the
region, the report concluded that Royal Columbian's budget on the related wages
would be reduced by $5.4 million if its workers were paid the same as their
private-sector counterparts.

It is completely understandable why the HEU would oppose private health care in
an attempt to protect its members, but the case is not so clear with the nurses'
union.

Nurses in the public system are clearly underpaid in comparison to their
counterparts in private clinics in B.C. Their wages in the public sector are
lower than public-sector nurses in Alberta and numerous parts in the States. In
the States, the presence of so many private facilities makes the competition for
nurses intense, which in turn forces their wages up in both the public and
private sector.

Which may explain why in a study released last year, Stats Can found that
fourteen nurses were leaving the country for the United States for every one
that came here from the U.S.

The benefits to nurses of more open competition have not been lost on their
counterparts in other countries. In Sweden, for example, the National Union of
Nurses has been instrumental in the establishment and ownership of private
clinics which contract a variety of medical services to the government. With the
full support of the nurses, the Union of Doctors and four other health-care
unions, 150 small to mid-sized private facilities have been established in the
past seven years.

One of the results has been that the nurses have seen their wages increase
between 1995-99 at a rate that is three times faster than in the previous
five-year period, and their working conditions have improved. These clinics have
also saved the government 15 per cent on health-care costs, compared to similar
services in the public system.

While any suggestion to have government contract out the delivery of health-care
services to privately owned facilities is met with the predictable howls of
imminent Armageddon, the fact remains that nurses would see a significant
benefit from increasing the competition for their important skills.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Business; Column

               Copyright 2001 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


