                              444 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Hartford Courant

                            June 29, 2016 Wednesday
                                   1 Edition

BYLINE: JOSH KOVNER

SECTION: CONNECTICUT; B; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148  words


HARTFORD - Business ties between members of a state health care steering
committee and contractors vying for grants through a $45 million reform effort
have triggered criticism from legislators and consumer advocates over what they
see as unchecked conflicts of interest.

The panel has an ethics standard that differs from other public agencies, in
part because its members are appointed by the lieutenant governor, not the
governor. Its members do not have to disclose relationships with vendors -
except for when they participate with state officials in awarding contracts. At
that point, they have to sign the stricter ethics statement that applies to
public officials and state employees.

Lt. Gov. Nancy Wyman's office said the steering committee actually adheres to a
standard that is greater than what the federal government requires - but critics
say the conflicts compromise the reform effort.

Two steering committee members, one of them the president of Griffin Hospital,
have links to vendors sharing a nearly $600,000 technical assistance contract.
Two other board members, both doctors, worked for two of the first four medical
practices chosen to receive the free, highly valued technical assistance. The
vendors will help medical groups across the state become "person-centered
practices," with comprehensive health and psychological screenings of the
patients and a greater emphasis on outcomes of treatment.

The health care innovation steering committee is driving the effort to improve
medical care and enable doctors to eventually share in the insurance savings
that comes from healthier patients. State officials say that the panelists are
"insulated" from the actual awarding of contracts. They use the terms "firewall"
and "information blackout" when describing the separation between the panel's
duty to make recommendations, and the granting of money from the $45 million
federal fund.

However, steering committee members can and do participate, along with state
officials, in the review and selection of contractors.

When the members do participate, the officials stress, they must at that point
sign the stricter ethics disclosure statement that applies to the rest of state
government.

Victoria Veltri, Wyman's health care policy adviser, and Mark Schaefer, the
manager of the health reform project, are steadfast that the higher ethics
threshold should not apply to the health care committee, in part because the
role of the panel is to advise and recommend, not to make binding policy
decisions.

The members' expertise and real world connections are essential to success of
the reform effort, and requiring the state's regular prohibition against
potential conflicts of interest would likely chill their willingness to
participate, Veltri and Schaefer said.

"You'd have to borrow [prospective committee members] from Massachusetts," said
Veltri. She said that the $45 million effort, known as the state innovation
model, "is by design, meant to include all these stakeholders."

Critics say there are plenty of experts who could participate without conflicts.
And they say that the panel members regularly make detailed recommendations that
form the basis of the requests for proposals, known as RFPs, that go out to the
prospective vendors.

In the first wave of grants, two companies with ties to panel members received
funds.

Patrick Charmel, the president of Griffin Hospital's parent company, is an
advisory committee member and also the president of Planetree, a sister company
of Griffin Hospital in Derby.

Planetree, which teaches medical organizations about patient-centered care, is a
subcontractor, sharing a $586,000 technical assistance contract awarded to a
company called Qualidigm, based in Wethersfield. The contract was one of the
first awarded through the federally funded reform effort.

The treasurer of Qualidigm's board of directors, Frances Padilla, also sits on
the steering committee that is helping to shape the reform effort. The Qualidigm
position is unpaid. Padilla is executive director of the Universal Health Care
Foundation of Connecticut, in Meriden.

Charmel and Padilla said in interviews that they played no role in the drafting
of the requests for proposals or the awarding of any contracts. Padilla said she
had no idea Qualidigm got the award until it came up in a subsequent committee
meeting. She said she joined other panel members in disagreeing with an aspect
of Qualidigm's approach and put her comments in writing.

Said Charmel: "I was completely insulated - obviously that's intentional. We
encourage participation, we motivate - but we have no influence on the RFPs."

Padilla said for the reform effort to take hold, "you need the stakeholders, the
doctors and the hospitals, to be at the table.

"I understand the concerns about conflicts - health care is an industry - but I
don't feel conflicted. Everything is in the public domain," said Padilla.

Dr. Robert McLean, an internist and specialist in rheumatology, is a steering
committee panelist and a member of Northeast Medical Group - one of the first
practices chosen to receive the technical assistance from Qualidigm and
Planetree. Northeast Medical is affiliated with Yale-New Haven Hospital.

"At the steering-committee level, we set out the criteria and what we want the
program to look like - but we don't decide who gets chosen," McLean said. "The
question is: Are the committee members getting preferential treatment or not? We
are not."

Dr. Thomas Raskauskas served on the steering committee and participated in the
debates that helped to shape the criteria for medical practices to qualify for
technical assistance. He was president and CEO of St. Vincent's Health Partners
when that practice was chosen along with Northeast Medical Group and two other
groups as the first to receive the technical assistance in July 2015. Raskauskas
left the steering committee later in the year and is no longer at St. Vincent's.

He said he could no longer comment on his service on the steering committee.

"You couldn't get away with this in any other area of state government," said
Ellen Andrews, an independent consumer advocate and a member of a subgroup of
the health care steering committee. "It's created a 'good old boy network' for
health care reform. You have your insiders and you have your outsiders.''

State Sen. Leonard Fasano, a Republican of North Haven, said the innovation
project, seeking to reform a $30 billion system affecting nearly all of
Connecticut, "is operating largely in the shadows of the halls of government."

Andrews, Fasano and others blame the loophole involving the Wyman appointees in
state ethics law. Members of committees who are appointed by the governor are
considered public officials - and must comply with stricter disclosure rules on
potential conflicts of interest.

A bill that would have closed this loophole died in the legislature in June.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 The Hartford Courant Company
                              All Rights Reserved


