                              443 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                          September 9, 2015 Wednesday

Odisha hospital head shunted after probe finds administrative lapse in infant
deaths

BYLINE: Ashok Pradhan

SECTION: BHUBANESWAR

LENGTH: 248 words


BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha government on Tuesday shunted superintendent of Sardar
Vallabhbhai Patel Post Graduate Institute of Paediatrics (Sishu Bhawan) in
Cuttack, Niranjan Mohanty, after a technical committee blamed administrative
lapse behind the spurt in infant deaths in the premier paediatric hospital in
past three weeks.

Acting on probe report of the technical committee led by Director medical
education and training Prakash Mohapatra submitted to the government on Monday,
the health department transferred him to MKCG Medical College and Hospital,
Berhampur. Dr Saroj Satpathy was appointed the new superintendent.

Health secretary Arti Ahuja said the technical panel found "administrative
shortcomings" in patient care. There was no "clinical negligence" she said.

Quoting the DMET report, Ahuja said the hospital did not follow a "roaster
chart" for emergency duty and was found lax in its practice for the intensive
care unit (ICU), she said.

Ahuja said the hospital witnessed a sudden jump in patient inflow this year
compared of previous years. Over 80per cent patients had travelled over 50 km to
reach the hospital in critical condition.

The government had constituted the panel on August 25 after 24 infants died in
four days creating uproar in the state assembly.

On September 1, the state government suspended six employees of the institute
and lodged FIRs against three of them and announced an Rs 10 crore upgradation
plan for the hospital.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


