                              456 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                            August 13, 2015 Thursday
                                  Pune Mirror

Hospitals struck off RGJAY list

BYLINE: Nozia Sayyed

SECTION: CIVIC

LENGTH: 485 words


Inactivity, delays and lack of manpower have led to four city hospitals,
including AFMC, being delisted in the last six months.

Lack of initiative and lackadaisical attitudes have got many hospitals in the
state de-empanelled from the Rajeev Gandhi Jeevandayi Arogya Yojana (RGJAY).
This year alone, more than 10 hospitals have been de-empanelled of which four
are from Pune - Dhanashree, Pioneer, Deokate and Armed Forces Medical College
(AFMC). In the last three years, the state has delisted 70- odd hospitals for
being inactive and denying patients care.

"Hospitals that have been delisted were not active and made no effort to
popularise the scheme or enroll cases. Also, there were complaints from patients
that several hospitals were denying treatment," Piyush Singh, chief executive
officer of the scheme for Maharashtra, told Mirror.

Singh added that hospitals were served several notices to improve their services
before being delisted. Elaborating on AFMC, a governmentrun medical college and
hospital, Singh said, "They had administrative and technical issues due to which
they were delisted, though they treated patients under the scheme.
Unfortunately, they never claimed any money from the insurance companies for the
procedures they performed, which should have been done. This was the main reason
we had to delist them as they never had an account opened for our scheme where
we could transfer the claims."

Chief administrative officer of Dhanashree Hospital, Nilesh Shirsagar, said,
"There were many issues related to payment - funds were delayed and there were
protocols that needed to be followed which included constant travel to Mumbai.
Besides this, patient flow under this scheme was limited due to which we
remained inactive and were eventually removed from the panel."

Pioneer Hospital's director Dr Samadhan Kshirsagar, said, "We requested a
removal ourselves as we lacked manpower to handle private patients and those
under the government scheme. So, we requested the CEO to exclude us from the
service."

Sources at AFMC said, "Since AFMC is run by the Ministry of Defence (MoD), an
MoU was proposed between the government of Maharashtra and MoD for the scheme.
However, due to technical reasons, it did not materialise and the scheme never
started officially for us. But, we do treat civilians at Command Hospital where
beds are reserved for the same. AFMC's name was removed from the updated list on
the Yojana website due to technical glitches and delays."

Singh suggested that existing hospitals that wish to stay with the scheme should
conduct health camps, identify patients and get them registered under the scheme
so that patients, along with the hospitals, benefit.

? There were many issues related to payment - funds were delayed and there were
protocols that needed to be followed which included constant travel to Mumbai

- NILESH SHIRSAGAR, CHIEF ADMIN OFFICER, DHANASHREE HOSPITAL

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


