                              453 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                     August 14, 2005 Sunday, FINAL Edition

ON THE MOVE

SECTION: BUSINESS; ON THE MOVE; Pg. F2

LENGTH: 466 words


NEW FACES

Joining the staff of the new Hilton Garden Inn in Freeport: Jeanne Carpentier,
who has been in the hospitality business for 19 years and was most recently
worked with RMS Hospitality Group, is general manager; Joshua Cushing,
previously of the Residence Inn in Burlington, Vt., is manager of guest
services; Sande Updegraph, who has 17 years of hotel experience and previously
worked at the DoubleTree Hotel in Portland, is director of sales; Brian Morse,
most recently events coordinator at the Hampton Inn in Freeport, is housekeeping
manager; Paul Hanson, with 24 years of experience with several military
installations, is director of food and beverage; and Mark Bowen, who most
recently was with Boralex Corp. in Lewiston, is chief engineer.

Scott Kaplan has joined the Community Counseling Center of Portland as assistant
vice president for programs. Kaplan has spent more than 10 years in community
mental health, most recently as healthcare project manager at Sweetser, where he
focused on new initiatives.

At Goodall Hospital: Charles Caruso of Scarborough, an information systems
specialist with more than 10 years of consulting experience and 15 years in
health care, has joined as chief information officer. Caruso previously was an
independent consultant and assisted the hospital with Meditech, its new
operating system. Sheila Pierson-Roy, a medical practice administrator with more
than 16 years of experience, has been named administrative director for Goodall
Health Partners and will oversee business operations for the multi-specialty
group that is owned by Goodall Hospital, as well as the hospital's Center for
Women's Health.

Dan Colby of Saco has joined Biddeford Savings Bank as a commercial lending
officer. Colby has 16 years of experience in the banking industry, including
positions as branch manager, president and chief executive officer at area
financial institutions.


GENERAL

Winners for this year's Geeks in Black Awards by MESDA, Maine's software and
information technology industry association, are as follows: Angel of the Year:
Mark Waite, president, Launch Momentum; CEO of the Year: Matt Hoffner,
JobsInTheUS.com; Company of the Year: BlueTarp; Digital Diva: Crystal Morris,
Cisco/A+ Teacher, Lewiston Regional Technical Center; Digital Don: David Ezzio,
president/CEO, Yankee Software; Gazelle Company of the Year: Quantrix; New
Technology of the Year: Identity Cops; MESDA Volunteer of the Year: Alison
Harris, Harris Media Services. The Interface Tech News Best of the Web awards
also were presented at the Geeks in Black event. Winners were: Arts &
Entertainment: Mainemade.com; Corporate Image: Kennebunksavings.com; Nonprofit:
Bowdoin.edu; e-Commerce: Wickedwhoopies.com; and Best Overall Web site:
Kennebunksavings.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dan Colby
Sheila Pierson-Roy
Charles Caruso
Scott Kaplan
Mark Bowen
Paul Hanson
Brian Morse
Sande Updegraph
Joshua Cushing
Jeanne Carpentier

                 Copyright 2005 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


