                              455 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            Cihan News Agency (CNA)

                          September 19, 2015 Saturday

WHO drew attention ongoing MERS outbreak in Saudi Arabia

LENGTH: 792  words


CENEVRE (C[#x130]HAN)- With the upcoming Hajj, one of the most important
religious observances in Islam expected to fall between September 21-26 2015,
the World Health Organisation (WHO) drew attention today in Geneva to the
ongoing MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome) outbreak in Saudi Arabia.



Dr. Peter Ben Embarek, Technical Expert at WHO, says that "we have, as you know,
had and still have a fairly large outbreak ongoing in Riyadh, involving mainly
one hospital but also additional hospitals. So far in Riyadh, linked to that
hospital, we have more than 115 cases - if I remember correctly - and we also
have a small hospital outbreak ongoing in Medina, which is part of the holy
sites."

Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) is a viral respiratory disease caused by
a novel coronavirus (MERS-CoV) that was first identified in Saudi Arabia in
2012. The virus appears to be circulating throughout the Arabian Peninsula.
Several cases, however, have also been reported outside the Middle East. Most
people infected with MERS-CoV develop severe acute respiratory illness,
including fever, cough, and shortness of breath.

The challenge with MERS is that the symptoms are not very specific to the
disease, and are difficult to recognise. Hence, health care workers would not
immediately think of the disease and have patients immediately isolated.

The WHO expert describes "that is a very big challenge for all health care
systems in the world, that was also one of the main messages of the last
emergency committee on the ... for MERS that there is not enough awareness
around MERS globally and that is really something we have to push for from all
side and make sure that all the actors and partners are contributing to increase
that awareness for this new emerging disease which is still very serious and and
of very large concern for the international health community."

WHO reported to journalists in Geneva also about 11 cases in Amman, Jordan and
said that more than 1,564 cases of MERS have been reported globally, and more
than 550 people have died as the disease has a fairly high fatality rate.

However, Dr. Peter Ben Embarek said that WHO does not recommend the application
of any travel or trade restrictions, adding that, "there is no travel advice or
recommendation made by WHO or any national authorities for MERS because you
can't, it is not efficient to introduce travel measures. Of course, when and
that is common sense, but it is unfortunately not a reflex in any individuals:
When you come back from travel and have suddenly symptoms of a respiratory
disease and you go to the hospital to see the doctor, it is extremely important
to remember to say 'Oh by the way, I was travelling last week or two weeks ago
and I went to this and these places' ".  STORY: GENEVA / MERS PRESSER
SOURCE: UNTV CH
RESTRICTIONS: NONE
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH / NATS
DATELINE: 18 SEPTEMBER 2015, GENEVA, SWITZERLAND
SHOTLIST:

18 SEPTEMBER 2015, GENEVA, SWITZERLAND

1. Wide shot, exterior United Nations headquarters
2. Wide shot, press briefing room
3. SOUNDBITE (English) Dr. Peter Ben Embarek, Technical Expert WHO:
"We have, as you know, had and still have a fairly large outbreak ongoing in
Riyadh, involving mainly one hospital but also additional hospitals. So far in
Riyadh, linked to that hospital, we have more than 115 cases - if I remember
correctly - and we also have a small hospital outbreak ongoing in Medina, which
is part of the holy sites."
4. Wide shot, journalists
5. SOUNDBITE (English) Dr. Peter Ben Embarek, Technical Expert WHO:
"That is a very big challenge for all health care systems in the world, that was
also one of the main messages of the last emergency committee on the ... for
MERS that there is not enough awareness around MERS globally and that is really
something we have to push for from all side and make sure that all the actors
and partners are contributing to increase that awareness for this new emerging
disease which is still very serious and and of very large concern for the
international health community."
6. Med shot, journalists
7. SOUNDBITE (English) Dr. Peter Ben Embarek, Technical Expert WHO:
"Travel advice, there is no travel advice or recommendation made by WHO or any
national authorities for MERS because you can't, it is not efficient to
introduce travel measures. Of course, when and that is common sense, but it is
unfortunately not a reflex in any individuals: When you come back from travel
and have suddenly symptoms of a respiratory disease and you go to the hospital
to see the doctor, it is extremely important to remember to say 'Oh by the way,
I was travelling last week or two weeks ago and I went to this and these places'
".
8. Close up, journalists

DURATION: 02:15
C[#x130]HAN

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 223


                        Copyright 2015 Cihan News Agency
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


