                              452 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                              June 3, 2011 Friday

Pakistan: Body formed to probe fault in LMUH angiography machine

LENGTH: 278  words

DATELINE: HYDERABAD


HYDERABAD, June 03 -- An emergency meeting of the Management

Committee of Liaquat University Medical Hospital (LMUH) was held here

on Wednesday which expressed its dismay over the occurrence of a

technical fault in the angiography machine.

Vice Chancellor Liaquat University of

Medical and Health Sciences (LUMHS) Prof. Dr. Naushad Ahmed Shaikh,

who chaired the meeting formed a three-member committee to probe

into the fault occurring in the angiography machine and submit

a report within three days.

Speaking in the meeting, Prof. Dr. Naushad

apologised to the Medical Superintendent of Liaquat University Hospital saying
though the In Charge Professor of Cardiac Department is

actually responsible for the technical fault in the machine,

however, the investigation committee has been asked to point out those

involved in causing the technical fault.

He assured that now the angiography machine will be operated under

supervision of an Assistant Professor of the University.

The Vice Chancellor appreciated the efforts of the Medical

Superintendent of Liaquat University Hospital Dr. Ghulam Mustafa Abbasi

for the repair of the angiography machine on self help basis.

This will benefit the patients coming to the hospital, he added.

Dr. Ghulam Mustafa while addressing

the meeting informed that on the directives of Sindh Health Minister Dr. Sagheer
Ahmed, the angiography machine has been activated and all medical equipment of
the hospital will be utilised for the treatment of patient Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


