                              460 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 16, 2014 Saturday

Maryland: ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY HSCRC ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR
II

LENGTH: 732  words

DATELINE: Annapolis


State of Maryland has issued the following job vacancy:

ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

HSCRC ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR II

Recruitment #14-009249-001
Date Opened  8/14/2014 2:14:00 PM
Filing Deadline  9/5/2014 11:59:00 PM
Salary  $77,053.00 - $123,711.00/year
Employment Type  Full-Time
HR Analyst  Janet Esser
Work Location  Baltimore City
Go Back Click HERE to apply Click HERE to view benefits
GRADE

9990
LOCATION OF POSITION

Health Services Cost Review Commission, Baltimore, MD
Main Purpose of Job

The Health Services Review Commission (HSCRC) is the state commission
responsible for establishing hospital rates to promote cost containment, access
to care, equity, financial stability, and hospital accountability. The HSCRC
collects a large volume of hospital operating and performance data and applies
numerous methodologies to this data while setting hospital rates. The HSCRC is
seeking an Associate Director of Information Technology to provide leadership
and technical expertise in implementing enterprise-wide technologies such as
virtualization, databases, storage, change management, issue tracking and
networking. The position will create and implement a strategic plan for the
Commission's IT infrastructure while managing IT staff to support the technology
needs of the organization.

Technical skills that are needed for this position are:

An advanced, conceptual knowledge of technologies used within all areas of
mid-size organizations.
    Expertise leading large scale complex projects and systems requiring
multi-disciplinary coordination including networks, databases, storage,
virtualization, security, servers and clients.
    Proven ability to ensure continuous delivery of IT support and services
through direct management of service level agreements.
    Proven project management ability.
    Experience in budget management and strategic planning.
    Ability to prioritize conflicting demands.
    Demonstrated exemplary customer service skills.
    Excellent written and oral communications skills including presenting to
audiences of various technical backgrounds.

MINIMUM EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE REQUIREMENTS

Qualified candidates must possess a Bachelor's degree and a minimum of 5 years
IT experience, including 2 years management experience.  An advanced degree in a
technology or business field and proven experience leading large scale, complex
projects is desired.  Additional education may substitute for required
experience and additional related experience may substitute for required
education.
DESIRED OR PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS

Knowledge of best practices in data management and security, business
intelligence software (Tableau), revision control, project and information
management tools.
SELECTION PROCESS

Applicants who meet the minimum qualifications will be evaluated.  The
evaluation may be a rating of your application based on your education, training
and experience as they relate to the requirements of the position.  Therefore,
it is essential that you provide complete and accurate information on your
application.  Please report all related education, experience, dates and hours
of work.  For education obtained outside the U.S., a copy of the equivalent
American education as determined by a foreign credential evaluation service must
accompany the application.  All information concerning your qualifications must
be submitted by the closing date.  We will not consider information submitted
after this date.  Applicants certified to list will receive eligibility for a
period of one (1) year.
Eligibility may be extended beyond one (1) year period.  For Recorded Job
Information Call:  410-767-6018.

Online applications are STRONGLY preferred, however the paper application may be
submitted to DHMH, Recruitment and Selection Division, 201 W. Preston St., Room
114-B, Baltimore, MD 21201.  The paper application must be received by 5 pm,
close of business, on the closing date for the recruitment, no postmarks will be
accepted.

Incorrect application forms will not be accepted.

If you need to submit additional information, the preferred method is to upload.
If unable to upload, please fax requested information only to 410-333-5689.

Appropriate accommodations for individuals with disabilities are available upon
request by calling: (410) 767-1251 or MD TTY Relay Service 1-800-735-2258.


For Further information please visit: http://www.jobaps.com A

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


