                              451 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                             April 25, 2014 Friday

Rajouri residents want more medical facilities in hospital

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: Rajouri


Rajouri, April 25 -- Complaining of a shortage of doctors and medical amenities
including equipment in the 200-bedded regional hospital, residents of Rajouri in
Kashmir called for better medical facilities at the hospital.

People complained about lack of basic medical facilities and said that usually
they have to rush elsewhere during an emergency. "I feel very sad to say that
there are a lot of problems inside the hospital whether it is the number of
staff or adequate machines.

Though many machines has been provided by the government, there is a lack of
technical staff to handle the technical devices.

There are not even 22 staff members to take care of all the technical machinery.
It is my humble request to the government, whether it is the ruling government
or someone fighting the election from here to raise this matter in one of the
parliament sessions,"said a patient's relative, Zahir Abbas. Residents also said
that the absence of medical staff and facilities makes it very difficult during
emergency as they are compelled to rush elsewhere for treatment.

Meanwhile, Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Rajouri district, Rajiv Sharma, said
that the government has assured that proper measures would be taken to upgrade
the machinery. "It is the biggest district with the population of 6.41 lakh
(641million) and sometimes the hospital is also loaded with patients from Poonch
district and all our medical staff as well as doctors work with utmost
dedication.

All the issues faced by patients will be resolved after the election.I am
assuring all the residents of my district that we will ensure proper functioning
of all the sophisticated machines for the speedy recovery of the patients,"
Sharma said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


