                              457 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               The Herald (Ghana)

                             March 14, 2016 Monday

Melcom To Set Up Mini bakery At Two Hospitals In Accra

LENGTH: 422  words


By Cecil Mensah

The Baker's Basket, a subsidiary of Melcom Group of Companies, will soon
establish a mini bakery to dispense bakery products at two hospitals in the
Accra metropolis.

The two hospitals are, Korle-Bu Teaching Hospital and the 37 Military Hospitals
to enable patients get access to quality bakery product, whilst on admission at
the hospital.

According to Mr. Godwin Avenorgbo; Director of Communications at Melcom Care
Foundation, the two mini bakeries, will offer services like the sale of
confectionery, soft drinks, among others.

Mr. Avenorgbo, announced this at a short ceremony to respond to the needs of two
secondary institutions namely, Have Technical Institute in the Volta Region and
Holy Child School in the Central Region.

He said, in the 2016; the CSR of the company would be to continue to support
efforts in improving access to and build standards in education.

We will also increasing our support for health delivery to both public and
private health institutions in the country.

He said, issue of the environment would also not be left out, hence the need to
replace all non- degradable rubber bags with newly manufactured Oxo
bio-degradable rubber bags for the sale of all products at the shopping centres
across the nation.

He added that, his company would continue to sponsor clean-up campaigns to keep
the environment healthy and safe, particularly when the rains are about coming.

He further announced that, Melcom, has started the operation of the largest ware
house system in the West Africa Sub-region under the Free Zones enclave.

The foundation earlier, responded to the needs of some basic schools by donating
some pencils; exercise books, colour Pencils, Crayons ,Erasers among others
while
Have Technical Institute was given catering materials made up of two gas
burners, one with oven and the other without an oven, two gas cylinders to
enable the school start catering programmes.

Holy Child School grabbed one Akai rechargeable fan, one optima two-face fan and
two Akai steam irons to support the organization of the teacher's award ceremony
of the school.

Receiving the items on behalf of the Have Technical Institute, the Principal of
the school, Mr. Leonard K. Ashun ,called on other corporate organizations to
come to the aid of the school and thanked the management of Melcom Care
Foundation for the gesture it has done the school.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/631/1801/83/145796654360.jpg

Mr-Godwin-Avenorgbo-presenting-the-items-to-Mr-Leonard-K.-Ashun-the-principal-of
-Have-Technical-Institute.jpg

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1801


                           Copyright 2016 The Herald.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


