                              458 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           West Cape News (Cape Town)

                             April 16, 2012 Monday

'Technical Glitch' Sees Clinics Running Out of Chronic Medication

BYLINE: Peter Luhanga

LENGTH: 415 words


Some chronically ill patients in the Western Cape have had to go for days
without taking their prescribed medication at some state hospitals as a new
contractor appointed to provide prepackaged chronic medication has been
experiencing "technical glitches".

At the beginning of the month the Western Cape Provincial Department of Health
appointed UTi Pharma to take over the management of the Chronic Dispensing Unit
(CDU) from Institutional Pharmacy Management (IPM) whose five year contract had
come to an end.

On Friday, two weeks later, Western Cape Minister of Health Theuns Botha said
there had been "some operational problems" in transferring the details of about
200 000 patients from the old CDU system to the new operator which resulted in
problems in the dispensing of chronic medication to patients.

However, he said on Friday that the situation had just been resolved.

But the technical glitches created a "huge" backlog in the dispensing of chronic
medication at some state hospitals.

At Retreat Community Hospital, a senior health official who spoke on condition
of anonymity said because UTi Pharma was unable to provide pre-packaged chronic
medication, they had a week-long backlog.

"We have asked patients who have a supply of medicines to come back next week.
Those (patients) who have nothing, we are trying to assist them," he said.

He said because the work had to be done manually, a patient would be seen by a
doctor and told to come the next day to get medication

He said the majority of their patients who had been inconvenienced were
suffering from diabetes and hypertension but the situation was normal for
patients suffering from Tuberculosis and HIV/Aids.

Western Cape Treatment Action Campaign (TAC) field facilitator Neliswa Mkwai
said that at a partnership meeting with fellow stakeholders such as the Simelela
Aids Forum on Wednesday April 11, some patients in attendance had complained
that they had been unable to get their chronic mediation for three days.

Some city run clinics depending on the CDU were also affected, said a senior
city health official who did not want to be named because only politicians
serving in mayoral committee positions are authorised to speak to the media.

Botha said the issues had not been life threatening.

"There is an overlap. We reverted to dispensing the medication manually which
created discomfort to our patients. There was a delay. Patients had to wait for
three days to get medication. We apologise for the inconvenience," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


