                              47 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             Kashmir Images (India)

                           September 20, 2011 Tuesday

Hospital employees paid from HDF stage protest seeking better pay-checks

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, Sept. 20 -- Demanding a safe and secure future, hundreds of employees
of Kashmir-based All Technical and Non-technical Employees Union of Hospital
Development Fund (HDF) Tuesday staged a peaceful protest at Press Enclave here
to press the government to address their issues.

"Despite toiling hard and rendering best of services from last eight years,
government pays us pittance of Rs 2,000 only," lamented Mir Nissar Ahmad,
president of the All Technical and Non-technical Employees Union.

"We are not asking government to give us permanent jobs, but it (government) can
engage more than 800 employees from our union as contractual, daily-wagers or
bring us under National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) so that we don't feel
insecure vis-avis our jobs," he said.

Another employee, Nissar Ahmad narrated the agony of feeding a large family on
small allowance. "We want government to seriously address our grievances as it
is becoming impossible to sustain our families on peanuts," lamented he.

Inayat Ali, another employee said that they are paid from HDF, which is
generated from X-rays, ferrying patients in hospital vehicles, entry tickets,
etc. "We hardly make our ends meet. There are many posts lying vacant in
hospitals across the Valley. Government can engage us as we have relevant
experience of running the hospital administration," Ali said.

Police later resorted to lathi-charge to disperse the protesters.

"We had assembled here to raise our demands, but police after using brute force
left two employees wounded and arrested four," alleged Ali.

"Look, we don't need lucrative jobs. What we simply demand is that government
must look into the efforts we are putting in to keep patient-care hassle-free
and hospital administration ticking," says Ali, adding that government then
should see "how much injustice is being meted out to us". Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Kashmir Images. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2011 Kashmir Images
                              All Rights Reserved


