                              461 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      October 21, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

The Colorado Rural Health Center's CEO Michelle Mills Recently Appointed to the
Technical Assistance and Services Center Advisory Committee

LENGTH: 288  words


New Delhi, Oct. 21 -- Michelle Mills, chief executive officer (CEO) of Colorado
Rural Health Center (CRHC), has been appointed to the TASC Advisory Committee, a
program of the National Rural Health Resource Center.



The appointment to the TASC Advisory Committee will run through August 31, 2015.
Comprised of a diverse group of professionals - the Committee serves as a
sounding board and advisement group of technical experts to ensure that the TASC
program is staying ahead of the curve and keeping the pulse on the needs and
issues in rural communities, CAHs and state FLEX programs.

The TASC program supports the forty- five states participating in the FLEX
program and the 1,300 + CAHs they serve. TASC work aligns with the state FLEX
grant to provide technical assistance, education, resources and awareness in the
areas of: quality improvement; financial and operational improvement, and
healthy system development. Other programs include Small Rural Hospital
Improvement Grant (SHIP) and Rural Hospital Performance Improvement Project
(RHPI).

Mills is widely known as a leading authority for rural health care in Colorado,
with over 20 years of experience in the nonprofit sector dedicated to quality
improvement and patient safety. Prior to becoming CEO in August 2012, Mills was
the Director of Programs at CRHC and oversaw not only the FLEX program, but
numerous technical support programs and services.

"It is a privilege to be given the opportunity to help address the significant
healthcare challenges facing Critical Access Hospitals, said Mills. "I look
forward to sharing Colorado's best practices and working with the other Advisory
Committee appointees to ensure healthcare programs are more accessible in
rural."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


