                              474 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                            February 6, 2017 Monday

'Aggressive response needed against prevalent hepatitis B, C'

SECTION: Vol. 26 No. 334

LENGTH: 263  words


Primary and Secondary Healthcare Secretary Ali Jan Khan has directed the
district officers concerned to expedite the implementation of development
projects so that optimal utilisation of resources is ensured.

Chairing the monthly meeting of chief executive officers of health at the
Directorate General Health Services here on Sunday, he said revamping of 40
hospitals in Punjab would be complete in the current fiscal year and the project
would be expanded to all hospitals in the province.

EPI Director Dr Munir said that Lahore, Rawapindi, DG Khan, Rajanpur,
Sheikhupura must improve measles II coverage as lack of vigilance might risk an
outbreak in summer. He also emphasised that complacency must be avoided with
regard to eradication of polio and mother neonatal tetanus.'The prevalence of
hepatitis B and C is high priority area for the government and the system needs
to respond aggressively to the challenge,' the secretary said.

He said the hospitals having more than one specialists would ensure their
working in different shifts. The meeting also reviewed the new hospital
management structure. It was informed that medical superintendents would have
technical and non-technical support staff with them for better service delivery.

Ali Jan Khan also directed penalties and other disciplinary measures against the
staff not complying with biomatric attendance. The meeting reviewed the status
of BHUs, facilities and the resources needed for improvement. The Chief Minister
Roadmap team presented analysis of Key Performance Indicators for Primary and
Secondary Healthcare.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


