                              475 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                              July 4, 2014 Friday

Bouygues wins contract to develop two buildings at Hautepierre Hospital in
France

SECTION: PROJECTS; France

LENGTH: 303 words



HIGHLIGHT: Bouygues Construction subsidiaries, Pertuy Construction and Norpac
have secured a contract worth more than [#x20ac]80m to develop two buildings at
Hautepierre Hospital in Strasbourg, France.


Bouygues Construction subsidiaries, Pertuy Construction and Norpac have secured
a contract worth more than [#x20ac]80m to develop two buildings at Hautepierre
Hospital in Strasbourg, France.

Designed by Ingerop and developed by Groupe 6, the project includes the
construction of two buildings; one will be a regional cancer institute and the
other a medico-technical and locomotor facility.

The buildings will be connected to each other and to an existing structure
through underground passages and pedestrian bridges.

With a surface area of 30,000m², the eight-storey regional cancer institute will
house a radiotherapy unit equipped with seven bunkers for particle accelerators,
a nuclear medicine unit, a 122-bed conventional hospital block, a 38-bed
specialist hospital unit and a 72-bed oncology and haematology day hospital.

Additionally, it will have space for external consultants, as well as offices
and service facilities to support the various units.

The 11-floor medico-technical and locomotor facility will be built on an area of
around 41,000m².

This building will feature an arrivals area, logistical platform, a central
sterilisation unit, a 164-seat lecture theatre equipped with conference rooms,
an area for external consultations in disciplines not covered at the facility
and an extension of the site's imaging unit.

In addition, the facility will have two surgical units with 15 and 17 theatres
respectively, a 30-bed day-surgery hospital, a continuous monitoring unit with
16 beds, six conventional hospital units each with 28 beds and associated
support services.

Construction work will be handled by Pertuy, including structural work, walls
and covering, drywall, finishing work, roadways and infrastructural networks.

The project is scheduled to start in early July and is expected to take 42
months to complete.

LOAD-DATE: July 07, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


