                              472 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                            July 31, 2002 Wednesday

Nurses reach deal, avoiding strike;
But 100 technical workers at Eden still plan to picket Friday unless a contract
is made

BYLINE: Sandra Gonzales MERCURY NEWS

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 284 words


Nurses at Castro Valley's Eden Medical Center averted a strike by reaching a
tentative agreement early Tuesday morning.

The nurses had been set to walk the picket line Friday in a contract dispute
over wages and retirement benefits.

Despite Tuesday's agreement, at least 100 technical workers, represented by the
Teamsters, haven't reached a contract settlement with the hospital and are
prepared to strike Friday. Those workers include pharmacy employees, lab
technicians and X-ray technicians.

Hospital officials said they have arranged for other licensed technical staff to
fill any open positions during the strike.

"We're hopeful we can reach a conclusion prior to that end," said Cassandra
Phelps, a hospital spokeswoman.

The tentative agreement, which affects 350 registered nurses, is expected to be
ratified Thursday.

"A strike is never what anybody wants to do," said Liz Jacobs, a spokeswoman for
the California Nurses Association. "What we're trying to do with these
agreements is improve and introduce retirement plans. We're looking at things to
retain and attract new nurses to the profession."

As part of the settlement, the nurses will receive an 18 percent wage increase
during the next three years, setting the salary range for a full-time nurse at
$75,000 to $93,000 a year.

The new contract also includes improvements in staffing and health care
benefits, some of the main points of contention. Nurses who are at least 55
years of age with more than 10 years of experience will receive
employer-subsidized post-retirement health care coverage based on years of
service.

"Although it was a difficult process, it reached a fair conclusion," Phelps
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: news

                       Copyright 2002 Contra Costa Times
                              All Rights Reserved


