                              477 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Thomasville Times-Enterprise (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 13, 2015 Thursday

Respiratory Care students last to be pinned as SWGTC graduates

BYLINE: Thomasville Times-Enterprise, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 566 words


Aug. 13--THOMASVILLE -- Eight students were recognized during the Aug. 6
Respiratory Care pinning ceremony held at Southern Regional Technical College
(SRTC). These students completed two semesters of prerequisite coursework as
well as four semesters of rigorous occupational coursework including a series of
clinical rotations at local hospitals. Students who are graduating at the end of
the Summer 2015 Semester from the former Moultrie Technical College and
Southwest Georgia Technical College will officially be graduates of those
institutions. After the summer semester all students will be graduates of SRTC.

"The program faculty is very proud of the class of 2015. As a result of the
merger with Moultrie Technical College to form the new Southern Regional
Technical College, these students represent the last graduating class of
Southwest Georgia Technical College's Respiratory Care program. While this is a
'bittersweet' occasion for these graduates, the merged college will facilitate
exciting opportunities for future expansion of the respiratory care program, to
meet the growing demand for respiratory therapists that exists at the national
level," said SRTC Respiratory Care Program Director Tammy Miller, M.Ed., RRT,
CPFT.

Students recognized were: Tanner Brooks of Pelham, Haily Culpepper of Camilla,
Jessica Henry of Valdosta, Margaret Huckeba of Coolidge, Kristine McLendon of
Pelham, Kyle Long of Thomasville, Aubrey Taylor of Thomasville and Brittany
Washington of Moultrie.

Graduates of the Associate of Applied Science degree program in Respiratory Care
are eligible to sit for the credentialing examinations through the National
Board for Respiratory Care (NBRC) to obtain the Registered Respiratory Therapist
(RRT) credential.   In addition to the RRT credential, graduates are also
eligible to sit for a number of specialty credentialing exams including Neonatal
Pediatric Specialist (NPS), Critical Care Specialist (CCS), Certified Pulmonary
Function Technician (CPFT), and Registered Pulmonary Function Technologist
(RPFT).  A number of universities also offer advanced degrees in respiratory
care at the baccalaureate, master's, and doctoral levels for RRTs who aim to
pursue specializations in education, research, and management.

For more information on the Respiratory Care program at SRTC, please contact
Tammy Miller at (229) 225-5094 or tmiller@southernregional.edu

SRTC offers over 155 degree, diploma, and certificate programs that are designed
to get you quickly into your desired career, and 27 general education courses
that transfer to the University System of Georgia institutions and 19 private
colleges and universities in Georgia. SRTC has instructional sites located in
Ashburn, Cairo, Camilla, Moultrie, Thomasville, Tifton, and Sylvester for the
convenience of our students. The College is accredited by the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). SACSCOC is
the regional body for the accreditation of degree-granting higher education
institutions in the Southern states. For the most up-to-date information on
registration, class dates, and program offerings, log on to
www.southernregional.edu.

Fall Semester 2015 begins Aug. 18.

___ (c)2015 Thomasville Times-Enterprise (Thomasville, Ga.) Visit Thomasville
Times-Enterprise (Thomasville, Ga.) at www.timesenterprise.com Distributed by
Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20150813-TZ-Respiratory-Care-students-last-to-be-pinned-as-SWGTC-graduates-0813-
20150813

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TZ


                  Copyright 2015 Thomasville Times-Enterprise


