                              473 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                            October 31, 2010 Sunday
                                  Main Edition

New center builds up hopes;
Jobs, workshops, events part of plan.;
Lanier Tech's goals include medical programs, more.

BYLINE: Laura Raines; For the AJC

SECTION: AJCJOBS; Pg. 1G

LENGTH: 1062 words


Government and business leaders expect to get more than education from Lanier
Technical College's new Forsyth Conference Center and Health Care Building,
located on its Cumming campus in Forsyth County.

Lanier Tech held a ribbon-cutting for the $12.7 million building --- the result
of more than 10 years of planning --- on Oct. 26.

"Its multipurpose design makes it an economic tool for the county and an
instructional site for work force development, which is the oldest mission we
have as a technical college," said Lanier Tech President Russell Vandiver.

The top two floors of the 60,000-square-foot facility will comprise classrooms
and labs for teaching allied health sciences. The college plans to reproduce
programs such as medical assisting, surgical technology and radiology technology
from its Oakwood campus, but it is also seeking accreditation to add new
programs such as diagnostic medical sonography and teaching physical therapy
assistants, personal trainer technicians and medical skin care assistants.

These programs will feed into work force needs of hospitals along the Ga. 400
corridor --- Northside Hospital-Forsyth, North Fulton Regional Hospital and
Emory Johns Creek Hospital --- and the growing medical community in the area.

"We work with local health care advisers to make sure that we're training the
work force they need," Vandiver said. "Health care is one of the biggest growth
sectors in the economy of this region. While none of us knows what will happen
with health care in the future, we know that they will need trained workers."

While two-thirds of the building will serve traditional, educational purposes,
Lanier Tech is moving in uncharted territory by opening a 14,000-square-foot
meeting and conference center on the building's main floor.

Other technical colleges have added conference centers, but this is the first
venture in Forsyth County.

Vandiver calls the conference center an economic tool for the county, something
that can drive more hospitality dollars into the region, spur new jobs and
support local businesses by providing them a place to meet and hold work force
training.

"We've had tremendous support from the county in making this happen," Vandiver
said.

Forsyth County gave $1 million in voter-approved SPLOST VI funding for the
project.

"We're very excited about this project and thank Forsyth residents for their
role in making it a reality" Forsyth County Manager Doug Derrer said. "There has
been a very clear need for a facility such as this in the county. There is no
doubt that it will serve as an important gathering space for the community."

The key will be making the conference center's operating budget self-sustaining,
a job that falls to new conference center Director Sara Harrison.

She knows her facility fills a need.

"Groups have had to go out of the county to hold any large event because there
wasn't a space large enough here," Harrison said.

Fittingly, the center's inaugural event will be the 600-person annual dinner for
the Cumming-Forsyth Chamber of Commerce, an event that has had to be held in
Fulton County in recent years.

The chamber is also eyeing the facility for its annual small-business expo.
Other interested prospects include Business 400, a network of businesses along
the Ga. 400 corridor from Sandy Springs to Dahlonega who like its central
location, and the 400 North Board of Realtors.

"There are many conference centers around the state, and we did a complete
market analysis in setting our rates and target market," Harrison said.

Two high school proms are already booked, and Harrison has given quotes for
numerous weddings. But she also plans to make the center a go-to place for
corporate training by local businesses.

"Our rooms break down to different sizes, and we're equipped with the latest
projection system, video-conferencing capability, catering services and laptop
rental," Harrison said. "We asked local companies what they needed and then
provided more. It's a turnkey operation. All they have to do is show up and get
down to business."

The building will add jobs in new staff and provide training for students in
high school culinary programs. She also expects it to boost hospitality-sector
dollars and development.

A major hotel chain has plans to build next to The Avenue, a neighboring
shopping center. With proximity to Ga. 400, Lake Lanier and the North Georgia
mountains, and nearby shopping and dining available, Harrison foresees no
difficulties in selling the center as an alternative to more urban meeting
places.

"I'm confident that we will have the business we want and need to be
sustainable, and that this building will strengthen our ties with the local
business community," Harrison said.

Vandiver is already thinking of classes for entrepreneurs, franchisees and
small-business startups. Having started a successful ammonia refrigeration
program and a Manufacturing Development Center, his economic development staff
is aware of the needs for small-business support in the county.

"This conference center will be a game-changing piece of infrastructure for our
community," said James McCoy, president and CEO of the Cumming-Forsyth County
Chamber of Commerce. "On the most basic level it's a venue for all kinds of
organizations and businesses to meet close to home. That's practical and good
for tax dollars, but I also foresee us being able to attract business and
visitor dollars from other counties."

Government and business leaders had long considered a conference center a top
priority, he said. According to the latest U.S. Census figures, Forsyth is still
among the 10 fastest-growing counties in the country (in terms of percentage of
growth).

"We've seen seven new economic development projects, the creation of 344 new
jobs and companies spending $40 million in new capital investment this year,"
McCoy said. "Our unemployment rate is 8.3 percent, which is lower than state and
national numbers, and we are working through our existing housing inventory
faster than surrounding counties."

He believes that the county's strategy to attract small and mid-size businesses
from different industries, rather than one major employer, has given it a
stronger economy.

"So has the very thoughtful investment in key infrastructures, like this new
conference building," McCoy said. "I'm not worried at all about it being used.
It's going to be a great asset."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspapers


                Copyright 2010 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


