                              488 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            China Daily - US Edition

                             May 4, 2016 Wednesday

Company suspends trading after death

LENGTH: 402  words


A Shanghai-listed company suspended trading of its shares on Tuesday in the wake
of the death of 21-year-old cancer patient Wei Zexi.

The company, VCANBIO Cell & Gene Engineering Corp, issued a public statement in
March on the acquisition of 100 percent of the equity in Shanghai Claison
Bio-tech Co, with investment of 1.1 billion yuan ($170 million).

Clasion provided immunotherapy technology services for the Second Hospital of
the Beijing Armed Police Corps, where Wei received immunotherapy treatment.

Wei learned about the treatment from search engine giant Baidu, but died last
month from a rare form of cancer.

Since news of his death broke, it has been impossible to access Clasion's
website, which is displaying the words "coming soon".

Asked if there was a connection between Clasion and the hospital, VCANBIO's
general manager Wu Mingyuan said it was not possible to give a response at
present and the company would release a statement later.

Clasion's main business involves research and development of cellular
immunotherapy and providing technical services for medical institutions.

The company's technical services for this therapy include using a patient's own
cells to fight cancer, and the controversy over Wei's death centers on such
therapy.

Earlier, VCANBIO said it intends to acquire Kangxin Hospital Investment and
Management Co. This hospital manages the domain name of the tumor diagnosis and
biological treatment center of the Second Hospital of the Beijing Armed Police
Corps.

Clasion and Kangxin are both controlled by Chen Xinxi and Chen Xinxian from
Putian, Fujian province.

Another listed company saw its stocks plunge on Tuesday.

Shares in Hua Xia Healthcare Holdings dropped by 13 percent to close at 53 Hong
Kong cents ($0.06). The company is controlled by Weng Jiajin, the son of Putian
businessman Weng Guoliang.

Ji Xuwo, a healthcare analyst at Orient Securities in Beijing, said: "This case
is expected to accelerate the launch of standardized regulations on the cellular
therapy industry in China. The sector lacks supervision and quality control in
specific clinical applications.

"The private medical care system in China will in future focus on medical
quality, and only those companies that can provide value for patients can
achieve growth."

zhuwenqian@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily USA 05/04/2016 page3)

http://imgs.syndigate.info/498/1496/45/146235832105.jpg

00221917e13e189387401f.jpg

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1496


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


