                              483 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            January 3, 2017 Tuesday

CADD forms Health Technical Wing

SECTION: Vol. 30 No. 300

LENGTH: 314  words


Capital Administration and Development Division on Monday established a new
Health Technical Wing to provide technical input in matters relating to health
sector of the capital city.

An official from the ministry, while talking to The Nation, said that the wing
has been established while further measures for finance and planning will be
also taken soon.

The official also said that MBBS doctor will head this technical wing, however,
any name to head the post has not been finalised yet.

The Health Technical Wing (HTW) would work under a chief/director general
health, a grade 20 officer, who will be responsible to scrutinise the proposals
and recommendations presented to Capital Administration and Development Division
(CADD) regarding the health sector of Islamabad, the official statement said.

The technical wing will support the administration to arrive on more informed
decisions and objective planning, the official added.

The wing will perform development, monitoring and evaluation of technical
matters of all hospitals of ICT and matters relating to quality assurance of
services provided by hospitals.

The HTW will also coordinate with administration of Islamabad and Capital
Development Authority Health Directorate regarding public health programmes.

The newly established wing will also oversee matters relating to international
cooperation and coordination with international agencies, coordination for
participation in international seminars and workshops relating to health,
liaison with other ministries/divisions regarding international agreements, and
matters relating to international health regulations.

Furthermore, the wing will also provide input in matters relating to population
welfare and population control in ICT.

CADD will also coordinate with Establishment Division and Finance Division in
order to redesignate and transfer posts in the newly created wing.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


