                              489 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Pharmacy technical assistants do more than assist; Varied roles, opportunities:
Pharmacist shortage adds responsibility

BYLINE: MEGAN MARTIN, Freelance

SECTION: BUSINESS: WORKING; Pg. F12

LENGTH: 782  words


Batman had Robin, the Lone Ranger had Tonto and pharmacists have technicians.

"They're our right arm," said Martine Dubois, a pharmacist at Pharmaprix on
Cote-des-Neiges. "They play the key role in what we do."

Pharmacy technical assistants are specially trained workers who perform a large
variety of day-to-day tasks in a multitude of pharmacy settings.

In case you're wondering, yes, they're definitely more than assistants.

"They do everything from customer service in community pharmacies to preparing
cutting edge research medications in health care institutions," said Dubois, who
is also a teacher and coordinator of the Pharmacy Technical Assistance program
at Pearson Adult and Career Centre in LaSalle.

In hospital settings, technicians perform a wide range of tasks including
medication preparation, inventory maintenance in the main pharmacy and in
satellites, and management of automated medication machines.

"They have more responsibilities now than ever before," said Louise Senécal,
president of Association québecoise des assistant(e)s techniques en pharmacie
(AQATP). "Their role has evolved with changes in the industry."

In addition to having new responsibilities, technicians have also worked to
improve existing techniques.

"Instead of preparing medications for the duration of a patient's hospital stay,
techs are now preparing unit doses," Senécal said. "This means meds are prepared
on a daily basis, which reduces the amount of wasted medication if the patient
is taken off a regimen."

Senécal wears many hats. Aside from serving as the president of AQATP, she also
works as a technician at the Montreal Heart Institute and is a technical
instructor at Pearson Adult and Career Centre.

"I'm definitely very busy," she said. "But then again, most technicians are."

Five years ago, Senécal was part of a technical assistants rotating strike.

"The pharmacists told us that if the techs go on a full strike the pharmacy is
going to close," she recalled. "That's how important techs are to making
pharmacies function on a daily basis."

Whether working in a hospital setting or community pharmacy, technicians are
under constant pressure to perform at peak capacity.

"If pharmacists or technicians make a mistake we can kill someone," Dubois said.
"People go home with their meds and they trust us, they take the meds we give
them so we have to be sure of what we give."

Technicians in retail pharmacies are heavily involved with customer service.
They greet clients and collect information from them regarding insurance and
medical conditions such as pregnancy and diabetes. They enter the prescriptions
into the patient's file and prepare the medications taking into account any
dietary specifications or restrictions.

"Techs are also responsible for dosages," Dubois explained. "They have to take
into consideration the patient's weight and any allergies, and they do an
analysis of the prescription to ensure that the patient's medications won't
cause a harmful interaction."

Because of Quebec's aging population, technicians are also organizing
medications in pillboxes and other dispensing devices fairly often in order to
help ensure that prescriptions are followed.

Pharmacists verify the prescriptions and medications before dispensing them to
patients. "But even that is beginning to change because of the shortage of
pharmacists," Dubois said. "We're starting to see a technique now called
tech-check-tech, whereby one technician will do the preparation and another will
verify it with a pharmacist doing spot checks."

This method started in hospitals and was tested using a pilot project in
community pharmacies last year. "The results were very successful," Dubois said.
"I foresee techs getting even more responsibilities in the future, it's
necessary considering the shortage."

As is, technicians can essentially perform all of the same tasks as pharmacists
in community pharmacies except provide medical advice, Dubois added.

There are two ways to become a pharmacy technical assistant. In a community
pharmacy you can receive on-the-job training without having a certificate or
completing a course. "But you'd be limiting yourself," Dubois said. "Without a
diploma you can only work as a technician in a retail pharmacy."

With a diploma, technicians can work in several health care settings such as
hospitals, assisted living facilities, specialty pharmacies and research
facilities. "Technicians in institutions generally have high salaries as well
because they are syndicated," Dubois added.

For more information about becoming a Technical Pharmacy Assistant visit the
Association québecoise des assistant(e)s techniques en pharmacie website
www.aqatp.ca or call (514) 778-0012.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: DAVE SIDAWAY, THE GAZETTE; Louise Senecal, a Pharmacy Technical
Assistance program teacher, prepares medication.

