                              484 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                    The Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            October 14, 2005 Friday

Nurse sketched war's face surgery wonders

BYLINE: Barbara Hebden

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 682 words


ALISON CAMPBELL

Nurse, artist, technical officer

Born Brisbane, March 10,

1917

Died Brisbane, September 5, 2005

DURING the traumatic days of World War II, Alison Campbell's task was to provide
"before and after" sketches of soldiers' horrific facial wounds to be treated by
plastic surgeons.

She was amazed in studying the transformation her sketches recorded -- a
lifetime memory of her contribution as a wartime nurse.

Alison Leone Campbell was the seventh child of Charles and Minnie Campbell and a
granddaughter of James Campbell, a pioneer in the 1860s of the timber, building
and hardware industries.

Her elder siblings were Jessie, Errol, Ken, Allan, Eleanor and John.

Alison was educated at the Presbyterian Girls School in Warwick and later
attended the Technical College art school in Brisbane two days a week, studying
English and French on the other days.

In 1936, after returning from overseas, she decided not to return to art school
but to specialise in retouching and tinting studio photographs.

Back in Australia after a short holiday in England in 1939, at the outbreak of
World War II, she believed it was her duty to join a voluntary aid detachment to
help with the war effort in a medical capacity.

Certificates in first aid and home nursing were a must. Going to these classes
was no easy matter as Brisbane was plunged into darkness but she was determined,
and passed her medical tests with flying colours before reporting to the
Greenslopes hospital.

Months of further training prepared her for her work after August 1942 when the
first casualties from the Kokoda Track in New Guinea poured into Greenslopes
hospital.

After two more years gaining further nursing experience at Greenslopes, she
realised the importance of her lessons at art school. A pioneer in plastic
surgery, a Major MacIndoe, asked her to make sketches of facial wounds before
and after surgery.

In early September 1944, Ms Campbell was transferred and her nursing continued
at Ingleburn Military Hospital in Sydney, before boarding the hospital ship the
Manunda to finally embark on her overseas posting.

Her thoughts rarely strayed from her memories of nursing badly burnt survivors
of the hospital ship Centaur, torpedoed by the Japanese off Point Lookout, North
Stradbroke Island, near Brisbane, in 1944.

Her nursing career and medical sketching continued until her discharge in 1946.

Home in Brisbane, she resumed singing training in a government-sponsored
post-war reconstruction program. She combined this with writing for her
brother's advertising agency.

The activities of the ABC, housed in the same building as Campbell's advertising
agency, beckoned her. She joined the ABC in 1947, becoming the corporation's
first female technical operations sheet officer. Her duties included booking
landlines so that broadcasts from Brisbane including Russ Tyson's breakfast
program and his Hospital Hour, were transmitted to an Australia-wide audience.

She handled landline bookings for all broadcasts in and out of Brisbane for
parliamentary Question Time and all sporting programs, concerts and theatre
events.

A great supporter of the arts, she was a regular member of the audience at
concerts, dramas and ballets.

She was a member of the Fortitude Club, a friend of the Australian War Memorial,
a Women's Guide president and choir member of her church.

She was also a supporter of the RSPCA and Guide Dogs and a vice-president and
board member of the Clan Campbell Society.

Ms Campbell's personal achievements included the co-authorship in 1989 with her
cousin Morag Campbell of The James Campbell Story, bringing life to her family
heritage.

She did not marry.

Readers' contributions are invited for consideration:
obituary@thecouriermail.com.au; or Obituary Editor, The Courier-Mail, GPO Box
130, Brisbane 4001. Material is accepted for publication on the condition that
Queensland Newspapers Pty Ltd, as publisher of The Courier-Mail, may edit and
has the right to, and license third parties to, reproduce in electronic form and
communicate this material.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited


