                              49 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Ledger (Lakeland, Florida)

                            April 11, 2000, Tuesday

LRMC TECHNICAL WORKERS OK UNION; THE BARGAINING AGENT WAS APPROVED 193-171 WITH
12 CHALLENGED VOTES.

BYLINE: ROBIN WILLIAMS ADAMS The Ledger

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 720 words


LAKELAND -- Technical employees at Lakeland Regional Medical Center, a diverse
group that includes various technologists and technicians, voted 193-171 to have
the same union that represents registered nurses represent them in collective
bargaining with the hospital.

Another 12 votes were challenged, meaning 376 employees, 85.8 percent of 438
eligible, cast gold-colored paper ballots Saturday and Monday.

"Obviously, the employees wanted it," said Ed Chambers, deputy trustee of United
Food and Commercial Workers International Union Local 1625.

"I'm stunned. We can't thank our members at Lakeland Regional Medical Center
enough. Registered nurses obviously went to their co-workers and said, 'Join
us."'

The hospital's response was more restrained.

"We expected it to be close," said Cindy Sternlicht, Lakeland Regional's public
relations director and official spokeswoman.

"We'll negotiate in good faith. They made their choice."

Turnout was lower this year than it was three years ago, when 730 of 773
eligible registered nurses, 94.4 percent, voted. That vote was 367 in favor of
union representation, 317 against, with 46 challenged ballots.

The technical category includes licensed practical nurses, radiologic
technologists, CT technologists, vascular technologists, catheterization lab
technologists, ultrasound technologists, nuclear medicine technologists,
radiation therapy technologists, respiratory care practitioners, registered
respiratory therapists, operating room technicians, cytology technicians,
histology technicians, medical laboratory technicians, physical therapy
assistants, paramedics, biomedical equipment technicians and biomedical
equipment control technicians.

Before the election, representatives of the union and hospital said they
expected a civilized campaign. But the campaign became contentious in late
March, with disagreement peaking days before the election.

Lakeland Regional banned Glenn Harris, the union's acting business agent for
nurses, from the hospital. They said he discussed the technical-unit campaign in
parts of the hospital where that wasn't allowed.

Harris denied the charge.

"It didn't happen," he said Monday before the vote. "I knew too many people in
the hospital, and they didn't want me there. I was a walking billboard for the
union."

Both sides had said the campaign to organize technical employees wouldn't become
a referendum on how well the union represents registered nurses.

But nurses' experiences became a disputed issue when the union and hospital
distributed material giving their reasons to support or reject the union.

Each side said the other brought nurses into the spotlight.

Lakeland Regional said all employees would be affected if the registered nurses'
contract expired in mid-November without a new one being completed and the union
called a strike.

"The no-strike clause will not apply if negotiations fail and a new agreement is
not reached," the hospital paper said.

It also warned that "those who do not honor the picket lines may be labeled
scabs and become outcasts by union supporters."

The hospital has the right to give out factual information on what could occur,
Sternlicht said.

Some registered nurses said they didn't like the implication nurses might strike
or comments in a video that they said suggest nurses would call workers who
crossed picket lines scabs.

"We will not be standing in a strike or calling people names," said Debbie
Dease, a registered nurse and union steward. "Registered nurses would not do
that. There are too many avenues open (to express opinions)."

Some nurses distributed handbills last week outside the hospital saying, among
other things, that the hospital's human resources department fights nurses when
they present grievances and push for wage increases instead of bonuses.

Hospital officials told them to stop.

"The contract says they will not distribute handbills at the entrance to the
hospital," Sternlicht said.

Harris said the contract bans distributing literature within the hospital, when
employees are working, not outside on their own time.

Despite those disagreements, both sides said the campaign for technical workers
appeared to cause less tension among employees than the effort to organize
registered nurses.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

             Copyright 2000 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation


