                              495 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                           January 19, 2006 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

THESE ATHLETES ALWAYS WIN, REGARDLESS OF THE FINAL SCORE

BYLINE: By Charmain Z. Brackett Correspondent

SECTION: RC NEIGHBORS; Pg. O03

LENGTH: 530 words


This basketball game was a little different.

The sound of tennis shoes squeaking on the floor was replaced by the thud of
wheelchairs banging together as players went for the ball. There also were
cheers and applause, and referees' whistles.

When the final buzzer sounded ending the two-game series at Aiken Technical
College on Saturday, the Walton Bulldogs of Augusta had lost both games to the
Spartanburg (S.C.) Pistons.

This sport, however, isn't about the score at the end of a game, said Alan
Washington, who plays on the wheelchair basketball team sponsored by Walton
Rehabilitation Hospital. The team is part of the National Wheelchair Basketball
Association, South Carolina Division III.

"It's about enjoying yourself," he said.

Despite losing 47-29 and 59-27 to the Pistons, the Bulldogs will play in the
state Division III conference tournament Feb. 4-5 in Myrtle Beach, S.C.

Mr. Washington, who was injured nearly 20 years ago when a crane cradle fell on
him aboard a Navy ship, has been playing wheelchair basketball for more than 10
years. Several of his co-workers at UPS in Aiken attended Saturday's games.

Mr. Washington said sports were an important part of his life growing up.

"I played basketball in high school and ran track," he said.

Now, he also plays golf and tennis from a wheelchair.

Judie Thompson, an occupational therapist at Walton, is a coordinator for
BlazeSports America, a national sports organization for people with physical
disabilities. She said there is a growing list of sports for disabled athletes.

"Power soccer is next," she said. "Wheelchair tennis is going on on Mondays.
Golf starts up in March, and swimming is ongoing."

There's also a rugby team for disabled athletes, Ms. Thompson said.

The sports are for any adult in the area with a disability, she said. They do
not have to be patients or former patients at Walton to participate. Not all the
basketball players on the team are confined to wheelchairs, but they have other
disabling physical conditions.

"I love it," said Hephzibah's Jason Hitt, who was injured in a car accident
three years ago, of wheelchair basketball. "It keeps me active."

Keeping active also helps the disabled with their mental well-being, Ms.
Thompson said. "They don't have time to feel sorry for themselves."

It's been more than 25 years since Luer Hildebrandt was injured in a motorcycle
accident. He said he joined the basketball league to get in better physical
shape and lose some weight.

"I love it - it's all fun," said Mr. Hildebrandt, who retired after 20 years as
a civil servant at Fort Gordon.

Saturday's games were held at Aiken Tech because Knights coach Bruce Capers
invited the team to use the gym. Most of the Bulldogs' home basketball games
were held at Garrett Recreation Center this season.

Ms. Thompson said she is helping plan a sports program for the disabled that
links the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center and Walton.

She said the program offers activities for military personnel injured in the
conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

So far, there is one soldier on the basketball team and some others in the golf
program, she said.

Reach Charmain Z. Brackett at czbrackett@hotmail.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  CHARMAIN BRACKETT/SPECIAL Luer Hildebrandt takes a shot for the Walton
Bulldogs in Saturday's game at Aiken Technical College. The Bulldogs lost two
games to the Spartanburg (S.C.) Pistons.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation


