                              50 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                              July 25, 2010 Sunday

More nurses to be imparted training: Chairman NAVTEC

LENGTH: 256  words

DATELINE: RAWALPINDI


RAWALPINDI, July 25 -- Chairman, National Vocational & Technical

Education Commission (NAVTEC) Mr. Adnan A. Khawaja said nursing is a noble
profession; more nurses will be imparted training under NAVTEC.

His visited Al-Shifa Trust Eye Hospital here on Friday to inspect

undergoing training course of NAVTEC.

Adnan A.Khan inspected various section of the hospital and showed

his entire satisfaction over Al-Shifa Trust Eye hospital for providing technical
assistance to the trainees.

He said President Asif Ali Zardari and Prime Minister Syed

Yusuf Raza Gilani also taking keen interest for imparting and promoting nursing
profession.

He urged the concerned to prepare PC-1 for imparting training to

nurses for three years instead of one year.

I have blind confidence no doubt; Al-Shifa Trust Eye hospital is a

credible and excellent hospital, he said.

He also announced to donate required computers to the "Light House"

Al-Shifa hospital.

Later on, President Al-Shifa Trust Eye hospital Lt General

Jehandad Khan gave award to the Chairman NAVTEC.

He said aims and objectives of the trust are to prevent and control

blindness by providing standard and sustainable eye care services which are
accessible and affordable, human resource development through training of
doctors, nurses and paramedics and to establish facilities for research in
ophthalmology Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision
News. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


