                              493 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                    September 4, 2003 Thursday Final Edition

Provincial committee to scrutinize superhospital plans: McGill planners welcome
decision to review all technical aspects of city's two projects

SOURCE: The Gazette

BYLINE: AARON DERFEL

SECTION: News; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 581 words

Montreal's two planned superhospitals will come under the microscope in the next
few weeks as a government-appointed committee reviews every technical aspect of
the billion-dollar projects.

The committee, however, does not have the mandate to question whether it makes
sense to build the superhospitals in the first place rather than renovate
existing hospitals. Together, the two sprawling facilities would represent the
biggest construction in Montreal since the 1976 Olympics.

Nicolas Steinmetz, chief planner of the McGill University superhospital, said
yesterday that he welcomes the scrutiny of the committee.

"It's kind of an outside oversight and I think that's good," Steinmetz said. He
suggested that setting up the committee was a wise move by the government to
avoid being accused of "political hanky-panky."

The provincial government, however, has not yet appointed the two co-chairpeople
of the committee or any members. The committee is supposed to start its work at
the end of the month and submit recommendations to Quebec by April. It's not
clear yet whether the committee will hold public hearings.

In July, Health Minister Philippe Couillard approved the two superhospital
projects, albeit with strict conditions. First, he said that both the McGill
University Health Centre and the Centre Hospitalier de l'Universite de Montreal
must set aside one existing hospital each to complement the future
superhospitals.

In the case of the McGill network, the Montreal General Hospital will probably
remain. Steinmetz said yesterday that the General will keep a 24-hour emergency
room, but it won't accept ambulances.

Notre Dame Hospital is likely to stay open after the Universite de Montreal
superhospital is built at St. Denis St., across from the Rosemont metro station.

Couillard pledged $800 million for each superhospital. He insisted the operating
budgets of the new facilities not exceed their current budgets.

Cathy Rouleau, Couillard's press attache, yesterday reiterated the minister's
concern to keep costs down.

"Yes, there is $1.6 billion for building these two hospitals, but we cannot
allow the operating costs of the new hospitals to double or triple," Rouleau
said.

In addition to provincial funding, Steinmetz said the MUHC will launch a
$200-million capital campaign and is seeking $100 million in federal aid for a
state-of-the-art research centre. That means the total price tag of the McGill
superhospital could reach $1.1 billion. The same price tag is being considered
for the CHUM superhospital.

The promoters must submit their detailed plans to the government by
mid-December. Among the issues the technical committee will examine:

The links to public transit and the road network. Traffic and pedestrian safety
will also be studied.

The impact on the environment. The MUHC intends to build its superhospital on
the site of the Glen railway yards. The cost of decontaminating that site is
about $33 million.

The distribution of hospital beds. The government has pegged the number of beds
in the future MUHC network at 832 and 1,000 for the CHUM. The number of beds for
various hospital departments like psychiatry is yet to be determined.

In addition to the technical committee, the Montreal Regional Health Board will
study the impact of the superhospitals on the delivery of medical services
across the island to make sure other hospitals are not shortchanged.

aderfel@thegazette.canwest.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Business

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


