                              492 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                            January 5, 2017 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hospital staff vote for strike

BYLINE: MARK SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 719 words


HOSPITAL workers caught up in a pay dispute have voted "overwhelmingly" in
favour of strike action, it has been revealed.

Dozens of staff in the sterilisation and disinfection units and the X-ray
department in hospitals run by the Abertawe Bro Morgannwg University (ABMU)
Health Board will stage a walk-out later this year.

It will affect services at the Princess of Wales Hospital in Bridgend, Morriston
and Singleton Hospitals in Swansea, and Neath Port Talbot Hospital. Unison said
operating theatres, wards and clinics could not function without the work of
assistant technical officers (ATOs) in the hospital sterilisation and
disinfection units.

It said its members are "infuriated" their claim for pay parity with colleagues
doing the same job in other hospitals in Wales has not been taken seriously by
the health board.

It has described the vote for strike action as an indictment on the health
board's failure to tackle "historic anomalies" in their pay structure.

A spokesman said: "Since March 2014, the trade union has repeatedly put the case
for pay parity to managers including through official grievance hearings.

"Exasperation at the lack of progress has turned to anger at the stalling
tactics of the health board.

"It accepted the job description required revision 10 months ago but has failed
to honour this commitment."

In Wales, ATOs are employed on NHS Band 3 which means a starting at a wage of
£8.49 an hour and rising gradually to £10.05 after six years' service, subject
to passing annual appraisals.

But in ABMU, Unison says all ATOs are employed on NHS Band 2 which means
starting at £8.25 an hour and rising to just £9.09.

Mark Turner, Unison organiser for ABMU, said staff at the hospitals are angry
because they are being treated as "second-class citizens".

He said: "They cannot understand why their health board values their work less
than peers doing exactly the same job with the same responsibilities elsewhere
in Wales.

"There is no reason they should be paid a lower rate. People are losing out on
hundreds and hundreds of pounds every year, in some cases they are being
underpaid by nearly £2,000 a year.

"This is money that should be theirs by right. Assistant technical officers are
essential to the running of the hospital and they must be paid the rate for the
job.

"The onus now is on the health board to make an improved offer. They have seen
the intensity of workplace anger and we want them to work with us to avoid
industrial action."

When it came to the pay banding dispute of ATOs, 54 out of 56 staff within
hospital sterilisation and disinfection units voted for strike action. And all
18 members who are clerical officers within radiology departments voted in
favour of a strike.

The earliest action could take place is Wednesday, January 18, but no dates have
yet been set.

An ABMU Health Board spokesman said: "We are sorry our continuing discussions
with Unison have not been able to resolve our staff 's concerns. We would like
to make it clear that all our staff - no matter what their role within the
health board - are valued and all of them contribute equally to the care of our
patients.

"To clarify, we received notification from Unison they would be balloting those
band 2 assistant technical officers in HSDU and band 2 clerical staff in
radiology, who are members of Unison.

"There are approximately 500 staff in these departments. Of these, there are 89
band 2 Assistant Technical Officers in HSDU and 39 band 2 clerical staff in the
radiology department - not all of whom are members of Unison. We understand in
total 72 members voted in favour of strike action.

"Only in Cardiff and Vale health board where restructuring has taken place, and
Hywel Dda health board where a different service is provided, are ATOs a band 3.
We have been working with Unison to develop a new job description for ATOs and
have reached agreement on all areas apart from the necessary qualification.

"The health board is also working with the radiology department to address any
concerns staff have.

"ABMU is fully committed to continuing its partnership work with Unison to
resolve these concerns and are meeting with them early next week.

"In the meantime, we would like to reassure patients should strike action go
ahead we will be working to ensure any disruption to services are minimal."

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2017 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


