                              53 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            March 24, 2012 Saturday
                                  ALL EDITION

VETERANS HOSPITAL BRINGS ITS SERVICES TO STUDENTS;
A GRANT WILL ALLOW THE ORGANIZATION TO OFFER BASIC CARE AT MATC.;
MADISON AREA TECHNICAL COLLEGE

BYLINE: By DEBORAH ZIFF dziff@madison.com 608-252-6234

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 620 words


All told, Savage Margraf spent about 5

1/2 hours Wednesday afternoon going to a series of appointments at the Veterans
Hospital.

That meant the 25-year-old Iraq War veteran missed two classes at Madison Area
Technical College to get treatment for her traumatic brain injury and other
health problems.

But a new program at MATC could make it easier for student veterans to balance
school and their health. The Madison Veterans Hospital won a grant to create a
mini-VA at the college.

The new program, to start in May, will have a full-time social worker at the
college. Specialists - including a psychiatrist, psychologist, addiction
specialist and benefits expert - will drop in once a week. Wellness programs,
such as yoga and tai chi, will be offered.

"It's stressful to try to cram doctors appointments in between classes, where
you have to leave the school, go all the way to the V.A., and come back," said
Margraf, who served in the Marine Corps for four years. "It makes it a lot more
stressful to try to do that than it would be to just walk downstairs."

High concentration of vets

The number of student veterans at MATC - also known as Madison College - is the
highest among Wisconsin's 16 technical colleges, according to data from the
Wisconsin Technical College System. There were 588 students receiving a tuition
waiver under the state and federal GI bills at MATC in the 2010-11 academic
year, the most recent year for which state data are available. Milwaukee Area
Technical College had 504 student veterans.

MATC officials said that figure doesn't reflect the full number of veterans
because there are some who don't qualify for tuition benefits. They said there
were 786 full- and part-time students in 2011-12.

"I think it's important to realize the reintegration process, coming back
especially if they were deployed to a war zone, is a monumental task," said
Heidi Sigmund, a psychologist at the Veterans Hospital and director of a program
on post-traumatic stress disorder. "Many veterans say the journey of going from
civilian to soldier or Marine is easy when you compare it to trying to come back
from Marine or soldier to civilian."

She said some veterans feel they don't fit in with other students. Others with
PTSD might have anxiety disorders that are triggered by crowded classrooms. Many
veterans are trying to juggle going to school with a family, work and therapy,
Sigmund said.

"One of the goals is to kind of just relocate a clinic (at MATC) a couple days a
week where they can really get everything they would receive here, there,"
Sigmund said. "Our effort is to decrease any barriers to care, to just make us
as accessible as possible."

Officials said they hoped the close proximity would draw in new patients. In a
survey conducted by the hospital, students said the hospital's location was
inconvenient, they didn't know what services were offered, and it was too
complicated to access benefits.

Making it easier

Margraf talks openly about her health problems in the hopes of helping other
veterans. She said there's still a negative stigma toward mental health
treatment in the military.

The Lodi resident suffers from PTSD, a back injury and a traumatic brain injury
from her time as a turret gunner in Iraq. She was diagnosed with thyroid cancer
last March.

Margraf - who said her father named her after the Savage Arms rifle company - is
in the liberal arts transfer program and hopes to attend UW-Madison in the fall.

She won't be able to get treatment for all of her ailments at MATC, but she may
be able to schedule appointments to treat some things, such as PTSD.

"I'm supposed to be doing a newer PTSD treatment therapy," she said. "But I
haven't been able to schedule it because of school."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CRAIG SCHREINER - State Journal Madison Area Technical College student
Savage Margraf gets her blood pressure checked at the Veterans Hospital in
Madison. Margraf said she is hoping to spend less time going to the hospital for
appointments once a new center for veterans health opens at the college in May.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


