                              55 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Hospital programme earns seal of approval

                                January 31, 1997


BUDDY SYSTEM OF TRAINING

NEW staff at the Kandang Kerbau Hospital's specialist clinics will be taken in
hand by more senior colleagues under the "buddy" system of its in-house training
programme.

This programme received a national "seal of approval" on Wednesday when the
Institute of Technical Education certified KKH as an on-the-job training centre.

KKH is the first restructured hospital to be given this recognition.

A total of 40 staff -trained by the Singapore Productivity and Standards Board
-have been selected to coach and assess new trainees.

KKH's chief executive officer, Dr Jennifer Lee, said the training programme for
its frontline staff, for instance, was to help with their heavy workload of
dealing with pregnant patients.

"They have to deal with more than 900 patients every day," she said.

"Sometimes, patients also bring along their husbands, grandparents and even
their children!"

Nineteen new outpatient assistants being recruited for the specialist clinics
will be the first to undergo the training.

The clinics will start operating in March, when the New KK Women and Children's
Hospital opens.

At KKH, each trainee will be given a brief classroom session and then be taken
under the wing of a more experienced staff member, who will coach and assess
their performance.

Ms Joanne Tay-Yap, KKH's administrator of ambulatory services, said this would
make new staff feel they were also being looked after, apart from being trained.

She said: "When you can provide a good environment for your staff, they will
actually stay longer."

Trainees have to complete three modules -duties at counters such as
registration, clinical duties which include assisting doctors in preparing
patients for pap smears, and customer service which covers ways of handling
difficult cases.

Five KKH staff have been appointed as managers to oversee the programme, which
will also be extended to existing staff.

Ms Eileen Loh, 33, who joined KKH three months ago, was one of the specialist
outpatient assistants who completed the counter module under the programme's
trial run.

She said: "It was very good training. You learn as you go along.  If I made any
mistakes while serving patients, my trainer would tell me and I could correct it
immediately."

Dr Law Song Seng, ITE's director and CEO, said the institute introduced its
certification system in April 1994 as recognition of on-the-job training efforts
by employers and workers.

"It was also to provide a structure to improve the quality of such training in
companies," he said.

To date, more than 320 companies have been certified as on-the-job training
centres.

These are in such industries as electronics, precision engineering, marine,
tourism and retailing, logistics and health care.

Said Dr Law: "Our national target is to certify 500 companies by the year 2000."

SECTION: Home; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 734 words

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1997 The Straits Times Press Limited


