                              58 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 27, 2012 Sunday

Doctors urge Pune Municipal Corporation to relax technical norms

BYLINE: Umesh Isalkar

SECTION: PUNE

LENGTH: 614 words


PUNE: A delegation of doctors met municipal commissioner Mahesh Pathak on Friday
and requested him to relax technical formalities pertaining to obtaining
registration (licence) required to run a nursing home. The provisions of Bombay
Nursing Home Act 1949 makes it mandatory for a doctor running and managing a
hospital or nursing home to have it registered with the local civic body.

The inspection drive carried out by the PMC a few days ago had revealed that
many nursing homes in the city were being run without a licence.

"Many nursing homes could not get the mandatory registration (licence) for
technical non-compliance. The delegation requested the municipal commissioner to
relax certain rules. The commissioner assured to extend all administrative help
to expedite the registration processes and asked doctors' associations to
conduct workshops to sensitize doctors about fulfilling formalities," said
physician and corporator Siddharth Dhende who coordinated the doctors's
delegation.

President and secretaries of various doctors' associations, such as the Yerawada
Doctor's Association, National Integrated Medical Association (NIMA), Indian
Medical Association, General Practitioners' Association and Ahmednagar Road
Doctors' Association, from different parts of the city were present for the
meeting.

"Our demands are simple. Existing hospitals, which have been serving people for
years but do not fit into criteria laid down for seeking registration due to
technical and non-medical reasons, should be accommodated for technical
non-compliance," said Hitesh Solanki, medical administrator, Shah Accident
Hospital, Airport road, Yerawada.

Elaborating, Solanki said, "Technical and structural non-compliances -- such as
length of the staircase, height of the building, etc, laid down for nursing
homes -- can be excused if the nursing home has all the medical facilities
required and is manned by trained medical professionals. Certain amendments can
be made in the Development Control (DC) rules for easy compliance."

Two years ago, when swine flu pandemic was at its peak, it was clearly evident
in the initial few days that the municipal corporation and state-run hospitals
could not cater to the large population affected. The public-private partnership
model adopted by Mahesh Zagade, who was then the municipal commissioner, proved
successful in containing the pandemic, he observed .

"More than 90% of the registration are pending with the civic body due to such
technical and non-medical reasons. We do not support any illegal activity and
malpractices, but wherever possible, PMC should relax technical non-compliance.
We don't request for any compromise with respect to basic requirements of
medical practice," said gynaecologist Milind Walunjkar of Yerawada Doctors'
Association that has over 200 members. Private healthcare providers take care of
90% of city's healthcare requirements. Depriving them of registration on
technical grounds would be unfair, he said.

"Getting all documentary compliance, such as a no-objection certificate from
local governing body's civil department, etc, is very difficult. Besides, if a
nursing home is situated on the first or above floors, it should have a separate
staircase as well as an elevator, sufficient parking space, separate water
connection, etc. Fulfilling all these norms becomes extremely difficult," said a
PMC official.

Civic chief Mahesh Pathak said, "We are ready to provide all administrative
help. But there is no exemption from DC rules. Doctors' associations should
sensitize their members about the DC rules and inculcate the importance of
self-control among their members."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


