                              60 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                             April 28, 2015 Tuesday

Sodexo Thailand projects 11% growth - Upbeat outlook on tourism, hospitals

BYLINE: KRISSANA PARNSOONTHORN

LENGTH: 460  words


Sodexo Thailand expects to see its food and facility management services grow,
with revenue of 2 billion baht projected this fiscal year from Sept 1, 2014.

That figure represents 11.1% growth from the previous fiscal year.

The positive outlook is spurred by local political stability and growing
tourism, country manager Arnaud Bialecki said.

"In general, the Thai economy has been picking up since late last year, and this
is benefiting many businesses including Sodexo," he said.

Sodexo Thailand engages in three main business activities - food supply,
technical services for buildings and facilities and non-technical services such
as maids, security and gardening.

Ever since the tourism industry started rebounding last November, the company
saw its tourism-related business improve. Its food supply for hospitals and
hotels is running well.

"The return of tourists and medical tourists helped, as Sodexo saw many private
hospitals in Bangkok report their rooms were fully occupied in January and
February," Mr Bialecki said.

He believes the Thai economy still has a long way to go to recover fully.
Pent-up demand from last year's political chaos made the economy lively in the
first quarter, but the situation is slowing a bit in the second quarter.

For this year's revenue projection, 60% will come from food supply and 20% each
from technical and non-technical services for facility management.

Sodexo Thailand plans to expand its services to the industrial sector, Mr
Bialecki said. It can provide machinery maintenance for factories and remote
site support for offshore oil and gas and mining operations.

The company wants to arrange food at more international schools and hospitals.
Its hospital clients include Bumrungrad, Samitivej, Bangkok Hospital Medical
Centre, Yanhee and Thonburi 2.

It also has a full-scale contract to provide food and facility management for
four Holiday Inn Express hotels.

Sodexo Thailand employs 2,500 staff, which could rise to 2,800 by year-end with
more contracts. Its French parent firm Sodexo, which is listed on the Paris
Bourse, is the world's largest food and facility management services provider,
employing 420,000 people in more than 80 countries.

Mr Bialecki said multinational companies with a business presence in several
countries prefer dealing with only one vendor to look after their office
buildings and facilities.

Sodexo Thailand will start look after the facilities for Procter  and  Gamble in
Thailand in July, he said, adding that this could help to convince clients in
Myanmar and Vietnam to use its service.

Sodexo Thailand is assigned to take care Vietnam, the Philippines, Myanmar and
Laos, while the Singaporean office is responsible for the other Asean members
except Cambodia, where Sodexo has no presence.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved


