                              62 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 23, 2015 Friday

Texas: Program Specialist II

LENGTH: 1447  words

DATELINE: Austin


Department of Health and Human Services, The State of Texas has issued the
following job opportunities:

Posting Type:  Open to All Applicants
Category:  Healthcare Practitioners and Technical  FLSA Exempt/
Non-Exempt:  Non-Exempt
Agency:  Dept of State Health Services  Department:  Cancer Epi & Surveillance
Job Title:  Program Specialist II  Posting Number:  279964
Full Time/Part Time :  Full Time  Regular/Temporary:  Regular
Job Location:  1100 W 49TH ST  City:  AUSTIN
Contact:  AccessHR Service Center  Telephone:  888-894-4747
Salary Range:  $3,293.41 - $4,266.58  Salary Group:  B18
Shift:  Days (First)  Travel:  15%
Closing Date:  02/06/2015
Job Description:
Program Specialist II Performs complex technical and consultative work in public
health cancer registration and control. Represents the Cancer Epidemiology &
Surveillance Branch (CESB) with cancer reporting hospitals, cancer treatment
centers, physicians, pathology laboratories, ambulatory surgery centers,
radiation oncology centers, federal, state, local agencies, and other groups
and/or individuals involved with non-hospital cancer reporting. Conducts quality
control reviews to ensure reliability, completeness, consistency, comparability,
and timeliness of cancer registry data. Working within a confidential relational
database environment, performs cancer record coding, review, and editing.
Assists with cancer data submission receipt from the DSHS PHINMS server for
pathology laboratory reporting. Work is performed under the limited supervision
of the eReporting and Training Team Manager and Team Lead with considerable
latitude for the use of initiative and independent judgment. Some travel is
required.
Essential Job Functions:
Attends work on a regular and predictable schedule in accordance with agency
leave policy and performs other duties as assigned. (70%) Uses desktop/laptop
computer and technical knowledge to abstract, review, and edit paper and
electronically submitted cancer reports from path lab facilities and other non-
hospital reporting sources using CESB and multiple versions of ACoS; NAACCR;
Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER), and TCR Cancer Reporting
Handbook cancer registration guidelines and standards. Reviews and edits
abstracts for completeness, accuracy of codes, and text documentation. Provides
technical assistance and feedback to staff on deficiencies and recommends
appropriate action. Evaluates staff work for improvement, makes recommendations
for efficiencies, and determines non-hospital reporting effectiveness in meeting
the CESB performance standards. Reports discrepancy trends to the Manager and/or
Team Lead and contacts reporting entities regarding data discrepancies.
Identifies and contacts additional reporting sources for cancer data and assists
with the collection and processing of data from non-hospital reporting sources,
with particular emphasis on clinical pathology laboratories and physician
offices. (20%) Coordinates and implements casefinding audits and re-abstracting
studies. Duties include the identification of all reportable cases from
reporting entities and assessing completeness, timeliness, and data quality.
Conducts casefinding audits and re-abstracting studies using CESB Texas Cancer
Reporting Handbooks, and multiple versions of American College of Surgeons
(ACoS) and North American Association of Central Cancer Registries (NAACCR)
cancer registration guidelines and standards. Identifies additional non-hospital
sources for cancer data, including the collection of data for program evaluation
and Comparative Effectiveness Research. Functions as technical resource,
develops, and presents educational materials for non-hospital casefinding and
abstracting procedures. Makes recommendations to correct and/or improve
casefinding and abstracting procedures. Reports casefinding and re-abstracting
study results to the Manager and Team Lead for use in improving standards for
the collection of cancer incidence data. Summarizes the results of the
casefinding and re-abstracting studies by providing written evaluation results
and recommendations to non-hospital reporting entities where studies are
conducted. Coordinates and conducts active casefinding and data collection
activities at small cancer caseload facilities. Identifies reportable cancer
cases, abstracts relevant information from medical records, codes, and reviews
data using TCR cancer reporting software. (5%) Uses cancer reporting software,
assists with the receipt and processing of electronic and paper cancer records
that are received from cancer reporting entities, as well as the DSHS PHINMS.
Tracks and notifies non-hospital reporting entities of cancer reporting data
received and reviewed. Visually reviews electronic data for valid format and
fields and contacts reporting entities via telephone, e-mail, or written
correspondence when data are missing or information is discrepant. Notifies
reporting entities of data rejection and communicates cause of rejection.
Provides technical assistance for non-hospital data submissions. Consults with
reporting entities and registry operations staff to conduct follow-up for the
reporting of corrected cases that were previously rejected. Provides regular
updates to registry operations managers, team leads and other designated staff
on status of non-hospital data submissions and report processing. (5%) Performs
other duties as assigned. Other duties as assigned include but are not limited
to actively participating and/or serving in a supporting role to meet the
agency's obligations for disaster response and/or recovery or Continuity of
Operations (COOP) activation. Such participation may require an alternate shift
pattern assignment and/or location.
Knowledge Skills Abilities:
Technical knowledge of cancer registration techniques and uses of cancer data.
Technical knowledge of cancer control laws, rules, regulations, policy
guidelines, practices, and recommendations. Knowledge of multiple versions of
ICD-O, SEER, ACoS, NAACCR, and CESB cancer reporting handbook's cancer
registration guidelines and standards. Knowledge of oncology; anatomy; medical
terminology; data collection and retrieval procedures and cancer registry edit
criteria. Knowledge of maintaining confidential medical records and
documentation. Skill in planning, organizing, developing, implementing and
managing multiple projects/activities. Skill in using personal computers and
software packages (e.g. Word, Excel, and CESB Cancer Registry software). Skill
in problem solving and interacting with others, including assuring cooperation
of staff, medical providers and other cancer related organizations. Ability to
work independently and within a team structure. Ability to monitor and identify
data discrepancies and make suggestions for improvement. Ability to monitor and
identify problems in coding and case ascertainment. Ability to read and
interpret laws, policies and procedures governing cancer reporting. Ability to
clearly express ideas and information and to effectively communicate, both
orally and in written form. Ability to analyze and interpret coded data. Ability
to handle multiple assignments/projects with varying deadlines.
Registration or Licensure Requirements:
Certified Tumor Registrar (CTR) or CTR eligible.
Initial Selection Criteria:
Certified Tumor Registrar or CTR eligible
Additional Information:
Applicant will be required to complete a skills assessment exercise at the
conclusion of the oral interview. Prior to beginning employment,
employees/applicants who indicate they hold a degree from an institution of
higher education must provide an original college transcript indicating they
earned a Bachelor's degree or associate's degree from a U.S. college or
university or foreign degree determined to be equivalent by an acceptable
education evaluator. Employee must provide transportation. If an employee
operates a personal or state motor vehicle in performance of their official
duties, the employee must possess a current valid Texas Driver License for the
appropriate type vehicle. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA), HHS agencies will provide reasonable accommodation during the hiring and
selection process for qualified individuals with a disability. If you need
assistance completing the on-line application, contact the HHS employee service
center at 1-888-894-4747. If you are contacted for an interview and need
accommodation to participate in the interview process, please notify the person
scheduling the interview. req 279964

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


