                              67 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                          September 29, 2016 Thursday

Bio-safety labs being set up in all teaching hospitals

SECTION: Vol. 26 No. 206

LENGTH: 683  words


On the directions of Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif, Bio-Safety Labs-2 (BSL-2)
are being set up in all teaching hospitals and laboratories would also be
upgraded. Tests of infectious diseases including Congo would be conducted in
these laboratories.

It was stated by the adviser to chief minister on Health Khawaja Salman Rafiq
while chairing a meeting of professors of microbiology of the medical
colleges/teaching hospitals at Civil Secretariat on Wednesday, according to a
handout. The professors briefed the meeting about the requirements for
establishing BSL-2 in their medical colleges, capacity of the existing
laboratories and technical aspects of the laboratories. Kh Salman Rafiq said a
comprehensive report of individual medical college/ teaching hospital would be
prepared keeping in view the available resources and equipment. He said this
would be analysed that how much work for setting up BSL-2 could be completed
with the available resources and how much resources are further required for
this purpose. He said he will request the CM for providing additional financial
resources for this purpose.

Special Secretary Health Dr Sajid Chohan said a separate working paper of each
teaching hospital should be prepared within a week in which financial analysis,
existing resources, orientation, human resource requirement and other technical
aspects of the project should be mentioned in the working paper. He said the
working paper would be submitted to the department, the work on the project
could be started. Kh Salman Rafiq revealed that World Health Organization would
provide technical guidance for establishing BSL-2 in hospitals.

Special Secretary Specialized Healthcare  and  Medical Education Dr Sajid
Chohan, Additional Secretary Technical Dr Salman Shahid, Chief Planning Officer
Abdul Haq Bhatti, MS Mayo Hospital Dr Amjad Shehzad, Chief Bacteriologist Punjab
(IPH) Prof Zarfishan Tahir, Consultant Dr Tahir Yaqub and professors of
microbiology of the medical colleges attended the meeting.

PEF: The private schools attached with different free education programmes of
the Punjab Education Foundation (PEF) should ensure to provide best educational
amenities in their institutions. The classrooms should be neat  and  clean and
airy, along with the facility of necessary furniture for the students.
Similarly, congenial atmosphere should be arranged together with the provision
of clean drinking water and hygienic toilets. The purpose is to make learning
motivating for the students. Punjab Education Foundation Managing Director Tariq
Mahmood said this while presiding over weekly coordination meeting at his office
on Wednesday, according to a handout issued here. Deputy managing directors,
programme directors and other officers attended the meeting. The meeting
reviewed in detail the educational policies aimed to promote access to school
education in the low income families.

PEF MD said that punitive action would be taken against the partner schools
failing to abide by the policies; and added that clean environment involved the
students in their studies. He asked the programme directors to constitute
dedicated teams to regularly visit and inspect the partner schools every month.
This will help in ensuring effective monitoring of school partners, he added.
The meeting was told that PEF's continuous professional development programme
(CPDP) had conducted 328 training programmes for Teacher Development Programme
(TDP) Level-one and trained 9,500 teachers of 1,944 partner schools of different
districts.

Meanwhile, 328 training plans for Teacher Development Programme (TDP) Level-two
will be conducted from 17th of October to 2nd of December.  Later, programme
directors briefed the meeting about their respective programme performance and
future goals.

BoD: The Punjab government has nominated Prof Dr Khalid Hameed Sheikh and Dr
Abdul Rauf Shakoori as new members of Board of Directors of Punjab Education
Foundation for a period of three years.

According to a handout issued here on Wednesday, the competent authority has
also issued notification in this regard.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


