                              68 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                January 14, 2005

FIND THE MONSTER WHO LEFT ROBERT'S BODY IN A GRAVE OF GORSE

BYLINE: Niall O'Connor

SECTION: HUNT FORSCHOOLBOY'S KILLER

LENGTH: 784 words


GARDA forensic teams and State Pathologist Dr Marie Cassidy were yesterday at
the centre of intensive investigations to nail the killer of schoolboy Robert
Holohan.

Cops hope they will provide the vital clues needed for a breakthrough in the
murder probe.

Dr Cassidy arrived shortly before lunchtime at the spot on the country lane
leading to Inch Strand, Co Cork, where 11-year-old Robert's body was found in
undergrowth on Wednesday.

Two hours later after she had finished a preliminary examination of the remains,
his body was put into a five-foot wooden coffin and driven away in a hearse to
Cork University Hospital for a full post mortem.

Dr Cassidy, who accompanied the body, had come under fire after the body was
left at the scene overnight.

But a Garda source told the Irish Sun yesterday that she was waiting for the
go-ahead from forensic experts to visit the scene.

Their examination of the scene had to be called off when darkness fell on
Wednesday.

The source said: "The body was left in place for technical reasons. It is all
part of prudent crime scene management to gather the best available evidence."

Forensic cops at the site are trying to help piece together events after Robert,
from Ballyedmund, near Midleton, Co Cork, vanished 10 days ago.

At 8.30am yesterday Garda Technical Bureau experts arrived in the lane.

White-suited officers began meticulously clearing around the body using hedge
clippers to carefully remove brambles and bushes.

The body was concealed by a bush with only one limb protruding.

Gardai have discovered a length of rusted metal at the scene which was being
examined.

Unoccupied holiday homes above the beach were searched.

Sources said cops have discovered a child's Nike runner in one of the homes.

They revealed that Robert's body, which was fully clothed, had few marks on it.

Vans

Gardai have revealed that they used a mobile phone mast to pinpoint the location
of the body.

Technicians from phone company O2 provided them with help.

Cops also had information from a member of the public which helped locate the
body.

Robert's Nokia 3200 mobile phone which he used to call home before vanishing,
has still not been found.

Fifty detectives held a special case conference in Midleton's GAA hall to drawn
up a strategy to track down the killer.

They held a minute's silence in memory of Robert before getting down to work.

The officers are looking for three white high-roof vans. One has a red stripe on
the side. They also want to trace three cars. One is a silver Volvo seen on the
road leading from Inch Strand at 3.40pm on Tuesday.

Investigators believe that this may have been the day the body was dumped after
Robert was murdered elsewhere.

Detectives are believed to be making enquiries at two car parks, one of them in
Cork city.

A red van seen following the car is also being sought.

Uniformed officers set up a checkpoint in Midleton town centre yesterday and
stopped and photographed all red vans.

A senior source said it is feared more than one person may be involved in the
murder.

He added: "This is going to be a long investigation - no doubt about that.

"But everything is being thrown into the investigation - we are positive about
it now." The six-man search team who found Robert were part of a larger group of
200 volunteers, gardai, military and civil defence personnel that were searching
in the Whitegate area.

They were bussed to the gates of the Trabolgan Holiday Camp and then dispatched
to areas in the vicinity.

Call

A six-man detachment from this group were directed to search Inch - it was this
group that found the boy.

The picturesque 500-yard wide sand strand is surrounded by high cliffs with a
steep-sided ravine running into its centre.

It was in the bramble-covered gully that the body was discovered.

Just above the lower sloped granite cliffs are a number of wooden mobile homes
and unoccupied holiday homes.

Robert was last seen on January 4 at 2.30pm when he left the family home after a
lunch of soup and a sandwich.

He made a phone call at 2.36pm and was never seen alive again.

Last night child welfare expert Kieran McGrath said: "It's difficult enough for
adults to explain this to each other, because it challenges people's trust in
human nature.

"But parents should try to explain what has occurred. You may have to say that
there are people in the world who do very bad things and very bad things are
done to children.

"It's important that you encourage children not to feel that they are in any
immediate danger or that this is something that can happen at any moment."


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD


