                              69 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    August 5, 1999, Thursday, Final Edition

Teens Give and Take at Hospital; Smart Summer Interns a Welcome Advantage at St.
Mary's

Marcella Bombardieri, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: SOUTHERN MARYLAND EXTRA; Pg. M03

LENGTH: 453 words


When St. Mary's Hospital started an internship program for high school students
last summer, hospital officials thought they would be teaching teenagers
practical skills they could use for a career in health care or business.

Hospital officials discovered, however, that sometimes a 17-year-old can teach
adults a skill or two.

Take Mikey Stewart, 17, a senior at Leonardtown High School who also is
completing a graphic arts program at St. Mary's County Technical Center. In
school, Stewart says he spends 1 1/2 hours each day "basically playing with
state-of-the-art equipment," so he knows his way around a computer.

As a hospital intern, it is arguable whether Stewart has been doing more
learning or more teaching.

"We've been delighted with the level of talent of our interns," said Martha
Beavers, director of community relations for the hospital. "Mikey, for example,
is an excellent graphic artist, and he's actually teaching us things."

On his first day as a graphic designer in the Community Relations Department at
St. Mary's, Stewart was assigned a project "they thought would take me days, and
I did it in six hours."

Stewart often finds himself explaining to adults new techniques in Photoshop and
other computer programs.

"They can give me more responsibility, and that makes their lives easier,"
Stewart said.

The hospital's eight interns earn $ 6.04 an hour for their efforts and get a
taste of the working world.

"The program gives students a way to understand what will be necessary to
compete in the health care environment," said Mark Cautin, vice president for
human resources at the hospital.

The interns, most of whom are enrolled in programs at the Technical Center
during the school year, have made discoveries this summer that will help them
choose colleges and decide what careers to pursue.

Dana Goode, 17, a senior at Chopticon High School, spends much of her time
wheeling patients from their rooms to the lab for tests. Working with sick
elderly people has confirmed her desire to be a pediatric nurse and treat
children instead.

As an assistant in the human resources department, Renee Abell, 16, a senior at
Leonardtown High School, does a lot of typing, filing, and answering phones. She
has a whole new appreciation for what it means to be a secretary.

"I always had this idea that secretaries don't really do anything," Abell said.
"Now I see all the tax forms, the background checks, the postings. It's like,
gosh, how do you do all this?"

Students were chosen for the internship based on recommendations from their
teachers at the Technical Center. Other interns work in Plant Operations,
Nutrition Services and Education and Training.


LOAD-DATE: August 05, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1999 The Washington Post


