                              71 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                           February 11, 2003 Tuesday

Financings roundup

LENGTH: 535 words


Financings roundup

AD PathLabs raises $8.9M; VirtualScopics in $3.8M round

A Medical Device Daily Staff Report  AD PathLabs (Newport Beach, California)
reported receiving nearly $8.9 million in Series C preferred stock financing,
the first institutional investment in the 14-month old company.

Investors include Blue Chip Venture Company, Forrest Binkley & Brown Capital
Partners, Pacific Venture Group, existing angel investors and management.

AD PathLabs is a provider of infrastructure and technical services to the
anatomic pathology community. Its customers include community pathologists,
hospitals, physician offices and outpatient centers. Currently, AD PathLabs
services 30 hospital clients in Southern California, including an exclusive
relationship with one of the area's largest hospital systems, Catholic
Healthcare West.

Charles Madden, founder and CEO, said that the new round of funding allows the
company "to complete its infrastructure and bring our depth of experience and
technical support to more doctors."  Madden said that the funding will also be
used to explore operations in targeted regions beyond Southern California and to
establish complementary "Centers of Excellence" with nationally recognized
pathologists for consultation services.

AD PathLabs works to centralize pathology technical services provided by local
hospitals while continuing to use the professional services of the hospital
-based pathologists.  This model, it said, "has proven to reduce costs for the
hospital, increase available services and capabilities to the pathologists,
improve turnaround time, enhance the pathologist-referring physician
relationship and increase income for the local pathologist. "

The anatomic pathology market is a $6 billion sub-segment of the $35 billion
laboratory services market, and AD PathLab projects it to grow 7% annually.

In other financing, VirtualScopics (Pittsford, New York), a developer of medical
image analysis technology, reported raising $3.8 million in a series C round of
financing. Investors include GE Medical Systems (GEMS; Waukesha, Wisconsin) and
affiliates of Trillium Group LLC (Rochester, New York), an early-stage venture
capital firm.

VirtualScopics is developing image analysis tools used for detecting and
characterizing minute changes in physical structures over time. The firm's
image-based biomarker solutions are designed to accelerate the pharmaceutical
R&D process by rapidly measuring the efficacy and safety of drug compounds. In
addition, the technology "can be leveraged to improve treatment planning and
diagnosis for patients," it said.

It said that the series C financing will be used to expand the company, filling
critical open positions and funding key research projects in oncology,
neurology, vascular and musculoskeletal areas.

Mike Totterman, chief operating officer of VirtualScopics, said in particular,
that partnering with GEMS, "the world's leader in medical imaging, gives us a
path to deploy our technology in the clinical diagnostics field."

VirtualScopics evolved from research first carried out at the University of
Rochester Medical Center and that university's School of Engineering (Rochester,
New York).

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2003 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


