                              73 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      August 6, 2015 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Statement on FCC Decision to Allow Unlicensed Devices in Dedicated Health Care
Spectrum

LENGTH: 304  words


Aug. 6 -- Patients receive excellent care in hospitals because of the skilled
caregivers, but there is also behind-the-scenes technology that works in concert
to deliver quality care to patients. That's why we are deeply concerned by
today's decision by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to allow
unlicensed devices to use the same health care spectrum as patient monitors.

We believe that the technical rules adopted today by the FCC, which would allow
unlicensed devices to operate in relatively close geographic proximity on the
same frequency as hospitals' Wireless Medical Telemetry System (WMTS), is not in
the best interest of patients. These unlicensed devices may cause interference
with wireless monitoring, preventing doctors and nurses from receiving vital
information. There are more than 360,000 WMTS patient monitors in hospitals
today, many of which are used for women and infants during labor and delivery
and critical heart surgery patients.

The AHA, in addition to many Members of Congress, requested a delay in FCC
action to allow hospitals more time to work cooperatively with the unlicensed
device community to create a compromise that protects patients. The FCC did not
grant this delay. The FCC did allow for an increased buffer, as advocated by
Commissioner Pai; however, the commission ignored technical considerations in
setting the distance and will require each hospital to demonstrate that larger
protection zones are necessary. Many hospitals do not have the staff expertise
and resources to comply with this technical rule.

We remain highly concerned that if the rules adopted today are left unchanged,
patient safety could be compromised. We will continue to work with Congress, the
FCC and device developers to seek a remedy that puts patients first.

Source: American Hospital Association

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


