                              74 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    Alberni Valley Times (British Columbia)

                              March 9, 2001 Friday
                                 Final Edition

New hospital not up to smelter-induced growth

BYLINE: Mia Vare, Alberni Valley Times

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 305  words


As the pre-feasibility study for the proposed aluminum smelter continues, the
technical team is asking community groups to look at how a projected population
increase of up to 7,000 will affect them.

The Alberni Valley Health Advisory Committee has been asked to relate back to
the study's technical team its capability to meet the needs of the projected
growth. While the committee is still questioning if the technical team is asking
about the readiness of the Valleyis health care infrastructure or the
committeeis readiness, the committee had little doubt that the regionis health
care is not ready for the increased population.

``The region has not set us up to deal with that kind of population increase,''
said Larry Johannessen, HAC chair.

The Central Vancouver Island Health Region has projected a three per cent
decline in population for the Alberni Valley in its 15-year plan.

The technical team is projecting a construction phase population increase of
about 2,000 construction workers over two or three years, and a permanent
operational phase population increase of 5,000-7,000 people.

``What it would do is just bring us back to former population levels,'' said
committee member Wilma Koivisto.

Even if population levels were only returned to former numbers, the new hospital
is smaller than the current site was when it was used at maximum capacity, and
the region is already short on all levels of medical staff.

The new hospital was one of the selling points for bringing the aluminum smelter
to Port Alberni, said committee member Barb Flynn.

``Is that hospital big enough to handle 5-7,000 more people?'' Johannessen
questioned. ``We don't have the capability to handle those numbers.''

The HAC will respond to the technical team, asking for clarification of whose
capabilities the team is asking about before responding.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

