                              76 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                           October 2, 2002 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Locally

SECTION: A; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 338  words


Restaurant partnership buys land

DAYTONA BEACH -- The partnership that owns The Wreck Riverfront Bar & Grill
spent $1.6 million to assure the eatery has enough parking, buying land across
Main Street from Boot Hill Saloon owner Art Gehris.

The Wreck was renting the land from Gehris. But Bruce Rossmeyer said, "We have
some future things in mind (for the property), but nothing we know of for sure."
Rossmeyer owns Daytona Harley-Davidson and other businesses. The other partners
are Daytona Beach lawyer David Hood, businessman Angelo Buquiccio and Barbara
McGrath, the eatery's manager.

Insurance network buys risk specialist

DAYTONA BEACH -- Brown & Brown Inc. has bought Technical Risks L.P. of Houston.
Financial details of the deal, which closed Tuesday, were not disclosed.

Technical Risks, with annual revenue of about $3.3 million, is a commercial
property and casualty insurance agency. While specializing in midsize to large
commercial accounts throughout Texas, the firm also provides a full range of
personal insurance products. The office will continue under the Technical Risks
name, but as a free- standing Brown & Brown operation.

Hospital names assistant directors

ORANGE CITY -- Three new assistant directors have been named at Florida Hospital
Fish Memorial. Penny Branch is assistant director of surgical services, Sue
Fowler is assistant vice president for outpatient services and Mike Wilmore is
assistant director of radiology.

Branch joined the hospital from Orlando Regional Medical Center, where she was
assistant nurse manager and corporate educator. Fowler has been with the Orange
City facility since 1988. Wilmore was chief technologist at Baptist Medical
Center in Cumming, Ga., before joining the hospital.

Meeting memo

Flagler One-Stop Career Center, Business & Bagels seminar, 8-10 a.m. Thursday,
3000 Palm Coast Pkwy. S.E., Palm Coast. Speakers: Cindy Grable Miles and Randy
R. Ross, both of PWD Solutions. Topic: The cost of unwanted employee turnover.
Cost: free. Reservations: 323- 7008.

-- Staff Report

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2002 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2002 News-Journal Corporation


