                              78 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                             April 26, 2015 Sunday

Police action against govt employees protested

SECTION: Vol. LXIX No. 115

LENGTH: 418  words


The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Association of Sub-Engineers in Upper Dir has condemned
the April 21 firing and shelling by the police on technical and non-technical
employees in Peshawar and threatened agitation after 10 days.

Provincial general secretary of the association Haji Mukhtar Hussain told
reporters here that violence against the people peacefully demanding rights was
a contemptible act.

He said the government should give promotion and scale upgrade to its technical
and non-technical employees.

"If the government doesnt announce scale upgrade for technical and non-technical
employees within 10 days, then they will agitate," he said.

President of irrigation department sub-engineers in Timergara division Zafar
Khan demanded the immediate withdrawal of FIR against participants of the April
21 protest and warned the departments employees would boycott duty and block
water channels in the province if the demand was not met.

PARAMEDICS PROTEST: The paramedical staffs protest for scale upgrade and against
ban on private clinics in Upper Dir entered third day on Saturday.

Nurses, X-ray and laboratory technicians and other paramedical staff boycotted
duty at the District Headquarters Hospital and tehsil headquarters hospitals,
rural health centres and dispensaries across the district.

Sub-engineers set 10-day deadline for promotion

They, however, allowed some of their colleagues to continue doing duty in
emergency wards.

The Pakistan Medical Association Upper Dir continued with its protest in front
of the administration block of the Dir DHQ Hospital.

Paramedics from different health centres participated in the protest on the
second day.

The speakers, including Sher Khan, Noor Habib and Mohammad Saeed, told
protesters that the government had promised scale upgrade and promotion to
paramedics seven months ago but the promise had yet to be fulfilled.

They also complained about raids on private clinics and declared them
unjustified.

The speakers said the health care commission asked operators of private clinics
to recruit pathologists and radiologists but the demand was unrealistic as even
the government was unable to recruit such staff in its hospitals.

They said paramedics served the people more than doctors did but they were
denied the privilege they deserved.

The speakers said paramedical staff rejected one-step promotion and demanded
scale upgrade otherwise they would extend agitation.

They also threatened protest outside the provincial assembly in Peshawar on the
matter after a week.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2015 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


