                              80 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Leadership (Abuja)

                                  May 21, 2013

27 Firms Bid for UATH Construction Projects

BYLINE: Chika Otuchikere

LENGTH: 370 words


No fewer than 27 companies have bided for the completion of construction of
house officers' quarters and the completion of construction of completion of
hospital complex, walk ways and expansion joint at the University of Abuja
Teaching Hospital (UATH), Gwagwalada.

Eight other companies have also bided for the furnishing of the post basic
intensive nursing building of the hospital.

Speaking during the opening of the technical bids yesterday, the chief medical
director of the hospital, Dr Peter Alabi, stated that the event was to take a
look at the technical proposal of the different companies.

Alabi who stated that the hospital was following the guidelines laid by the
Bureau for Public Procurement, explained that after the analysis, companies who
qualify will be invited for the bid.

"We published adverts in two newspapers about six weeks ago and also publish an
addendum because the Bureau for Public Procurement was of the view that we
cannot publish the technical and financial bid on the same day. We are here to
look at the documents and after the analysis, those who qualify will be sent
text messages," he added.

According to him, nine companies also bided for the completion of the
construction of the hospital complex, walk ways and expansion joint while 18
companies bided for the completion of construction of house officers' quarters
following the disqualification of two companies for not following the guidelines
given for the submission of documents.

Speaking after the event, the companies' representatives commended the hospital
for the transparent way in which they handled the opening of the technical bids
and expressed hope that the transparency will continue till the end of the
process.

Also speaking, a representative from the Ministry of Land, Housing and Urban
Development, Patrick Oguleye, stated that the exercise was transparent adding
that the hospital did a good job in following the laid down procedure.

"The hospital did a good job. It was quite transparent and open. Everybody could
see what was going on. Areas where there might be a little bit of questioning,
they threw it open to the house for comment and everybody was okay with the
exercise. I think it was properly done," he added.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


