                              81 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                             June 22, 2017 Thursday

Chinese firm to help make Karachi 'e-health city'

BYLINE: Hasan Mansoor

SECTION: Vol. 71 No. 173

LENGTH: 590  words


In a bid to rank Karachi among the 'e-health cities' of the world, City Mayor
Wasim Akhtar on Wednesday said a major health sector upgrade programme was being
worked out in the Karachi Metropolitan Cor­poration to improve the hospital
management system in KMC-run hospitals and dispensaries.

'We have begun work on the management system for 13 hospitals and other
healthcare facilities run by the KMC, which will help make Karachi an e-health
city like other modern cities of the world,' said Mayor Akhtar while presiding
over a meeting in his office.

During the meeting, representatives of a Chinese company, Sinopharm
International Cor­poration, gave a detailed presentation to the mayor.

It was decided in the meeting that the delegation of the Chinese company would
go for an orientation visit to the Abbasi Shaheed Hospital, Sobhraj Maternity
Hospital, Karachi Institute of Heart Diseases, and Spencer Eye Hospital.

These visits would help Chinese officials estimate the needs of those hospitals
by seeing the equipment and facilities being offered by them.

After that, a memorandum of understanding would be signed by the KMC and
Sinopharm.

The contents of that MoU, however, had already been discussed during the
meeting, according to which the Chinese company would help the KMC modernise its
healthcare facilities with improved delivery system, and supply CT-scan
machines, MRI, and other equipment, in addition to making operating theatres and
intensive care units well-equipped.

The Chinese officials told the meeting participants that their company was
offering similar facilities in various parts of the world, which had helped
modernise local hospital networks with efficient facilities.

Such initiatives, they said, had greatly benefited local populations.

They said that they could supply equipment of a variety of brands, which would
include after-sale services and training for local technical staff in China.

They said under e-health system, hospital information systems, regional medical
imaging centres and telemedicine and diagnostic centres would be established.

Besides, doctors would be offered clinical training while technical training
would be given to engineers and other technical staff.

Mayor Akhtar said his administration was making all-out endeavours to offer
improved and better healthcare facilities to citizens of Karachi.

'We are consulting with various international organisations and seeking
technical assistance and cooperation in various fields relating to medical
sector, which would help us in improving our health delivery system at local
level,' said the mayor.

He said the people of Karachi deserved to be offered similar healthcare
facilities as citizens of other modern cities of the world were already being
given.

He asked medical superintendents of all KMC hospitals and other officials
concerned to extend full cooperation to the Chinese company and inform them
about the real condition of the facilities so that the Chinese officials could
make appropriate assessment about needs of those hospitals and dispensaries.

Deputy Mayor Arshad Vohra, municipal commissioner, and other KMC officers
attended the meeting.

Shahid Afridi meets mayor

Former cricketer Shahid Afridi on Wednesday called on Mayor Wasim Akhtar at the
latter's office and discussed promoting sports culture in the city.

During the meeting, officials said, it was decided that the KMC would ink an
agreement with the Shahid Afridi Foundation through which the two sides would
make joint efforts to promote sports and support young sportsmen.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2017 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


