                              82 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   Bluefield Daily Telegraph (West Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 24, 2010 Monday

Collaborative curriculum: MCTEC phasing in new technical school concept

BYLINE: Greg Jordan, Bluefield Daily Telegraph, W.Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 535 words


May 24--PRINCETON -- Helping secondary students combine technical education with
their academic classes is one step toward taking the Mercer County Technical
Education Center into the technical high school concept.

As of now, MCTEC is only in Phase I of using a technical high school concept,
said interim Director Linda Cox.

"As far as having a stand alone technical high school, that's years down the
road," Cox said. "However, the students may be given the opportunity to take
some academic credits on the MCTEC campus."

Technical high schools take academic subjects and apply their lessons to
technical classes. For example, an English teacher may collaborate with an
automotive instructor. Students could write compositions about auto repairs and
develop research skills they could use when writing any type of essay.

Exploring the technical high school concept came about when innovation zone
grants were made available, Cox recalled. The state asked for innovative ideas
for this funding, and MCTEC's was one of 19 selected.

"We're in Phase I of this, and Phase I of this plan is to look at the present
program concentrations, such as health, sciences and occupations." Cox said.
"We're looking at that concentration using academic teachers to evaluate
possibilities for academic credits in the classes that are being taught by
technical instructors."

For example, English, math and science teachers have determined that students
taking some of MCTEC's health sciences classes should be able to get an anatomy
class credit. Concepts, standards and objectives in health sciences are also the
same as the concepts, standards and objectives in the anatomy class, Cox said.

Instead of having to take an unnecessary class for which they have credits
already, students can use the time other ways.

"This has allowed us to waive some seat time," Cox said. "In the past, they
would have to go through the health science classes, and then have to sit
through an anatomy class. This opens up more opportunities for the students to
gain more knowledge in other areas, possibly an internship."

The current goal is to become a technical high school in phases, Cox said. The
entire process could take "at least 10 years," she added.

For Phase II, MCTEC would like to take one program, health science technology,
and develop that as a pilot model for a technical high school, Cox said.

"When we looked at the major employers in the area, education might be number
one, but medical is number two," she said. Mercer County has two community
hospitals, a rehabilitation hospital and numerous clinics and health
professionals.

"We are really excited about this, for the opportunities for the students to
prepare for the work force or for college," she said.

-- Contact Greg Jordan at gjordan@bdtonline.com

To see more of Bluefield Daily Telegraph, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.bdtonline.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, Bluefield Daily Telegraph,
W.Va. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100524-WF-Collaborative-curriculum-MCTEC-phasing-in-new-technical
-school-concept-0524

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WF


                    Copyright 2010 Bluefield Daily Telegraph


