                              83 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Waikato Times (Hamilton, New Zealand)

                              May 27, 2013 Monday

SECTION: FEATURES; NATIONAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 297 words


99-95 YEARS AGO

The presentation of certificates won last year by pupils of the Hamilton
Technical School took place in the Town Hall last night. There was a large
attendance of pupils, parents and friends. Mr J. S. Bond, who presided,
expressed his pleasure at being present at the function, which was quite an
occasion in the history of technical education in the district. He drew
attention to the motto on the wall, "Every gentleman a worker - every worker a
gentleman." A wise government had made technical education compulsory, so that
young people might be well fitted to take their place in the world.

50 YEARS AGO

A new six-storey hospital block, with two storeys to be used to relieve the
Campbell Johnstone maternity block, is to be built at the Waikato Hospital. The
chairman, Mr E. G. Guy, announced this this morning at a meeting of the Waikato
Hospital Board. The new block would replace the proposed 180-bed general and
40-bed maternity hospital proposed earlier for Te Rapa. The board's thinking had
been reversed on investigation, Mr Guy said. Its original decision was that the
useful available land on the present site had reached saturation point.

25 YEARS AGO

The Labour Government is an unlovely bunch of incompetent hoons who have
terrorised more and caused more harm in New Zealand than the Mongrel Mob and
Black Power combined, says National Party Leader Jim Bolger. Thousands of New
Zealand families have been crushed in the last three years because the
Government has changed the rules, he says. In a speech prepared for delivery at
the party's Waikato divisional conference at the Waikato University today, Mr
Bolger said sensible decisions taken by people in good faith and on sound advice
had been turned on their head because of changes in Government policy.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Fairfax New Zealand Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


