                              84 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Maroondah Leader (Australia)

                            October 30, 2007 Tuesday

'Get real' on schools

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 674  words


I AM astounded at the arrogance of the Labor Party on technical education.

This is the same party that under Kirner got rid of technical schools in
Victoria and now expects us to believe that we will have technical colleges and
facilities in all the high schools without cuts.

Get real Mr Symon, we all know from the Bracks experience that what Labor says
and what is does are two very different things.

Joseph Licheri,

Paterson St, Croydon North.

Bureaucratic nightmareWITH the furore over hospital waiting lists and hospital
management, Tony Abbott's plan for hospitals bears closer scrutiny.

Mr Abbott has said he doesn't believe in more bureaucrats but in more local
services. But if you look at the Eastern Health Service responsible for Box
Hill, Maroondah, Angliss and Healesville hospitals and the Peter James Centre
you can see what a nonsense Mr Abbott's plan for improving Australian hospitals
is.

Currently, the Eastern Health Service is run by a board of directors, consisting
of eight directors including the chairperson, at a cost of about $250,000.

Under Mr Abbott's scheme the board would be replaced by five committees of
management consisting of 10 members, each receiving $10,000.

The result will be the eight directors replaced by 50 committee members at a
cost of $500,000 double the cost and a six-fold increase in bureaucrats.

Extrapolate this scenario Australia-wide and this means Australia's 750
hospitals will have another 7500 bureaucrats but not one extra doctor, nurse or
bed to the system.

The plan is a bureaucratic nightmare.

Michael Freeman,

Yarraduct Place, Croydon South.

'Al Gore of Deakin'MIKE Symon recently sent me a very glossy brochure about
climate change.

I was therefore surprised to drive past his campaign office late the other night
and see all the lights were on.

So is Mr Symon now the Al Gore of Deakin? Leaving the lights on while nobody's
home?

Bentleigh Gibson,

Maroondah Highway, Ringwood.

ACTU supports GreensTHE ACTU has confirmed that the Greens have the best policy
for working Australians in this coming election.

As a supporter of the local Your Rights at Work campaign, I welcome this move.

In announcing this week that it would not advocate a vote for Labor in the
Senate on November 24, the ACTU has acknowledged the strength of the Greens'
support for repeal of the socially destroying WorkChoices legislation.

The Greens will abolish AWAs, guarantee the right to collectively bargain,
restore the independent Australian Industrial Relations Commission, protect
workers' rights, restore the award system and establish a strong, expanded
safety net of minimum conditions.

Everyone will have access to unfair dismissal laws.

I can assure all working people in Deakin that Greens' Senate candidate, Dr
Richard di Natale, will carry our policies into the Senate with passion and
commitment if the ACTU's advice to choose a party in the Senate that would
abolish WorkChoices is followed.

Bill Pemberton,

Greens candidate for Deakin,

Main St, Blackburn.

Cut subsidy to fossil fuelTHE Howard Government wants us to think that cutting
carbon emissions and moving to clean energy will cost us all a fortune.

But the cost of shifting to a renewable energy-based economy would hardly be
noticed by most households if the government stopped propping up the fossil fuel
industry and provided renewables with some certainty by setting mandatory
renewable energy targets.

There are economic opportunities to move to a new, renewable energy-based
society, as is being done in so many other parts of the world.

The Institute for Sustainable Futures report, Energy and Transport Subsidies in
Australia, 2007, says: ''Governments in Australia provide substantial financial
support for the production and use of fossil fuels . . . these subsidies keep
the cost of fossil fuel energy artificially low and make it harder for renewable
energy to compete. In an era when climate change response has become urgent,
continuing to subsidise fossil fuel production and consumption is
unacceptable.''

Georgia Blomberg,

Dirkala Ave, Heathmont.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: MMV


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


