                              85 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              May 19, 2017 Friday

Agency Information Collection Activities; Proposals, Submissions, and Approvals

LENGTH: 1784  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington, DC:  This Notice document was issued by the Agency for Healthcare
Research and Quality (AHRQ)    Action
Notice.    Summary
This notice announces the intention of the Agency for Healthcare Research and
Quality (AHRQ) to request that the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approve
the proposed information collection project: "The AHRQ Safety Program for
Enhancing Surgical Care and Recovery."   Dates
Comments on this notice must be received by July 17, 2017.   Addresses
Written comments should be submitted to: Doris Lefkowitz, Reports Clearance
Officer, AHRQ, by email at doris.lefkowitz@AHRQ.hhs.gov
Copies of the proposed collection plans, data collection instruments, and
specific details on the estimated burden can be obtained from the AHRQ Reports
Clearance Officer.     For Further Information Contact
Doris Lefkowitz, AHRQ Reports Clearance Officer, (301) 427-1477, or by email at
doris.lefkowitz@AHRQ.hhs.gov      Supplementary Information  Proposed Project
In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501-3521, AHRQ
invites the public to comment on this proposed information collection.

The AHRQ Safety Program for Enhancing Surgical Care and Recovery is a quality
improvement project that aims to provide technical assistance to hospitals to
help them implement evidence-based practices to improve outcomes and prevent
complications among patients who undergo surgery. Enhanced recovery pathways are
a constellation of preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative practices
that decrease complications and accelerate recovery. A number of studies and
meta-analyses have demonstrated successful results. In order to facilitate
broader adoption of these evidence-based practices among U.S. hospitals, this
AHRQ project will adapt the Comprehensive Unit-based Safety Program (CUSP),
which has been demonstrated to be an effective approach to reducing other
patient harms, to enhanced recovery after surgery. The approach uses a
combination of clinical and cultural (i.e., technical and adaptive) intervention
components, which include promoting leadership and frontline staff engagement,
close teamwork among surgeons, anesthesia providers, and nurses, as well as
enhancing patient communication and engagement. Interested hospitals will
voluntarily participate.
This project has the following goals:    Improve outcomes of surgical patients
by disseminating and supporting implementation of evidence-based enhanced
recovery practices within the CUSP framework  Develop a bundle of technical and
adaptive interventions and associated tools and educational materials to support
implementation  Provide technical assistance and training to hospitals for
implementing enhanced recovery practices  Assess the adoption, and evaluate the
effectiveness of, the intervention among the participating hospitals
This project is being conducted by AHRQ through its contractor Johns Hopkins
University; with subcontractors Westat, and the American College of Surgeons.
The AHRQ Safety Program for Enhancing Surgical Care and Recovery is being
undertaken pursuant to AHRQ's mission to enhance the quality, appropriateness,
and effectiveness of health services, and access to such services, through the
establishment of a broad base of scientific research and through the promotion
of improvements in clinical and health systems practices, including the
prevention of diseases and other health conditions. 42 U.S.C. 299.  Method of
Collection
To achieve the goals of this project the following data collections will be
implemented: (1) Safety Culture Survey. Hospitals will assess the impact of
participation in the project on perioperative safety culture by having their
staff members who will be part of the enhanced recovery program complete a
survey from the AHRQ Surveys on Patient Safety Culture (SOPS) at the beginning
and end of the program. The hospital's enhanced recovery project team will
receive their survey results and then debrief their staff on their safety
culture and identify opportunities for further improvement. The national project
team will provide technical assistance for this effort. Participating hospitals
will promote awareness of the survey among their staff, coordinate
implementation of the survey, encourage and provide staff the time to complete
the survey, and organize a local debrief of the reports of their hospital's
results. The national project team will assist this effort by providing an
electronic portal for hospital staff to anonymously complete the survey and by
analyzing the data and sending a report to the hospital. Data will also be
analyzed in aggregate across all participating hospitals to evaluate the impact
of the overall quality improvement effort on measured safety culture.
(2) Patient Experience Survey--Hospitals will also assess the impact of
participation in the project on patients' experience with care. This will be
done via administration of a patient experience survey to patients discharged
after a qualifying surgery. Patients will receive a pre-implementation
assessment of patient experience after a qualifying surgery and a
post-implementation assessment of patient experience will be administered to
patients were treated in the enhanced recovery program at participating
hospitals. The survey will be administered by the national project team.
Hospitals will provide patient contact information to the project team after
execution of a data use agreement. This information will be provided to the
national project team to send the survey to patients on behalf of the hospital.
The national project team will provide a summative report to each hospital with
the hospital's results to promote additional local quality improvement work.
Data will also be analyzed in aggregate across all participating hospitals to
evaluate the impact of the overall quality improvement effort on patient
experience of care.
(3) Readiness and Implementation Assessments: Semi-structured qualitative
interviews. Semi-structured qualitative interviews will be conducted with key
stakeholders at participating hospitals (e.g., project leads, physician project
champions, etc.). These include a readiness assessment conducted after a
hospital's enrollment in the project and an implementation assessment conducted
after a period of implementation. The readiness assessment will help identify
which, if any, technical components of the enhanced recovery after surgery
intervention already exist at the hospital, project management and resources,
clinician engagement, leadership engagement and potential barriers and
facilitators to implementation. The implementation assessment will evaluate what
elements of the enhanced recovery practices have been adopted, resources
invested, team participation, major barriers (e.g., medications, equipment,
trained personnel), and leadership participation. These assessments will help
identify training needs of hospitals and inform the national team's approach. In
addition, the results will inform the national team's understanding of local
adaptations of the intervention and the degree to which intervention impacts
changes in outcomes.
(4) Site visits--Semi-structured site visits will be conducted at a subset of
participating hospitals. Findings will help inform the national project
implementation strategy. Information from these visits will be critical in
understanding if and how team and/or leadership issues may affect implementation
of enhanced recovery after surgery practices, including how this may differ
across surgical services. Interviews will help uncover and clarify misalignments
in roles, needed time and resources, best practices, and potential enablers of
and barriers to enhanced recovery after surgery implementation. Site visits will
be conducted at approximately 4 hospitals per year, and each will be 1-day long.
The types of hospital personnel anticipated to be involved in part or all of the
site visit include senior leadership, perioperative leadership, and patient
safety and quality staff. Participating hospitals will receive a structured
debriefing and brief summary report at the end of the one-day visit.  Estimated
Annual Respondent Burden     Exhibit 1--Estimated Annualized Burden Hours
Form name    Number of respondents    Number of responses per respondent
Hours per response    Total burden hours              Safety culture survey
12,000    1    0.25    3,000          Patient experience survey    1,800    1
0.37    666          Readiness and Implementation assessment    720    1    1
720          Site visits    40    1    8    320          Total    14,560    N/A
N/A    4,706       Exhibit 2--Estimated Annualized Cost Burden         Form name
Number of respondents    Total burden hours    Average hourly wage rate&thinsp;*
Total cost burden              Safety culture survey    6,000    1,500
a&thinsp;$101.04    $151,560          Safety culture survey    6,000    1,500
b&thinsp;34.70    52,050          Patient experience survey    1,800    666
d&thinsp;23.86    15,891          Readiness and Implementation assessment    360
360    a&thinsp;101.04    36,374          Readiness and Implementation
assessment    360    360    c&thinsp;52.58    18,929          Site visits    20
160    a&thinsp;101.04    16,166          Site visits    20    160
c&thinsp;52.58    8,413          Total    14,560    4,706    N/A    299,383
Request for Comments
In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act, comments on AHRQ's information
collection are requested with regard to any of the following: (a) Whether the
proposed collection of information is necessary for the proper performance of
AHRQ health care research and health care information dissemination functions,
including whether the information will have practical utility; (b) the accuracy
of AHRQ's estimate of burden (including hours and costs) of the proposed
collection(s) of information; (c) ways to enhance the quality, utility, and
clarity of the information to be collected; and (d) ways to minimize the burden
of the collection of information upon the respondents, including the use of
automated collection techniques or other forms of information technology.
Comments submitted in response to this notice will be summarized and included in
the Agency's subsequent request for OMB approval of the proposed information
collection. All comments will become a matter of public record.   Sharon B.
Arnold,  Deputy Director.    [FR Doc. 2017-10065 Filed 5-17-17; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4160-90-P
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


