                              92 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                    DECEMBER 7, 2003 Sunday N-DELCO EDITION

Program shepherds students into medical careers

BYLINE: Gloria A. Hoffner INQUIRER SUBURBAN STAFF

SECTION: NEIGHBORS DELAWARE; Pg. L07

LENGTH: 685 words

DATELINE: RIDLEY PARK


Watching a surgeon slice through a patient's skin confirmed Natalia Orloff's
plans for the future.

Considering a career in health or education, Orloff is one of 14 high school
seniors enrolled in the new Delaware County Technical School Pre-Medical Careers
Program. Orloff is rotating through nine departments at Taylor Hospital during
the 2003-04 school year.

Hospital staffers "dressed me in scrubs and put me as close to the operation as
possible. It was the coolest thing," said Orloff, 17, of Springfield High
School.

"I went home and told my mom, 'I think I want to be a surgeon.' "

The program, a partnership between the technical school and the Crozer-Keystone
Health System, of which Taylor is a member, is designed for senior honor
students interested in professional medical careers, said Denise Kossuth,
registered nurse and course instructor.

The students attend two hours of classes at the hospital each morning from 7 to
9, then are bused to their regular classes at Springfield, Ridley and Academy
Park High Schools.

For the program, the students were required to go through an application and
interview process, and provide letters of recommendation from their science
teachers and guidance counselors. And they must have completed honors-level
biology and chemistry courses.

The program's tuition - about $5,000 per student per school year - is paid by
the Ridley, Springfield and Southeast Delco School Districts, said Michael
Erwin, technical school director.

"The Delaware County economy is heavily immersed in the health-care industry. It
is about 35 percent of the employment market," Erwin said.

"We are looking at this program as a way for our talented students to stay in
Delaware County and find a quality career in the health field."

According to the November 2001 Monthly Labor Review - which appeared in the 2003
HealthLine Systems Inc., an online publication - health-care practitioners and
technical occupations are expected to account for 1.6 million new jobs
nationally between 2000 and 2010. The 2001 report of the Nursing Institute at
the University of Illinois College of Nursing found that the ratio of potential
caregivers to the people most likely to need care will decrease by 40 percent
between 2010 and 2030.

Delaware County's program is one of many throughout the state started within the
last 10 years, Erwin said. In Montgomery County, a similar program has been
offered for the last six years by the North Montgomery Technical Career Center
at the Central Montgomery Medical Center, said Kathleen Mack, registered nurse
and instructor.

"We wanted a program in a hospital setting to give students a personal
experience to help them with their college decisions," Mack said.

"Our students rotate through 15 departments at the hospital. . . . Some students
learn they are not comfortable touching sick people, or dealing with death and
dying; others that they enjoy lab work or radiology. That is a real advantage of
the program."

Collette Brown, director of human resources for Taylor, said students are
supervised at all times by a licensed staff member and were trained in hospital
privacy and safety rules before classes started.

"The hardest thing for a teen of 18 is deciding what they want to do with the
rest of their lives. The more we can give them information, the more they will
make the right choice for their lives," Brown said.

Erwin said he is looking to expand the number of hospitals and schools enrolled
in the program for the 2004-05 school year.

Orloff completed a rotation at Taylor's physical rehabilitation department and
became a volunteer.

"I loved physical therapy, helping people get back to what they want to do,"
Orloff said.

"Now I'm in the emergency department and everyone tells me, 'You will love
working in the ER.' "

Send education news to suburban staff writer Gloria A. Hoffner, The Philadelphia
Inquirer, 800 River Rd., Conshohocken, Pa., 19428; e-mail it to
PAschools@phillynews.com; or fax it to 610-313-8227. Contact Gloria A. Hoffner
at 610-313-8006 or gloriah@phillynews.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
BOB WILLIAMS, Inquirer Suburban Staff
Gina Graham, 17, takes a patient's temperature at Taylor Hospital in Ridley
Park. Graham is part of the Delaware County Technical School's Pre-Medical
Careers Program.

                  Copyright 2003 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


