                               1 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The Straits Times

Four hospitals have their own ethics committees

                                 June 12, 1993


SEVERAL hospitals say that they either have their own ethics committees or are
in the process of setting them up.

A check with six private and re-structured hospitals showed that four already
have such committees, while one is in the process of forming one.

The Straits Times reported on Thursday that the Health Ministry is setting up a
national ethics committee to work out clearer ethical guidelines raised by new
medical treatments.

But the ministry also said that this does not prevent hospitals from forming
their own ethics committees.

The four hospitals with such committees are the National University Hospital
(NUH), Tan Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH), Mount Elizabeth Hospital and East Shore
Hospital.

A spokesman for the Singapore General Hospital said that it is forming an ethics
committee, but that its terms of reference have not been finalised.

A spokesman for Gleneagles Hospital said it does not have a formal ethics
committee. Issues of an ethical nature are referred to the medical advisory
board, which handles all professional work in the hospital, he said.

The committee at NUH was formed at the end of 1991. Called the Ethical Research
Committee, it is headed by a senior clinician. Members include doctors and a
medical social worker.

The committee protects the subjects of research from possible harm, preserves
the rights of subjects to ensure that the research is ethical and provides
reassurance to the public that this is done.

TTSH set up its nine-member Ethics and Research Committee in July last year to
review cases which require inquires on ethical issues.

Mount Elizabeth and East Shore, both private hospitals, formed their ethics
committees six months ago. Each has a minimum of three doctors plus other
hospital representatives.


SECTION: Home; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 560 words

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1993 The Straits Times Press Limited


