                               2 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                October 7, 2002

Doctors 'should tell of financial interest' in treatments

BYLINE: By CAROL COULTER, Legal Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 463 words


Doctors should have to tell patients when they have a financial interest in the
treatment they are recommending, the Medical Council has been told.

In its submission to the council, which is currently reviewing its ethical
guidelines, the Adelaide Hospital Society says patients should be aware of
doctors' potential conflicts of interest.

The document states: "These may arise when doctors have a financial interest in
certain healthcare facilities. We submit that the Medical Council should give
ethical guidance to the effect that where a doctor has a financial interest in a
healthcare facility, or course of treatment, and where they are recommending
patients to receive care in such a facility or obtain such a course of
treatment, that such an interest would be declared."

Stressing the ethical need for doctors to press for adequate and appropriate
care for all patients, it says: "There are major ethical dilemmas for doctors
when financial pressures prevent timely and/or appropriate care to patients.
Such advocacy will be ethical and effective when it is informed by social
justice principles, adequate research and analysis and is not directly related
to the remuneration of doctors themselves."

The society also recommends that doctors be involved in publicly advocating
appropriate and accessible healthcare for all, especially the less well-off,
without directly seeking more money for doctors.

The Medical Council called for submissions as part of its five-yearly updating
of the Ethical Guide, last updated in 1998.

The Adelaide Hospital Society is a charitable organisation and reflects the
Protestant ethos in medicine.

It was formerly involved in the Adelaide Hospital, and now is a central part of
the management of Tallaght Hospital, which incorporated the Adelaide, Meath and
National Children's Hospitals.

The submission states that the section of the Ethical Guide relating to
reproductive medicine will have to be totally revised to reflect the fact that
the Medical Council now recognises that termination of pregnancy is ethical
where there is a substantive risk to the life of the mother.

The society favours legislation to reflect the judgment in the X case,
permitting abortion where suicide is a real threat to the mother's life.

The submission stresses the importance of doctor/patient confidentiality. It
warns against the possible breach of this confidentiality by ethical committees
in certain hospitals.

It urges that doctors not be required to sign codes of ethics which would
inevitably mean breaches of confidentiality to such ethical committees.

The society enclosed its submission to the Commission on Assisted Human
Reproduction, where it stressed that there should be no direct State
interference.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2002 The Irish Times


