                               3 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        March 9, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Hospital of America Named Ethisphere Institute World's Most Ethical Company for
Sixth Consecutive Year

LENGTH: 713  words


March 9 -- Hospital Corporation of America (NYSE: HCA), a leading healthcare
provider with 166 hospitals and 113 ambulatory surgery centers in 20 states and
the United Kingdom, has been named a World's Most Ethical Company by the
Ethisphere Institute for the sixth consecutive year.

Ethisphere is the global leader in defining and advancing the standards of
ethical business practices. The World's Most Ethical Companies designation
recognizes those organizations that have had a material impact on the way
business is conducted by fostering a culture of ethics and transparency at every
level of the company. There are 132 organizations on Ethisphere's 2015 World's
Most Ethical Companies. HCA is one of only three healthcare services
organizations honored this year.

"Being named one of Ethisphere's World's Most Ethical Companies is in large part
a reflection of our innovative Ethics and Compliance Program, which serves as a
model for others in the healthcare services sector," said Alan Yuspeh, HCA's
senior vice president and chief ethics and compliance officer. "Of particular
note are our Internal Compliance Reporting process, our Compliance Process
Review efforts and our Responsible Executive program."

As part of HCA's focus on ethics and compliance, the company has named 42
individuals to serve as Responsible Executives for 46 areas of compliance risk;
these individuals provide leadership in developing policies and procedures and
training and communication, monitoring implementation and providing guidance in
their areas of risk. The Internal Compliance Reporting process requires
disclosure to the Ethics and Compliance Department of a wide range of potential
regulatory violations, which are investigated and addressed as necessary.
Compliance Process Reviews are conducted in each hospital every three to four
years with the intent of assessing the facility's effectiveness in implementing
the Company's Ethics and Compliance Program and providing assistance in
improving the facility's efforts, if necessary. This review program fosters the
sharing of best practices among all our facilities.

In addition, HCA is a leader in environmental practices among healthcare
companies. Increasingly, the company is purchasing eco-friendly products, using
sustainable building materials, enhancing recycling efforts and using energy and
water more efficiently. HCA has installed both solar and geothermal energy
sources at facilities and helped lead an industry effort to create standardized
environmental questions for healthcare purchases. HCA is a member of Practice
GreenHealth and a charter member of the Healthier Hospitals Initiative, two
organizations that champion eco-friendly practices in healthcare.

HCA also is active philanthropically, supporting agencies that promote health
and well-being, support childhood and youth development and foster the arts in
Middle Tennessee. The HCA Foundation has awarded grants totaling approximately
$25 million since 2008.

"The World's Most Ethical Companies embrace the correlation between ethical
business practice and improved company performance. These companies use ethics
as a means to further define their industry leadership and understand that
creating an ethical culture and earning the World's Most Ethical Companies
recognition involves more than just an outward facing message or a handful of
senior executives saying the right thing," said Ethisphere's chief executive
officer, Timothy Erblich. "Earning this recognition involves the collective
action of a global workforce from the top down. We congratulate everyone at HCA
for this extraordinary achievement."

The World's Most Ethical Company assessment is based upon the Ethisphere
Institute's Ethics Quotient (EQ) framework developed over years of research to
provide a means to assess an organization's performance in an objective,
consistent and standardized way. Scores are generated in five key categories:
ethics and compliance program (35%), corporate citizenship and responsibility
(20%), culture of ethics (20%), governance (15%) and leadership, innovation and
reputation (10%). The full list of the 2015 World's Most Ethical Companies can
be found at: (http://ethisphere.com/worlds-most-ethical/wme-honorees/).

Source: Hospital Corporation of America

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


