                               4 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              July 17, 2006 Monday

Debate over childrens' hospital

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 735 words


Madam, - Brian Maurer (July 10th) raises three important points concerning the
governance of any new children's hospital, the importance of paediatric services
to the Adelaide & Meath Hospital at Tallaght, and the doctor-patient
relationship in Irish healthcare. I wish to respond as briefly as possible to
each of these.

In relation to governance, the "provision of separate governance and ownership
structures" for a new children's hospital is indeed a necessary condition but it
is not a sufficient one to "allay fears and apprehensions". It is vital that the
precise character of "separate governance and ownership structures" is discussed
and agreed. The facts are that any new children's hospital will involve the
existing two voluntary Roman Catholic paediatric hospitals and one
multidenominational and pluralist paediatric hospital. It is helpful that the
Government has decided that the new facility to be built at the Mater hospital
site will be governed on a multidenominational and pluralist basis. However,
this new hospital will have to relate to, and integrate with, services in the
Mater hospital, which is governed by a prescriptive written code of Roman
Catholic ethics. It is not unreasonable to seek clarification as to which
ethical stance will prevail in these circumstances.

The second point relates primarily to the healthcare needs of the rapidly
growing communities served by the Adelaide & Meath Hospital which, alone of the
hospitals mentioned by Mr Maurer, has already a National Children's Hospital
co-located and integrated with its adult services. Currently it serves more than
70,000 children each year, including 30,000 in its puprpose-built, separate A&E
unit, 29,000 outpatients and more than 10,000 in day and inpatient beds. We have
a clear responsibility to the families we serve to ensure both access and the
character of care they desire. If the hospital were simply to resile from its
legal mandate, under the charter, to develop the National Children's Hospital,
it would cease to be "a major contributor to Irish healthcare", as it is
currently the only paediatric teaching hospital in the Republic not under Roman
Catholic auspices.

Thirdly, Mr Maurer raises the uniqueness of the legal guarantee of a
confidential doctor-patient relationship contained in the charter of the
Adelaide & Meath Hospital, Dublin, incorporating the National Children's
Hospital. He asserts that this is not a necessary protection as such a
relationship is at "the core of the code of practice and ethics of all medical
practitioners".

Mr Maurer must surely know that Roman Catholic hospitals operate under a
written, prescriptive code of ethics which enshrines the teaching of that
church. Those who work in such hospitals are obliged to adhere to this code and
to treatment decisions made from time to time by a separate ethics committee.
Under such a code, for example, parents do not have a right to the full range of
family planning services which are legal in Ireland.

The ethical code of the Religious Sisters of Charity, who own and govern St
Vincent's University Hospital, prohibits in-vitro fertilisation which it
considers "not ethically justified". This ethical code states clearly that in
respect of "any partnership of co-operation or source of funding that will
effect our healthcare mission, the ethical identity and the Catholic ethos of
our services must be respected. Our healthcare services will participate and
co-operate insofar as our philosophy, mission and ethical code are not
compromised".

Why does it become "deeply, though perhaps inadvertently, offensive", to use Mr
Maurer's phrase, if Protestant church leaders, and indeed many other citizens,
seek for their Christian ethical positions to be similarly respected and not
compromised in any new arrangements? The reality is that doctor-patient
relationships are always vulnerable to those who wish for a variety of reasons
(which may be political or religious) to impose external beliefs systems and/or
ideologies on the care provided. The unique protection in the charter of the
Adelaide & Meath Hospital, far from being superfluous, is more essential than
ever to vindicate citizens' rights in a republic and perhaps public policy
should seek to extend it to many other healthcare providers. - Yours, etc,

Dr FERGUS O'FERRALL, Director, Adelaide Hospital Society, Adelaide & Meath
Hospital, Tallaght, Dublin 24.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


