                               5 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 27 1987, Tuesday

Law Report: Test tube baby treatment claim fails

SECTION: Issue 62910.

LENGTH: 657 words


Regina v Ethical Committee of St Mary's Hospital, Ex parte Harriot

Before Mr Justice Schiemann


(Judgment October 26)

Doctors who decided that a woman should be refused in vitro fertilization (IVF)
treatment because off the refusal of the social services department to consider
her for adoption, and of her history of prostitution and associated criminal
record had not, on the evidence, acted unfairly. Further, there had been no
obligation on the infertility services and ethical committee of the hospital to
advise on whether or not the woman should be given IVF treatment.

Mr Justice Schiemann so held in the Queen's Bench Division in refusing
applications by Janet Harriott for judicial review of decisions of Dr Pamela
Buck and Dr B. A. Lieberman of St Mary's Hospital, Manchester and for judicial
review of the advice and guidance of the Ethical Committee of St Mary's Hospital
.

Mr Louis Blom-Cooper, QC and Mr Edward Fitzgerald for the applicant; Mr Rodger
Bell, QC and Mr Bruce Caulfield for the health authority.

MR JUSTICE SCHIEMANN said that it had not been suggested that the general policy
pursued by the regional IVF unit that couples accepted on to the waiting list
must, in the ordinary course of events, satisfy the general criteria established
by adoption societies in assessing suitability for adoption.

The ethical committee had been set up in the spirit of the Report of the
Committee of the Inquiry into Human Fertilizaton and Embryology (Cmnd 9314) (the
Warnock Report).

There had been no statutory duty to set up the committee and there was no
statutory duty imposed on the committee either to decide or advise. It was
essentially an informal body with the function of providing a forum for
discussion among professionals.

His Lordship was doubtful about accepting that judicial review did not lie to
review any advice of the committee, but this case did not involve such a
situation. Here the complaint was that the committee advised that the consultant
must make up her own mind as to whether the treatment should be given. That was
wholly unobjectionable.

It followed that there could be no objection that the committee did not afford
the applicant an opportunity of putting evidence and submissions before it. If
the committee was entitled not to give advice the court should be wlow, if
indeed it had the power, to force such a committee to receive representations
before it decided not to give advice.

The complaint against the consultant was that she had been under a duty to act
fairly when deciding to remove a patient from the IVF list on social grounds,
either exclusively or mainly, and those social grounds involved issues of
contested fact.

For the purpose of this judgment his Lordship was prepared to accept that that
submission was correct in law. But even on that assumption there were no grounds
for granting relief.

There were indeed grounds for criticism of Dr Buck's decisions. However, it had
to be remembered that decisions by doctors as to whether to give or refuse
treatment were not ones which, once made, rendered the doctor powerless to
change her view in the light of new arguments or facts.

The applicant, since the decision, had had the opportunity to put more
information in front of the doctors and health authority. There was no reason to
suppose that they had acted unfairly in the matter or had shut their ears to her
representations in the sense of being unwilling to entertain them. It was not
and could not be suggested that no reasonable consultant could have come to the
conclusion to refuse treatment to the applicant.

In those circumstances there was no reason to grant the applicant the relief she
sought. In consequence his Lordship did not need to decide whether in principle
judicial review would lie in respect of such a decision.

Solicitors: Hepworth & Halpern, Manchester; Mr E. G. Jones, Manchester.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1987 Times Newspapers Limited


