                               6 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 4, 2000 Tuesday

The board failed Sick Kids

BYLINE: Ronald Bayne

SECTION: LETTER TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: Hamilton, Ont.


I have no inside information on how the Hospital for Sick Children related to
Nancy Olivieri, but the Comment article (Dec. 31) by Sandy Aird, chairman of the
board of trustees of the hospital, compels me to write.

Mr. Aird is cowering behind the screen of the excellent scientific and
humanitarian work of the hospital staff that he describes so smugly. If the
staff is "immersed in a web of conflict," it is because the hospital board
failed to act in an area in which it has the ultimate responsibility - ethical
research - and then delayed in admitting its failure.

The concern is not just that the board failed to give "support expeditiously to
Dr. Olivieri"; it is that it did not recognize the important ethical question
involved. Perhaps the CEO acted autocratically in not bringing it to the board's
attention. But Mr. Aird still does not seem to realize its importance.

Dr. Olivieri may or may not have had adequate scientific evidence for refusing
to continue the research. But she followed an ancient and well-established
medical ethical principle, "First, do no harm." Even if some patients benefit
from a treatment, if others appear to be harmed by it, one must stop and
reassess.

To say that "disputes over the efficacy of a particular drug are a matter for
scientific debate, not internal dispute within Sick Kids or any other hospital,"
is wrong. The hospital is responsible for its patients, and the hospital must
have a research policy that protects its patients. It may rely on the university
research procedures, which should include a review by an independent ethical
review committee, but the hospital must know what that research procedure is,
and state in its own policies that it accepts it.

Mr. Aird concludes by saying, "That controversy may continue, but we hope it
will continue where it should - in the scientific community." Wrong again! The
controversy is of great concern to the public because it is not simply a
scientific question. The Sick Kids Hospital board represents the public, and
must concern itself not just with securing the most highly qualified and able
professional staff, but ensuring that its policies are based on ethical
principles, and that these policies are complied with.

MD

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2000 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


