                               7 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Assam Tribune (India)

                              June 8, 2014 Sunday

Ethical accountability

LENGTH: 1013 words

DATELINE: Guwahati


Guwahati, June 8 -- The denial of human rights is not merely an individual and
family tragedy, it is a threat to humanity itself. Unfortunately, Assam is
experiencing this tragedy during last several years. The loss of life and
property of innocent people as well as the service providers to the nation is
giving a severe blow to the human rights of the people of Assam. The recent two
incidents i.e. the violation of human rights in BTAD and Assam Medical College
Hospital gave a great shock to all of us. These problems have different
dimensions - administrative, political, economic, legal, ethical etc. Viewing
the tragic incident of Assam Medical College Hospital which claimed the life of
a young lady doctor while on duty from ethical perspective it may be said that
the ethical vacuity in the hospital may have also contributed to a great extent
to the violation of human rights of the patients as well as the physicians and
the allied staff. The adoption of ethical guidelines may prevent at least the
preventable organizational ailments.

The need of moral and ethical guidelines for effective working of any
organization does not disappear with the progress of science and technology .
Science cannot give us license to create ethical vacuum in any human society. To
serve the society effectively one must be equipped with human qualities along
with the expert knowledge of the work.

Ethical failure begins soon after the service providers start hiding their acts
of omission by various means. The ethical failure brings administrative or
professional evils. These evils not only deprive the innocent people of the
environment for living with human dignity but also from the human rights. Here
is the beginning of the process of dehumanization of the human organization.

The world of medical sciences is unique by its significance in the human
society. The nature of its service has added to it. Because the decision and
activism of physicians have direct and immediate impact on the life and death of
the patient unlike other services. Further, the physicians are always in the
midst of sufferers who constitute the ailing section of the society. They cannot
afford to be unmindful while treating the patient, the eyes of the doctors are
tied up with the condition of the patients, their ears are always overloaded
with loud sound of grief or pain, weeping, emergency call, lamentation and
clamour caused by both patients and attendants of the patients. The environment
in which they are to render service is quite different from other services.

In India with the government efforts the private sector is also contributing
significantly to the health services through hospitals, nursing homes,
polyclinics, dispensaries and community-based health centers. The increase in
the number of the health care systems is a clear indicator of the growth of
patient population in the country. Recently a special research paper published
in the Lancet Oncology Journal indicated that every year 10 lakh Indians are
diagnosed with cancer. And it is feared that, by 2035 these numbers may go up to
17 lakh per year. It is a serious threat to Indian economy as well as human
resource. And more significantly it has a grave negative impact on the human
rights of individuals.

This situation is enough to realize the need of ethical accountability in any
service. The concept of ethical accountability is a comprehensive one. Within an
organization the principles and practices of ethical accountability aim to
improve both the internal standard of individual conduct or group conduct as
well as external factors. Every task has moral implication in addition to other
obligations.

In the biomedical area ethical codes were probably formulated as soon as man
began to receive care for his ailments. Gellhorn said that he was aware of the
Oath of the Hindu Physician prepared about 1500 B.C. which includes a number of
personal requirements for the physician such as no meat-eating, no adultery, no
drinking and so on. ' Do the sick no harm' was the motto of the physicians. The
physician's single-minded concern for the patient together with the other
cardinal principle, 'do no harm' had been the guiding ethics for the doctors for
close to 3500 years. After the horrific medical crimes in Germany during post
World war II the 'Hippocratic Oath' was to be resurrected in a more contemporary
form in the Geneva Declaration.

The birth of UN on 24th October 1945, the meeting of WMA in London in 1946, the
beginning of WHO on 7th April 1948 underline the realization by the world
leaders the need to safeguard the human rights of man and woman for peace and
security of the world. The discussion focuses issues of the health and human
rights of individuals and this was followed by the strong step of the adoption
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on 10th December 1948 by the UN
General Assembly.

The physicians enjoy full autonomy in decision making as regards the treatment
of a patient who comes to him/her for this purpose. This right to autonomy is
insisted upon due to his/her expertness in the field of medical sciences which
cannot be claimed by the patients/attendants. This freedom has its uniqueness
due to the fact that there is complete surrender of a patient to the doctor.
This is more true in the case of a patient who meets the doctor in the OT. This
autonomy can never be divorced from very heavy responsibility of the medical
service providers.

Here is the need of human power which may be acquired through human qualities
inculcated in them by the process of socialization i.e from being to becoming.
Ahimsa is an appeal to the heart of a person to refrain from doing harm to
others. One must also develop the habit of doing good to others. Further every
physician is also a seeker of truth while making efforts to make the correct
diagnosis of the disease of a patient.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Assam Tribune. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Assam Tribune (P) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


