                               8 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Senior doctors check younger ones from crossing ethical lines

                               November 15, 1995

Ravi Veloo


One hospital ethics committee blocked a project where the doctor would have had
to use a tube to literally suck the brains out of a living foetus to transplant
the tissue into an old man with Parkinson's Disease. Out of the public eye,
hospital ethics committees have been doing some significant work, as RAVI VELOO
finds out. See Page Two.

WHO'S WATCHING WHAT YOU DO, DOC?

ONE ethics committee put the brakes on a project which would have required using
a tube to literally suck the brains out of a foetus to transplant the tissue
into an old man with Parkinson's Disease.

Another hospital's ethics watchdog pulled the plug on a proposed organ operation
using a robot, which was still experimental.

Not often do these kinds of ethical issues arise in Singapore, but, quietly, out
of the public eye, these are some of the true-life dilemmas wrestled down by
ethics committees in hospitals here in the past three years or so since such
watchdogs were formed.

The avuncular Dr Aw Swee Eng, chairman of the ethics committee at Singapore
General Hospital, said: "We, as senior people, have to look after our younger
colleagues, who sometimes need to temper their enthusiasm with caution."

The soft-spoken Dr Aw, who is also the head of Nuclear Medicine at the hospital,
added: "On the foetal tissue transplant, it was proposed in good faith as the
only way to help the patient.

"We to-ed and fro-ed on it for six months, asking for more research material, as
it was still experimental.

"Finally, what swung us against the idea was the way the foetal tissue would be
taken. And sometimes, you need two or three foetuses."

But, in the few years the SGH committee has been around, there have been only a
couple of cases that troubled it. Other research proposals were problem-free.

Dr Aw noted: "Ethical issues are not such a big problem in Singapore hospitals.
We don't have people doing odd things, making Frankensteins."

At Toa Payoh Hospital, ethics committee chairman Dr Khoo Teng Kew concurred, but
said the one problem case they had had was intriguing.

He said: "It involved using an experimental robot to operate on a human organ. I
can't tell you too much about it, because it is still a secret project.

"The company developing it does not want the competition to know too much about
it, and there are issues about patents involved.

"We got the people who are involved to come and brief us about what's involved.
We're not in the machine line.

"We thrashed out our misgivings in the open, giving the researchers a chance to
present their case.

"We have asked for more data on initial trials on animals, and we are still
waiting for progress reports."

Traditionally, it has been the Singapore Medical Council which has provided
leadership on medical ethics here, and it continues to do so.

Doctors who violate its code can be censured, suspended or struck off the
medical register.

But over the past three years, several hospitals have set up their own ethics
committees to serve a different purpose.

The main reason for this is that medical journals often require a research
project to have formal approval from such a committee before they will publish
its reports.

So, hospital ethics committees here are basically research watchdogs.  They are
focused on protecting the interests of the human subjects.

Yet, as shown by the examples above, this does not mean they are spared the
challenging ethical dilemmas that doctors face today as cutting-edge technology
and possibilities confront age-old feelings on what is good or bad.

Toa Payoh Hospital's Dr Khoo said: "Cost is one factor that tends to arise as an
ethical issue. Why should the patient pay for an expensive, experimental drug
treatment if the benefits are not certain?

"But, this is usually resolved by the drug companies paying for it.

"The other issue fast arising is the type of machines coming into play. We ask:
Do you know what you are doing?, and we keep probing, and finding out more about
these experimental machines."

TO HELP achieve a decent spread of opinion on such issues, the hospital
committees include non-medical members, who are all volunteers.

Generally, the practice is that the head of the ethics committee is chosen by
the hospital, and he then picks the other members.

The Toa Payoh Hospital committee includes a medical-social worker, nursing staff
and its lawyer-member is Mr R. Palakrishnan, who has prepared legal advice on
when death has occurred and conducted a seminar in the hospital on the legal
angle on the Advance Medical Directive.

The hospital also has a school principal to represent the layman, and has the
benefit of someone trained specifically in bioethics, a Catholic priest.

The Singapore General Hospital committee draws on the work of similar relevant
institutions abroad, including the famous Hastings Centre in New York, which
trains bioethicists and produces specialised ethics journals.

At Tan Tock Seng Hospital, the ethics committee led by Dr F.J.  Jayaratnam even
has a Manual For Research Ethics Committees from the Centre of Medical Law and
Ethics at King's College in London. He has also touched base with an American
bioethicist who is available for consultation.

Dr Jayaratnam said: "We are better placed to play an educational role when we
have people who are trained in such roles, such as bioethicists. There is a need
for someone who is specially trained in bioethics."

Indeed, sources say the National Medical Ethics Committee is looking into
recommending to the Health Ministry that it offer fellowships for training in
bioethics for medical doctors here, which is a good sign.

But all the committees, like doctors generally here and elsewhere, take their
lead from the famous Helsinki Declaration by doctors, which gives broad
guidelines on medical ethics, emphasising that it is the patient's interests and
well-being that comes first and above all.

IN SINGAPORE, one could say the ethics committees are generally insulated from
public controversy regarding ethical issues, and for this they have their
limited terms of reference to thank.

Abroad, there are swirling debates about the ethics of having ethics committees
themselves, dubbed "God Committees" by critics for having the last say on who
gets access to limited facilities.

About half the hospitals in the United States have ethics committees, and they
are often invested with more onerous duties, too.  They usually perform at least
three functions:

- Influencing ethical issues that affect the care of the patient.

In Singapore, hospital committees leave such pace-setting directions to the
National Medical Ethics Committee, which was set up last year to lead on a
national level on such complex ethical issues as the Advance Medical Directive.

- Offering counselling to medical workers and patients on difficult decisions
involving treatment.

Again, hospital committees here are not usually involved in such matters.

Doctors are welcome to raise ethical issues with the committees, say those
chairmen who spoke to Life!, but they said dilemmas faced by younger doctors
were usually resolved at the department level in talks with senior doctors.

- Sponsoring educational programmes on ethics for medical staff and the public.

This, the Toa Payoh Hospital committee has done in past years, with talks on the
Advance Medical Directive, which drew standing-room-only crowds.

Can hospital ethical committees here go further in their work, for example, by
organising more frequent seminars or informal dicussions among doctors regarding
ethical matters?

Certainly, say their chiefs. But much of this is outside their purview.

Yet, these ethics committees open a window to a world of profound complexities,
one that involves everybody, whether it is a patient, his physician and nurse,
or a friend or relative of either one.

It is a big question whether such ethics committees will be able to stay their
ground, or whether the time is rapidly approaching when they will be called upon
to play the philosopher among physicians and patients daily and quickly, as
others do abroad.


SECTION: Life; (Cover Story); Pg. 1,L2

LENGTH: 1920 words

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Looking for a bible: manuals and expert testimony are some things
ethics committees turn to for guidance in murky waters, but there is not always
an easy answer. (Page L2)

                 Copyright 1995 The Straits Times Press Limited


