                              10 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                          June 26, 1992, CITY EDITION

Coombe's wide range of ethical guidelines

BYLINE: By Geraldine Kennedy, Public Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; WEATHER EYE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 933 words


THE new guidelines on female sterilisation  issued  by the Coombe Hospital,
Dublin, on Wednesday form only part of the revised ethical policy of one of the
oldest maternity hospitals in the country.

The revised ethical policy and traditions of the Coombe were confirmed by the
board of the hospital last February - before the current debate on the rights
and risks to a woman's life in pregnancy arose in the "X" case.

Though the broadening of the grounds for female sterilisation is the most
newsworthy feature of the new ethical policy, which was two years in
preparation, the revised guidelines also cover the contentious questions of
euthanasia, organ transplants, fertility and infertility, confidentiality and
conscience.

The chairman of the board of the hospital, Mr Michael Gill, told The Irish Times
yesterday that the new sterilisation procedures did not fully conform to the
Catholic Church's teaching on the subject.  Since the Coombe was a
non-denominational,  voluntary hospital, it was 'free to set its own guidelines,
he said, totally independent of the Medical Council or the teaching of any
Church.

The incidence of female sterilisation was increasing over the years. he said,
and between 30 and 35 such operations were performed last year.

Almost half of the Coombe's new policy document, which has been seen by The
Irish Times, sets out the principles governing the broadening of the grounds on
which female sterilisation can be performed. Female sterilisation may be
permitted, it says, in the following circumstances:

(l) If, in the opinion of a consultant obstetrician/gynaecologist, a future
pregnancy would result in undue risk to the physical health of a woman;

(2) If, in the stated opinion of a consultant obstetrician/ gynaecologist, a
future pregnancy or fear of a future pregnancy would have a serious
psychological impact on a woman's health;

(3) If, in the stated opinion of a consultant obstetrician/ gynaecologist, a
future pregnancy would be unlikely to conclude successfully due to  a problems.

The major change in the procedures, according to Mr Gill, was that individual
applications for sterilisation would no longer have to be considered by an
ethical committee which could comprise lay, non-medical, members. The new
position, he said, was more compassionate and sympathetic to the needs of women.
It would provide that, if the decision by the consultant was within the ethical
guidelines laid down by the board, the master of the hospital would arrange for
the hospitals facilities to be made available for the procedure.

And if, in the opinion of the master, the decision by the consultant was not
within the ethical guidelines laid down by the board, the master would refer the
case to a review panel of five members of the medical consultant staff nominated
by the board.

The best interests of both mother and child had to be considered at all times,
each being the subject of inalienable rights, whether during pregnancy or
subsequently, according to the new guidelines.

On resources and access, the policy states that the resources of the hospital
include all of its staff, as well as its facilities.  "While supportive of
investment in technology, we wish to give an emphasis to important requirements
for patient care and staff facilities in the hospital which are not technology-
based," it adds.

The guidelines also state that "procedures necessary for the treatment of
serious organic pathological conditions of the mother, which cannot be postponed
until the foetus is viable, may be admitted even though the death of the foetus
results".

It goes on to say that euthanasia, "the directly intended termination of a
person's life, even at the person's own request or at the request of the
person's guardian, is always, we hold, unethical. Failure to provide ordinary or
reasonable means of preserving life, whether to an adult or an infant, is
unethical.  There is no obligation to use extraordinary or unreasonable means to
prolong life."

On fertility and infertility, the guidelines recognise that it is the couple
rather than the individual who bear responsibility for family planning, and "we
would, therefore, seek to serve the best interests of our patients in this
regard."

Any method of family planning deemed by current medical criteria to have, or
deemed likely to have, an abortifacient effect was excluded. The ethical basis
of treatments of patients who may be infertile rested in the guidelines on the
couple who would be parents, and who were capable genetically of being assisted
to have a child.

The obligation of professional secrecy, according to the new policy, covered not
only information on a patient's chart and records, but also confidential and
personal matters learned in the course of professional duty. It also provided,
on the question of conscience, that no person may, in any circumstances, be
required to participate in any way in an operation, procedure, treatment or
research to which he/she had a conscientious objection; nor may he/she suffer
any disability or discrimination whatsoever by reason of such conscientious
objection.

Meanwhile, Councillor Eithne FitzGerald of the Labour Party said yesterday that
the Coombe's guidelines governing the sterilisation of women did no! go far
enough. Women were still being asked to show that they needed to be sterilised
for a medical or psychological reason, she added, rather than being offered this
service where they had chosen this method of permanent contraception, having
completed their families.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 1992 The Irish Times


