                              96 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            February 2, 1999 Tuesday

AEC caught in ethical quagmire

BYLINE: MATHEW INGRAM

SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS COLUMN; BUSINESS WEST; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 808 words

DATELINE: Calgary


When the details of the case against accused terrorist Wiebo Ludwig first
started filtering out of the courtroom last week, the argument advanced by Mr.
Ludwig's defence lawyer seemed outlandish -- the kind of thing only a
conspiracy-loving devotee of the X-Files TV show might come up with. What
sensible person would believe the RCMP and Alberta Energy Co. actually hatched a
plot to blow up an AEC pipeline equipment shed?

The following day, the prosecutor in the case admitted that this was in fact
exactly what happened after AEC officials were contacted by a neighbour of Mr.
Ludwig's in the Hythe area of northwestern Alberta -- someone who said they
might be prepared to act as an informant for the RCMP. The ostensible reason for
the RCMP-planted bomb, it seems, was to build up the credibility of this
informant, known in James Bond-style as Agent K4029.

The farcical nature of this supposed plan has led to all sorts of examples of
gallows humour: For example, a sign in downtown Calgary yesterday referred to
the recently demolished General Hospital and asked "The General Hospital --
obsolete facility, or RCMP training mission?" But beneath all the jokes about
James Bond movies lies a serious ethical issue.

Unfortunately for AEC CEO Gwyn Morgan, his company is up to its knees, and
perhaps even its waist, in the middle of this ethical quagmire. Mr. Morgan -- a
well-respected executive with a reputation for hard-nosed attention to detail
and a devotion to personal and corporate fitness -- took the moral high ground
early on in the battle against corporate terrorism. That stand, however, has now
been irrevocably compromised.

The RCMP's so-called dirty tricks project, which was code-named Operation
Kabriole (although why it was called that isn't clear), has gotten ink in
newspapers as far away as the South China Morning Post, which said the
uncovering of the plan meant "the faces of some Royal Canadian Mounted Police
officers are almost as red as their famous tunics."

Mr. Morgan assured his employees in a memo last week that their company would
never do anything illegal and said his only concern was their safety -- and this
is no doubt true. Legally, AEC apparently did nothing wrong in allowing its own
equipment to be blown up by the RCMP explosives squad. The company has also
denied a defence accusation that AEC bought the property belonging to its
informant, Agent K4029.

But that is part of the point: Even if AEC did not hatch the plan, just by being
involved in that campaign it has lost most -- if not all -- of whatever moral
authority it may once have held. For example, environmentalists have alleged for
some time that AEC paid off residents rather than answer claims that sour gas
wells cause health problems. How much faith can those critics, or anyone else,
now have in the company's repeated denials?

It's easy to sympathize with the frustration felt by both AEC and the RCMP in
the wake of a wave of attacks on oil field sites last year. Mr. Ludwig and
members of his religious commune were arrested in connection with the attacks
last fall but were released for lack of evidence -- after which Mr. Morgan gave
a speech that, among other things, called for the introduction of "broader
investigative powers" for police.

Did Mr. Morgan mean investigators should be allowed to blow things up and then
claim that terrorists did it? Probably not. But all his comments are now likely
to be interpreted in light of that rigged explosion. After his speech, the AEC
chief executive was hailed for his courageous stand against terrorism which he
called "a societal cancer." The force of those statements, however, has now been
undercut by the RCMP's covert operation.

Perhaps AEC felt that nabbing whoever was responsible for the attacks justified
using extraordinary means. But did it? If someone has been killed, many might
argue that the police should be able to use whatever methods they think are
necessary. But all the attacks involved nothing more than property damage -- no
loss of life or even injury.

The worst part of the affair is that conspiracy theorists and camouflage-wearing
environmentalist fringe groups will be even more adamant that AEC is the enemy
-- how could it not be, if it is willing to take part in such a plan? It will be
easier for critics to see AEC and the so-called environmental terrorists as
morally equivalent.

In his speech, Mr. Morgan said: "People who carry out planned acts of violence
for a cause they believe in are simply terrorizing innocent people without
regard for the laws of the land." Before, AEC made a credible case that it was
the good guy, suffering attacks on its assets by holier-than-thou criminals.
Now, it seems as though the company is just as willing as its opponents to use
any means to bring about the result it wants. So what now differentiates the two
sides?

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1999 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


