                              91 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            October 21, 2014 Tuesday
                               Townsville Edition

No funds for kids study

BYLINE: JOSH ALSTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 353  words


A WORLD-FIRST baby study at James Cook University has been stalled because of a
lack of funding.

As revealed in the Townsville Bulletin in October last year, the university is
planning a TropiKids longitudinal study which will track Townsville and Cairns
babies' development from birth to age 30.

It will be similar to a Mater-University of Queensland study of pregnancy which
was conducted from 1981 and involved 4000 people.

The study had originally been planned to commence this year, but a lack of
funding becuase of government cutbacks to the university and Townsville Hospital
has -prevented the project from getting started.

JCU Professor Linda Shields, from the School of Nursing, Midwifery and
Nutrition, said the university was now seeking ethical approval from the
Townsville Hospital and Health Service Human Research Ethics Committee to
"legitimise" the study and attract funding grants.

"We are keen to continue with it, we want to do it," she said. "But in this day
and age with government cuts, grants are becoming extremely difficult (to
secure).

"As a team we decided not to apply for any more grants.

"We will wait for ethical approval, it's a process that we have to go through.
"Once we have got ethical approval, government bodies will know that we are fair
-dinkum.

"Up until now we have been trying really hard to convince them that we are fair
dinkum.

"This will give some -legitimacy to the whole thing when we are applying for big
grants." One of the first things JCU plans to do once funding is secured is to
employ a project manager.

Prof Shields said the university was working with the hospital to ensure that
became a reality in the future.

"The whole hospital has been really helpful," she said.

"It's just how things go in research. We just have to keep trying and we will
keep trying." Townsville Hospital and Health Service chief executive Julia
Squire said the TropiKids researchers had been advised on how to submit an
ethics application.

"The process for ethics approval can commence whenever an application is made,"
she said."We are not aware of any funding concerns for the TropiKids project."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Townsville Bulletin


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


