                              98 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                    March 29, 2000 Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Animal rights advocates have God on their sign

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; WORCESTER DIARY; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 997 words



People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals is launching a billboard campaign to
coincide with the observance of Easter by local Christians.

PETA signs will go up in Worcester, Providence and Boston urging folks to Go
Vegetarian.''

The billboards feature an actor in God garb telling passing motorists, I said,
Thou shalt not kill.' '' Actually, the guy on the billboard looks more like
Moses parting the waters.

The signs also provide a Web site (www.JesusVeg.com) for those who might want
more information.

We picked Rhode Island and Massachusetts because they have the highest
proportion of Catholics (63 percent and 48 percent, respectively) in the
country, and, of course, Easter is upon us,'' Bruce G. Friedrich, PETA's
vegetarian campaign coordinator, noted in a press release.

The three billboards in Worcester will be on Chandler and Stafford streets and
just off Grafton Street near Interstate 290.

Robert E. Maher Jr. admits that he is not the most popular individual in many
quarters at St. Vincent Hospital these days.

Mr. Maher, the hospital's chief executive officer, has found himself at odds
with nurses who have threatened to strike if they don't land their first
contract by Friday.

Still, Mr. Maher scored some points by allowing Dunkin' Donuts to open up shop
in the new Worcester Medical Center.

We polled people on what kind of food services they'd like to see, and Dunkin'
Donuts was number one on the list,'' Mr. Maher said.  At least we did something
to make employees happy.''

The families of some students at St. Stephen's School on Grafton Hill got a
taste of Japanese culture this month.

Eight students from the land of the rising sun stayed with the families so they
could work on their English. The kids- high school seniors- returned home late
last week.

There was a lot of hand-gesturing in our house,'' said Colleen G. Foisy, whose
family hosted one of the visitors.

Despite some communication problems caused by the language barrier, Mrs. Foisy
said, 16-year-old Ayano Nakasone fit right in with the family.

Mrs. Foisy said her seven children were greatly enriched by the stay, learning
origami and other aspects of Japanese culture.

It was just like having another kid in the house,'' she said.

Now that the plan to renovate the David Burwick Co. building at Main and Madison
streets is yesterday's news, art boosters are seeking another locale for an
artists' colony.

Although the area is a bit removed from the newly established arts district,
don't be surprised if some serious consideration is given to converting those
nearly empty buildings on Pleasant Street near Harrington Corner into lofts and
galleries.

Some City Hall insiders were surprised those buildings were bypassed in favor of
the Burwick building.

The Pleasant Street properties make a lot of sense now, given some recent
developments.

There's an effort by the city's Development Office, for example, to boost arts
and cultural activities along Main Street, from Wheaton Square to Federal
Square. The buildings would be smack in the middle of such a corridor.

Additionally, the buildings could benefit from students living downtown and
attending the soon-to-be-opened Massachusetts College of Pharmacy.

The structures are also located much closer to the Worcester Art Museum and the
Showcase Cinemas building, which a private developer is considering converting
into some sort of art-use mix.

The weather aside, this year's St. Patrick's Parade went off without any serious
problems.

Still, organizers were hoping more folks would volunteer to help on the day of
the event.

About 55 people lent a hand. In comparison, organizers of Holyoke's parade had
about 200 people at their disposal.

We have a good corps of people helping us throughout the year, but we really
need some extra help on the day of the parade,'' said Wayne Griffin, a spokesman
for the St. Patrick's Parade Committee.

To drum up some additional support, the committee is already putting out the
call for help. Anyone interested can send e-mail to
stpatricksparade@mailroom.com.

The 2001 parade will be held on Sunday, March 11.

Its theme, An Irish Odyssey,'' is a takeoff on Stanley Kubrick's science fiction
movie classic, 2001: A Space Odyssey.''

William J. Short, the outgoing chief of the Worcester Area Chamber of Commerce,
will be honored at the April 8 Worcester IceCats game against the Providence
Bruins.

The event is one of many expected over the next few months recognizing Mr.
Short's 25 years of leadership service to the chamber.

For example, the chamber itself will be sponsoring a dinner April 12 at the
Worcester Centrum Centre. Naturally, business attire'' is in order.

The chamber is also setting up a scholarship award in Mr. Short's name that will
benefit area students pursing business education.

Besides academic standing, financial need and civic involvement, chamber
officials said, scholarship recipients will have to possess some of Mr. Short's
qualities, notably patience, inspiration and integrity.''

That's one tall order.

The Worcester Municipal Research Bureau will hold its second forum on the
neighborhoods on April 13 at Assumption College.

The program will focus on businesses and will feature Lawrence Abramoff,
president of Tatnuck Bookseller and Sons; Robin Ahlquist of the Highland Street
Business Association; William Braley of the North Worcester Business
Association; Charlie Grigaitis of the Grafton Hill Business Association;
Christos Liazos of the Webster Square Business Association, and Ralph Rick''
Spokis of the Madison North Business Association.

Earlier this month, leaders of some of the neighborhood groups got together at
the College of the Holy Cross to discuss a host of issues, including community
policing, housing and absentee landlords. Bronislaus B. Kush wrote this week's
edition of the Worcester Diary. Readers with suggestions for the diary should
call (508) 793-9464.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2000 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.


