                              90 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                         December 1, 1994, CITY EDITION

Church defends ethical code for hospitals

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 302 words


THE Archbishop of Dublin, Dr Connell, has said that on the question of laying
down codes of ethical medical conduct, the Catholic Church is competent to
respond not only on behalf of its own hospitals "but in the interest of the
common good of society."

At the Mater Hospital's annual general meeting, Dr Connell said Catholic
hospitals were increasingly coming under attack for seeking to "impose on staff
and patients alike a code of ethical conduct that restricts their freedom of
choice". They were compared unfavourably to those "who are content to leave the
moral question to be determined between consultant and patient alone".

However, the weakness of this endorsement of individual choice as to what was
morally good was beginning to reveal itself, and would do so more dramatically
in the future, "as technological advances present greater opportunities for
experimentation and medical engineering".

Even when the civil law imposes limits on medical ethical conduct, it is not
enough to leave moral questions to be decided solely between consultant and
patient within that legal framework, Dr Connell said.

"This assumes without question that there is no such thing as an immoral law, an
assumption that is refuted, for example, by laws that permit abortion. The
question is where the limits are to be set and in virtue of what authority. To
these questions the church claims the competence to reply not only on behalf of
her own institutions but in the interest of the common good of society."

He emphasised that the responsibility of the public authorities to promote the
secular well being of the Irish people was "not to be confused with the
promotion of a purely secular society". He warned that Catholic hospitals had
the right to exist and to be supported by public funds.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 1994 The Irish Times


