                              93 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 20, 2004, Tuesday

BORN WITH A HEART OUTSIDE HER BODY;
 CHARLI BEATS ODDS TO LIVE

BYLINE: FRANK THORNE IN SYDNEY

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 400 words

HIGHLIGHT: WORRY: Charli's heart pokes out of abdomen shortly after her birth;
LIFE-SAVER: The Brisbane hospital


THIS is tiny Charli Southern who survived against all the odds after being born
with her heart outside her body.

Doctors gave the tot just a two million to one chance of living when she was
delivered by emergency caesarean section seven weeks early.

But she came through two operations - one to put her heart back in the right
place - kidney failure and a potentially fatal chest infection and is now
expected to make a full recovery.

Mum Peta Steedman called her daughter "a little miracle".

The 29-year-old said: "It was touch and go at times and I shed plenty of tears.
She's had some good luck. The doctors say her heart is perfect despite being
outside her body when born.

"Most babies born with this condition have lots of abnormalities but she
doesn't."

After a spell on a ventilator at the Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital where
she was born, six-week-old Charli can now breathe unaided. She is breast-feeding
and gaining weight so rapidly doctors said she could soon be going home to
nearby St George.

Obstetrician Dr Carol Portman said: "We don't see many babies with this problem
get this far."

Charli, who has a two-year-old brother Max, was delivered early when medical
staff spotted on a scan she had ectopia cordis - a rare condition in which the
chest wall fails to close properly.

Dr Portman added: "We weren't expecting what we found. It was easy to see
something protruding through the chest wall. It was Charli's heart. At the time
her survival chances were one in a couple of million, we'd say."

When she was delivered doctors saw the full extent of the problem.

Charli's heart was poking out through a hole in her abdomen just under her rib
cage.

Within hours surgeons operated to put the tiny organ back inside her chest.

The gap left was closed over with existing skin and protective Gore-Tex. The
surgeons then covered the area with clingfilm to keep infection at bay.

Heart specialist Dr Mark Davis, who did Charli's operation, said: "Her recovery
has been startling."

Dr Portman added: "We expect her to run around like a normal child when she gets
older."

Charli's dad Peter Southern put her survival down to a fighting spirit inherited
from her family.

Peta's grandfather was Len Waters, Australia's first Aboriginal fighter pilot in
World War ll.

Peter's dad was a tough sheep shearer in the Outback.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.


