                              104 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             August 9, 2013 Friday

Abortion and ethos of Mater hospital

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 500 words


Sir, - Conor Graham suggests "Better to leave hospital protocol to people who
act on evidence" (August 8th) with regard to Fr Kevin Doran's raising of
questions on how ethical the Protection of Life during Pregnancy Act  is and
whether the Mater can comply with it. In fact, aspects of the Act are not
supported by evidence, and that is why the ethical issues arise. - Is mise,

AONGHUS ^" hALMHAIN,

P^oirc na Seilbhe,

Baile an Chinnidigh,

Co Chill Mhant^oin.

Sir, - If the Catholic Church wishes to retain effective control of certain
hospitals against State policy, it should immediately announce how it is going
to fund these hospitals. The church should be billed by the State in the
meantime for the costs of Catholic hospitals which will not comply with State
legislation and HSE national policy.This will free up the State funds for
transfer  to hospitals which can be run for medical necessity rather than
religious "ethos". This should be the true direction of any hospital.

Alternatively, the church may consider ending this anachronism by transferring
lands and full control of medical institutions under its control towards part of
its unpaid "contribution" to the State and taxpayers'  bills for redress. This
would go so some towards resolving the recent "can't pay" claim by religious
institutions and free them from the burden of being involved in medical
procedures (such as saving women's lives) that go against their "ethos". -
Yours, etc,

ANDREW DOYLE,

Lislevane,

Bandon, Co Cork.

A chara, - Conor D Graham states, "Better to leave hospital protocol to people
who act on evidence" (August 8th). If this debate was about evidence-based
actions, the threat of suicide as justification for an abortion would not have
been included in the new Act. - Is mise,

Rev  Fr PATRICK G

BURKE,

Castlecomer,

Co Kilkenny.

Sir, - The Taoiseach has explicitly declared that he stands with the Republic
and against theocracy. The main Irish hospitals should follow suit. - Yours,
etc,

GEORGE LAIRD,

Rue de la Petite Colline,

Mallemort,

France.

Sir, - Vincent Kelly believes that if a particular hospital were to be entirely
funded by the State, then its ethos (and presumably the ethos of those who work
in it) should be the "law of the land" (August 8th). I would respectfully remind
Mr Kelly that just because a law is passed does not make something just, ethical
or moral. In Nazi Germany, was seizing Jewish property and taking Jewish lives
the right thing to do just because the law of the land said so?

Because such actions were legal according to the laws of that land at the time,
did it absolve those who carried out those crimes that were permissible, and
even obligated, according to the "laws of the land"? No, it did not. At the
subsequent Nuremberg Trials it was found that if legal requirements and actions
were unjust, the defence of "I was only follows orders" on the part of those who
carried out the unjust acts would be no excuse. - Yours, etc,

JOHN B REID,

Knapton Road,

Monkstown,

Co Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


