                              105 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday

UNCERTAINTIES CLOUD HOSPITAL MERGER

BYLINE: NATALIE STOREY

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 451 words


Temple members say ethical and religious directives of Catholic partner are
worrisome

Merger: Separate nonprofit set up to handle procedures

At a meeting with members of Temple Beth Shalom Friday night, hospital officials
continued to insist that care at St. Vincent Regional Medical Center will remain
the same after the hospital finalizes a partnership with a Catholic health-care
company.

But temple members, some of whom asked to see copies of the contract with
Christus Health before it is signed, said there are still too many
uncertainties.

"I think they are playing with a lot of unknowns," said Don Goldman. "The
ethical and religious directives -- they bother me."

Goldman asked hospital administrators how the partnership will cope with medical
and scientific advances in the future, many of which might not be sanctioned by
the Catholic church.

Dave Gunderson, chairman of the St. Vincent board, responded by saying many new
procedures are being handled by out-patient facilities. He also said the
contract contains provisions that allow Christus and St. Vincent to try to
"cure" any disputes that might occur in the future. Disputed procedures can be
carried out for a period of six months. If the dispute cannot be fixed, St.
Vincent can

buy back its share of the hospital, Gunderson said.

The deal with Christus Health could be finalized in February. The partnership,
which is 50-50, will remove $37 million of debt St. Vincent is currently
carrying and allow Christus, which has hospitals in Texas, Louisiana and Mexico,
to expand into New Mexico. Christus is governed by ethical and religious
directives of the Catholic church, directives which many worry might put some
services, such as emergency contraception and sterilization, in jeopardy.
Hospital officials have said a separate nonprofit has been set up to handle the
financing and carrying out of those procedures.

Dan Yohalem asked chief executive Alex Valdez if members of the community could
see the contract with Christus before it was signed, but Valdez denied the
request. "At this point, it is between the two private entities," he said. "We
are not going to be able to publish that information."

Yohalem questioned whether St. Vincent would have money to buy back its share of
the hospital if a dispute arose in the future. "Some of us are deeply concerned
that this is the first step in turning a community hospital into a faith-based
hospital," he said. "What protects this community?"

But Gunderson said monies have been set aside and, he added, St. Vincent could
always borrow money.

"There is a track record that Christus has where it hasn't had train wrecks," he
said.

Contact Natalie Storey

at 986-3026 or nstorey@sfnewmexican.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The New Mexican


