                              101 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Business Times Singapore

                            September 5, 2011 Monday

Chronically ill face healthcare paradox: study;
Subsidised acute hospital care may be cheaper than community and home care

BYLINE: Teh Shi Ning

SECTION: THE NEWS; Singapore

LENGTH: 497 words


DOCTORS here say the current healthcare set-up's financing system may not fit
well with the needs of the chronically ill, a study on end-of-life care
commissioned by Lien Foundation and conducted by the National University of
Singapore's Centre for Biomedical Ethics has found.

The study, based on qualitative interviews of 78 general practitioners and
specialists from a range of practices in both the private and public sectors, is
the first local study of ethical, legal and social issues in medicine.

One of the key observations that principal researchers Jacqueline Chin and
Jacinta Tan reported is that Singapore's 'current healthcare system is
ill-suited to patients who want to die at home because of the lack of financial,
social and physical support'.

At present, the system of pricing and subsidies for healthcare creates a
paradoxical situation - pricier acute hospital care, being most subsidised,
becomes relatively cheaper than community and home care.

Some patients with protracted illnesses requiring long-term care after being
discharged from hospitals, also find that they have exhausted their funds by
then.

One of the doctors surveyed said: 'A lot of our current subventions (government
subsidies) are geared towards inpatient care. While they can gain financial
support much more easily for treatments in the hospital, when it comes to
patients spending time at home or in the community hospitals, the funding dries
up, because funding is directed to the hospital itself.'

Some doctors were also of the view that while Singapore's healthcare system is
highly developed in tertiary, hospital-based specialist care, general
rehabilitative or supportive care based in the community, remains relatively
underdeveloped.

But the imbalance here is being addressed, with increased resources for
home-based medical and nursing care, and voluntary welfare organisations running
community hospitals, hospices, day-care centres and ambulatory care services.

Lien Foundation commissioned this study as there is currently little research to
guide the development of policy and practice of end-of-life care. It chose to
interview doctors to 'surface their collective voice on the clinical, policy and
ethical quandaries they encounter in their care of the dying', says chief
executive Lee Poh Wah.

For instance, some doctors observed that the Western principles of patient
autonomy which undergird laws here, are frequently at odds with the Asian
collective decision-making in families practised.

Specifically, doctors say that one common ethical issue faced is that of
withholding diagnosis from patients at their family's requests.

The report also raised the question of whether current laws should be reviewed,
given that scenarios of collective family decisions and 'collusion' between
doctors and families frequently arise in end-of-life situations. In Japan for
instance, patient autonomy is respected by a patient's advanced directive for
disclosure, the report said.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


