                              11 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Ethical decisions figure in paediatrics seminar

                               November 28, 1994


GOOD ethical decisions in medicine require good medical facts.

Two speakers at the second and last day of the fourth Ministry of Health-Royal
Children's Hospital Update made this point in their papers yesterday.

The six speakers at the symposium at the College of Medicine Building covered
paediatric infectious diseases and ethical issues.

Dr Ho Nai-Kiong from Kandang Kerbau Hospital presented a paper on ethical issues
in neonatal paediatrics.

A senior consultant and head of KKH's department of neonatal medicine I, he said
that in situations where newborn babies have poor chances of living and when all
available measures of sustaining life have been exhausted, ethical and medical
decisions have to be made.

To make these decisions, an infant's diagnosis and prognosis must be accurate.
There should also be detailed information that continuation of any form of
medical treatment for the infant is futile, and will do more harm than good.

He said that it is not easy to formulate guidelines for people who live in a
multi-racial, multi-lingual, multi-cultural and multi-religious Singapore.

He said doctors in Singapore are in favour of prompt treatment for all
critically ill babies.

But the decision to continue aggressive and intensive treatment will be decided
later, depending on the clinical progress and outcome.

Specialist caregivers and parents should also be involved in the decision
making, he added.

He said: "Our experience is that parents are willing to discuss with the medical
staff when making decisions on their very sick babies.

"We always try to achieve consensus when coming to a decision."

Dr James Tibballs, deputy director of Intensive Care and Resuscitation Officer
at the Royal Children's Hospital in Melbourne, Australia, spoke on ethical
problems in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).

He said: "Whom should we admit into ICU? There are economic, moral and legal
issues involved."

Elaborating on the economics question, he said: "If I had $ 50,000, I could
inoculate several thousand children against Hepatitis B, admit about 100
patients into ICU or do one heart transplant.

"Which of these options does society want me to choose?

"Economics is about scarce resources, opportunity, cost and choosing what you
are going to do with the money."

He also touched on the withdrawal of life support systems in ICU.

He said: "In ICU, where technology takes over, it's quite easy to get involved
in technology and not recognise the patient as a person."

He added that he would not treat someone who has a lethal illness and who will
die within weeks, but would instead make him comfortable during his remaining
days.

But, he added: "I wouldn't withdraw life support unless I was very sure I was
making the right decision."


SECTION: Home; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 680 words

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1994 The Straits Times Press Limited


