                              103 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Tribune-Review (Greensburg, PA)

                            April 26, 2008 Saturday

Hospital acquisition to preserve Catholic health care

BYLINE: The Tribune-Review

LENGTH: 296 words


A new group has been formed to honor and preserve the longstanding tradition of
Catholic health care services at a Jeannette hospital.

The committee has been created in anticipation of Excela Health's acquisition of
Mercy Jeannette Hospital on May 1.

The Committee on Ethical and Religious Health Care Directives at Jeannette is
comprised of members of the Sisters of Charity of Seton Hill, Catholic Health
East, the Diocese of Greensburg and Excela Health.

"Creating this group is the first step in fulfilling Excela Health's commitment
to the Jeannette community, the Sisters of Charity of Seton Hill and Catholic
Health East," said Dr. Ralph Capone, chief medical officer of Excela Health and
chairman of the committee. "We are honored to inherit a long, cherished
tradition of Catholic health care and will maintain the ethical and religious
directives in place at the Jeannette campus."

The committee will provide oversight for the adherence to all ethical and
religious directives at the Jeannette campus, which will become an extension of
Excela Health's Westmoreland Hospital in Greensburg

Pastoral care services and a daily Mass, which is celebrated in the chapel of
the Holy Spirit on the fourth floor, will continue at the Jeannette campus.

Joining Capone on the committee will be Phillip Boyle, vice-president of mission
and ethics at Catholic Health East; Peggy Hayden, chief nursing officer of
Excela Health; Sister Vivien Linkhauer, president of U.S. Province Sisters of
Charity of Seton Hill and Monsignor Raymond Riffle, managing director of
Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Greensburg.

The committee is expected to have its first meeting May 8.

Mercy Jeannette Hospital and Excela Health announced plans for an acquisition of
the hospital in October 2007.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


