                              114 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            November 2, 2008 Sunday

Law to change so kidney donors can be compensated;
Amount won't be so big that it is seen as an inducement but may be at least a
five-figure sum

BYLINE: Salma Khalik, Health Correspondent

LENGTH: 646  words


The law will be changed early next year to allow people who donate their kidneys
to get monetary compensation from the recipient or a voluntary organisation.

The amount should not be so large that it is seen as an inducement, said Health
Minister Khaw Boon Wan when he announced this yesterday.

He hinted that the sum will be at least five figures, possibly six. The actual
amount of compensation will be left to a committee which will be set up by the
Ministry of Health to look into this.

Mr Khaw pointed out that the World Health Organisation and countries like the
United States believe it is ethical to compensate donors so they do not suffer
for their act of altruism.

He said the amount of compensation is not 'hard-wired' into the legislation of
countries that allow it, such as the US, Britain and Australia. Singapore will
follow suit.

'The ethical community, including the World Health Organisation, has clarified
that it is ethical to compensate, so long as the compensation amount is not so
big as to induce,' he said.

Mr Khaw plans to amend the Human Organ Transplant Act to allow this change.

More than 1,000 people face organ failure here each year.

It is currently against the law for kidney or liver donors to be compensated.
Both donor and recipient can be fined up to $10,000 and jailed for up to a year
or both.

The upcoming change comes on the heels of a high-profile case involving former
retail magnate Tang Wee Sung.

In September, he was jailed for a day and fined $17,000 for organ trading and
for lying under oath that a proposed donor was a relative.

Earlier in July, an Indonesian who failed to sell his organ to Mr Tang was
jailed for two weeks and fined $1,000. He was to have received $23,700 for his
kidney from the $300,000 Mr Tang paid an agent.

Another Indonesian who received almost $30,000 for selling his kidney here was
jailed for 14 weeks and fined $2,000.

The case sparked a national debate on whether it was ethical to buy an organ.

Yesterday, Mr Khaw reiterated that it was not ethical to do so. But he added
that Singapore, like countries all over the world, faces a severe shortage in
organs for transplants. As a result, many people die each year.

Asked how the compensation scheme is likely to work, he said the idea is for the
recipient to provide the compensation to the donor.

But if the recipient is poor, voluntary welfare organisations like the National
Kidney Foundation could step in to help, said Mr Khaw, who spoke to reporters at
VivoCity after launching the Live On campaign to encourage organ donation.

He said the details would have to be worked out, but a recipient could find his
own donor. It would be up to the hospital's ethics committee to agree to the
transplants, as is the case now.

He said the law will allow compensation 'so long as it's done within an ethical
framework, and you convince the ethics committee that you are not pressuring him
or giving under-the-table inducement'.

Both the chief executive officers of the Singapore General Hospital (SGH) and
Changi General Hospital (CGH), who were at the event, felt that compensating a
donor was fair.

Professor Ang Chong Lye of SGH said kidney donors now either have to pay higher
insurance premiums or have their remaining kidney excluded from health
insurance. So, they do suffer a loss.

Mr T.K. Udairam of CGH warned that while it was fair to compensate donors,
Singapore has to ensure that it stays away from 'the slippery slope' that veers
towards inducing the poor to sell their organs.

The minister himself touched on this when he said that a suitable compensation
for a Singaporean might be considered a huge amount for someone from a poorer
country.

These problems will hopefully be thrashed out during the weeks of public
consultation ahead.

salma@sph.com.sg

Should the laws be changed to allow compensation for live kidney donors? Have
your say at straitstimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2008 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


