                              116 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            December 3, 2010 Friday

Pakistan: Harassment of women at workplace: Law yet to be implemented

LENGTH: 744  words

DATELINE: PESHAWAR


PESHAWAR, Dec. 03 -- The Protection Against Harassment of Women at Workplace Act
2010 has yet to bring a solace to workingwomen, as the law could not be
implemented in its letter and spirit.

The law passed in March 2010 is aimed at creating a working environment for
women free from harassment, abuse and intimidation.

Government officials said women workers having direct interaction with male
colleagues usually have complaints about their unpleasant remarks and sometime
sexual harassment. But, the officials said, the workingwomen often kept silent
or got frustrated because of the lack of proper place where they could go and
lodge their complaints.

According to the officials, under the law all government institutions where
women work with male colleagues were required to constitute inquiry or ethical
committees in their respective organisations for redressing women's complaints.

"It is failure of the federal as well as provincial law departments to ensure
formation of inquiry or ethical committees in institutions of the public and
private sector," said a senior doctor at the Khyber Teaching Hospital (KTH) in
Peshawar.

Pleading anonymity, he said the government had received appreciation from
international community for enacting the law but failed to constitute committees
in the institutions for redressing women's complaints.

Two major sectors where males and females are working together are the health
and education departments. The government officials argued that it was
responsibility of the head of every institution having women and men employees
to constitute ethical committee for addressing complaints of the aggrieved
women.

"Women will certainly appear and complain against their male colleagues in
health and education departments if independent ethical committees are
established there," the official said.

Sources in the three tertiary care hospitals of the provincial metropolis - Lady
Reading Hospital (LRH), Khyber Teaching Hospital (KTH) and Hayatabad Medical
Complex (HMC) - disclosed that female doctors and nurses usually faced negative
attitude.

"This is nothing new. There are good and bad people everywhere in the world. We
do have some bad people who trouble their junior female staff," said a senior
doctor serving at the KTH.

Requesting anonymity, he blamed some senior doctors, especially consultants, for
leaving their junior female doctors to suffer at the hands of others.

"Some of these senior consultants do not have enough time for their respective
wards and subordinate staff as they are too busy with their private clinics,
seminars and foreign trips and delegated their responsibilities to their
juniors. It is now on disposal of these doctors how they handle their junior
colleagues. In some cases, they exploit their powers and force their junior
female doctors to obey their orders, sometime extremely undue demands,"
explained a doctor, saying his wife was also serving in one of Peshawar's
tertiary care hospitals.

The doctor said nobody would dare to sexually harass female workers if there
were forums in departments with men and women staff for redressing complaints.
Similarly, after assurances by this scribe to keep their identity secret, a
number of nurses serving in the public sector hospitals complained of negative
attitude of some of the staff and attendants of patients.

"We are being considered the weakest human beings on earth and less respectable
in the eyes of the doctors, paramedics and even male patients and their
attendants. Sometimes when you do not obey what they want you to do, they will
change your shift and will put your name in midnight shift and create many
problems," explained a group of nurses at the LRH.

According to nurses, it was one of the reasons people were reluctant to send
their daughters and sisters to this noble profession because of certain black
sheep in some hospitals.

Interestingly, it was announced that each organisation should have an inquiry
committee within 30 days after the enactment of the law. The committee in every
organisation is supposed to comprise three members with one of them being a
woman. In case a complaint is lodged against one of the members of the inquiry
committee, another person should replace the accused member for that particular
cas Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


