                              12 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            November 4, 2011 Friday

Med-Tech Notes: ConvaTec granted ethical business logo

LENGTH: 483 words


ConvaTec (Skillman, New Jersey), a developer of medical technologies for
community and hospital care, was granted use of the newly launched Ethical
Business Logo by Eucomed. The logo has been granted to ConvaTec because the
company has certified its commitment to the high ethical and professional
standards embodied by the Eucomed Code of Ethical Business Practice.

"We are pleased to be the first company granted the opportunity to be identified
as a company committed to ethics standards which are embodied by the Eucomed
Code of Ethical Business Practice," said Paul Moraviec, president, EMEA,
ConvaTec. "Now customers, patients and business partners will have another way
to identify ConvaTec as a company they can trust to provide life-changing
medical devices."

In addition to committing to the Eucomed Code of Ethical Business Practice,
ConvaTec has established separate and internal policies and procedures
consistent with the Code, and provides regular training and compliance
requirements throughout the company.

The Ethical Business Logo was created with the intention to ensure and
strengthen public confidence in the integrity of the industry and effectiveness
of member organizations' compliance programs, built on the Eucomed Code of
Ethics.

Toshiba installs milestone Vantage system

Demonstrating the ability of Toshiba's Vantage Titan MR system to help
healthcare providers improve patient care and workflow in MR, Toshiba America
Medical Systems (Tustin, California), has installed the 1,100th Vantage MR
system at Geisinger Health System (Danville, Pennsylvania). The facility is
using Toshiba's Vantage Titan 1.5T MR to image bariatric patients and improve
overall patient compliance for MR imaging.

Toshiba Medical Systems is a provider of medical diagnostic imaging systems and
comprehensive medical solutions, such as CT, X-ray and vascular, ultrasound,
nuclear medicine and MRI systems.

Health Net partners with Banner Health

Health Net of Arizona (Phoenix) and Banner Health Network have collaborated to
create Health Net ExcelCare, a new cost-effective commercial HMO network for
Maricopa County and parts of Pinal County effective Jan. 1, 2012. ExcelCare
consists exclusively of nationally recognized Banner Health Network providers.

"We worked collaboratively with Banner Health, a longstanding strategic provider
partner, to create this network and help make health care work for Arizonans,"
said Bret Morris, president of Health Net of Arizona.

Offered to both small and large employer groups, Health Net ExcelCare is
available in all of Maricopa County and parts of Pinal County. Members will have
access to more than 2,650 Banner Health Network primary care physicians and
specialists. Hospitals and facilities through ExcelCare include all of the
Banner hospital facilities, including Cardon Children's Hospital and the
recently opened Banner M.D. Anderson Cancer Center.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2011 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


