                              115 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Korea Times

                             July 5, 2007 Thursday

Three Hospitals Blamed for Breaching Research Ethics

LENGTH: 405 words


By Park Chung-a

Staff Reporter

Three major hospitals have recently begun research on the harmful effects of
smoking at the request of a multinational tobacco company.

Seoul National University (SNU) Hospital, Chonnam National University Hospital
and Catholic University Hospital are now recruiting 540 people for clinical
tests for evaluating harmfulness of cigarettes at the request of Philip Morris
International. Kyungpook National University Hospital, which was to originally
conduct the research, withdrew from the project last month.

The research is conducted both in South Korea and Japan.

However, civil organizations including Korean Association of Smoking & Health
have urged the hospitals to withdraw from the research project, saying that the
research funded by tobacco company is "unethical" and it will only help tobacco
company flourish further.

Jang In-jin, a medical professor at the pharmacology department of SNU who is in
charge of the research, said it is part of a basic research aimed at finding out
how harmful factors of smokers and non-smokers in Asia are different. "Philip
Morris had done the same kind of research to thousands of people in Western
countries in the past and is currently conducting the research in South Korea
and Japan. It is expected to cost about 1 billion won in total," said Jang.

Jang also said that SNU decided to undertake the research after getting a ruling
from the Institutional Review Board (IRB) that the research is ethical enough.

"We will complete the research by the end of this year," said Jang.

Research funded by tobacco companies is mostly banned in major universities in
Western countries for ethical reasons.

In the case of Japan, university hospitals are not allowed to perform the
research.

In the United States, major universities like Harvard University and Columbia
University are banned from getting their research funded by tobacco companies.
Also professors at California State University last year decided not to receive
research funds from tobacco companies saying that it suppresses academic freedom
as the research results cannot be free from the influence of tobacco companies.

"If you want to raise ethical questions regarding this research, you should
first question ethics of South Korean government which promotes sales of
cigarettes through the state-run tobacco maker KT&G but is not active in
conducting research on harmfulness of cigarettes," said Jang.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The Korea Times
                              All Rights Reserved


