                              107 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             October 5, 1990 Friday

Horse-and-cart-laws fail to cater for life and death;
decisions

BYLINE: BARRY HAILSTONE

LENGTH: 474 words


South Australia had horse-and-cart laws for space age medicine, a prominent
Adelaide legal consultant, Mr Ian Bidmeade, said yesterday.

Mr Bidmeade is the author of a Health Commission report which looks at the
ethical and legal issues relating to treatment of severley disabled and
estremely low weight newborn infants in South Australian hospirals.

Whether a severley disabled or very premature baby lived or died often depended
on the individual approach of the particular intensive care doctor, he said.

"Without wishing to exaggerate or be melodramatic about the differences, one
could conclude that in some cases a baby's chance at life will depend on the
individual approach of the particular intensivist," he said.

The report, "The ethical and legal issues concerning disabled and extremely low
weight newborn infants", is being circulated by the Health Commission to
professional and community groups, seeking guidance about the community's views.

Mr Bidmeade says the current practice in Adelaide hospitals of withdrawing
treatment from very low weight infants or severley disabled newborns in
"questionable legally, yet regarded as ethical in some circumstances".

He said the Queen Victoria Hospital tended to take an "interventionist approach"
but intensive care specialists at Flinders Medical Centre (FMC) tended to hold
different theoretical opinions about starting treatment, although their
practices were generally consistent.

As a result of the report, the Health Commission has established a task force to
look at all the issues relating to life support for such infants and has
appointed Mr Vidmeade to chair it.

The Health Commission's special committee of eight includes intensive care
specialists, an obstretician, ethicist and a senior nurse consultant from the
Adelaide children's and Queen Elizabeth hospitals and the FMC.

It was only in the case of premature infants born weighing less than 1000 grams
that ethical dilemmas existed.

Above 1000 grams, survival and quality of survival was good.

Medical technology and advances in skills had enabled low birth weight and
severely disabled newborns to survive.

However, because of the extreme fragility of immature organs, medical
intervention may inadvertently lead to permanent damage or a life that was
"demonstrably awful".

The frequency of complications increased with the degree of prematurity.

Mr Bidmeade said 95 per cent of infants of 22 weeks gestation (about 16 weeks
premature) did not survive and of those who did, 30 per cent developed severe
disability.

The dilemmas in life and death decisions over administering or withdrawing care
were the same for the severley disabled as for low birth weight infants.

There had been considerable discussion between doctors about guidelines but
little practical application, Mr Bidmeade said.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: ian bidmeade; Mr Bidmeade: looking at ethical and legal issues.

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


