                              112 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     North Shore Times (Friday) (Australia)

                            December 6, 2013 Friday
                             NorthShore310 Edition

Ethical gifts have twice the impact

BYLINE: Lisa Herbertson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 307  words


With Christmas approaching and presents to buy, many shoppers are jumping on
board the idea of ethical giving and the opportunity to give twice when buying a
gift.

Not only can shoppers buy something special for a loved one, but with proceeds
from sales going to charity they have the opportunity to double their giving
power.

Staff at Turramurra's Hamlin Fistula Ethiopia (Australia) store said there had
been a noticeable increase in shoppers in recent weeks looking to give ethically
this Christmas.

The store's merchandise manager Tanya Seabrook said the store raised funds and
awareness for the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, its regional centres, and the
Hamlin College of Midwives in Ethiopia. And shoppers, especially at Christmas,
liked the idea of ethical giving and helping those less fortunate.

"What we're seeing is a growing trend towards ethical giving and people know
that when they make a purchase their money is going towards helping others," she
said.

"Proceeds from the sale of items in our Turramurra gift shop, and our online
store, go to support the work in Ethiopia." Dr Catherine Hamlin and her late
husband Dr Reg Hamlin, co-founded the Addis Ababa Fistula Hospital, to treat
women with childbirth injuries - obstetric fistula and patients are treated,
free of charge.

The store, which opened in April on Pacific Highway, has seen people from across
Sydney visit to buy handmade Ethiopian products and other ethical gifts for
loved ones. "We also have a fantastic crew who volunteer their time here at the
store, and they have been great, particularly in the lead-up to Christmas," Ms
Seabrook said.

AT A GLANCE â-  The Hamlin Fistula Ethiopa (Australia) store is at 1396 Pacific
Highway Turramurra â-  You can also buy online at hamlin.org.auâ-  Funds are
raised through the store for the Ababa Fistula Hospital in Ethiopia

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: North Shore Times - Gloss 310


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


