                              117 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             July 14, 1983 Thursday

Helping decide medical treatment

BYLINE: DOROTHY LIPOVENKO; GAM

LENGTH: 1852 words


By  DOROTHY LIPOVENKO
    DESPITE BEING healthy, a woman in her 30s with a family history of
 breast cancer decided with her physician to have both breasts removed.

In the operating room at St. Joseph's Hospital in London, Ont., a nurse
 assigned to her case was deeply troubled by so radical a procedure on a
 woman who did not have breast cancer. After the operation, the nurse
 appealed to the hospital's bioethics committee.

The hospital is a Roman Catholic institution, the nurse wrote the
 committee. Did the mutilation of a healthy body offend the teachings of
 the church? Was the surgery justified?
    "We brought in a cancer surgeon to review the facts of the case and we
 decided the surgery was proper," recalled Sister Mary Doyle, executive
 director of St. Joseph's and a member of the committee.

The patient's great fear of getting cancer and the high hereditary
 possibility "make for strong reasons" to condone the operation, the
 committee's annual report concluded.

The forum that St. Joseph's provides for its medical staff to deal with
 ethical dilemmas is not unique. A growing number of hospitals across
 Canada have established - or are in the process of setting up - ethics
 consultation services for staff, patients and their families.

The rapid explosion of medical technology in the past decade - notably
 the growing ability to keep people alive on life-support systems - is
 responsible for many of the thorny questions that daily confront
 physicians.

Increasingly, they are tormented by opposing forces: trained to keep
 people alive and equipped with the technology to do so, they must judge
 the cost in pain and suffering to a patient with little hope of recovery.
 And they must gauge the price of extended treatment to an overburdened
 health care system straining for dollars.
    "Society is asking us to be the arbiter, but we cannot make these
 decisions alone. It's progressively more difficult," Dr. Graham Chance, a
 pediatrician with the neo-natal intensive care unit at St. Joseph's, said.
 "Society tells us 'you're costing too much' and parents say 'do the best
 for my aby.' "
    Agencies more powerful than ethics committees - the courts - are being
 drawn into fray, as in the case of Stephen Dawson. (The parents of Stephen
 Dawson, a 6-year-old Vancouver boy with severe brain damage, refused
 permission for surgery needed to relieve pressure on his brain. A court
 ordered the surgery to proceed.)
    Many physicians would prefer the courts not be involved; they would
 welcome independent advice from an ethics group, especially when hospital
 policy on an issue is unclear.

For example, at the Baycrest Centre for Geriatric Care in Toronto, "we
 keep getting feedback from the interns - who do they resuscitate and who
 do they not resuscitate," said Dr. Anne Birt, a staff physician at the
 Baycrest.

The hospital realizes ethical problems like this can no longer be
 handled informally and have decided to set up an ethics committee.

Ethics committees now working function in one of two ways: they either
 review individual cases before and sometimes after medical treatment (as
 at Calgary's Foot-hills Hospital) or they resolve policy issues for the
 hospital (Hamilton's McMaster Medical Centre). But their objective is
 clear: to act in the best interests of the patient.

The diversity of opinion on the committees ensures that. Members are
 usually appointed by the hospital's administration and are chosen from
 many disciplines: theology, philosophy, nursing, medicine, social work,
 law and pastoral care.

Some physicians believe ethics committees will, in about 10 years,
 control life and death decisions on which hang shrinking health care
 dollars. "That's the way we're headed," said Dr. Arthur Parsons of
 Halifax, chairman of the Canadian Medical Association's ethics committee.

For now, ethics consultants are wrestling with issues that include:
   .  The use of untested drugs on cancer patients;
   .  Cardiac resuscitation of the elderly and terminally ill. Do you
 revive a gravely ill 90-year-old woman or let her slip away peacefully?
   .  Sterilization of the mentally retarded;
   .  The patient's right to refuse or discontinue medical treatment.
 Should a 55-year-old man fed up with being on kidney dialysis be allowed
 to withdraw from treatment?
   .  Defective newborns. Who decides to stop the care of an infant with
 extensive brain damage?
   .  In vitro fertilization and artificial insemination;
   .  Tube feeding of the elderly. How long should a comatose elderly
 patient be kept alive on stomach feedings, which can go on for years?
   .  Criteria for brain death;
   .  Admission to intensive care units. Should it be on a first-come,
 first-serve basis or are more selective criteria necessary?
   .  Who chooses the patient to get the next cardiac bypass, the next
 organ transplant?
    It's not just physicians who benefit from the wisdom of ethical
 expertise. The impartial atmosphere of an ethics consultation "gives
 patients and their families a greater perspective on a problem; families
 can't always make an informed decision because of their emotional state,"
 said Rev. Stephen Overall, who is setting up an ethics consultation
 service at the Children's Hospital in Edmonton.

Advice from an ethics group also strengthens a physician's legal
 position if he is later sued. "Ethical decisions are often made out of
 fear of legal reprisal. That creates a paranoid medical system" which
 doesn't always work for the benefit of the patient, said Rev. John Swift,
 a member of the ethics service at the Foothills Hospital.

In-house ethics groups also help defuse conflict between physicians and
 nurses, as nurses become more vocal in decision-making.
    "You get a better sense of where a doctor is coming from," Judy
 Romeney, a nurse who uses the Foothills service, said. "Sometimes you get
 tunnel vision. Because you're the one at the patient's bedside 24 hours a
 day, you don't understand why a doctor has ordered a certain treatment.
 (At the consultation) you forget the emotion and are made to realize the
 facts."
    The rule of thumb of the Foothills service is: no decisions. The
 committee will turn a case inside out but only issue recommmendations.
 While they are not binding, they do carry considerable weight.

David and Margaret Gilchrist, a couple from Innesville, Alta.,
 unsuccessfully fought a lengthy court battle for the right to sterilize
 their 14-year-old mentally retarded daughter, Sylvia.
    "With nowhere else to turn," Mrs. Gilchrist said, they accepted a
 social agency worker's suggestion and approached the Foothills Hospital.

A gynecologist there was willing to do the surgery but wanted the
 ethics service to review the medical and legal implications.
    "We sat around a table for 1 1/2 hours, discussing it with the ethics
 group," Mrs. Gilchrist said in a telephone interview. "We were certainly
 made to defend our point of view. But for the first time, we felt we were
 being listened to as parents, what we felt was best for Sylvia.
    "They looked at our fears for her if she became pregnant and listened
 to us in human terms. I didn't come away from the court feeling that way."
    The committee debated long and hard with the Gilchrists, who are the
 parents of four other children. How do Sylvia's brothers and sisters feel
 about the sterilization, they wanted to know. And how will their
 parishioners react to it (Mr. Gilchrist is a United Church minister).

The committee also considered sticky legal problems: What were the
 chances of Sylvia suing the hospital? If she did, what was her chance of
 success in court?
    "They decided the chances of a lawsuit were slight," Mrs. Gilchrist
 said. The sterilization was approved (it won't be done until Sylvia starts
 menstruating).

The Foothills program, which is being copied by other hospitals,
 evolved from brown-bag lunch meetings of physicians and nurses discussing
 ethical questions.

That was almost eight years ago. As their reputation spread and more
 colleagues sought their advice, they became a consultation network
 available to "anyone who darkens the Foothills' doorstep," said Dr. Bruce
 Hatfield, one of its originators.

The hospital board gave the committee official status in 1981 and
 maintains an arm's length relationship with it, although the committee
 must report to it.

Noting that the service has the trust and respect of the staff, Rev.
 Swift said: "We don't police and we don't go out looking for ethical
 situations to get involved in."
    He screens requests for consultations, weeding out those in which he
 can intervene to resolve the problem.
    "More than half the cases that get to the committee have to do with
 beginning treatment that will prolong life, withdrawal of treatment that
 prolongs dying or not sustaining life," he said.

Yet, as they have become more common (Vancouver General and the Jewish
 General in Montreal are considering them) the committees have practical
 ethical questions of their own:
   .  To whom are they accessible?
   .  Who is legally liable for a medical decision based on their advice?
   .  Who speaks on behalf of an incompetent patient?
   .  How is the confidentiality of patient records protected?
   .  Who should sit on a committee? Should members be elected or
 appointed?
   .  How does a committee protect itself from becoming a policing agency
 that looks over physicians' shoulders?
    Dr. John Watts, chairman of the ethics group at McMaster Medical
 Centre, does not believe ethics committees should be concerned with
 specific patients.
    "There's a very real danger that this would tamper with the patient-
 doctor relationship," he said. "There's also the risk of making ethics
 appear to apply only to the most difficult cases, like the Stephen
 Dawsons."
    The McMaster ethics group, which meets monthly, has been responsible
 for many changes in the hospital's practices. It was the architect of a
 comprehensive statement on Do Not Resuscitate orders (one of the few
 hospitals in Canada to clarify staff conduct on this confusing issue); it
 eliminated the requirement of spousal consent for tubal ligations in women
 and vasectomies in men; it issued guidelines for admission to intensive
 care units.

And it has seen to it that a grounding in ethics starts before doctors
 ever get to a patient's bedside. At McMaster University's medical school,
 courses in ethics are no longer optional and ethical issues are routinely
 raised during rounds, Dr. Watts said.

Some hospitals that don't have an in-house ethics service - the
 Montreal Children's Hospital, for instance - retain a professional
 ethicist for consultation. Or they seek counsel from such well-known
 ethicists as David Roy at the Centre for Bioethics in Montreal and
 Benjamin Friedman at the Westminister Institute for Ethics and Human
 Values in London, Ont.

Dr. Paul Harding, a member of the St. Joseph's ethics committee, said  "a health
care professional can no longer afford to make decisions in  isolation.
"There's more and more need to have access to ethical forums that are  not a
rubber-stamp but backed by authority. To break (ethical) principles  is to do so
at one's own peril."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1983 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


