                              13 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                          September 5, 2007 Wednesday

Hospital shares probe

BYLINE:  Dave Blackhurst

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 438 words


A Review has been ordered into a hospital's decision to invest £30,000 in a
leading alcoholic drinks company.

The University Hospital of North Staffordshire has put the cash into Guinness
and spirits  manufacturer Diageo despite spending millions of pounds a year on
treating the effects of alcoholism.

Now, chief executive Julie Bridgewater wants an investigation into whether the
hospital's financial stake  in the firm   is ethical.

It comes just months after the trust's investment panel increased its share
ownership to more than £30,000 in the company. The cash is part of the
hospital's £4.2 million charity trust funds which are made up of donations and
money left to the complex in wills.

It is available to spend on items which are not covered by statutory NHS
spending.

North Staffordshire's other NHS trust, Combined Healthcare, and neighbouring
Leighton Hospital, in Crewe, have already adopted an "ethical investment policy"
forbidding any investment in companies linked to armaments, tobacco or alcohol.

The move comes as doctors say the effects of alcohol abuse are stretching the
NHS to breaking point. They estimate the cost of dealing with incidents and
disease involving alcohol is nearly £2 billion a year nationwide.

University Hospital chief executive Julia Bridgewater said today: "The
investment in Diageo is relatively small and the company may behave perfectly
honourably but I still think it is something we should look at. As a hospital we
need to take a wider view so we will now be reviewing this particular
investment."

One of the hospital's own liver specialists, Dr Alison Brind, has been involved
in a national campaign pressing for the Government to clamp down on drinks
companies which target young people.

She said: "If the hospital does invest in these companies it needs to look
carefully to make sure that they behave in an ethical manner."

But health campaigners condemned the trust's ownership of 3,000 shares in Diageo
which has gone on for several years.

Ian Syme, co-ordinator of North Staffordshire Healthwatch, said: "I like a drink
myself but for an NHS organisation to profit  from the suffering which is caused
by alcohol abuse is absolutely abhorrent."

The increase in the Diageo stake emerged from minutes of an investment panel
meeting which was held earlier in the summer and was reported to yesterday's
meeting of the hospital's trust board.  The Sentinel is making an application
under the Freedom of Information Act to find the full list of companies in the
charity fund's portfolio after the hospital said it could not release the
details.

Do you think the Diageo investment is ethical?

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


