                              120 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

AKU holds hospital ethics symposium

BYLINE:  Our Staff Reporter

SECTION: Vol. XXVI No. 295

LENGTH: 321  words


Traditional ethics committees in healthcare organisations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns.

They fail to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a
healthcare organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily
to clinical ethics, explained Dr Robyna Khan, Assistant Professor, AKU.  She was
speaking in her capacity as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics Committee Symposium
held at Aga Khan University.

Additionally, ethics committees are not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.  Dr Melissa Bottrell of the National Centre for Ethics in
Healthcare in the United States identified the major limitations of traditional
ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a paradigm
shift that remedies most of these defects.

Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various
components of organisational ethics. "As part of an organisational approach to
ethics, committees should address matters such as conflict of interest issues,
resource allocation, appointments and promotions as well as support other
ethical activities in their institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organisations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions. Summarising
the discussions Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of organisational
culture, leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success in an
integrated ethics approach.

Other notable speakers at the Symposium included Dr Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus
Hospital,  Ameena Saiyid, Managing Director, Oxford University Press, Professor
Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr
Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon, Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


