                              122 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    December 2, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Doctor calls for guidelines for MDs, drug firms: Dr. Penny Ballem sees a need
for disclosure of exactly what is involved in industry sponsorship.

BYLINE: MARGARET MUNRO, SUN SCIENCE REPORTER; VANCOUVER SUN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 598 words


Canadian doctors and biomedical researchers need an ethical framework and
conflict-of-interest guidelines to govern their lucrative relations with the
pharmaceutical industry, says the doctor leading B.C.'s new Centre of Excellence
in Women's Health.

"It's desperately needed," says Dr. Penny Ballem, vice-president of B.C. Women's
Hospital and board chair of the centre of excellence, which opens next week.

Ballem says she'd like to see the centre devise guidelines that can be adopted
across Canada.

"I believe that drug company funding and the insidious way that it is basically
overwhelming our biomedical research is a grave threat to our health care
system," says Ballem, referring to the fact that pharmaceutical dollars are now
the biggest source of medical research funds in Canada.

"I think the issue of conflict of interest and who's driving the agenda for what
purpose is of paramount concern for women and their health," says Ballem, who
would like to see more money going into prevention of women's health problems
like osteoporosis and less into questionable testing and treatments.

"As far as I'm concerned, the agenda for drug company-funded research is to move
their bottom line," she said, adding that hospitals and universities should
establish a process so research projects are assessed by people with no vested
interest in the projects.

Ballem said clearer disclosure policies are also needed so the public and
volunteers participating in studies know who is funding the research. Names of
companies involved and the amount of money they've contributed are not now
spelled out on consent forms.

She says she also has trouble with the industry sponsorship of medical
conferences and educational events, and the way doctors participate in
industry-sponsored media events.

"There needs to be really clear conflict-of-interest guidelines for physicians
doing drug company research so that they know that they should not be going to
drug company press conferences," Ballem said.

Earlier this year, Ballem refused to host a company news conference to promote a
new osteoporosis drug at B.C. Women's Hospital. The media conference, where Dr.
David Kendler attested to the benefit of the new drug marketed by Merck Frosst
Canada, was held at Vancouver Hospital instead. Ballem is well aware her ideas
about an ethical framework aren't going to be popular in many quarters.

Most doctors and university officials are "so desperately grubbing for money
that the whole issue of conflict-of-interest is going to be seen as a barrier to
them surviving and attracting funding," she says.

Dr. David McLean, vice-president of research at Vancouver Hospital and assistant
dean of medicine at the University of B.C., agrees ethical guidelines are "a
very good idea." But he says there are already plenty of rules to govern the
ethical behavior of doctors and their relations with drug makers.

He says he is not convinced there is a big problem and suggested Ballem look at
the "model" guidelines used at Vancouver Hospital to ensure industry work is
thoroughly reviewed.

McLean also says the hospital has clear guidelines about press conferences and
shies away from helping industry launch new drugs. He says he was not aware that
Merck Frosst held a news conference promoting its new osteoporosis drug Fosamax
at his hospital in January.

He also expresses concern that cumbersome, time-consuming conflict-of-interest
rules and ethical reviews for industry-financed research might drive much-needed
research out of the province and country.


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


