                              123 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                          September 4, 2013 Wednesday
                                 Early Edition

Hospital lotto ethics questioned; Institutions are blinded by the attraction of
easy revenue, argues CMAJ editorial

BYLINE: Joanne Laucius, Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: CITY; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 852 words


It is "contradictory" to ban hospitals from selling tobacco but not another
addictive product - their own lottery tickets - says an editorial in the
Canadian Medical Association Journal.

"Gambling can be addictive and has the potential to harm vulnerable people,"
says the editorial by CMAJ editor-inchief Dr. John Fletcher.

"For this reason, gambling is an area in which health professionals and
hospitals should take a lead. Have we lost our moral compass to such an extent
that we are blinded to our duty to 'do no harm' by the attraction of easy
revenue?"

Fletcher doesn't propose banning hospital lotteries, but argues hospitals should
be good corporate citizens and protect vulnerable players via measures such as
banning bulk discounts for buying large numbers of tickets and asking players to
specify their spending limits, an option already in place in the U.K.'s national
lottery.

"Just as there are ethical investment funds, there are ethical ways to run
lotteries." Lotteries can raise significant amounts of money for health care.
Since the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto held its first lottery in 1996,
some of Canada's larger hospitals now raise $10 million or more annually from
lotteries, says Fletcher.

The Canadian Cancer Society has held lotteries since 2001, generating $54
million in net revenue. CHEO's Dream of A Lifetime has generated a net profit of
$40 million since it was introduced in 1991.

CHEO Foundation president and CEO Kevin Keohane agrees that gambling addiction
is a serious problem, but doesn't see addiction presenting an ethical dilemma
for the lotteries operated by the children's hospital.

Hospital lottery ticket-buyers are people who would donate anyway. They just
find the possibility of winning something a little more fun, he says.

"To me, this is like applying the same scrutiny to the office 50/50 draw as
going to the casino four nights a week," says Keohane.

"Yes, (purchasers) want to win prizes. That's natural. But it's not like 6/49 or
Lotto Max."

About 70 per cent of ticket buyers for CHEO's lottery purchase a single ticket,
and when the foundation sees orders for 10 tickets or more, a representative
calls the buyer to verify the purchase.

There's also not the immediate gratification association with going to the
casino to play blackjack or the slot machines, says Keohane. In hospital
lotteries, months often elapse between the purchase of a ticket and the draw.

Daniel Brunette, president of the Ottawa Association of Fundraising
Professionals, says good fundraising practices include making sure fundraisers
are in line with the charity's mission and mandate.

It's not easy money - some lotteries have lost money. "Lotteries are a
tremendous lot of work," he says.

For charities, lotteries are one way to diversify.

"People may not give to the foundation. But they'll take their chances with a
ticket," says Brunette.

Lotteries are on the low end of the addictive range when it comes to gambling,
says Nigel Turner, a gambling researcher with the Centre of Addiction and Mental
Health in Toronto.

Problem gambling is more common than heroin addiction and less common than
alcoholism or depression, he says. Just over half of Ontario residents buy
lottery tickets, but only about five per cent of those who call helplines with
gambling problems are lottery players, he says.

"I wouldn't say they're benign. I think the advertising is a little misleading,"
says Turner.

In Turner's lottery research, the most he has heard of one person spending on
hospital lotteries was $3,500. "If you're going to get upset about something,
slot machines are much more of a problem."

Good social causes often use lotteries as a way to raise money, says Dr. Jeffrey
Derevensky, a professor of child psychology at McGill University and a gambling
researcher.

Lottery ticket buyers are a notoriously hard market to capture. Even if the
prize is $20 million and a ticket only $2, lottery players are likely to wait
until the prize money climbs to $30 million before plunking down a toonie.

This isn't the first time the CMAJ has tackled the question of hospital
lotteries. In June 2008, the journal pointed to a 2005 research project that
looked at the gambling practices and policies of hospitals and their
foundations. Of the 97 that responded to the survey, funded by the Ontario
Problem Gambling Research Centre, 59 hospitals and foundations said they raised
funds through gambling activities. Only five had guidance policies.

"It could be argued that Canadian hospitals have become dependent, if not
addicted, to gambling revenues," said the CMAJ, which said some researchers are
concerned that hospital lotteries "blur the line between gambling and
philanthropy," while the prevalence of ads for these lotteries helps build a
culture that normalizes gambling.

"Of greater concern, however, is the ethical quagmire hospitals can find
themselves in if they become too dependent on gambling revenues," the journal
said.

jlaucius@ottawacitizen.com twitter.com/joannelaucius Q&A: Joanne Laucius talks
with CHEO Foundation president Kevin Keohane about its lottery at
ottawacitizen.com/city

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / An editorial in the Canadian Medical Association Journal suggests
hospital lotteries, such as CHEO 's fundraiser, should do more to protect
vulnerable players.;

