                              124 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            October 21, 1996 Monday
                                  Late Edition

Hospitals claim use of dead patients in doctor training 'ethical'

BYLINE: MELISSA SWEET Medical Writer

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 495 words


Dead patients are being used to train doctors in emergency procedures without
the knowledge or consent of relatives, a new study has revealed.

Doctors say the survey, of Australian and New Zealand hospital emergency
departments, has brought to light a longstanding practice of which the public
had been unaware.

Of 48 departments accredited to train doctors in emergency medicine, 46 per cent
had used the bodies of newly deceased patients in teaching resuscitation skills,
such as inserting a tube through the mouth into the airways.

None had obtained consent from relatives, and only one of the hospitals which
responded to the survey had a written policy addressing the issue.

About three-quarters of respondents believed the practice was ethical, the
researchers report today in the Medical Journal of Australia.

The study's authors, doctors Corinne Ginifer and AnneMaree Kelly , of the
Western Hospital in Melbourne, said there were no laws to stop the practice on
patients whose deaths did not have to be reported to the coroner.

However, they said debate about whether its benefits in training doctors
outweighed any potential harm to individuals or society had been slow, "perhaps
because of a reluctance to seek guidance from the community about a practice
that has been occurring covertly for many years".

The researchers noted that previous studies had found up to 40 per cent of
United States hospitals engaged in the practice, although objections had been
raised there on religious, ethical and legal grounds.

"Many members of staff, particularly nurses, find the practice distressing
because it appears to conflict with their primary duty of care," they said.

Some medical and nursing groups had strongly rejected the routine use of
recently deceased patients for teaching, except in exceptional circumstances
such as in patients with major accident injuries who provided experience not
obtainable in any other

way.

In an accompanying editorial in the journal, the director of the Royal Brisbane
Hospital's emergency department, Dr Richard Ashby , urged hospitals to address
the issue. "Teaching resuscitation on the newly deceased is an important
educational tool in medicine, but there are complex social issues involved," he
wrote. "It is therefore inappropriate and unnecessary for the practice to be
hidden from public scrutiny and debate. It is equally inappropriate for the
practice to occur other than in the context of strict institutional guidelines
and review."

* Two years ago, a Herald investigation revealed that surgeons, medical
researchers and forensic scientists had systematically and secretly removed the
organs and bones of bodies taken to the City Morgue at Glebe.

The body parts - from knees to spinal cords and internal organ samples - were
used for a variety of purposes, from genetic research to practice for plastic
surgery. Brains were also removed from corpses at the morgue and secretly
retained without the knowledge or consent of relatives.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1996 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


