                              126 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                           September 5, 2013 Thursday

Violation of ethics

LENGTH: 960 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, Sept. 5 -- The sight of the couple is very familiar to us now, from their
exposure in print media and television. The female is a motherly woman in a
spotted blouse, and the male a haggard-looking man with unkempt beard and hair.
A deep sadness pervades these images. After nearly nine years of silent and
personal struggle in search of justice, our society has been finally introduced
to Ganga Maya Adhikari and Nanda Prasad Adhikari, who are now over 40 days into
fast-unto-death.

This couple's story is heart-wrenching. Their 18-year-old son was abducted and
killed by Maoists in 2004. From what media tells, even after their son's murder,
the Maoists and the state had pestered this family. Because they had registered
an FIR against the suspected murderers, they were repeatedly threatened by
Maoists, their livestock were killed, and they were ultimately chased out from
their home. Despite these threats, they persevered in their search for justice,
which largely remained elusive. When the usual channels of justice offered no
recourse, they started a hunger strike in front of the Prime Minister's Office
early this year. They were allegedly detained at a police station for 48 days
and then taken to Gorkha, handcuffed, to be dumped. But they returned and staged
a hunger strike.

According to Asian Human Rights Commission (AHRC)'s appeal, they were arrested
in mid-June and taken to Bir Hospital. The appeal says, "The doctors there
recommended their transfer to a mental hospital. They were transferred to the
Mental Hospital in Lagankhel, Lalitpur where they were diagnosed with mental
illness, and it was decided that they should stay in the mental hospital." They
were forced to stay in the mental hospital for 35 days. On discharge, the
doctors apparently revised their initial diagnosis as wrong. Now the couple is
back in Bir Hospital, but this time with a pledge to fast-unto-death until
justice is served. They are in the intensive care unit in dire straits. On
Tuesday, we learned that the Supreme Court has ordered the government "to either
coax them into breaking fast, or force-feed them."

As a citizen of this country, it is chilling to learn about the fate of this
couple. A son was murdered and his grieving parents seek justice. That is not
too much to ask for, but instead, those who hold power persecute this couple
with all the force they possess. What kind of society are we living in? As a
physician practicing in this country, however, I would like to focus on the
involvement of my profession in this injustice, based on reports from media and
AHRC.

By identifying this couple (not just a single person) as mentally ill
(concomitantly) amidst a political protest, the doctors from Bir Hospital and
the Mental Hospital used their creed and institutions to help detain patients
against their will. If indeed this was the case, it is a serious violation of
medical ethics. The medical profession's stance is quite clear on this. The code
of ethics of Nepal Medical Council, to which all doctors registered to the
council are signatories, mandates the doctors to declare before they are
registered, "Even under threat and duress, I will not use my knowledge contrary
to the norms of humanity." Furthermore, in its 2003 Resolution on the
Responsibility of Physicians in the Denunciation of Acts of Torture or Cruel or
Degrading Treatment of which They are Aware, the World Medical Association
provides specific guidance to physicians who are in this situation: "Physicians
should report to the appropriate authorities any unjustified interference in the
care of their patients, especially if fundamental human rights are being
denied."

Another recent development is the Supreme Court order to force-feed the couple
if they do not comply. Again, the global stance of the medical profession is
clear. World Medical Association Declaration categorically says: "Where a
prisoner refuses nourishment and is considered by the physician as capable of
forming an unimpaired and rational judgment concerning the consequences of such
a voluntary refusal of nourishment, he or she shall not be fed artificially. The
decision as to the capacity of the prisoner to form such a judgment should be
confirmed by at least one other independent physician." Jeremy Lazarus, the
President of American Medical Association, had paraphrased the exact same
declaration in a letter that clarified the Association's position that the
forced feeding of detainees on hunger strike at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base
violated the core ethical values of the medical profession. As a profession, we
should not comply in force-feeding the Adhikari couple if we are to maintain our
ethical integrity.

Several questions surface about the handling of Adhikari couple in these medical
facilities. Did these doctors make decisions under pressure or political
influence? Did they debate their ethical obligations? Did they seek help if they
felt pressured? These are questions that the authority tasked with ensuring
ethical practice of medicine should be asking. Since the registered doctors are
signatories to the Nepal Medical Council's declaration, the Council should be
taking the lead to investigate the involvement of medical profession in this
injustice. However, we have yet to hear from the council. The medical profession
should be clear that it will not comply with force-feeding the Adhikari couple
who are using hunger strike as the last measure to seek justice in an unjust
power structure. Otherwise, we should be prepared to bear the shame of a
disgraceful deed.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


