                              128 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           February 18, 2012 Saturday

Pakistan: Intl' symposium on 'Ethical Transparency in Medical Practices' starts
today

LENGTH: 408 words

DATELINE: LARKANA


LARKANA, Feb. 18 -- The 5th International Symposium 2012 on "Ethical

Transparency in Medical Practices" would start on Friday (17 Feb) in Chandka
Medical College, Larkana.

Sindh Chief Minister Syed Qaim Ali Shah will chair the symposium while the
symposium will continue till Saturday told the Vice Chancellor Shaheed Muhtarma
Benazir Bhutto Medical University (SMBBMU) Larkana.

International speakers of Canada, UK and different medical varsities will also
spoke high on ethical and non-ethical medical practices by SMBBMU Larkana.

Talking to the media men at CMC SMBBMU vice chancellor Prof. Akbar Hyder Soomro
said that different new ethical and non ethical techniques about medical
negligence will be discussed and in this regard 120 research papers on different
illnesses as well as 8 state of art lectures will also be delivered by the
experts he said.

Soomro further said that such symposium will open new avenues in medical
research and positive impact would be on patients' lives and health standards he
said.

He said for the better services PC-I cost Rs. 1 billion projects have been
submitted to the HEC for SMBBMU further grants, added that for the health sector
development and services an ambulance service 119 in the name of Benazir Bhutto
will be started soon in Larkana he told.

Vice Chancellor told that for the symposium 5 different Halls/spaces spare for
these activities.

On the occasion, three sessions will be held in 5th International two days
symposium from 17 and 18th February in Larkana.

Meanwhile, Paramedical staff of the Chandka Medical College Hospital, Larkana
continued their protest for two hours against the CMC administration on
Thursday.

On the occasion, OPD and other hospital units and laboratories were closed for
few hours and took out rally to Larkana Press Club.

They also burnt tires and raised slogans against the Medical Superintendent and
other administration for registering fake FIR against the CMC employees Zulfiqar
Sahto, Shahi Khan Jagirani, Khalil Jatoi, Barkat Khoso, Noor Kumbhar and others
for disrupting peaceful atmosphere of the hospital due to which poor patients
are suffering.

They demanded removal of MS and warned the authorities will be responsible for
consequences; they also demanded a high level inquiry against them and alleged a
high level corruption in awarding contracts for civil works and procurement of
drugs they told Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision
News.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


