                              127 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 19, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

YOUNGSTERS VENTURE INTO THE UNKNOWN: A HOSPITAL VISIT

SECTION: Section 11WC; Page 22, Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 273 words


Marcy Busch had a cast put on her arm the other day. But 4-year-old Mary didn't
have any broken bones. She was visiting the White Plains Hospital Medical Center
with her nursery-school class and learning about making casts was part of the
tour.

''This visit is like an immunization,'' said Audrey Rosen, Marcy's teacher at
the Nursery School of the Westchester Ethical Humanist Society in White Plains,
who accompanied her class on the trip. ''By seeing the hospital under optimum,
happy circumstances -- with their friends and teachers and in good health -- the
children's fears may be allayed if ever they or a member of their families have
to go to the hospital. They will know what to expect, rather than fear the
unknown.''

A tour of selected hospital facilities is offered each week during most of the
school year to groups of elementary or nursery-school children by volunteers
from the Scarsdale Auxillary of the Medical Center.

Claudia Palmer, coordinator of the tours, guided Marcy's class though the halls,
frequently reminding the group to make way for wheelchairs and stretchers (''It
must be Wednesday,'' a hospital staff member said as the diminutive procesion
passed by.) Highlights of the visit included the department of physical medicine
where the children hopped on ''pretend'' broken ankles along the parallel bars,;
peditrics, where they saw a bby in an oxygen tent and watched theselves on the
nurses' television monitors, and the blood bank, with its special refrigertor.

But the favorite spot of the morning amng most of the chilren was the nursery,
where a nurse held up a newborn infant for all to see.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos of children at the White Plains Medical Center

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


