                              132 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Newmarket Journal

                             April 15, 2016 Friday

Patient food at Suffolk hospital wins national prize

LENGTH: 469  words


West Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust has received a prized national accolade for
its dedication to serving fresh, ethical and sustainable food to patients,
visitors and staff.

The hospital has been presented with the Soil Association's Food for Life
Catering Mark bronze award for the meals it serves on the wards and in the
Courtyard Café and Time Out restaurant.

Every day the hospital freshly prepares around 350 breakfasts, 500 lunches and
500 suppers for patients, along with 60 sandwiches and snacks.

The award shows that the hospital uses fresh ingredients which meet nutritional
guidelines and are free from additives and harmful trans-fats. All of the meat
used by the hospital conforms with UK animal welfare standards and has earned
the Red Tractor' farm assurance quality mark, while fish is certified by the
Marine Stewardship Council and eggs are free range.

To achieve the award, the hospital's catering team reviewed its recipes and
changed some of its ingredients, such as swapping milk powder for fresh milk in
its cauliflower cheese. They also worked with their butcher to change the
seasoning in their sausages, while increasing the meat content of the sausage
rolls which are sold to staff so that they now contain over 80% pork.

Brodrick Pooley, catering manager at the hospital, said: "We are delighted to
have achieved this bronze award, which recognises our dedication to serving
fresh, ethical and sustainable food across our wards and in our restaurants.

"We use local suppliers for our ingredients wherever possible, which means we
can trace all of the meat we use from the farm right to the plate. As well as
being better for the environment and more sustainable, we believe this also
gives us higher quality products, which means we can create tastier, more
nutritious meals which help our patients' recovery.

"We regularly receive excellent feedback about the quality of food we offer at
West Suffolk Hospital, but are always looking for ways to improve still further.
We are now planning to build on the success of this bronze award by working
towards a gold accolade in the near future."

The latest award comes shortly after the hospital became the first organisation
to receive a gold "Eat Out, Eat Well" accolade from St Edmundsbury Borough
Council in recognition of the healthier choices it offers.

Rich Watts, senior catering mark manager, Soil Association Certification, said:
"The Catering Mark is the result of lots of dedicated effort by the team at West
Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust. Receiving this endorsement is an exceptional
achievement in the healthcare sector and a demonstration of the hospital's
dedication to serving fresh, ethical, sustainable food that meets nutritional
guidelines. Healthy places must be serving food that is good for the environment
and good for us."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MNJP


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


