                              125 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                            August 26, 2014 Tuesday

Private hospital charges not under MOH's purview

SECTION: FORUM LETTERS

LENGTH: 316 words


MR TAN Jiak Hong ("Rein in medicine charges at private hospitals"; Forum Online,
last Thursday) quoted staff at a private hospital as saying that the charges at
the private hospital "had been reviewed by the hospital's management committee
and were supported by the Ministry of Health".

Private hospital charges do not fall under the Ministry of Health's (MOH)
purview; private hospitals set their fees independently.

According to the Singapore Medical Council's Ethical Code and Ethical
Guidelines, a doctor cannot abuse the doctor-patient relationship for personal
gain. This means a doctor shall not let financial considerations imposed by his
own practice, investments or financial arrangements influence the objectivity of
his clinical judgment in the treatment of his patients.

A doctor shall refrain from improperly obtaining fees from patients, improperly
prescribing drugs or appliances in which he has a financial interest, and
fee-sharing or obtaining commissions from referral of patients.

To increase transparency and enable patients to make more informed choices, the
total hospital bill sizes of 80 procedures in public and private hospitals are
published on MOH's website. This will help Singaporeans make more informed
choices.

From next month, MOH will also publish the "total operation fees", which is a
component of the total hospital bill comprising the "surgeon fee", "anaesthetist
fee" and "facility fee" in our public hospitals.

Publishing such data for both unsubsidised and subsidised patients in our public
hospitals will serve as a useful point of reference on procedure-related
professional fees, which are applicable to both public and private sector
health-care providers.

MOH will continue to work to extend transparency of health-care charges to
facilitate informed decision-making by patients.

Lim Bee Khim (Ms)

Director, Corporate Communications

Ministry of Health

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


