                              137 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            April 27, 2017 Thursday

Will best practice be possible given Catholic ethos?;
Ethical environment will differ in various parts of campus

BYLINE: Paul Cullen

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 501 words


Picture the scenario, say a decade hence: a pregnant woman with diabetes is told
by her doctors that giving birth may threaten her health, even her life. The
woman is entitled to terminate her pregnancy under legislation, should her
doctors decide this is necessary.

But where should this termination take place, if the woman is being treated for
her diabetes in St Vincent's hospital and is due to deliver her baby in the new
national maternity hospital to be located there?

Best practice suggests the procedure should take place close to where adult
medicine is being practised in St Vincent's, in case something untoward happens.
But will this be possible given the Catholic ethos in force in the hospital?

This is the kind of real-life scenario which can be teased out endlessly as part
of the debate over moving the National Maternity Hospital (NMH) to St Vincent's,
where the site will be owned by the Sisters of Charity.

Legally available

The ethos of the NMH will prevail in the relocated maternity hospital, both
institutions insist, and all legally available services will be provided.

However, in St Vincent's - accessible down a corridor - the ethos or ethical
code of the Sisters of Charity will apply. In the interest of patients, services
across both hospitals will be provided in a "seamless" manner, according to the
agreement drawn up by mediator Kieran Mulvey, yet the ethical environment will
differ on either end of the interconnecting corridor.

The agreement reached between the two hospitals last November, which was only
published on Tuesday, provides some comfort on ethos issues but is couched in
general terms.

The document, which is framed as a report to Minister for Health Simon Harris
rather than a legal text, says services in the new hospital would be provided
"without religious or ethnic or other distinction". However, the addition of the
qualifier "as much as possible" to this commitment has raised concerns.

The clinical governance structure that will apply is illustrated in the document
with a diagram, which appears to show the NMH master reporting to the board and
chief executive of St Vincent's.

In contrast, the diagram illustrating the corporate governance structure shows
St Vincent's and the NMH operating at equal level.

Concerns have also been raised about the composition of the board of the new
hospital, which Dr Peter Boylan has described as "a recipe for conflict". This
will comprise four directors nominated by the NMH, four by St Vincent's and an
"independent international expert" in obstetrics and gynaecology.

This expert will be assessed by a selection committee chaired by a St Vincent's
representative, and containing one other representative from the two hospitals.
Effectively, St Vincent's will have a controlling majority for the selection of
this person and could therefore deliver a majority on the hospital board.

A more detailed legal agreement will have to be drawn up before the NMH is
relocated and this will have to address these concerns.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


