                              135 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                          September 17, 2014 Wednesday

Private hospitals under no obligation to charge fairly

SECTION: FORUM LETTERS

LENGTH: 329 words


IN HIS letter ("Pricing: Medication no different from other goods"; Sept 3), Dr
Yik Keng Yeong expressed the view that the prices of medication and medical
services are subject to market forces.

While doctors are subject to professional obligations and are under ethical
obligations to charge fair and reasonable fees for services rendered, there does
not appear to be any similar professional or ethical obligations on the part of
private hospitals ("Private hospital charges not under MOH's purview" by the
Health Ministry; Aug 26).

Unlike other contracts, there is no prior agreement on the prices of medication
and supplies.

A restaurant customer is given a menu with the prices clearly stated, and he
decides what to order. But a patient, upon admission, is given only an estimate
of the bill size based on past statistics.

Not only is there no indication of the price payable for each item, but charges
for items bearing the same service code and description can also vary.

Unlike the restaurant customer, a patient does not have the necessary
information to determine if the charges are reasonable. The lack of detailed
records (apart from medication) also makes it difficult to verify the charges.

Private hospitals operating in an oligopoly cannot be compared to businesses
operating in a fully competitive market.

In my letter ("Huge mark-ups for basic medication and supplies"; Aug 21), I gave
several examples of actual charges, including that of a safety pin that cost
$4.54 before goods and services tax. Apart from a mark-up of almost 50 times,
the pin was something I had not asked for. It caused me great discomfort and was
completely unnecessary.

I doubt any restaurant can get away with serving the supermarket variety of
peanuts at a mark-up of 50 times, without making the price known to the customer
beforehand. The issue of professional and ethical obligations to which hospitals
should be subject to certainly merits further discussion.

Charis Mun (Mrs)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2014 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


