                              136 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

UN: It's ethical to try untested Ebola medicines

BYLINE: The Lowell Sun

SECTION: BREAKING

LENGTH: 526 words


MADRID (AP) -- The World Health Organization declared Tuesday that it's ethical
to use unproven Ebola drugs and vaccines in the outbreak in West Africa provided
the right conditions are met.

The statement from the U.N. health agency came amid a worldwide debate over the
medical ethnics surrounding the Ebola outbreak, which it has called an
international health emergency. However the agency sidestepped the key questions
of who should get the limited drugs and how that should be decided.

The statement came after the agency held a teleconference with experts Monday to
discuss the issue.

WHO says 1,013 people have died so far in the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and
authorities have recorded 1,848 suspected or confirmed cases. The killer virus
was detected in Guinea in March and has since spread to Sierra Leone, Liberia
and possibly Nigeria.

Two Americans and reportedly a Spanish priest have gotten an experimental Ebola
treatment never tested in humans and two more Ebola treatments were said to be
on their way to treat two doctors in Liberia. The vast majority of Ebola victims
are Africans, and some nations have protested that their citizens are not
getting access to the experimental drugs.

The Spanish missionary priest, 75-year-old Miguel Parajes, died Tuesday in a
Madrid hospital, the hospital and his order said. The hospital would not confirm
that he had been treated with the drug, but his order and Spain's Health
Ministry said earlier that he would be.

WHO decided it is ethical to use experimental treatments and vaccines in an
ongoing outbreak. There is no evidence yet that these experimental drugs can
actually help fight Ebola -- and it is possible they could be harmful. Still,
this outbreak has had about a 50 percent death rate, according to the U.N.,
adding urgency to the search for a treatment.

"In the particular circumstances of this outbreak and provided certain
conditions are met, the panel reached consensus that it is ethical to offer
unproven interventions with as yet unknown efficacy and adverse effects, as
potential treatment or prevention," the agency said in a statement.

The panel said "more detailed analysis and discussion" are needed to decide how
to achieve fair distribution in communities and among countries, since there is
an extremely limited supply of the experimental drugs and vaccines.

Pajares had been helping to treat people with Ebola at the San Jose de Monrovia
Hospital in Liberia when he became ill, and was evacuated to Spain. He worked
for the San Juan de Dios hospital order, a Spain-based Catholic humanitarian
group that runs hospitals around the world.

Also Tuesday, Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf suspended all travel by
executive branch officials for one month. She also ordered those already abroad
to return home within a week "or be considered as abandoning their jobs,"
according to a statement from her press secretary.

Most airlines flying in and out of the Liberian capital of Monrovia have
suspended flights amid the unprecedented health crisis.

------

Associated Press writers Ciaran Giles in Madrid and Jonathan Paye-Layleh in
Monrovia, Liberia contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In this photo taken Monday, Aug. 11, 2014, a health worker examines
patients for Ebola inside a screening tent, at the Kenema Government Hospital
situated in the Eastern Province around 300 km, (186 miles), from the capital
city of Freetown in Kenema, Sierra Leone. Over the decades, Ebola cases have
been confirmed in 10 African countries, including Congo where the disease was
first reported in 1976. But until this year, Ebola had never come to West
Africa. (AP Photo/ Michael Duff)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


