                              139 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 1, 2016 Thursday

Panel: Swedish hospital should never have hired 'star surgeon'

LENGTH: 747  words

DATELINE: New York



 Rome: Food and Agricalture Organization has issued the following news release:



 The Karolinska University Hospital and the Karolinska Institute (KI) in
Stockholm ignored warning signs when they hired surgeon Paolo Macchiarini in
2010, an independent panel concluded this week. The investigation was
commissioned by the hospital's director in the wake of an ongoing misconduct
scandal surrounding Macchiarini and the artificial tracheae he implanted in
three patients at the hospital. Two of the patients died, and a third has been
hospitalized since receiving an implant in 2012. "Macchiarini's transplant
activities have damaged clinical research not only at Karolinska University
Hospital, but also in Sweden in general," the panel noted.





 The procedures did not have proper ethical approval, were not based on adequate
science, and failed to follow Swedish regulations regarding new medical
products, the panel says in its 31 August report. (An English summary is here.
The full report in Swedish is here.) The investigation was led by Kjell Asplund,
professor emeritus in medicine at Umea[#x30a] University in Sweden, chairman of
the Swedish National Council on Medical Ethics in Stockholm, and former director
general of the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, also in Stockholm.



 The report highlights mistakes made during Macchiarini's tenure at the
hospital. But it also notes that the hospital terminated Macchiarini's
employment in late 2013, successfully resisting pressure from KI, where
Macchiarini remained a senior researcher until March. Whistleblowers raised
questions about Macchiarini's work in 2014, but KI stood by the surgeon,
extending his contract even after an independent investigator found that the
allegations had merit. He was dismissed after a television documentary in
January raised additional questions about the surgeon and his work.



 Managers from KI and the hospital recruited Macchiarini, according to the
report, based on favorable publicity surrounding his work on trachea transplants
and the technical skills he demonstrated during a "test operation" in Stockholm.
KI managers took the lead, and the hospital did not collect independent
information on Macchiarini's clinical qualifications until late in the
recruitment process. "The warning signs that arose then were suppressed," the
panel writes.



 Once Macchiarini took up the dual appointments, the report says, it was not
always clear who was supervising his activities. At the hospital, he was
officially part of the ear-nose-throat clinic, but he performed the surgeries in
the thoracic clinic, located at a different campus. The report says this left
ambiguous who was responsible for the "independent" and "difficult-to-manage"
Macchiarini and gave him "an opportunity to move between the two clinics too
freely." Macchiarini also failed to provide adequate follow-up care when the
implant recipients developed complications, the report says.



 The hospital and Macchiarini have argued that the surgeries did not require
ethical review because they were not clinical research but were performed as
life-saving measures on patients with no other treatment options. But the panel
said the patients who received the transplants did not have life-threatening
conditions and that the surgeries should have been subject to ethical review as
clinical research. There were no animal studies that had tested the specific
combination of materials Macchiarini used on the patients at the time of the
transplants, the report says.



 "We find it to be very unlikely that the transplants would have been approved
by an ethical review board based on the scientific information that was
available in 2011," the panel writes. The panel warns that continuing to argue
that the surgeries were not clinical research risks undermining future research
at the hospital.



 The report recommends that the hospital implement a range of measures to
address the problems the panel identified. It notes that the hospital has
already set up a procedure for whistleblowers to express concerns and
established a task force to address the overlap between patient care and
clinical research. It calls for the hospital to be more independent from KI,
especially in hiring decisions, and recommends additional training for staff on
regulations surrounding ethics approval and new medical products.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


