                              140 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                              May 03, 2016 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Judge overturns HPCSA accreditation move

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 564 words


NETCARE hospitals across the country were accredited to employ registered
medical physicists and radiotherapists, where oncology health care services were
provided.

In a groundbreaking victory for the private hospitals in the high court in
Pretoria, Acting Judge MP Canca overturned a decision by the Health Professions
Council of SA (HPCSA) to refuse Netcare accreditation to employ medical
physicists and radiotherapists at its oncology units. Judge Nicolene Janse van
Nieuwenhuizen concurred with the judgment.

The medical watchdog had recommended that Netcare instead outsourced the
services of these practitioners, but the court found that this did not make
sense.

The court was told that all medical institutions were subjected to the HPCSA's
ethical rules. Rule 18 stipulated that an employer, such as Netcare, should
obtain accreditation from the medical body to employ healthcare professionals.

The HPCSA also issued a policy document on undesirable business practices,
stating that if the motive for the proposed employment was to generate income to
the employer or to remunerate the employee on a fee-sharing basis, accreditation
should not be approved.

Netcare said it owned 54 private hospitals around the country, of which seven
had oncology units. It has for a long time employed medical physicists and
radiotherapists at those hospitals.

Adhering to the recent policy document, it applied for accreditation to employ
these professions. Netcare, in its application to the HPCSA, explained in detail
that patients at its oncology units were treated by a team led by an oncologist.
The radiotherapists and medical physicists did not determine whether a patient
received treatment and what the treatment should be, but merely assisted with
the treatment.

Netcare could not manipulate these professions to gain any financial advantage
for itself, and these professions did not receive commission or volume-based
bonuses, the HPCSA was told.

But the watchdog refused permission to accredit these professions, stating that
it was against its ethical framework. One of the reasons stated for the refusal
was that private hospitals should not be allowed to employ practitioners because
of their profit motive.

It recommended Netcare enter into a service agreement with these practitioners
and handed over a copy of the agreement for approval.

"The committee's stance with respect to private hospitals and practitioners in
private practice given that both are in business to make a profit defies logic.

"The criterion that private hospitals should not employ practitioners because of
their profit motive, save where the practitioners were employed to undertake
emergency services, was possibly unconstitutional as it unfairly discriminated
against private hospitals merely because they are profit-driven organisations,"
the judge said.

Judge Canca added that, yet, practitioners in private practice, who were also
profit driven, were allowed to employ other healthcare professionals registered
with the HPCSA.

"I doubt whether it could ever have been the legislature's intention to clothe
the HPCSA with the power to deny private hospitals the right to employ
practitioners merely because such hospitals are profit driven." Theere was no
evidence that the practitioners' ethical or professional responsibilities and
duties would be compromised by their employment with Netcare, the judge said.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


