                              16 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             June 6, 1985 Thursday

Important committees

BYLINE: Grahame Meredith; GAM

LENGTH: 303 words

DATELINE: Toronto ONT


Re Oh Lord, Deliver Us From The Committees (The Doctor Game - May 30):
    Bio-ethics committees in Canada and the United States are recent
 additions to hospitals. According to a survey published in February, 1985,
 there were only 14 in Canada prior to 1980. By 1984 there were 36. Their
 primary role, in more than 80 per cent of the cases, is to advise and
 provide consultation, not to make life-and- death decisions, as Dr.

Gifford- Jones indicates.

The other important activities of the committees include educating
 hospital staff and patients on ethical problems, and recommending policies
 for the hospital on ethical issues. A large number of the committees (47
 per cent) were established on the insistence of physicians who recognized
 their own lack of training in ethics. They understood that this educative
 function was necessary to ensure that the hospital staff (including the
 physicians) learned about the ethical issues and did support the patients'
 rights.

The discussion of issues involved in the allocation of scarce life-
 saving medical resources, such as kidney transplants, is one important
 part of this process.

Dr. Gifford-Jones has criticized the "first-come-first-served" method
 of allocating kidneys but has not shown why it would be more fair to treat
 a "productive member of society" than the alcoholic. He also hasn't
 indicated how we should choose between two "productive members of society"
 if there is only one kidney.

One of the benefits of bio-ethics committees may be that more people
 learn to question the physicians who say that someone is a "better person"
 than someone else and therefore more deserving of treatment. The
 committees may also provide a valuable resource to those physicians who
 recognize that they do not know all the issues or all the answers.

Grahame Meredith
   Toronto

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1985 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


