                              150 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                  July 7, 2008

AMA tool kit helps doctors measure, boost patient comprehension

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, AMNews staff. Jul. 7, 2008

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 13 Vol. 51 No. 25

LENGTH: 1004 words



HIGHLIGHT: The program assists physicians and hospitals in gauging if their
message is getting through to patients with poor English and reading skills.


Nine hospitals and physician practices around the country are testing a set of
surveys to help them assess how well they communicate with patients, especially
those with limited English proficiency or low health literacy. The surveys are
part of an American Medical Association tool kit launched publicly in late
April.

The communication problem appears grave: More than 95 million Americans do not
read well enough to understand a prescription label. More than 34 million
patients were born in other countries, and more than 22 million do not speak
English "very well," according to a 2006 report from the AMA's Ethical Force
Program, which created the tool kit.

These patients, studies show, obtain preventive care services less often, are
more likely not to take medication as directed, and have worse health outcomes.
Yet the challenge for physician practices and hospitals is to determine how well
they care for these patients who often are too embarrassed to admit that they do
not understand forms or that they struggle to communicate with doctors, nurses
and receptionists.

The tool kit -- funded by a four-year, $688,000 grant from the California
Endowment -- features short, easy-to-understand patient surveys as well as
surveys intended for executive leadership and clinical and nonclinical staff.

Patients are asked to rate experiences in understanding receptionists, signage,
educational materials and forms, and communication with doctors and other health
care professionals. The staff surveys focus on how well the hospital or practice
provides interpreter services and training.

While doctors do their best to speak in terms patients understand, that may not
be enough, physicians said.

"It's important that the clinic as a whole sees how it communicates with
patients," said Kelly S. Bossenbroek, MD, a family physician at a Meriden,
Conn., health center that is part of the 11-clinic Community Health Center Inc.
involved in field testing the tool kit.

"Unless you have actual data, you can't tell if you're getting better and you
don't necessarily know where your problem areas are. That makes it difficult to
make improvements."

Nearly 1,400 patients, 80 clinical staff and more than 100 nonclinical staff
have filled out surveys. The process has been a learning experience, said Debbie
Ward, a nurse manager and member of CHC's quality improvement committee. When
administering surveys to patients in waiting rooms, Ward discovered that some
patients were illiterate.

The clinics already have a language phone line available in each exam room for
interpretation services and are working to implement the so-called teach-back
method, in which patients are asked to say in their own words the message a
doctor has just given. Because physicians may be too busy to go through
teach-back with patients, CHC clinics often delegate the job to nurses.

Another group that is using the communication tool kit is the Mount Pocono, Pa.,
physician practice that is owned by Geisinger Health System. Between 30% and 40%
of the practice's patients speak English as a second language or come from
culturally diverse backgrounds, said Wenda Hartzell, a Geisinger Health System
administrator. Hartzell said the surveys helped bring about change.

"What we realized is there are certain things you need to have in place for
sites serving diverse populations," she said. "We are looking at providing
signage and sign-ins in Spanish and other languages." Hartzell said Geisinger
plans to test whether the changes improve patient perceptions and health
outcomes.

The AMA welcomed use of the tool kit. "These experiences demonstrate how the
Ethical Force tool kit brings together communication and quality improvement in
a unique and valuable way," said AMA trustee Edward L. Langston, MD.

More broadly, measuring the caliber of communication helps translate the ethical
imperative to share decision-making with patients into action, said Paul M.
Schyve, MD, senior vice president of the Joint Commission and chair of the
Ethical Force Program's oversight body.

"When we talk about ethical issues, often they feel more amorphous and not as
clearly defined as other things we think about in the science of medicine," Dr.
Schyve said. "[The tool kit] is an attempt to try to say, can we first agree on
what is the basic principle, then can we start to become concrete about whether
that principle's being played out in my clinic, my practice, my hospital."

The surveys can be downloaded for free
(www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/category/18225.html).

The tool kit, including promotional materials and data templates, costs $250.
More extensive services run up to $5,500.

Failure to communicate?

The first step toward improving communication with patients, especially those
with low health literacy or limited English proficiency, is to assess current
performance, experts say. Surveys included as part of the AMA's new
patient-centered communication tool kit ask patients how well they understood a
hospital's or clinic's signage, receptionists, forms and educational materials.
Patients are asked how well their physicians communicated with them in the last
six months. Patients can answer "never," "sometimes," "always" or "not sure" to
the following questions:

     ·     Did doctors listen to you?
     ·     Did doctors respect what you had to say?
     ·     Did doctors explain things in a way you could understand?
     ·     Did doctors ask you to repeat their instructions?
     ·     Did doctors involve you in decisions about your health care?
     ·     Did doctors at the hospital/clinic try to understand your culture?
     ·     Could you talk to your doctors about home remedies?
     ·     Did doctors ask if you had any questions?
     ·     Did you have enough time to talk with your doctor?


Source: "The AMA Ethical Force Program toolkit: improving communication --
improving care," adult patient survey, April

Weblink

"AMA Ethical Force Program toolkit: improving communication -- improving care,"
April   (www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/category/18225.html)

AMA Foundation health literacy videos
(www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/category/8035.html)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

