                              149 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                               December 27, 2001

Commission set up to provide medical, ethical, legal expertise to prepare report

BYLINE: By CAROL COULTER, Legal Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; SUBMISSION ON ASSISTED HUMAN REPRODUCTION; Pg.
6

LENGTH: 473 words


The Commission on Assisted Human Reproduction was set up by the Government in
March 2000 to prepare a report on all aspects of this subject. Its chairwoman is
Prof Dervilla Donnelly, emeritus professor of organic chemistry in UCD.

Its terms of reference are "to prepare a report on the possible approaches to
the regulation of all aspects of assisted human reproduction and the social,
ethical and legal factors to be taken into account in determining public policy
in this area."

Announcing the commission, the Minister for Health, Mr Martin, said: "Major
advances have taken place in recent years in the capacity of medical science to
intervene in the process of human reproduction. Techniques such as in-vitro
fertilisation, the freezing and storage of sperm and artificial insemination by
donor are available in Ireland and have enabled many couples to conceive
children despite impaired fertility."

He pointed out that while many countries had legislation in this area, there was
no such legislation in Ireland. Medical practice was governed by the ethical
guidelines of the Medical Council, but these did not extend to any service
operated by other people. There was growing public concern that complex and
controversial procedures were being practised without any legislative controls.

The establishment of a commission was intended to serve two purposes: to provide
the medical, ethical and legal expertise necessary for a detailed examination of
the possible approaches; and to prepare a report which would provide the basis
for an informed public debate before the finalisation of any proposals.

The members of the commission are, as well as Prof Donnelly: Dr Carol Barry
Kinsella, an obstetrician from the Rotunda Hospital; Dr Aonghus Nolan, of the
Fertility Unit, University College Hospital, Galway; Prof Andrew Green,
geneticist in Our Lady's Hospital, Crumlin, and professor of genetics in UCD;

Dr Marina Lynch, Department of Physiology, TCD; Prof Tom Cotter, Department of
Biochemistry, UCC; Dr Deirdre Madden, lecturer in law, UCC; Mr Gerry Whyte,
senior lecturer in law, TCD; Ms Mary Cooke from the Attorney General's office;
Dr Alpha Connolly from the Department of Foreign Affairs; Dr Paul McCarthy, a
child psychiatrist in St James's Hospital; Ms N ir n Hayes, head of Social
Sciences in DIT;

Dr Tony Ryan, a paediatrician in Erinville Hospital, Cork; Ms Caroline Harrison,
a counsellor in the human assisted reproduction unit in the Rotunda Hospital; Ms
Nora Geary, a midwife in the Erinville Hospital, Cork;

Dr Miriam McCarthy of the Northern Ireland Department of Health and Social
Services; Ms Helen Browne of the Information Infertility and Support Group in
Cork; Ms Geraldine Luddy, director of the Women's Health Council, and Mr Brian
Mullen of the Department of Health and Children.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2001 The Irish Times


