                              146 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Times of Oman

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

Eight Chinese quarantined as panic grips Ebola-hit west Africa

BYLINE: AFP

LENGTH: 472 words


Eight Chinese medical workers who treated Ebola patients have been quarantined
in Sierra Leone, as health experts grapple with ethical questions over the use
of experimental drugs to combat the killer virus.



Gripped by panic, west African nations battling the tropical disease ramped up
drastic containment measures that have caused transport chaos, price hikes and
food shortages.

The World Health Organization has scrambled to draft guidelines for the use of
experimental medicines at a meeting in Geneva as the death toll from the worst
Ebola outbreak in history neared 1,000. It is to present its conclusions on
Tuesday.

Liberia meanwhile said it had requested samples of an experimental drug and that
supplies would be brought in the country "by a representative of the US
government" later this week.

There is currently no available cure or vaccine for Ebola, which the WHO has
declared a global public health emergency.

The disease has hit doctors hard in the ill-equipped and fragile health systems
of the worst-hit west African nations of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.

China's ambassador to Sierra Leone Zhao Yanbo said that seven doctors and one
nurse who treated Ebola patients had been placed under quarantine, but would not
be drawn on whether they were displaying symptoms of the disease.

In addition 24 nurses in Sierra Leone, most from the military hospital in the
capital, have also been quarantined, according to Yanbo and hospital director
Sahr Foday.

Foday said a senior physician at Freetown's Connaught Hospital had contracted
Ebola but was responding well to treatment. The nation's sole virologist, who
was at the forefront of its battle against the epidemic, died from Ebola last
month.

Ethical thing to do?
The use of an experimental drug called ZMapp on two Americans and a Spanish
priest infected with the virus while working in Africa has opened up an intense
ethical debate.

The drug, made by private US company Mapp Pharmaceuticals, has shown promising
results but is still in an early phase of development and had only been tested
previously on monkeys.

ZMapp is in very short supply, but its use on Western aid workers has sparked
controversy and demands that it be made available in Africa.

"Is it ethical to use unregistered medicines to treat people, and if so, what
criteria should they meet, and what conditions, and who should be treated?" said
WHO assistant director-general Marie-Paule Kieny ahead of Monday's meeting.


"What is the ethical thing to do?"

Mapp Pharmaceuticals said it had sent all its available supplies to West Africa.


"In responding to the request received this weekend from a West African nation,
the available supply of ZMapp is exhausted," it said in a statement.

"Any decision to use ZMapp must be made by the patients' medical team," it said,
adding that the drug was "

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 89


     Copyright 2014 Times of Oman - Muscat Press & Publishing House (SAOC)
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


