                              148 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                      May 25, 2002 Saturday Final Edition

Stop escalation, College asks MDs

SOURCE: Vancouver Sun

BYLINE: P.A.M. Mitenko, MD, FRCPC

SECTION: News; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 656 words

Following is a statement issued Friday by the professional body that polices
doctors in B.C.:

The College of Physicians and Surgeons of British Columbia has watched with
growing concern the escalating dispute and disagreement between physicians and
the government. We are not an advocate for the profession or the government and
like many, we hope that, in the interest of timely, comprehensive, and optimum
patient care, negotiation and discussions will eventually result in a resolution
to the existing situation. The College has a statutory obligation to act in the
public interest and for the benefit of public safety where physicians and their
professional practices are involved. On several previous occasions, we have
communicated our expectations to all physicians in the province in terms of
their ethical and professional obligations. However, given recent developments
and the understandable public concern regarding ongoing and increasing
interruption in medical services, the College considers it appropriate to again
inform the public and the profession of those expectations. Further, we wish to
assure the public that the College will be continuing to monitor compliance with
those expectations and will take action if compliance does not occur.

The College's expectations of physicians include the following:

Physicians who choose to become involved in withdrawal of medical services must
still, if contacted individually or through call groups, be available to assess
and treat seriously ill patients where the absence of such care may result in
serious harm to the patient.

Physicians must continue to provide care for currently ill or recovering
patients for whom they have a responsibility or see that such care is provided.
Ill patients cannot simply be abandoned.

In each situation where a physician withdraws services, there must be a review
of the ethical principles and expectations established by the College and an
assessment of whether the action to be taken may result in serious harm to
patients.

In situations where the proposed job action will involve a hospital or entire
specialty departments within a hospital or community, fulfilling the College's
ethical expectations will include compliance with established guidelines,
including appropriate notice to medical directors and others involved in the
delivery of hospital services, the establishment of appropriate contingency
plans for patient care, recognition of the adequacy or inadequacy of alternative
resources, and the implementation of appropriate measures to again ensure that
serious harm to patients does not result from the proposed job action.

It is not appropriate for an entire group of physicians or an entire department
at a hospital to withdraw services en masse without ensuring that the College's
guidelines are met. All individual physicians participating in job action
continue to have professional and ethical responsibilities to their patients.

The College has, in previous statements (www.cpsbc.ca
/news/2002-03-15-letter-to-all.htm) acknowledged the constraints and
difficulties which have confronted its members over the last several years, but
asks and expects that physicians will continue to observe the ethical principles
that have defined the medical profession, as they have in the past.

The College is today asking the medical profession not to further escalate
action involving hospitals, emergency care, or specialty departments until it
has had the opportunity to provide appropriate guidance to its members and to
further delineate its expectations in those circumstances.

For that purpose, the College has today established a special committee, headed
by its president and its registrar, which will be directly responsible for
providing guidance to physicians or groups of physicians, and for monitoring the
situation in the public interest.

P.A.M. Mitenko, MD, FRCPC

President

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Excerpt

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


