                              147 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            November 28, 2005 Monday

The flu as ethical dilemma

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A02

LENGTH: 1063 words


As you read the latest news about sick and dying chickens or ducks around the
globe, you might ask yourself questions like these:

In the event a bird-flu pandemic hits the human population, should we force
doctors and nurses to stand on the front lines and fight the disease, or let
them seek safer ground?

Who should we treat with available medicines and who should do without?

Who should we quarantine, ban, turn away or jail?

Who should we save and who let die?

A global flu outbreak - avian or otherwise - would not only stretch the world's
health-care apparatus past all normal limits, most experts concede, but it would
test our ethical frameworks to their very core.

And yet as the word pandemic becomes part of our daily discourse, we are
watching, waiting and worrying in a near ethical vacuum, says a group of medical
ethicists from the University of Toronto.

Even as we feverishly prepare medical and public health strategies to combat an
outbreak, ethical questions that could help structure optimal responses, and
create a public willingness to accept them, have yet to be discussed, let alone
answered, says a report from U of T's Joint Centre for Bioethics.

That might begin to change with last week's release of the group's 26-page "
Ethical Considerations in Preparedness Planning for Pandemic Influenza," which
is meant to inform discussions on such outbreaks both here and around the world.

"It's not going to be the individual ... technical (public health) decisions
that are going to hold our society together in the face of an immense struggle
with an influenza pandemic," says Dr. Peter Singer, a U of T bioethicist and one
of the report's key authors.

"It's going to be a shared set of values, a shared ethical framework that's
going to be the glue that will hold together societies struggling with
enormously difficult choices."

Singer points to Toronto's harrowing experience with severe acute respiratory
syndrome in 2003 as an example of where the lack of ethical underpinnings to the
overall response lead to the greatest public and professional dissatisfaction.

"In the first week or so, everything was technical, people were making decisions
about masks and drugs and stuff like that," he says. These technical concerns,
however, soon gave way to pressing ethical worries.

"By week two of SARS, it started to have more and more to do with ethics," he
says. "Should that public official have identified that person on the train who
may have had SARS was just one ... example."

With its SARS experience, Singer says, Ontario has taken a global lead in
formulating ethical plans and responses to pandemics - something the World
Health Organization just this month directed all countries and jurisdictions to
consider.

The report generally refrains from offering hard and fast answers to inevitable
pandemic dilemmas, preferring instead to provide a broad set of guidelines with
which governments, public health officials, medical associations and citizens
might formulate ethical rules.

But it does identify four key ethical issues that must be addressed in any
pandemic planning exercise and lays out some of the major arguments likely to
arise under each category.

The key categories include:

The duty of health workers to provide care in the face of a lethal infectious
disease.

The extent to which normal rights and liberties of a population can be
suspended.

The allocation of scarce medical supplies and hospital space.

The global implications of such things as international travel advisories.

In each of these instances, the report's main goal is to guide serious
conversations among stakeholder groups.

"On the duty to care issue, for example, we're recommending that organizations
like nurses associations, medical associations and hospitals get absolutely
clear on what the minimum expectations are," says report author Dr. Ross Upshur,
director of primary care research at Sunnybrook and Women's College Health
Sciences Centre.

"But we have neither the authority nor the capacity to make strict normative
recommendations for what individual health-care providers should do. We're
trying to promote discussion."

Those discussions, however, would surely include such topics as the extent to
which doctors and nurses are bound to treat patients during a virulent crisis,
the report says.

"Some believe that under dire circumstances, professionals should have minimal
self-regard and pursue their duties at potential cost to their own lives," it
says. "By analogy, firefighters do not have the freedom to choose whether or not
they have to face a particularly bad fire, and police do not get to select which
dark alleys they walk down."

On the other hand, many health-care workers would deny they're bound by the same
kinds of "heroic" expectations and that they did not sign up for such dangerous
duties.

In terms of prioritizing patients, still harder judgments might have to be made.

Some of the decisions, like which groups should be the first to receive
vaccinations and antiviral medicines, would be largely based on epidemiological
evidence and medical knowledge from past outbreaks, the report says.

There is general agreement, for example that front-line health-care workers
should have first access to protective medications, so that they can continue to
treat the sick.

Children over 2 years old, on the other hand, could be placed well down the
priority list, given that they are best able to survive bouts with the disease.

Despite the guidelines, a consensus on some of the most difficult problems a
pandemic would raise will be hard to achieve, many experts say.

Nurses, for example, have a duty in Canada to treat patients, regardless of
race, sex, income or the severity of their condition, says Deborah Tamlyn,
president of the Canadian Nurses Association.

But that duty is contingent on governments, hospitals and other employers being
able to guarantee protection for the caregivers, she says, adding that's
something that cannot be guaranteed during a pandemic.

Dr. Michael Gardam, director of infection control for the University Health
Network, says pandemic debates might also rage over who will live and die -
decisions that would be wrenching no matter what ethical frameworks had been
agreed upon.

Both Gardam and Tamlyn agree, however, that ethical debates are necessary to
properly respond to pandemic conditions and the time to have those debates is
now.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Lucas Oleniuk Toronto Star Employees at Scarborough's Centenary
hospital prepare to leave the building during the SARS outbreak in 2003. Out of
its experience with severe acute respiratory syndrome, Ontario has taken the
global lead in formulating ethical plans and responses to pandemics.

