                              17 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                           November 24, 2012 Saturday

Dr. Kate Scannell: Doctors divided over common ethical dilemmas

BYLINE: By Dr. Kate Scannell Contra Costa Times/Oakland Tribune columnist

SECTION: OPINION; Columnists

LENGTH: 975 words


They can haunt you for life. They can keep you awake at night They can change
forever how you practice medicine. And for many doctors, they are the stuff of
everyday experience.

"They" are the "ethical dilemmas" that so thoroughly permeate medical practice
as to become inseparable from it. And because these dilemmas are so enmeshed, it
is often difficult to tease them out from the daily fabric of health care.
Still, they regularly thread through medical decision-making between doctors and
patients in clinics, and through hospital policy-making in the executive
offices.

Broadly stated, an ethical dilemma occurs whenever "doing the right thing" is
brought into question. Opposing views about what's right and what's wrong create
friction that sparks an ethical conflict and, frequently, heated ethical debate.
Just about any medical or health care issue can provide the kindling: abortion;
government spending on Medicaid; hospital policy guiding organ transplantation;
physician-assisted suicide. ...

An act as seemingly simple and value-neutral as signing an antibiotic
prescription can bristle with ethical dilemmas. Should I prescribe an antibiotic
because that will calm my extremely anxious patient -- or should I resist
because it's wrong to waste resources and to risk the side effects from a
medically ineffective therapy for her viral infection? Should I prescribe the
antibiotic whose name is neatly emblazoned on the nifty pen I received from the
peppy pharmaceutical rep -- or should I choose a cheap ol' generic instead?
During a flu pandemic or national drug shortage, how do I decide which of two
deserving patients should receive a scarce antibiotic?

Ethical dilemmas often arouse strong emotions and forceful personal opinions
from people engaged in moral conflict, people waging an age-old battle between
perceptions of right and wrong. That can make it extremely difficult to unearth
what's actually at stake in the dilemma: the deeply rooted moral values at the
bottom of all the emotions and opining.

We carry these personal moral values into the clinics and hospitals -- whether
we are health care workers, patients, or administrators. And because they draw
upon our intimate philosophical and religious beliefs, our family values, and
our cultural traditions, they tend to anchor us firmly and meaningfully in a
moral predisposition or attitude that infuses our self-identity. That is why
these ethical dilemmas are often so difficult, so painful, so meaningful, and so
resistant to simple solutions or surface agreements.

The field of medical ethics emerged as a discipline in the 1960s and '70s to
assist patients, families, and health care workers who found themselves
entrenched in moral conflict over health care decisions. Most large U.S.
hospitals now provide medical ethics consultation by a trained consultant or
ethics committee.

The first objective of consultation is to unearth all the moral values at stake
in the ethical dilemma (not an easy task!) from all parties involved in the
decision at hand. That makes it possible to see someone who holds an opposing
view as a person taking a principled stand -- rather than as some wearisome
obstructionist who stands unreasonably in your way. Quite often, humanizing each
person's point of view in this way leads to common ground where dispute
resolution can succeed.

Last week, WebMD released its latest Medscape survey of more than 24,000 U.S.
doctors who were asked to identify the "top ethical dilemmas" they encountered
in medical practice.

Reading the results, it's readily apparent that ethical dilemmas are as common
as ... well, the common cold. Readers might be particularly interested to learn
that doctors often differed dramatically in their views about the right and
wrong way to handle those real-world clinical dilemmas. Notably, because many of
them involved life-and-death decision-making, it will be critical to further
study how physicians' personal points of view actually affect the care a patient
receives.

In these troubled economic times, it's also salient to note how the surveyed
physicians viewed their stewardship of health care expenditures. A sizable
percentage would consider providing care that was ostensibly "futile" or
intended only to alleviate malpractice fears.

Below are some of the Medscape survey questions. How would you respond? How
"should" you respond? (Excerpted from: Medscape 2012   Ethics Report. Available
atwww.medscape.com/features/slideshow/public/ethics2012 .)

Would you ever give life-sustaining therapy if you believed it to be futile?

Yes: 35 percent

No: 24 percent

It depends: 41 percent

Would you ever devote scarce or costly resources to a younger patient rather
than to one who was older but not facing imminent death?

Yes: 27 percent

No: 38 percent

It depends: 35 percent

Is it ever acceptable to perform "unnecessary" procedures due to malpractice
concerns?

Yes: 23 percent

No: 55 percent

It depends: 22 percent

Would you hide information from a patient about a terminal or preterminal
diagnosis to bolster their spirit?

Yes: 10 percent

No: 72 percent

It depends: 18 percent

Is it ever acceptable to cover up or avoid revealing a mistake if that mistake
would not cause harm to the patient?

Yes: 16 percent

No: 63 percent

It depends: 21 percent

Should physician-assisted suicides be allowed in some situations?

Yes: 47 percent

No: 40 percent

It depends: 13 percent

Would you ever continue treating a patient -- despite a family's wishes to end
treatment -- if you felt the patient had a chance to recover?

Yes: 23 percent

No: 32 percent

It depends: 45 percent

Would you ever report a physician, friend, or colleague who occasionally seemed
impaired by alcohol or illness?

Yes: 78 percent

No: 4 percent

It depends: 18 percent

Kate Scannell is a Bay Area physician and syndicated columnist. You can visit
her website atwww.katescannellmd.com .

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


