                              155 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            February 28, 2011 Monday
                                  1 - Edition

Townsille Hospital in poor health Minister downplays probe urgency

BYLINE: Roanne Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 266  words


NEW Health Minister Geoff Wilson has vowed to get to the bottom of the
Townsville Hospital debacle which has sparked three independent probes but he
won't be jumping on a plane this week to sort it out.

``I expect the highest standards of our staff, and I expect any complaint to be
rigorously investigated,'' Mr Wilson said.

``I intend to visit as many areas of the state as soon as I can in my new role
and I look forward to getting to Townsville.''

There are three independent hospital investigations taking place, two by the
Health Ethical Standards Unit and one by the Crime and Misconduct Commission,
looking into recent misconduct claims.

The minister downplayed the ratio of complaints made about the hospital when
compared to the thousands of staff the health department employs across North
Queensland.

``I am advised complaint levels in Townsville are not extraordinarily high,'' Mr
Wilson said.

``It has to be remembered there are two ethical standards unit investigations
being undertaken from more than 5200 staff in the district.''

Mr Wilson pointed to the new acting Chief Executive Officer Dr Andrew Johnson as
a fresh start to guide the hospital.

The well-respected medical professional with extensive experience in the public
hospital system is already focused on reform following the release of Queensland
Health's Public Hospitals Performance Report for the December quarter.

The report showed some Townsville Hospital patients, such as those suffering
from cancer, are waiting up to a week longer than what is recommended by experts
for life saving treatments such as radiation therapy.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


