                              159 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                     January 14, 2016 Thursday 10:52 PM GMT

Judge sides with Catholic hospital in fight over contraceptive healthcare;
The California hospital cited 'ethical and religious directives' and refused to
allow a doctor to tie the woman's tubes immediately following childbirth

BYLINE: Ronnie Cohen in San Francisco

SECTION: SOCIETY

LENGTH: 997 words


A San Francisco judge on Thursday refused to order a Catholic hospital to allow
an obstetrician to use its facility to sterilize a woman just after the birth of
her third child.

In denying the American Civil Liberties Union's emergency request, superior
court judge Ernest Goldsmith recognized the right of a Catholic hospital to
adhere to its ethical and religious dictates.

"The religious beliefs reflected in their operation are not to be interfered
with by courts," Goldsmith said during an hour-long hearing in San Francisco.
"There's no law that says that hospitals are mandated to perform
sterilizations."

The case, brought by the ACLU, spotlights increasing tension over women's rights
to contraceptive healthcare in Catholic institutions.

Rebecca Chamorro plans to deliver her baby by cesarean section in Redding,
California, at the end of the month and would like her physician to tie her
tubes immediately following the birth.

But Mercy Medical Center Redding, a Catholic hospital with the only delivery
room in a 70-mile radius of Chamorro's home in the rural northern reaches of the
state, cited "ethical and religious directives" and refused to allow her doctor
to perform the tubal ligation. In 2009, the United States Conference of Catholic
Bishops issued orders that generally prohibit sterilization in Catholic
hospitals and call it "intrinsically evil".

Goldsmith ruled that the ACLU is unlikely to win its discrimination case because
the hospital's sterilization policy applies equally to men and women. The judge
also found that Chamorro could have the elective procedure in another hospital.
In addition, he found insufficient evidence that the hospital allowed other
tubal ligations solely for contraceptive purposes.

The ACLU challenged the use of religious directives to deny tubal ligations in a
lawsuit it filed last month on behalf of Chamorro and Physicians for
Reproductive Health, a nonprofit, and against the hospital and its parent,
Dignity Health of San Francisco - California's largest hospital provider. The
suit alleges sex discrimination because the prohibition against sterilization
disproportionately impacts women. The ACLU also contends that the hospital
arbitrarily allowed some women to have the common surgical procedure while
refusing it to others.

"It's unbelievable that the hospital where my doctor has admitting privileges is
denying him the ability to provide a safe, legal and common procedure,
especially considering that Mercy is my only real option," Chamorro said in an
email.

Following the hearing, Elizabeth Gill, an ACLU attorney, said she disagreed with
the judge's ruling and was considering whether to appeal it. "Catholic hospitals
have been aggressively expanding over the past 15 years, and as our client is
experiencing, they're the only option for care in a lot of cases," she said.

Barry Landsberg, Dignity Health's attorney, told the judge: "This is a request
for a Catholic hospital to forsake ethical and religious directives. This is a
private Catholic hospital. It's not the public library. It can make decisions
about the services it provides."

The judge's ruling on the emergency motion to permit Dr Samuel Van Kirk to tie
Chamorro's tubes is just the first ruling in a dispute over the rights of women
to get tubal ligations following childbirth in Catholic hospitals in California.

The ultimate outcome of the lawsuit could have repercussions for women
throughout the state and the nation. Dignity Health claims to be the fifth
largest health system in the United States. It owns 39 hospitals, 22 of them
Catholic.

"I'd have blinders on if I ignored the essence of this lawsuit," Goldsmith said
on Thursday. "It's about church and state. It's about exercise of religion and
to what extent it can be regulated by a court."

About 20% of American women rely on tubal ligations for contraception, making it
the second most common form of birth control, according to the US Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.

A tubal ligation immediately following a C-section delivery takes two minutes,
Gill said. A separate surgery requires the additional time and expense of
another trip to the hospital and carries another set of medical risks.

Chamarro, 33, a pharmacist with two sons, is scheduled for a C-section on 28
January. When Van Kirk first told her that the hospital refused to allow her to
have a tubal ligation, she was confused because she could not imagine that the
medical center would stand in her way, she said in court papers.

But, Landsberg said, Van Kirk should have expected the denial because he agreed
to be bound by the Catholic ethical and religious directives when he applied to
the hospital for privileges. In a court declaration, Van Kirk estimated that
Mercy denied his request to tie the tubes of women 50 times in the past eight
years.

Mercy recently denied the surgery to Lynsie Brushett, who dropped out of the
ACLU case after she miscarried. Van Kirk did perform a tubal ligation on Rachel
Miller at Mercy in Redding following the birth of her second child in September.
The hospital granted permission for Miller's sterilization after the ACLU
threatened to sue.

"I think it is totally wrong that a hospital is using religion to deny standard
medical care for an entire community," said Miller, 32, a criminal-defense
attorney.

The hospital ultimately agreed to allow Miller's tubal ligation based on her
need for antibiotics to combat a fever during her first delivery, she said. But
she believes her tubal ligation was no more medically necessary than Chamorro's.

The hospital's policy says: "Tubal ligation or other procedures that induce
sterility for the purpose of contraception are not acceptable in Catholic moral
teaching even when performed with the intent of avoiding further medical
problems associated with a future pregnancy."

The ACLU has also filed a complaint on behalf of Jessica Mann, who has brain
tumors and was denied a postpartum tubal ligation at a Catholic hospital in
Michigan.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2016 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


