                              153 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            March 20, 2003 Thursday
                                  1 - Edition

Seminar will look at health-related ethical issues

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 808

LENGTH: 281  words


AN education program canvassing the principles and concepts of ethics and
ethical standards in health and aged care will be staged in Townsville for the
first time tomorrow.

The Catholic Health Australia (CHA) seminar, to be held at the Mater Hospital
from 9am - 4pm, will cover a broad curriculum of subjects including decision
making in health care, death and dying, respect for bodily integrity and people
with special needs.

Mater Hospital employee services manager Ian Stephens said the program would
focus mainly on the practical application and the theoretical concepts behind
CHA's Code of Ethical Standards for health and aged care.

``It's an interactive program incorporating presenters and quite a bit of case
study work focusing on ethics and ethical situations,'' he said.

``It teaches participants how to recognise ethical issues and how to deal with
those issues effectively.''

In addition to professional and clinical ethics, Mr Stephens said the program
would deal with organisational and business ethics, providing participants with
the valuable framework and tools for decision making.

``Decision making processes within the work environment will be guided by the
principles espoused in the code, so the code is a starting point for initiating
an educational process,'' he said.

Mr Stephens said the aim of the seminar was to improve participants'
understanding of the respect for life in situations of conflict and help them
identify the difference between Christian-based ethics as opposed to
utilitarian-based ethics.

``The program will outline the process of ethical decision making and allow
participants to develop associated protocols relevant to their own
organisations.''

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


