                              158 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               London Free Press

                             June 30, 2016 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LHSC boss fires back; In email to staff, exec who fired nurse challenges
'factually inaccurate' reports

BYLINE: Jonathan Sher, The London Free Press

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 701  words


Accused of firing his chief nurse to silence concerns about patient safety at
Ontario hospitals, the head of London Health Science Centre has launched a
campaign within hospital walls to defend his record and accuse detractors of
spreading falsehoods.

Murray Glendining has said next to nothing in public about why he fired chief
nursing executive Vanessa Burkoski, only writing he does not comment on "any
personnel matters."

But Glendining has sent emails to staff at London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC)
that fire a shot across the bow of Burkoski and her supporters who have
criticized him and the hospital in the media.

"When the (chief nursing executive) lead recently changed at LHSC, there was
little we could say about it as we are committed to maintaining the
confidentiality of staff personnel issues. In living by that principle, a very
one-sided and factually inaccurate account of events formed the public record on
the matter," Glendining wrote in an email this week that was obtained by The
Free Press.

A week earlier, Glendining sent a similar message to staff: "I do feel compelled
to address the comments made in the media questioning LHSC's commitment to
safety. I would like to convey to you, on behalf of the entire senior leadership
team, that staff and patient safety has been - and remains - an overriding
priority at LHSC and this commitment is unwavering. Allegations to the contrary
are completely inaccurate and disappointing."

Safety Gap that showed Ontario hospitals were putting patients in harm's way by
replacing registered nurses with cheaper and less-educated health-care workers.
Staff at the London hospital don't buy Glendining's explanation, said Grinspun,
who said the CEO's emails boil down to this: "You don't know the real truth but
we can't tell you."

Before comingto London in 2011, Burkoski was the longest-serving provincial
chief nursing officer, advising three Ontario health ministers. Before she was
fired, she was asked three times to quietly resign Safety Gap that showed
Ontario hospitals were putting patients in harm's way by replacing registered
nurses with cheaper and less-educated health-care workers. Staff at the London
hospital don't buy Glendining's explanation, said Grinspun, who said the CEO's
emails boil down to this: "You don't know the real truth but we can't tell you."

Before comingto London in 2011, Burkoski was the longest-serving provincial
chief nursing officer, advising three Ontario health ministers. Before she was
fired, she was asked three times to quietly resign with a payout, Burkoski said.

Replacing Burkoski as chief nurse at LHSC will be Carol Young-Ritchie, a 20-year
veteran at the hospital whose duties include clinical operations in medicine,
family medicine and critical care.

"I feel sorryfor (Young-Ritchie). Obviously, it's not her fault (and) we'll
support her," Grinspun said.

The change in head nurses is not the only one at the hospital.

Glendining announced to staff that he and Young-Ritchie would look after ethical
practices.

"Reflective of the high priority placed on ethical practice at LHSC, with a
payout, Burkoski said.

Replacing Burkoski as chief nurse at LHSC will be Carol Young-Ritchie, a 20-year
veteran at the hospital whose duties include clinical operations in medicine,
family medicine and critical care.

"I feel sorryfor (Young-Ritchie). Obviously, it's not her fault (and) we'll
support her," Grinspun said.

The change in head nurses is not the only one at the hospital.

Glendining announced to staff that he and Young-Ritchie would look after ethical
practices.

"Reflective of the high priority placed on ethical practice at LHSC, I will
assume strategic oversight of LHSC's corporate ethics, and Carol Young-Ritchie
will provide operational oversight of the ethics activity," he wrote.

The London hospital is restructuring the roles and responsibilities of senior
management, part of a three-year plan that began this year. "The changes we are
making are designed to reinforce our unrelentingcommitmentto continuous
improvement of safety, quality and the patient experience," Glendining wrote.

jsher@postmedia.com twitter. com/JSHERatLFPress !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Sun Media
Corporation. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / (See hardcopy for photo);

