                              160 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                              May 03, 2016 Tuesday
                                   E1 Edition

Private hospitals score major accreditation victory

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 598 words


NETCARE hospitals around the country were accredited to employ registered
medical physicists and radiotherapists, where oncology health care services were
provided.

In a groundbreaking victory for the private hospitals in the Pretoria High
Court, acting Judge MP Canca overturned a decision by the Health Professions
Council of South Africa to refuse Netcare accreditation to employ medical
physicists and radiotherapists at its oncology units.

Judge Nicolene Janse van Nieuwenhuizen concurred with the judgment.

The medical watchdog had recommended that Netcare instead outsource the services
of these practitioners, but the court found that this did not make sense. The
court was told that all medical institutions were subject to the ethical rules
of the Health Professions Council. Rule 18 stipulated that an unregistered
employer, such as Netcare, should obtain accreditation from the medical body to
employ healthcare professionals.

The Council also issued a policy document relating to undesirable business
practices, in which it is stated, among others, that if the motive for the
proposed employment was to generate income to the employer or to remunerate the
employee on a fee-sharing basis, accreditation should not be approved.

Netcare said it owned 54 private hospitals around the country, of which seven
had oncology units. It had for a long time employed medical physicists and
radiotherapists at those hospitals. In adhering to the recent policy document,
it applied for accreditation to employ these professions.

Netcare, in its application to the Council, explained in detail that patients at
its on­cology units were treated by a team led by an oncologist.

Merely assisted

The radiotherapists and medical physicists did not determine whether a patient
received treatment or what the treatment should be, but merely assisted with the
treatment. Netcare could not manipulate these professions to gain any financial
advantage for itself, and these professions did not receive commission or
volume-based bonuses, the Council was told.

The Council, however, refused permission to accredit these professions, stating
that it was against its ethical framework. One of the reasons stated for the
refusal was that private hospitals should not be allowed to employ practitioners
because of their profit motive.

It recommended that Netcare enter into a service agreement with these
practitioners and handed over a copy of the agreement for approval.

The judge said the committee's stance with respect to private hospitals and
practitioners in private practice, given that both were in business to make a
profit, defied logic.

"The criterion that private hospitals should not employ practitioners because of
their profit motive, save where the practitioners were employed to undertake
emergency services, was possibly unconstitutional as it unfairly discriminated
against private hospitals merely because they are profit-driven organisations,"
the judge said.

Judge Canca added that, yet, practitioners in private practice, who were also
profit-driven, were allowed to employ other healthcare professionals registered
with the Council.

"I doubt whether it could ever have been the legislature's intention to clothe
the HPCSA with the power to deny private hospitals the right to employ
practitioners such as medical physicists and radiotherapists merely because such
hospitals are profit-driven."

The judge concluded that there was no evidence that the practitioners' clinical
independence, ethical or professional responsibilities and duties would be
compromised by their employment with Netcare.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


