                              156 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              May 30, 2017 Tuesday

Surprise move recognises more diverse Ireland;
Media reports and congregation's age profile contributed to reversal

BYLINE: Patsy McGarry

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 690 words


The agreement reached last November between St Vincent's Healthcare Group and
the National Maternity Hospital was clear that when the maternity hospital moved
from Holles Street, in central Dublin, to the Elm Park campus it would be owned
by a new subsidiary of St Vincent's Healthcare Group.

That group, comprising St Vincent's University Hospital and St Vincent's Private
Hospital, at Elm Park, and St Michael's Hospital, in Dún Laoghaire, was owned by
the Sisters of Charity.

Under the November agreement ownership of the new maternity hospital would also
rest with St Vincent's Healthcare Group, which is to say the sisters, a fact
that nobody remarked on at the time.

It was further agreed that four of the nine directors at the new hospital would
be nominated by St Vincent's Healthcare Group, and four by the National
Maternity Hospital.

Significantly, the remaining director would be an independent expert selected by
a subcommittee of three, two of whom would represent St Vincent's Healthcare
Group. So in fact the Sisters of Charity would control the new maternity
hospital, too.

Ethical code

As ownership was already agreed this structure assured compliance with "the
requirement set out in the SVHG Constitution, to conduct and maintain the SVHG
facilities in accordance with The Religious Sisters of Charity Health Service
Philosophy and Ethical Code", as it was described in yesterday's statement.

This was the Sisters' right - and, indeed, their duty as a Catholic religious
congregation. As owners of the new hospital they had no choice.

But they were not blind to the situation this placed them in when it came to
compliance with the increasingly liberal laws of the State surrounding
reproductive health in a publicly funded context.

It presented them with another ethical issue: the legitimacy of denying legal
treatments at a publicly funded hospital. It was expected that, to remove
themselves from this dilemma, they would agree a long-term lease with the State
for the site of the new maternity hospital at Elm Park. Over recent weeks it
emerged they could not sell the site, as it is collateral for money borrowed to
build St Vincent's Private Hospital. A lease seemed the only option available.

Now they have gone a radical step further. Their complete withdrawal from St
Vincent's Healthcare Group is recognition of a more diverse Ireland but also an
acknowledgment of their own critical situation.

Elderly colleagues

With just over 200 members and an average age of 76, they are today most acutely
concerned, like other religious congregations, with the care of elderly
colleagues. It has also been the case for some time, as they pointed out
yesterday, that they "no longer have any direct involvement in the provision of
healthcare services". It was also why "for the last two years we have been
actively working to find the best way to relinquish our shareholding of the St
Vincent's Healthcare Group".

There can be little doubt this decision was hastened by the strongly negative
public reaction to reports last month that the order would own the new National
Maternity Hospital.

It should be made clear, though, that most clergy and religious accept, as it
was put by the Association of Catholic Priests, "the principle that a national
maternity hospital must be in full compliance with the laws of the land, and
that no particular group or religious affiliation can dictate what is or is not
permissible therein".

It was also difficult not to agree with the association when it said "some of
the language and expressions" used about the Sisters, and nuns in general,
during the controversy were "both distasteful and unfair". The Religious Sisters
of Charity "contributed greatly to our society over the past 200 years,
especially in the areas of education and healthcare", and "the vast majority of
them served church and country selflessly", it recalled.

Such hostility towards the nuns prompted the theologian Fr Gabriel Daly to
observe that "Irish ex-Catholic atheists sometimes seem to be as uncritical in
their religious unbelief as their forebears were in their religious beliefs". It
is hard to disagree.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


