                              164 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                            December 20, 2004 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Kudos

BYLINE: Vancouver Sun

SECTION: BUSINESSBC; Keeping Track; Pg. D5

LENGTH: 632  words


As a result of its Holiday Linen Drive held at the Sutton Place Hotel, Les Clefs
d'Or filled a one-ton truck to the rim with linens, bedding, bathrobes and
towels for the St. James Community Service Society which assists people in
Vancouver's Downtown Eastside. The association of hotel concierges also donated
$1,000, raised at its 2004 trade show, to the society.

Dairy company Natrel donated $5,000 to each of Delta Hospital, Eagle Ridge
Hospital, MSA Hospital Abbotsford and Chilliwack General Hospital. The money was
raised through sales of four litre jugs of Sealtest Milk during the fall Gift of
Caring campaign.

Zlotnik Lamb presented $15,000, raised at its Charity Foundation Golf
Tournament, to the B.C. Sports Hall of Fame and Museum.

B.C. Children's Hospital has honoured B.C.'s mining community for raising
$700,000 to build an improved and expanded cardiac centre. A dedication plaque
now hangs in the Children's Heart Centre recognizing the contributions of Placer
Dome, Teck Cominco, Barrick Gold, Finning International, NVI Mining-Myra Falls
Operations, Arrow Transportation Systems, Fluor Canada, Highland Valley Copper,
P&H MinePro Services, Princeton Mining Group, Procon Mining & Tunnelling and
Viceroy Resources.

Guildford Town Centre's SpinMaster Toys and HIT Entertainment donated 100 toys
and videos to the Salvation Army's Toy Drive.

The Directors Guild of Canada (B.C. District), the Union of B.C. Performers, the
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees Local 891 and 669, and
Teamsters Local 155 donated $10,000 to the Vancouver AIDS Memorial Society.

At the 2004 Canadian Investment Awards, the Canadian Centre for Philanthropy's
Imagine Initiative presented Coast Capital Savings Credit Union with the
Corporate Citizenship Award and the Ethical Funds Company's Ethical Canadian
Dividend Fund with the Industry Award for a Socially Responsible Investment
Fund.

For the second consecutive year, the UBC Department of Computer Science
Programming team came first in the Pacific Northwest Division of the ACM
Intercollegiate Programming Competition. They will now compete at the World
Finals in Shanghai in April.

Entrepreneurship 12 students at L.A. Matheson Secondary put their learned skills
to the test by opening a company to raise funds for Canuck Place. Their
business, to put on a basketball tournament, raised over $2,000 for the
children's hospice.

UBC Computer Science professors Gail Murphy and Joel Friedman received Killam
Faculty Research Fellowships and Anne Condon was awarded the $700,000 Chair for
Women in Science and Engineering from the Natural Sciences and Engineering
Research Council of Canada and General Motors of Canada.

TELUS Mobility helped bring Christmas to homeless young people living at
Covenant House Vancouver with a donation of 20 turkeys, 50 hoodies and gift
cards.

Three Vancouver companies achieved Platinum status for their continued
excellence for at least six years in Canada's 50 Best Managed Companies awards
program. They are Boston Pizza International and Deeley Harley-Davidson Canada
of Richmond and Canadian Securities Registration Systems of Burnaby. The program
is sponsored by Deloitte & Touche, CIBC Commercial Banking, the National Post,
and Queen's School of Business.

Vancouver recipients of Canadian Architect's 2004 Awards of Excellence are:
Patkau Architects for the University of Pennsylvania New College House; Patkau
Architects with LM Architectural Group of Winnipeg for the Winnipeg Centennial
Library; Acton Ostry Architects for the Vancouver Chinese Evangelical Free
Church; and BattersbyHowat for the North Bend Residence in North Bend, WA. The
annual awards are given to architects and architectural graduates for buildings
in the design stage.

See Wednesday's paper for more Kudos announcements.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: Andrea Messent and Viwaan Opanukij of the Sutton Place
concierge team with linens collected by Les Clefs d'Or.;
Color Photo: Sandy Rakic (left) and Martha Fast of Telus Mobility with Christmas
packages for Covenant House Vancouver.

