                              161 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 5, 2003 Wednesday

WORKPLACE ETHICS 101

SECTION: REPORT ON BUSINESS: GLOBE CAREERS; Pg. C6

LENGTH: 700 words


Every day, people are faced with moral dilemmas at work. Now, here's a chance to
put your two cents into the ethical pot. Each week, one respondent will be
chosen to receive a Millennium Edition of Scruples, the game of moral dilemmas.

This week's question

A reader asks:

There are several hospitals in your region that share workloads in several
departments, but not the laboratory work. Now, all hospitals in the province
have to meet new lab accreditation standards.

The lab staff at the smallest hospital has spent months working through the new
standards and updating their policies, and is close to meeting them all. The
largest hospital has done next to no work on the issue. When the largest learns
that it will be inspected first, its lab manager asks his counterpart at the
smallest hospital to share their work. This is not the first time such an
imbalance has occurred, and the smaller lab has always been agreeable.

Is it ethical to finally say no, even though they risk retribution in other
departments, which need the help of the larger hospital? Should they agree, but
charge for the information? Do they have other options?

To submit an answer, or a dilemma:

bizethics@globeandmail.ca

Fax: 416-585-5705

Last week's question

You have a new boss, who is learning his way around the department. He's been
taking the staff out for lunch individually. When your turn comes, he tells you
how impressed he is with your work and asks you for the lowdown on your
colleagues. There is one person you can't stand and who doesn't do a
particularly good job, at least by your estimation, and several others you think
are slacking off. Do you tell the boss?

Our choice

Absolutely not! First of all, one person's "slacking off" may be another's
"working smart." Second, the Golden Rule applies here, and not the one that
states whoever has the gold gets to make the rules. I wouldn't want any
co-worker ratting me out, giving the new boss the "truth" about my work habits.
But the warning flag  is, this person wouldn't be the boss if he/she needed to
ask employees to assess other employees. The boss is most likely scoping me out
to see how likely I am to slag a co-worker, which would give an idea of whether
I'm likely to blame someone else or assume responsibility in a crisis - and
which also gives an idea of my own loyalty to the company. I'd probably respond
that we all have our strengths and weaknesses, and I can't think of anyone who
isn't willing to step up to the plate if someone's having an "off" day.

Drew Snider, Victoria

Honourable mention

So your new boss is learning his way around the department by pulling employees
aside and encouraging them to gossip about each other to him. Sounds like the
beginning of a poisoned work environment to me. Tell the boss you believe
talking about people behind their backs would not be conducive to a co-operative
and productive work environment, and start looking for another job. Working for
such a slimeball will eventually become stressful and unbearable.

Helen Thompson, London, Ont.

Your new boss is hoping his flattery will encourage you to confide in him: For
all you know, he used the same technique on everyone he took to lunch. Point out
that on the whole, the work has been getting done, and it's really not for you
to judge how someone else is doing his or her job - what's important to you is
your own job performance. Thank him for his kind words and steer the
conversation in another direction. And be wary of him in the future.

N. Bencsics, Toronto

The opposing view

If the boss picks up the lunch tab, you owe him at least 30 minutes of honesty.
That being said, you should tell your boss your opinions frankly and honestly.
Tell him that this is your impression and that you will continue to work to the
best of your abilities no matter what decisions he may make. Any reasonably
competent manager will be able to verify whether your impression of the work
environment is accurate in short order. Disguising or misrepresenting the work
environment will impact directly on him first and foremost, but it will reflect
back on you shortly thereafter. Trust lost is extremely difficult to win back.

Raymond A. Ives, Ottawa

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2003 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


