                              163 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                             June 27, 2004, Sunday

More bite needed to ensure clinical trials meet high ethical standards

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 481 words


SCIENCE and Technology Minister Datuk Jamaludin Jarjis announced last week
that pharmaceutical companies in the US are interested in conducting their
clinical trials in Malaysia.

And Malaysia, in return, has offered these companies excellent
facilities at competitive rates.

Clinical trials have always been plagued with issues relating to
unethical and illegal trials, especially in countries without ethical
approval or where legislation may either be inadequate or not implemented.

In India, for example, an independent pharmaceutical journal, Monthly
index of Medical Specialities in India, reported that last year local
generic drug firm, Sun Pharmaceuticals, had tested an anti-cancer drug on
400 women without their knowledge, to see if it induced ovulation.

The drug, a copy of Novartis' patented drug Letrozole, was prescribed to
women who were trying in vain to have children.

The Letrozole trial is one of the many shocking examples of the extent
drug companies would go to.

A survey by the US National Bio Ethics Advisory Commission of more than
200 health researchers found that about 25 per cent of clinical trials
conducted in developing countries do not undergo ethical review.

The findings of the survey were published in the February edition of the
Journal of Medical Ethics.

In Malaysia, though there is no legislation governing clinical trials in
Malaysia, there is, however, the Guidelines For The Application to Conduct
Drug-Related Clinical Trials in Malaysia.

Under the guidelines, principal researchers must have Good Clinical
Practice Certificate approved by the National Committee for Clinical
Research, says deputy director-general of Health Datuk Dr Ismail Merican.

Dr Ismail, who also heads the Ministry of Health's Medical Research
Ethic Committees, says the ministry is also trying to establish National
Ethics Board to especially look into clinical trials on human subjects.

"Clinical trials are getting more complicated and there is an urgent
need to not only safeguard the rights of human subjects, but also to
ensure that trial data is credible and valid."

The ethical committee of the ministry monitors clinical trials in
government hospitals.

Private hospitals, on the other hand, need to have their own committees
for clinical trials in their hospitals.

"The private hospitals, however, must disclose the composition of their
ethical committees to ensure that there is some one to safeguard the
interest of the human subjects."

Nevertheless, Dr Ismail says, the guidelines alone aren't sufficient
without the means to enforce them.

"If researchers were to breach the guidelines, the most we can do is to
blacklist them."

He calls for legislation to regulate clinical trials conducted by
foreign companies in Malaysia.

"The current regulations do not have the bite," says Dr Ismail.


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


