                              18 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                            March 12, 2009 Thursday
                                   e1 Edition

Plan to replace doctors' ethical tariff comes under fire

BYLINE: Slindile Khanyile

SECTION: BUSINESS REPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 466 words


Organisations representing doctors and independent private hospitals, which do
not form part of the large hospital groups such as Netcare and Mediclinic, have
criticised the proposal by the Health Professions Council of SA (HPCSA) to
replace the ethical tariff that the maximum a doctor may charge.

Instead, a document would have to be signed by a patient to accept whatever fee
the practitioner decided to charge.

In November the HPCSA said the ethical tariff would not be used from May.

Instead, a patient must agree to pay the difference if a fee charged by the
doctor was above the national health reference price list or the rate set by a
medical aid scheme.

With the tariff in place, doctors will be able to charge a fee even if it is
above the medical aid rate, but as long as it is not above the ceiling set by
the health council.

Norman Mabasa, the chairman of the Society for General Practitioners, said this
plan would create chaos in the industry because medical aid schemes were
underpaying doctors.

"The reference price list is just that - a reference - and we are not obliged to
charge it. There are studies even from the Council for Medical Schemes showing
that general practitioners (GPs) are underpaid - and even specialists, though
they are paid better than the GPs," Mabasa said.

"If we are going to keep doctors in this country, we must pay them properly.
Removing the ethical tariff would be destroying something that is working,"
Mabasa said.

The proposal requires doctors to indicate to the patient the prevailing
reference price list or medical aid scheme rate for whatever the patient
requires; the difference between that rate and the rate the practitioner intends
to charge; and the amount the patient might then be expected to pay.

Trevor Terblanche, the chairman of GP Private Practice at the SA Medical
Association, said that the association would prefer that the HPCSA would not be
involved in the process of determining tariffs, but rather concern itself with
ethical issues only.

"But we see having the ethical tariff in place as a second preferred option. If
you remove it, you are now putting the onus on doctors to know all the rates
offered by medical aids, whereas it is the patients who should know what they
are buying," said Terblanche.

Otto Wypkema, the chief executive of National Hospital Networks, which
represents 79 independent private hospitals, said this would increase the chance
of doctors treating emergency patients at the risk of their fees remaining
unpaid.

The HPCSA said it made its decision following the establishment of a new
reference price list by the Department of Health, including an extensive
consultative process with stakeholders and healthcare practitioners.

The HPCSA executive committee is reviewing the system, which is still in effect.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                 Copyright 2009 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


