                              168 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Virginia Lawyers Weekly

                                 March 23, 2009

Researchers at Eastern State Hospital in Williamsburg win $2M defamation award

BYLINE: Alan Cooper

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 486  words


A jury has returned verdicts totaling $2 million for two former psychologists at
Eastern State Hospital in Williamsburg who contended that two top officials at
the hospital defamed them.

The plaintiffs are Douglas M. Gross, director of psychology at the hospital when
the alleged defamation occurred in 2004, and Sarah W. Bisconer, a staff
psychologist then.

Gross and Bisconer were conducting a research project at the time in
collaboration with Eastern Virginia Medical School on the Minnesota Multiphasic
Personality Inventory-2 (MMPI-2), one of the most frequently used personality
tests.

They alleged that Deborah J. Mazzarella, another staff psychologist at the
hospital, filed a complaint with the American Psychological Association
contending Gross and Bisconer had violated the association's ethical principles
during the research.

John M. Favret, director of the hospital, was aware that Mazzarella had filed
the complaint and had provided her with a confidential report prepared by
consultants who had concluded that "Gross and Bisconer failed to provide on-site
supervision coordination of the project" and that they "should be restricted
from participation in any future research activities until they have
successfully completed the defined re-training series including research,
methodology, ethical standards, and human rights," the plaintiffs alleged.

After the report of alleged misconduct, Gross was forced to retire as director
of psychology and Mazzarella was named acting director, according to Jeremiah A.
Denton III, the Virginia Beach attorney who represented the plaintiffs.

Bisconer also has left the hospital and now works for a community services
board, Denton said.

Gross and Bisconer incurred $43,069 in legal expenses opposing the allegations
filed with the APA, which dismissed them without filing a formal complaint after
considering them for two years.

Denton called as expert witnesses a former general counsel for the APA and
Robert P. Archer, the chairman of the department of psychiatry and behavioral
sciences at EVMS.

They testified there were no shortcomings in the conduct of the plaintiffs, and
"even if there had been, they wouldn't have been ethical violations," Denton
said.

The defendants contended that their allegations were true and that Mazzarella's
complaint to the APA was based on her concern for the welfare of the patients at
the hospital.

The jury returned awards on Tuesday of $600,000 in compensatory damages and
$400,000 in punitive damages for each plaintiff.

Retired Hampton Circuit Judge Walter J. Ford presided over the trial. He did not
instruct the jury that the defendants had a qualified privilege in alleging
misconduct because the allegations were made outside the hospital, Denton said.

Assistant Attorney General Paul Kugelman Jr. represented the defendants. A
spokesman for the AG's office said it is disappointed with the outcome and is
reviewing its options.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

