                              165 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                              July 18, 2004 Sunday

Canada's duty to an Afghan boy

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 537 words


Canadians have been touched by the plight of Djamshid Popal, the 9-year-old
Afghan boy who came here for what physicians thought would be relatively routine
heart surgery. We could, we thought, do as we have done with so many other sick
children from poor countries: Give him medical care he could never get at home,
and a good shot at a normal life.

But Djamshid is much sicker than the Canadian army doctor who first saw him in
Afghanistan originally suspected.

And that has raised an ethical dilemma: What if this fragile, 48-pound boy needs
a heart transplant? So do Canadian children. How are medical authorities to
decide who gets priority, if it comes to that?

It's an ethical dilemma that has had the talk shows burning up the airwaves this
past week. And with reason.

The Canadian and other allied military doctors who treated Djamshid back in
Afghanistan believed he was suffering from a relatively easily treatable birth
defect - a hole in his heart. But they were working with simple diagnostic
equipment. After Djamshid arrived in this country July 2, further medical tests
told a different story.

Three of the boy's four heart valves are damaged, likely the result of rheumatic
fever that was never properly treated in his poverty-stricken, isolated mountain
village. This is not so easily fixed.

The boy is very ill, hooked up to a ventilator in the Children's Hospital of
Eastern Ontario in Ottawa. Doctors are concentrating on building his strength.
They say that when he is ready, which could be days or even weeks, they will
move him to the Hospital for Sick Children here in Toronto for the life-saving
surgery he needs.

That has left some speculating that Djamshid is in line for a heart transplant.
However, a spokeswoman for the Ottawa hospital dismissed these reports as a
"myth." Physicians have made no such recommendation, and there are no such plans
in place, she reported.

That said, it's impossible to know what treatment Djamshid may yet need,
especially if planned surgery does not succeed.

And that raises the ethical issue of how Canada's health-care system should
weigh Djamshid's need, against that of a citizen of this country.

Heartbreaking as any decision would be, the way forward is clear.

Having accepted Djamshid into our health system, we now have a moral commitment
to him and his family to give him every life-saving care.

We can't turn our back on him because his need is bigger and more fraught with
ethical dilemmas than we thought it would be.

We are obligated to give him the same chance at life, the same treatment, we
would give any child.

We employ a triage system to decide which children need to be helped first. And
the sickest are generally at the top of the list. Djamshid should be judged by
the same criteria as any other child.

Should Canada be more selective in admitting people from abroad for help, when
we have people here lining up for care? Perhaps.

Should Djamshid have been subjected to tougher scrutiny in his homeland? Again,
perhaps.

But these are side issues. He's here. We owe him a debt of care.

The Canadian army doctor who was the first of many to extend a hand to this
child acted with a compassion and generosity that does this country credit.
Let's follow through.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

