                              166 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2008 University of the Pacific, McGeorge
                                 School of Law
                              McGeorge Law Review

                                      2008

                              McGeorge Law Review

                            39 McGeorge L. Rev. 719

LENGTH: 8853 words

Symposium: Ethics Across the Professions: Professional Ethics and Corporate
Conduct: Addressing Ethical Commitments When Professionals Partner with
Organizations

NAME: Donna T. Chen and Ann E. Mills*

BIO: *Donna T. Chen, M.D., M.P.H. and Ann E. Mills, M.B.A., M.sc.(Econ) are
Assistant Professors in the Center for Bioethics and Humanities at the
University of Virginia. Both authors contributed equally to the development of
this article. We are grateful to Margaret Mohrmann, director of the Program for
Biomedical Ethics at the University of Virginia School of Medicine, as well as
participants of the Professional Ethics and Corporate Conduct symposium at the
McGeorge School of Law in September 2007, particularly Eugene Schlossberger, for
comments on a previous version of this article.

TEXT:
 [*719]

   I. Introduction

 Professionals, whether doctors, nurses, engineers, lawyers, accountants,
scientists, or others, define themselves, in part, by their ethical commitments.
These ethical commitments are reflected in codes of ethics, charters, and other
statements articulated by the professional organizations to which professionals
belong and which represent the public face of professions. n1 Professional
ethical commitments generally reflect values society endorses. For instance,
society expects that doctors and nurses will put a patient's welfare before
their own, n2 that engineers will ensure the products they design are safe, n3
that lawyers will advocate for their clients to the best of their abilities, n4
that journalists will seek truth and create fair and honest reports, n5 and that
accountants and scientists will approach their tasks with integrity so the
financial statements n6 or the research they produce can be trusted. n7

   Moreover, society entrusts the professions with the responsibility of
sanctioning wayward members when necessary. Ideally, when professionals  [*720]
ignore or violate widely agreed upon core professional ethical commitments, they
are reprimanded by their professional societies. Some professional ethical
obligations are further enforced through public laws and regulations. n8 Other
ethical commitments have engendered neither legal requirements nor the threat of
professional sanction but rather encourage professionals to aspire to some
higher good or virtue. n9

   In today's complex society, most professionals form partnerships of sorts
with organizations. This allows both professionals and organizations to
accomplish their goals, including fulfilling their ethical commitments. These
partnership relationships take on many forms. For example, some physicians rely
on hospitals to accomplish their goals; similarly, some journalists rely on
media organizations to accomplish theirs. In turn, these organizations, like
hospitals and newspapers, rely on professionals as a core resource in the
delivery of their product or service. Short of relying on professionals as a
resource for fulfilling core missions, most organizations, large or small, at
some point will hire an accountant, an auditor, or a lawyer to perform some
specific tasks. Some organizations, especially larger ones, will hire a variety
of professionals - some core to their primary mission and some not. For
instance, a large pharmaceutical company will hire or contract with scientists,
lawyers, physicians, accountants, and auditors.

   Most organizations or companies also make ethical commitments that reflect
values society expects of organizations, depending in part on the products or
services the organizations offer. For instance, society expects manufacturing
companies to commit to achieving product safety, newspapers to commit to
accurate reporting, and hospitals to commit to compassionate care. The ethical
commitments of an organization are associated with the goals and values of the
organization and are often publicly articulated in its mission and values
statements, and reflected in its code of ethics. n10

   Neither professionals nor organizations are protected from ethical conflict
by their publicly stated ethical commitments. A busy doctor knows that her bonus
may be affected if she orders expensive diagnostic tests for her patient; a
lawyer knows that successful advocacy means more time with a client, but also
knows that her client does not have deep pockets; an accountant knows that she
owes a fiduciary obligation to the firm for which she works and also knows that
the financial statements she presents at the annual meeting will cause a drop in
the value of the firm - all of these professionals face ethical conflict. But by
appealing to a higher good or virtue, such as the welfare of the patient or
client, or honesty and transparency, the ethical commitments professionals are
expected to honor generally offer guidance when conflicts of interest or
conflicts of  [*721]  commitment arise. Although conflicts of commitment usually
cannot be avoided in daily practice, the busy professional must decide how to
allocate time between competing commitments, such as when commitments to the
patient and the hospital, or the client and the firm conflict. Nevertheless,
professionals are expected to make these decisions with integrity. n11

   Organizations also face conflicts of interest and commitment. The multiple
goals and values organizations endorse contribute to these conflicts. For
instance, one commitment of for-profit organizations is to maximize shareholder
wealth, n12 but this commitment can conflict with other values, such as employee
development. n13 Consider that most hospitals commit to values associated with
excellence as well as values associated with good stewardship of resources.
These commitments can cause conflict for hospitals as they do for physicians.
n14 For instance, a hospitalized patient might require expensive diagnostic
tests and treatment to receive excellent care, but reimbursement might cover
only a fraction of the cost. Hospitals are not the only organizations prone to
such conflicts; consider the controversy that can arise around a proposed news
story that will reflect negatively on a newspaper's largest and most consistent
advertiser. These particular examples illustrate the sorts of ethical conflicts
that can occur between professionals and organizations, and among various
professionals within an organization. It is physicians who order expensive tests
and treatment regimens; it is journalists who uncover troublesome stories. But
both healthcare organizations and news organizations must remain financially
viable, and, in each kind of organization, managers are charged with, and
frequently feel ethically committed to, maintaining that viability. Thus,
situations like these can present significant ethical challenges to an
organization and its professionals. The more varied the types of professionals
that make up or partner with an organization, the greater the potential is for
conflicts among their particular ethical commitments.

   There is always one solution to a situation in which ethical commitments of
professionals' conflict with one another or with the organizations in which they
work: professionals can exit the troubling situation. At times, a specific
situation may require the professional to exit if she is to retain her sense of
professional integrity, but we must start with the assumption that this is not
the optimal solution, particularly for professionals that are core to an
organization's mission.  [*722]  We assume, rather, that it is in the best
interests of both the organization and the professionals it partners with, and
indeed in the best interests of society at large, that these situations are
resolved so that the professionals can retain their sense of professional
ethical integrity and help the organization achieve its goals while upholding
the values associated with those goals, which should be precisely why the
organization partnered with its professionals in the first place.

   Although it is common knowledge, especially after the scandals of the last
decade, that some organizations pay no attention to their articulated ethical
commitments, n15 we, the authors, also assume - although this may be a
controversial assumption - that the publicly articulated ethical commitments of
most organizations are not simply window dressing. We assume that, in the same
way that the articulated ethical commitments of professionals offer guidance to
them, the organization likewise intends its articulated ethical commitments -
its mission, values statements, and codes of ethics - to offer guidance to
itself and its stakeholders, including its professional employees. But, if it is
the case that organizations intend for their articulated ethical commitments to
be meaningful to all stakeholders, what mechanisms are available to help
translate these commitments into daily practice? What mechanisms are available
when the professional or the organization faces competing ethical commitments
and is unsure of the decision(s) that should be made? What mechanisms are
available when professionals feel that their professional ethical commitments
are at stake in a decision faced by the organization and that they should have a
voice in that decision?

   In what follows, we discuss how ethical conflict within organizations can
occur among professionals or between professionals and the organization. We
leave it to others to discuss the important issue of mismatch between personal
ethical commitments and ethical commitments that derive from either professional
or organizational affiliation. In Part II we discuss the conflicts that arise.
In Part III we describe mechanisms commonly discussed in corporate ethics
literature as being available to address situations characterized by conflicting
ethical commitments, and we describe their short-comings. In Part IV we look at
some of the recent changes in addressing ethical conflicts among professionals
and the organizations they partner with in the healthcare industry, and in Part
V we suggest that mechanisms proposed for that industry can be more widely
applied in other industries. We conclude by noting that, despite incentives not
to establish these kinds of programmatic activities, many firms in this
post-Enron era are paying serious attention to their ethical commitments, so it
may not be entirely unrealistic to hope that such activities will become more
common.

[*723]

   II. Conflict Between and Among Professionals and the Organizations with which
They Partner

 One of the perennial problems organizations face is having to choose between
competing commitments. n16 This is certainly true of an organization's ethical
commitments. Conflict among competing ethical commitments can arise internally
and/or result from external causes. This distinction is important because an
organization may have more influence over competing ethical commitments that
arise from internal rather than external causes. For instance, conflict in
ethical commitments may occur because choices about what capital expenditures
the organization should undertake in order to realize its goals force the
organization to prioritize its ethical commitment to one stakeholder over
another. Or it may be that a tightened regulatory or competitive environment
makes some products or services obsolete or too expensive to continue offering,
thus placing the organization in the position of breaching a commitment to some
stakeholders. n17

   Additionally, the choices organizations make in responding to competing
commitments can impinge on the ethical commitments of professionals who partner
with the organization. Consider the choices a pharmaceutical company must make
in creating a research agenda. What population of patients will it choose to
serve? Should the decision be based on market-share considerations or on other
criteria? How should its scientists respond if the company's decisions are based
purely on market-share considerations and involve only the creation of "me too"
drugs and therapies, but the scientists were hired with the promise that they
would be working to develop innovative treatments to fill unmet clinical needs?
Or consider the capital investment choices a hospital must make. Should the
hospital invest in equipment and personnel for which high reimbursement is
guaranteed or in equipment and personnel that will better serve the needs of the
community but are not likely to generate such high returns? How should the
hospital's physicians respond if decisions are made on criteria that do not
include community needs and undermine their ability to serve the needs of many
of their patients in the community?

   We do not deny that organizations make and should make such decisions on the
basis of numerous factors, both internal and external. However, these decisions
affect the roles and responsibilities of the organization's professionals, and
so they affect professionals' ability to fulfill their own ethical commitments.
How, then, should an organization move forward when such difficult decisions
must be made? How can professionals have a voice in an organization's decision
[*724]  that impinges on their ethical commitments, and where can they turn when
they feel their voice is not heard? What mechanisms are available to help both
the organization and its professionals in such situations?

   III. Addressing Ethical Commitments and Conflicts Through Corporate
Compliance Programs?

   A. Background

 A great deal of attention is being given to legal and regulatory organizational
compliance programs, which are perceived by organizations as an effective means
of managing employee behaviors. n18 Compliance programs are mechanisms initially
created and implemented internally by organizations to detect and prevent
criminal conduct. n19

   Compliance programs have gained popularity since the adoption in 1991 of the
Organizational Sentencing Guidelines, which state that organizations, unions,
non-profits, trusts, governmental agencies, and other organizational types can
be held liable for criminal misconduct. n20 Although organizations cannot be
imprisoned, they can be fined or punished in some other way, such as being
ordered to pay restitution. However, the Sentencing Guidelines also stipulate
that fines may be reduced if the organization has in place an "effective"
compliance program. n21 Since the punishment for an organization's wrong-doing
can be substantial, it was thought that offering such an incentive would
encourage organizations to self-regulate. n22

   "Effective" compliance programs contain features outlined in the Guidelines,
such as a corporate code of conduct, the involvement of a high ranking corporate
compliance officer, hotlines, and the like. n23 In 2004, an amendment to the
Guidelines further clarified the intent of these programs by stating that a
compliance program will be considered effective only if it "promotes an
organizational culture that encourages ethical conduct and a commitment to
compliance with the law." n24

    [*725]  An organization, through its mission, goals, and constituent
collective activities, creates an "organizational culture," which can be
"defined as a complex set of [shared] values, beliefs, assumptions, and symbols
that define the way in which [an organization] conducts its business." n25 Thus,
the culture of an organization encompasses both behaviors and decision-making in
the organization.

   If an effective compliance program is one that, in fact, promotes an
organizational culture that encourages ethical conduct, can it then serve as a
mechanism by which ethical commitments of both professionals and organizations
can be vetted and by which ethical conflicts can be resolved? There are good
reasons to look to a compliance program for help with these issues, but there
are also good reasons to suppose that compliance programs will be ineffective in
that role.

   B. Addressing the Ethics Needs of Professionals and Organizations

 If an organization is serious about instituting a compliance program, then the
organization will have to commit valuable resources to establish a truly
effective corporate compliance program. A high level officer of the organization
must be given explicit responsibility for the program, and persons with various
skills, depending on the scope and purpose of the program, must be identified,
hired, or appointed. Reporting functions must be agreed upon, procedures for
detecting wrong-doing must be designed and instituted, education and training
programs must be designed and implemented, and the program should have some
means to evaluate itself. Moreover, enforcement authority must be agreed upon.

   If a compliance program is in place, then resources have been devoted to the
program. n26 If the compliance program already has a values orientation, n27
then its members may see the role that ethical values play in managing conflict.
If this is the case, it may be relatively straightforward for the compliance
program to broaden its mandate to accommodate conflicts that arise when
professional ethical commitments conflict with organizational ethical
commitments or when the ethical commitments of the organization's various
professionals conflict. But there are good reasons to believe that a compliance
program is unlikely to be effective in this role.

    [*726]  First, the more effective the compliance program is in detecting
wrongdoing, the more likely it is that it will generate information that can be
used against the organization either by the government or in civil suits. n28
This creates an incentive for those involved in compliance activities to avoid
investigating or analyzing issues associated with conflict from any source.
Clearly, this not only may keep compliance programs from being proactive, but it
also may impair their ability to ensure compliance.

   Second, these programs originated to detect and deter criminal wrong-doing
and, thus, tend to be designed and implemented by legal personnel working in the
area of compliance. n29 However, a legal focus is of limited help in resolving
issues associated with competing ethical commitments. n30

   Third, managers tend to have a bias towards "command and control" rather than
a focus on internal motivations and values. n31 The command and control approach
links employee motivation to following the rules and avoiding sanctions, which
are applied when they break the rules. An approach which focuses on internal
motivations and values emphasizes the role employees' ethical values play in
motivating appropriate behavior, including professional ethical values. And
although the change in the organizational sentencing guidelines mentioned above
may seem to force management's attention to values, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, n32 passed in response to the accounting scandals of the prior decade, is
also mandatory for all Security and Exchange Commission registrants and may
serve to counteract a values approach. n33 Because section 404 of the Act
requires management to evaluate an organization's internal controls, n34 it
seems to reinforce management bias toward a command and control approach to
motivation and behavior of organization employees. n35 These legal and
managerial incentives against expanding the activities of a compliance program
to issues related to ethical commitments (as opposed to legal ones) lead  [*727]
us to conclude that compliance programs are unlikely to be an effective
mechanism for identifying and addressing issues related to promoting ethics or
resolving conflicts among differing ethical commitments.

   IV. Lessons Learned from the Healthcare Industry: Institutionalizing an
Explicit Focus on Ethics

 Hospitals and other healthcare organizations seeking reimbursement from
Medicare and Medicaid for healthcare services they deliver must be accredited by
the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO). n36
In 1991, responding to the controversy and attention surrounding such issues as
foregoing life sustaining treatment n37 and recognizing that patients and their
families have legitimate moral standing in decisions concerning their care, as
do other members of a patient's healthcare team in many cases, the JCAHO
mandated that the organizations it accredits offer "various strategies,
activities or processes" to examine ethical issues arising in the care of
patients. n38 These early activities evolved into clinical ethics programs whose
presence in today's healthcare organizations are almost ubiquitous, despite the
resistance of some physicians who recognized them (and sometimes still see them)
as a challenge to their prestige and authority. This challenge occurs, in part,
because such programs insist that the perspectives of others be considered. n39
There is controversy over how well clinical ethics programs function, n40 but
their existence testifies to the recognition of the importance of an explicit
program committed to addressing ethical issues and facilitating the resolution
of ethical conflicts as an important value in the way patient care is delivered,
as well as the importance of including multiple perspectives when addressing
ethical issues.

   More recently, this explicit attention towards ethics has moved from the
clinical realm to the organizational realm. Realizing that turmoil in the
healthcare market was negatively affecting healthcare organizations' abilities
to act ethically, and perhaps realizing that quality of care may be more than a
simple  [*728]  resource issue, n41 the JCAHO, in 1995, introduced a mandate
that requires healthcare organizations to follow ethical behavior in their
business and patient care practices. The JCAHO called this requirement
"organization ethics." n42

   Since the business of healthcare delivery organizations is healthcare and,
ultimately, many types of professionals play important roles in ensuring the
delivery of this care, organization ethics is a directive that affects all of
the functions, activities, and relationships of healthcare organizations and
their stakeholders, including its professionals. This mandate compels, or should
compel, attention to the mission and values of the organization and how they are
implemented in daily practice and long-term planning, covering both content and
process. Since healthcare professionals are so central to the delivery of
healthcare, the mandate also draws attention to the ethical commitments of these
professionals, as well as those of the organization that relies on them.
Programs designed to fulfill the JCAHO's organization ethics mandate should
ultimately facilitate the resolution of conflicts among ethical commitments
associated with professional and clinical practices, as well as with business
practices. These programs are called "organization ethics programs." The idea of
an explicit organization ethics program holds promise for serving as a formal,
explicit mechanism for recognizing the importance of organizational ethical
commitments of healthcare organizations and for addressing organizational ethics
conflicts, including those conflicts that arise because of conflicting
professional ethical conflicts. Thus, it serves as the organizational correlate
to the clinical ethics program, which serves as a mechanism for recognizing the
importance of ethics in the clinical arena and for addressing ethical conflicts
arising there.

   The JCAHO recognized the need for something called organization ethics in
healthcare delivery organizations, and organization ethics programs followed. We
look more closely at the goals, effectiveness, and approach of organization
ethics programs in healthcare delivery organizations to ascertain whether they
ought to be developed in other industries. We suggest that with appropriate
modifications, similar programs can be useful in other industries, and other
types of organizations seeking to fulfill the recent mandates for attention to
organizational ethics across a broader range of organizations.

   A. The Goal of Organization Ethics Programs in Healthcare Delivery
Organizations

 Earlier we referred to the idea of "organizational culture" as the complex set
of shared values and beliefs that define the way in which an organization
conducts its business. A central component of an organization's culture is what
[*729]  some organizational theorists call the "ethical climate" of the
organization. n43 The ethical climate of an organization is the functional
analogue of the character of an individual. Just as a person's character is a
group of relatively stable traits connected with practical choice and action, so
an organization's ethical climate refers to the relatively stable shared
perceptions and commitments that determine, among other things, how ethical
issues should be addressed and what constitutes ethically acceptable behavior.
Just as personal ethics affect what an individual will do when faced with moral
dilemmas or competing ethical commitments, the corporate ethical climate guides
what an organization and its constituents will do when faced with conflicting
ethical commitments.

   Obviously, one could create or perpetuate a negative as well as a positive
ethical climate in any organization. Recognition of ethics as an important value
is critical to any organization's ability to create a positive ethical climate.
Further, a positive ethical climate has at least two important characteristics.
First, there is internal consistency, that is, the organizational culture is one
in which both the goals of the organization, as they are actually practiced, and
expectations for professional and managerial performance are consistent with the
mission and values of the organization. Second, there is external
accountability: the organizational culture embodies a set of values that reflect
societal norms for what such an organization should value, how it should
prioritize its mission, vision and goals, and how it and its professionals and
managers should behave.

   Healthcare is fundamentally an ethical enterprise. The goal of organization
ethics activities in healthcare organizations is to produce a culture in which
the business of healthcare is recognized as such and is carried out in an
honest, decent, and proper manner. This requires organizational ethics programs
to foster "a positive ethical climate where the organizational policies,
activities, and self-evaluation mechanisms integrate business, clinical, and
professional perspectives in consistent and positive" ventures that articulate,
apply, and reinforce its mission in value-creating activities throughout the
organization. n44 Because the ethical climate is a crucial component of
organizational culture, the ethical climate will influence all behaviors,
decisions, and relationships within the organization, not just those involving
explicitly ethical issues. Just as clinical ethics activities, including
consultation, education, research, and policy-making, inform the behaviors and
clinical decision-making of clinicians, patients, and families, organization
ethics activities, which also can encompass consultation, education, research,
and policy-making activities, should inform the behaviors and decision-making of
all stakeholders in the organization as to what the organization does and how it
does it.

[*730]

   B. Envisioning Effective Organization Ethics Programs

 Organization ethics activities in healthcare delivery organizations take
different forms. Some healthcare systems have coupled organization ethics with
clinical ethics in a single joint program, n45 and others have established a
separate program. n46 In either format, the role of an organization ethics
program is to articulate and promote the healthcare organization's mission and
values - synthesized from its professional, clinical, and business ethics
commitments - through its activities. Such a program would clearly benefit any
organization that commits to ethics as an important value.

   Although there are many issues to consider in starting or strengthening any
organization ethics activity, we mention four that we believe to be necessary,
though by no means sufficient, for creating a legitimate and effective
organiza-tion ethics program. First, it must be openly endorsed by an
organization's top leadership. Otherwise, in the same way that compliance
programs can be looked upon cynically, an organization ethics program will be
received cynically without this endorsement. Similarly, just as compliance
programs are required to report to top leadership, an organization ethics
program should report to top leadership, preferably at the board level. Second,
one of the single most important reasons that programmatic activities fail is
that sufficient resources have not been allocated to ensure that programmatic
mandates can be achieved, including ensuring the program is visible within the
organization. Third, an organization's leadership must determine the level of
authority the program is to have. Is it intended to be advisory only, or should
it have more decision-making authority? And should it have the authority to
ensure enforcement of its decisions? The answers to these issues will be
addressed differently by different organizations, but, in setting up such a
program, they must be clearly addressed if the organization intends to have a
legitimate program. The fourth issue fundamental to the effectiveness of an
organization ethics program is its approach to ethical conflict. The approach
the program takes to facilitating resolution of problems involving conflicting
ethical commitments is critical to determining its success. And, to be blunt, an
organization ethics program will not be effective if it does not take a "systems
approach" - an approach that may be quite different from one aimed at capturing
and eliminating individual wrongdoing.

[*731]

   V. A "Systems Approach" to Ethics in Organizations

 We said earlier that in order to be legitimate, clinical ethics programs must
take a multi-perspective approach to clinical ethics conflicts. In other words,
they must develop a mechanism to ensure that the voices of important
stakeholders are heard. This is because the perspective of patients and their
families, as well as other clinicians, have legitimate moral standing in
clinical decision-making. In the same way that clinical ethics programs must
take a multi-perspective approach to facilitate decision-making, organization
ethics programs also must take a multi-perspective approach to facilitate
decision-making because ethical conflict necessarily involves competing
perspectives. However, a multi-perspective approach is just one part of a much
broader approach to decision-making. We call this broader approach a "systems
approach."

   A systems approach to improving the delivery of healthcare has been
recommended by the Institute of Medicine (IOM). n47 The IOM's advocacy of a
systems approach to improving quality in the healthcare delivery system stems
from the recognition that healthcare is rarely delivered by individuals. n48
Rather, healthcare is delivered by individuals creating systems through which
care is delivered. n49 In fact, most organizations reflect several levels of
systems: systems composed of collections of micro-systems. n50 Ideally, these
micro-systems consist of persons working together or in tandem to achieve an
organization's goals. n51 For instance, a patient in a hospital interacts with
various micro-systems, such as the team in a critical care unit, a micro-system
composed of doctors, nurses, nursing aides, nutritionists, and perhaps social
workers, physical therapists, and chaplains, all working together to deliver
care to the patient. n52 Moreover, micro-systems interact with one another. For
instance, once a critical care patient has achieved a certain level of medical
stability, she will be transferred to another micro-system, such as a non-urgent
medical unit. At this point, all her records will be transferred to the medical
unit, and her doctors, nurses, and other caregivers will exchange information
about her. And the patient will interact with a new micro-system. Thus, focusing
on individuals will neither uncover nor adequately address their real needs
unless attention is also paid to the systems created. In a similar way, a
systems approach to ethics is critical.

    [*732]  Just as in healthcare organizations, organizations in other
industries also can be viewed as individuals creating multiple levels of systems
to achieve certain goals. Organizations may have micro-systems that are called
billing, marketing and sales, product development, or auditing and accounting,
among others. These micro-systems and their interactions, either within the
micro-system itself or between micro-systems, can also be the root cause of an
ethical conflict. For instance, an engineer in a product development
micro-system may experience ethical conflict if a problem concerning product
safety is minimized by others in the micro-system in which she works.
Alternatively, the engineer could experience ethical conflict because safety
issues are minimized by a sales and marketing micro-system with which the
product development micro-system interacts.

   Earlier we said that ethical conflict could arise internally or externally.
While an organization might have little influence over ethical conflict arising
from external causes, it has more influence over conflict arising internally.
But often organizations do not pay sufficient attention to the internal
organizational effect that micro-systems have on each other. Consider, for
example, our earlier example of the type of internal conflict that can arise if
a healthcare organization decides to purchase capital equipment that would lead
to higher reimbursement rather than capital equipment more suited to a
community's needs. If we view the conflict through a system's lens, we can see
how a decision made in one micro-system (financing) of an organization might
affect those people working in another micro-system of an organization (clinical
care). And the effect of the decision may be to prevent clinicians from
fulfilling what they consider an important professional ethical commitment or
obligation. Therefore, in trying to facilitate a solution to a problem which
involves conflicting ethical commitments, it is useful to look not only at the
perspectives of those individual persons involved in the conflict but also to
broaden the approach to include the characteristics of the micro-systems and/or
the environment in which the conflict is occurring. Moreover, it might be
necessary to further explore how decisions made in one micro-system affect other
micro-systems. In order to take this approach, we suggest that when confronted
with an ethical conflict, organization ethics programs should address a series
of questions that reflect a systems approach to conflict resolution. For
example, as part of the process for working through a conflict between
organization activities and professional ethics commitments, the following
questions could be addressed:



   . What are the relevant mission and values of the organization at stake? What
are the relevant professional ethical commitments at stake?

  [*733]

. Is this conflict arising because of the external environment? If yes, ask:



How could the mission and values of the organization be affected, and how could
the organization and the professionals respond to mitigate any negative effect
on its mission and values?



Similarly, how could professional ethical commitments be affected, and how could
the organization and the professional respond to mitigate any negative effect on
these commitments?



. If no, and the conflict is arising internally, ask:



. What is the micro-system in which an ethical conflict is occurring? What is
the purpose of the micro-system? How does this purpose take into consideration
the ethical commitments of the organization and the professionals involved? Are
the roles and responsibilities of the professionals in the micro-system being
affected?



. Are the interactions of the micro-system consistent with the organization's
values? If not, what are the interactions of the micro-system, and how are they
inconsistent with the organization's values?



. Are these interactions consistent with the values of the professionals working
within the micro-system? If not, what are the interactions of those people in
the micro-system, and how are they inconsistent with the values of the
professionals working in that micro-system?



. Are the outcomes being produced by the micro-system consistent with the
organization's mission and values? If not, what are the outcomes, and how are
they inconsistent with the organization's mission and values? Are resources
sufficient to ensure outcomes consistent with the organization's mission and
values?



. Are the outcomes being produced by the micro-system consistent with the
outcomes that are compatible with the ethical commitments of the professionals
working in the micro-system? If not, what are the outcomes of the micro-system,
and how are they incompatible with the ethical commitments of professionals
working in the micro-system?



. Are decisions and interactions of other micro-systems affecting this
micro-system? Are the decisions and interactions of this micro-system affecting
other micro-systems? If yes, are these decisions and interactions compatible
with the organization's mission and values?

  [*734]  One way of ensuring that such an approach can be taken by the
organization ethics program is to include members whose roles in the
organization represent important micro-systems, as well as the diverse
professional ethical commitments represented in the organization. For instance,
the organization ethics program of a manufacturing firm should include engineers
as well as operation managers, and a news organization should include
journalists as well as administrators in its organization ethics program.

   VI. Conclusion

 The activities of an organization ethics program involve articulating,
interpreting, and promoting public statements of the organization's ethical
commitments, including its mission and values statements and code of conduct.
This ensures the organization is in a position to help the organization's
leadership prioritize conflicting ethical commitments when difficult decisions
must be made in an organizational context.

   Professionals and groups that represent them within the organization are
guided by specific standards of practice and seek to retain various prerogatives
of access to practice, discipline, task allocation, and self-regulation. The
more important professionals are to the organization's primary activities and
reputation, the closer the articulated ethical commitments of the organization
should be to those of its professionals and, thus, the more important it is to
ensure that the perspectives of the organization's professionals are represented
when there are ethical conflicts, especially ones affecting the ethical
commitments of both the organization and its professionals. Examples include
conflicts involving an organization's decisions, structures, strategies,
policies, or contracts which members of professional groups judge to be threats
to their ethical practice, situations in which professional standards are not
met or managerial prerogatives are not exercised responsibly, as well as issues
that arise because of the competing ethical commitments among professionals or
between professionals and the organization. If taken seriously, an organization
ethics program is the logical site for resolving issues associated with
conflicting ethical commitments among the organization's professionals or
between professionals and the organization.

   The idea of a formal ethics program within which ethical reflection and
deliberation can occur, that is separate from other core activities of an
organization, yet which critically informs those activities, has been promoted,
debated, and, in part, institutionalized in the healthcare delivery industry.
Such programs are widely institutionalized in the area of clinical ethics and
are being implemented in the organization ethics realm as well. Organization
ethics programs were conceived as a way of realigning the ethical commitments of
professionals and of the organizations within which they work so that the
traditional mission and values of healthcare could be reflected in daily
practice. Because professionals are a core resource for healthcare
organizations,  [*735]  organization ethics within healthcare necessarily pays
attention to the role of professionals in the organization and offers guidance
when professionals and their organizations face conflicting ethical commitments.
Just as with clinical ethics programs, the ultimate acceptability of
organization ethics programs will depend on how much ethics is valued and
whether these programs add to the organization. Nevertheless, regulatory
insistence on their existence forces an organization's leaders and managers to
face the fact that working through ethical conflicts and deliberating over
ethical commitments should have an important structural presence, and it should
include perspectives of important stakeholders. Of course, moving in this
direction challenges the perceived and, in some cases, real authority and
decision-making traditions that many organizations' leaders and managers are
used to, just as clinical ethics programs challenge the authority and
decision-making traditions of physicians. But this challenge is exactly why
these programs are needed.

   How likely is organization ethics to be embraced by other industries? There
are certainly good reasons for organizations in other industries to pause before
embracing these sorts of activities. Program activities can be costly, and
organization leaders naturally hesitate to set up activities that may challenge
or appear to challenge their decision-making authority. Moreover, there is the
legitimate concern that these activities may divert attention and resources from
other core activities of the organization. But recent surveys and studies
indicate that organizations are paying more attention to the role of ethical
values in organizational life. n53 Moreover, most empirical studies on the topic
suggest a positive link between an organization's core values that reflect
ethical commitments and the organization's success, financially and otherwise.
n54 So even though incentives are against the establishment of such activities,
once organizations understand that empirical evidence suggests a link between
the importance of core values to the organization and the success of an
organization in achieving its mission, the hope organizations will pay more
attention to these issues may not be entirely unrealistic.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Business & Corporate LawProfessional Associations & CorporationsCriminal Law &
ProcedureSentencingGuidelinesAdjustments & EnhancementsAggravating
RoleHealthcare LawBusiness Administration & OrganizationAccreditation

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  See, e.g., Am. Coll. of Physicians, Ethics and Professionalism,
http://www.acponline.org/ethics/ policy statements.htm (last visited Apr. 7,
2008) (on file with the McGeorge Law Review) (posting a number of different
charters and codes aimed at enhancing the professionalism of physicians); Ctr.
for Nursing Advocacy, Codes of Ethics for Nurses,
http://www.nursingadvocacy.org/research/codes of ethics.html (last visited Apr.
7, 2008) (on file with the McGeorge Law Review) (posting various nursing codes
of ethics).





n2.  See, e.g., Am. Med. Ass'n, Principles of Medical Ethics, http://www.
ama-assn.org/ama/pub/category/ 2512.html (last visited Apr. 7, 2008)
[hereinafter AMA, Medical Ethics] (on file with the McGeorge Law Review); Am.
Nurses Ass'n, Code of Ethics for Nurses with Interpretative Statements,
http://nursingworld.org/ethics/code/ protected nwcoe813.htm (last visited Apr.
7, 2008) (on file with the McGeorge Law Review).





n3.  See, e.g., Nat'l Soc'y of Prof'l Eng'rs, Code of Ethics for Engineers
(2007), available at
http://www.nspe.org/resources/pdfs/Ethics/CodeofEthics/Code-2007-July.pdf.





n4.  See, e.g., ABA Comm. on Ethics & Prof'l Responsibility, Formal Op. 06-411
(2006), available at http://www.abanet.org/cpr/06 441.pdf.





n5.  See, e.g., Soc'y of Prof'l Journalists, Code of Ethics (1996), available at
http://www.spj.org/ ethicscode.asp.





n6.  See, e.g., Am. Inst. of Certified Public Accountants, Code of Professional
Conduct § 52-54, http://www.aicpa.org/about/code/sec50.htm (last visited Apr. 7,
2008) (on file with the McGeorge Law Review).





n7.  See, e.g., U.S. Dep't of Health & Human Servs., Office of Research
Integrity, http://ori.dhhs.gov (last visited Apr. 7, 2008) (on file with the
McGeorge Law Review).





n8.  See, e.g., Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 6068 (West 2007).





n9.  See, e.g., AMA, Medical Ethics, supra note 2.





n10.  See, e.g., Johnson & Johnson, Our Credo, http://www.jnj.com/our
company/our credo/index.htm (last visited Apr. 15, 2008) (on file with the
McGeorge Law Review).





n11.  See generally Patricia Werhane & Jeffrey Doering, Conflicts of Interest
and Conflicts of Commitment, 4 Prof. Ethics 47 (1995) (discussing conflicts of
interest and commitment).





n12.  See generally C.A. Harwell Wells, The Cycles of Corporate Social
Responsibility: An Historical Retrospective for the Twenty-First Century, 51 U.
Kan. L. Rev. 77 (2002) (providing an excellent discussion on the controversial
"shareholder primacy principle").





n13.  See generally Robert S. Kaplan & David P. Norton, The Balanced Scorecard:
Trans-lating Strategy into Action (1996) (elucidating the major goals of most
organizations).





n14.  See generally Mark Repenshek, Stewardship and Organizational Ethics: How
Can Hospitals and Physicians Balance Scarce Resources, on One Hand, With Their
Duty to Serve the Poor, on the Other?, Health Progress, May-June 2004, at 31,
31-35, 56.





n15.  See generally Ronald R. Sims & Johannes Brinkmann, Enron Ethics (Or:
Culture Matters More than Codes), 45 J. Bus. Ethics 243 (2003).





n16.  See generally R. Edward Freeman, Strategic Management: A Stakeholder
Approach (1984) (discussing how management can balance competing commitments and
why it should consider these competing commitments in its decision-making).





n17.  We refer here to those breaches that involve ethical commitments, not
merely contractual issues. We do also recognize that honoring contractual
agreements in and of itself reflects an ethical commitment.





n18.  See Chris Kelly et al., Deriving Value From Corporate Values 6 (2005),
http://extfile. bah.com/livelink/livelink/145534/?func=dOc.Fetch&nodeid=145 534
(on file with the McGeorge Law Review). Ninety-three percent of the public
financial leaders surveyed considered legal and regulatory compliance as
"considerably or very effective" in managing behaviors among employees. Id.





n19.  See generally Michael Viano & Jenny R. Arnold, Corporate Criminal
Liability, 43 Am. Crim. L. Rev. 311 (2006) (discussing corporate compliance
programs).





n20.  See U.S. Sentencing Guidelines Manual § 8A1.1 (2007).





n21.  See id. §§8B2.1, 8C2.5.





n22.  See Diana E. Murphy, The Federal Sentencing Guidelines for Organizations:
A Decade of Promoting Compliance and Ethics, 87 Iowa L. Rev. 697, 710-11 (2002)
(suggesting that the Sentencing Guidelines, by giving a reduction in sentence to
a corporation that has an effective compliance program, has encouraged companies
to adopt effective compliance systems). At the time the article was written,
Judge Murphy was the chair of the U.S. Sentencing Commission.  Id. at 697.





n23.  See U.S. Sentencing Guidelines Manual § 8B2.1.





n24.  Id. § 8B2.1(a).





n25.  Jay B. Barney, Organizational Culture: Can It Be a Source of Sustained
Competitive Advantage?, 11 Acad. Mgmt. Rev. 656, 657 (1986).





n26.  See generally Ann E. Mills & Edward M. Spencer, Organization Ethics or
Compliance: Which Will Articulate Values for the United States' Healthcare
System?, 13 HEC Forum 329 (2001) (providing a detailed discussion of why
compliance programs could form the basis for a program designed to enhance the
culture of an organization).





n27.  See generally Gary R. Weaver & Linda Klebe Trevino, Compliance and Values
Oriented Ethics Programs: Influences on Employees' Attitudes and Behavior, 9
Bus. Ethics Q. 315 (1999) (noting that values based programs produce more
employer desired outcomes than programs that are more focused on avoiding
wrongdoing).





n28.  This is referred to as the "litigation dilemma." See Richard Bednar et
al., U.S. Sentencing Comm'n, Report of the Ad Hoc Advisory Group on the
Organizational Sentencing Guidelines 6-7 (2003),
http://www.ussc.gov/corp/advgrprpt/AG FINAL.pdf (on file with the McGeorge Law
Review).





n29.  Philip A. Wellner, Note, Effective Compliance Programs and Corporate
Criminal Prosecutions, 27 Cardozo L. Rev. 497, 513-14 (2005).





n30.  Anthony V. Alfieri, The Fall of Legal Ethics and the Rise of Risk
Management, 94 Geo. L.J. 1909, 1910 (2006). Alfieri argues that "the widespread
adoption of risk management mechanisms (for example, in-house advisors and
internal controls, outside consultants and external audits, conflicts of
interest protocols, and continuing legal education training) actually diminishes
the appreciation of the moral choices facing lawyers in practice and the
other-regarding obligations of lawyers in society." Id.





n31.  Tom R. Tyler, Promoting Employee Policy Adherence and Rule Following in
Work Settings: The Value of Self-Regulatory Approaches, 70 Brook. L. Rev. 1287,
1289-91 (2005).





n32.  Pub. L. No. 107-204, 116 Stat. 745 (codified in scattered sections of 15
and 18 U.S.C.).





n33.  See Tosha Huffman, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: Where the Knee
Jerk Bruises Shareholders and Lifts the External Auditor, 43 Brandeis L.J. 239,
240 (2004) (recommending the repeal of section 404).





n34.  15 U.S.C.A. § 7262 (West 2007); see also Huffman, supra note 33, at 250.





n35.  David Hess, A Business Ethics Perspective on Sarbanes-Oxley and the
Organizational Sentencing Guidelines, 105 Mich. L. Rev. 1781, 1806 (2007).





n36.  JCAHO's website states that its mission is "to continuously improve the
safety and quality of care provided to the public through the provision of
health care accreditation and related services that support performance
improvement in health care organizations." Joint Comm'n, About Us,
http://www.joint commission.org/AboutUs/ (last visited Apr. 9, 2008) (on file
with the McGeorge Law Review).





n37.  For example, the case of Karen Ann Quinlan who lapsed into a persistent
vegetative state and whose parents fought to discontinue active care and allow
her to die. See In re Quinlan, 355 A.2d 647 (N.J. 1976).





n38.  Joint Comm'n on Accreditation of Healthcare Orgs., Comprehensive
Accreditation Manual for Hospitals R1-2 (2007) [hereinafter Manual for Hospitals
].





n39.  See John C. Fletcher & Edward M. Spencer, Ethics Services in Healthcare
Organizations, in Fletcher's Introduction to Clinical Ethics 310 (John C.
Fletcher, Edward M. Spencer & Paul A. Lombardo eds., 3d ed. 2005).





n40.  See generally Ellen Fox et al., Ethics Consultation in United States
Hospitals: A National Survey, Am J. Bioethics, Feb. 2007, at 13, 13-25
(discussing the controversy). The American Journal of Bioethics also provides
numerous open commentaries on this issue.





n41.  See Mark R. Chassin et al., The Urgent Need to Improve Health Care
Quality, 280 JAMA 1000, 1001 (1998).





n42.  Manual for Hospitals, supra note 38, at R1-2.





n43.  See generally Edward MSpencer, Ann E. Mills, Mary V. Rorty & Patricia H.
Werhane, Organization Ethics in Health Care (2000) (discussing the ethical
climate of healthcare organizations and processes that can be used to achieve a
positive ethical climate).





n44.  Id. at 6.





n45.  See Julia Milner West & Earl D. White, II, The Development of the Sentara
Healthcare System's Ethics Program, in Developing Organization Ethics in
Healthcare: A Case-Based Approach to Policy, Practice, and Compliance 149 app. C
(Ann E. Mills, Edward M. Spencer & Patricia H. Werhane eds., 2001) [hereinafter
Developing Organization Ethics].





n46.  See Catherine Myser, Patricia Donehower & Cathy Frank, Making the Most of
Disequilibrium: Bridging the Gap Between Clinical and Organizational Ethics in a
Newly Merged Healthcare Organization, reprinted in Developing Organization
Ethics, supra note 45, at 157 app. D.





n47.  See generally Comm. on Quality of Health Care in Am., Inst. of Med.,
Crossing the Quality Chasm: A New Health System for the 21st Century (2001).





n48.  Id. at 43-46.





n49.  Id.





n50.  Id. at 63-64 (discussing systems and their connections and interactions).





n51.  Id. at 118 (outlining the outcomes that each component in the healthcare
system will strive for in the future).





n52.  See generally Donna T. Chen, Patricia H. Werhane & Ann E. Mills, Role of
Organization Ethics in Critical Care Medicine, 35 Critical Care Med. S11 (2007)
(discussing how a system's approach is helpful in managing clinical and
organization ethics dilemmas).





n53.  See generally Kelly et al., supra note 18.





n54.  See generally Jim Collins & Jerry I. Porras, Built to Last: Successful
Habits of Visionary Companies (1994); Joshua Margolis et al., Bus. Roundtable
Inst. for Corporate Ethics, Building the Business Case for Ethics (2006),
http://www.darden.edu/corporate-ethics/pdf/business case.pdf (on file with the
McGeorge Law Review); Joshua D. Margolis & James P. Walsh, Misery Loves
Companies: Rethinking Social Initiatives by Business, 48 Admin. Sci. Q. 268
(2003). Each of these sources provides empirical studies assessing the
relationship between corporate financial performance and attention to core
values and ethical commitments, many expressed in the form of various corporate
social performance measures.


