                              162 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               September 26, 2005

The road to ethics

LENGTH: 959 words



HIGHLIGHT: Want an ethical career? While Society Live can help you find a job in
the public sector, where your conscience will be healthier than your bank
balance, you'll want to be sure it's what you want.


You will spend around 70,000 hours at work in your lifetime. Now that's quite a
lot, all in all, so it makes sense to find a career that you can live with. One
perhaps that makes you feel as though you are adding to, not subtracting from
the sum of human happiness.

The vast majority of job-seeking graduates rate ethical standards as imperative
when seeking a new job. Obviously, some are lying, but for those who aren't
you've got to ask yourself just what you consider to matter. Do you want to
change the lives of individuals or do you want to change the world? Do you want
to work with people or with the processes that affect them? And if the reality
of your ethical stance means a lower salary and standard of living, will you be
happy with an inner warmth rather than a winter holiday in sunny climes?

There's an obvious starting point for an ethical career: the so-called "caring"
professions. There's an obvious difference to be made to people's lives if you
become a teacher, or a nurse, or doctor or social worker ... The entry points,
at least, into such careers are obvious and the link between working, and making
a difference is obvious, but what of the rest of capitalist society? You don't
have to be a teacher to work in an ethical profession. A lawyer can work for
human rights organisations, an architect can specialise in affordable housing, a
City trader can make sure his or her investments avoid arms manufacturers,
tobacco companies or companies with a selection of sweatshops in the Far East.
In almost any job you have, you can make ethical choices somewhere along the
way, by checking the provenance of the raw materials you use, by making sure you
pay fair wages to any who work under you or by using recyclable materials.

Remember too that an ethical stance is a state of mind, that the skills you have
are almost always transferable to a more ethical setting. Fair trading companies
still need IT, companies producing renewable energy still need someone to
organise their human resources department. There are thousands of jobs in
companies set up with ethics and making a difference in mind - it's an
entrepenuerial a sector as any other, though, as with all ethical choices it
requires a balancing of your priorities - your personal values, your practical
needs and your interests. They are not always mutually exclusive.

But what qualities will you need?

If we stick to the obviously more ethical professions, such as teaching, social
work or healthcare, then you will need the academic and vocational training to
get into those careers - a medical or social work degree or a PGCE teaching
qualification. That's the entry ticket, but once you're there, you have to
remember that many ethical careers can make extraordinary demands in terms of
the hours and dedication you'll have to put in. Hospitals, schools, and social
care departments are not noted for being over-resourced and the shortfalls in
funding are usually plastered over by the willingness of staff to go the extra
mile.

You will need to be patient with others (both colleagues and charges), tolerant
of the fact you may be seeing people at their most vulnerable and perhaps
irrational whether that's a patient in a hospital, an asylum seeker desparate to
stay or a bullied child in a playground. Yet you need too to be able make
logical decisions in those stressful situations. You'll need to retain enormous
amounts of technical knowledge having good communication skills - the ability to
listen as well as talk. And you need to inspire trust in those around you. Still
convinced?

If you're outside those "obvious" professions, you'll still need the technical
skills relevant to whichever job you're doing in your sector - a human resources
officer in a charity needs to be just as qualified as an HR officer in a
multinational. Don't think that an ethical workplace is going to lower its
recruiting standards and should be grateful that you'll work for them at all.
While the endgame may be different and money not the motivating factor for your
ethical institution, that doesn't mean they will recruit at a lower level.

Whatever the sector you end up in, you'll need to see the bigger picture, to
realise that your actions make a difference beyond your workplace and your
responsibilities are correspondingly wider.

And, finally, will you like it? There's no doubt that there's enormous amounts
of self-satisfaction to be gained from an ethical career choice - whether its
from setting a child on the right road in life, getting a well in an African
village or, less dramatically, making sure your company recycles its ink
canisters from its printers. Whatever difference you are making, the chances are
it will help you sleep better at night.

Which may be handy if that job is also a stressful one. Many ethical careers
involve demanding situations - in hospitals or care home perhaps and that can be
wearing. It's not for everyone and there's no shame in thinking "sod that, I
want an easier life". Not least because the financial rewards aren't always
ample recompense with the caring professions, again, not top of many salary
leagues (although it has improved). And those salaries often don't match the
responsibility levels you have. True, they may match your reporting lines - you
may get more money if you have responsibility for other staff but they often
don't reflect the responsibility you have on the lives of others. If you work in
social care or for a charity for example, then the work you do or don't do will
directly affect the quality of life of a number of people. That can be deeply
rewarding but also rather daunting. It's a question of balance you may be a bit
knackered and a bit skint, but isn't that a fair price for a clean conscience?

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved


