                              174 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            December 9, 1986 Tuesday

Are hospital ethicists doing a worthwhile job?

BYLINE: ARTHUR SCHAFER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 912 words


Several Canadian hospitals, following close on the heels of a recent
 U.S. trend, now employ a "hospital ethicist." The hospital ethicist is
 available to be consulted when an ethical problem arises, ready to rush to
 the patient's bedside in an ethical emergency.

Skeptics may question whether philosophers have any legitimate business
 plying their trade in hospitals. (Such doubts are especially widespread
 among academic philosophers.)

The first question to be pondered is: why might hospitals wish to
 employ or consult professional ethicists? Are philosophers really able to
 do anything useful in hospitals?

Those of a cynical bent may speculate that some hospitals employ ethics
 consultants primarily in the hope of saving money in medical malpractice
 lawsuits. (Will judges reduce malpractice awards in cases where an ethics
 "expert" has given his/her "seal of approval"?)

Whatever the motives of hospital administrators, the fact is that
 hospital ethicists underake a wide range of tasks: they serve on ethics
 committees, offer advice on such key policies as when to discontinue
 resuscitation efforts or how to allocate scarce medical resources, attend
 hospital rounds and, most controversially, participate in life-and-death
 decisions at the patient's bedside.

At some hospitals, the role assigned to the hospital ethicist might be
 described as that of "moral firefighter." They are prepared to solve moral
 dilemmas or resolve ethical disputes. Such a function is seen as similar
 to that of other hospital consultants. Just as the pediatric cardiologist
 has a special scientific expertise, so the hospital ethicist is expected
 to possess expertise in ethical decision-making. Moreover, the ethicists
 are expected to record their recommendations in the patient's medical
 chart.

But are there really "experts" in ethics? Are there special skills,
 possessed exclusively by philosophers, that may be helpful to patients,
 doctors, or hospitals?

Traditional liberal theory has refused to acknowledge that there could
 be a class of moral experts. Individuals are held to be the best judge and
 guardian of their own interests. The notion that there exists a class of
 moral experts seems almost anti- democratic.

One possible reply to this objection, offered by Australian philosopher
 Peter Singer, points to the philosopher's training in conceptual analysis.
 Philosophers are professionally trained to think clearly, to reason
 cogently, to recognize fallacious arguments and to understand moral
 concepts and theories. Because of this training, philosophers are well-
 suited to assist doctors and patients in analyzing key moral issues.

The philosopher, as an impartial onlooker, can help others sort out the
 relevant issues and arguments. Philosophers are, after all, trained to
 assess the relative strength of competing arguments and conflicting
 values. Ethicists also have considerably more "leisure time" than the
 harried physician, time in which to contemplate the enormously complex
 issues of medical ethics.

Thus when the medical team, or the patient or the patient's family,
 requires assistance in resolving a moral dilemma, the ethicist may be able
 to contribute.

There are dangers, however, if proper safeguards are not in place.

Since hospital ethicists are employees of the hospital, there is a risk
 that they will, inadvertently perhaps, serve to reinforce the power of the
 institution over the patient and the patient's family. It would be wrong,
 of course, for the ethicist to serve merely as a "hired pen" for the
 institution against the patient. The proper role for a hospital ethicist
 should be as an agent of the primary decision-maker - the patient, and
 sometimes the patient's family.

There is an even greater danger: that the ethicist may succumb to the
 allure of inappropriate expectations.

Moral philosophy is much more than mere technique. It would be quite
 wrong and dangerously misleading for philosophers to hold themselves out
 (or to allow others to use them) as "moral engineers." There simply does
 not exist an ethics decision-making machine that can crank out instant,
 ready-made solutions to difficult moral problems.

Much more than conceptual skill will be needed if philosophers are to
 make a genuine contribution in the hospital, or in any practical setting.
 Moral judgment, for example, is needed in addition to skill in logical
 thinking. And moral judgment cannot get a grip on any practical issue
 without some background knowledge of human psychology, politics and
 economics. The hospital ethicist will also need some knowledge of medicine
 (in order to comprehend the alternatives). Even more, the ethicist will
 need a sense of humility. The ethicist may be expert as a conceptual
 policeman, but he/she possesses no monopoly of moral wisdom.

As one prominent moral philosopher has skeptically admitted, "the
 greatest contribution of moral philosophers to practical affairs seems to
 be not the provision of answers but the discovery of problems where none
 was previously thought to exist."

In sum, hospital ethicists ought to resist any temptation to usurp the
 right of patients to make their own decisions. It may not be too much to
 hope that philosophers, like physicians, will see their principal role as
 the empowerment of patients rather than as surrogate decision-makers. If
 moral philosophers do no more than pose the right questions and clarify
 the difficult choices that need to be made, their value in the hospital
 may become firmly established.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1986 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


