                              171 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          September 15, 1994 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

DILEMMAS ON BREAST CANCER

BYLINE: MELISSA SWEET Medical Writer

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 510 words


The isolation of one of the genes responsible for inherited breast cancers has
opened a "Pandora's box" of ethical and medical dilemmas, cancer experts warned
yesterday.

They were commenting on reports that American scientists have cloned the gene
BRCA1, paving the way for the development of a blood test to detect it.

The gene, which was first mapped four years ago, causes about 45 per cent of
inherited breast cancers and is also associated with an increased risk of
ovarian and colon cancer.

The latest discovery means that the several thousand Australian women diagnosed
with breast cancer every year are likely to be tested for the gene within a few
years, doctors predict.

But Ms Elaine Henry, executive director of the NSW Cancer Council, said the
test's expected introduction raised huge ethical implications which should not
be taken lightly.

"It opens a Pandora's box of ethical issues which haven't even been addressed,
let alone resolved," she said.

"There is the potential to do more harm to the individual and society if we
haven't come to some agreement as a community before we implement genetic
testing."

Ms Henry said she was concerned that there would be enormous demand for the
test, although many women might not fully understand the psychological
implications of a positive or negative result.

"It also raises the question of whether it is ethically correct to tell a woman
she is likely to develop breast cancer when there is no appropriate remedy," she
said.

Associate Professor Richard Kefford, director of medical oncology at Westmead
Hospital, said the test raised a "whole host of ethical issues" and also
highlighted the urgent need for more genetic counsellors.

"Clearly the technological advances are outstripping our preparation for this at
every level," he said.

"It is a real quagmire of issues. We need a very carefully planned national
approach to the whole issue."

Professor Kefford said he expected women diagnosed with breast cancer would be
screened for the gene, to determine if other women in their family should also
be tested.

Dr Katherine Tucker, a clinical geneticist at the Prince of Wales Hospital's
hereditary cancer clinic, said the discovery was exciting, but presented many
dilemmas.

These included whether women found to have the gene should have their breasts
and ovaries removed, and whether they should be regularly monitored for colon
cancer.

Even if women had a negative test result, they could still develop breast
cancer.

Nor would all women with a positive result develop breast cancer, she said

Professor Alan Coates, a medical oncologist at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital,
said the test raised an "ethical minefield" about protecting the confidentiality
of test results from employers and insurance companies.

Dr David Gillett, a breast surgeon and head of breast cancer services at Concord
Hospital, said he expected the screening test to become available by next year.

It would have tremendous benefits by showing many worried young women with a
family history of breast cancer that they did not have the gene.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1994 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


