                              176 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              April 6, 2014 Sunday

Medical students to learn from dummies

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 562  words


Bangalore: Auto industry has, for long, been using replicas of human bodies for
their crash tests. Now, health industry too is making use of the dummies-called
simulators-to help medical students acquire that fine craft called surgeon's
precision.

In this regard, Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI), in
coordination with IIT Madras and National Institute of Design (NID), is planning
to produce simulators. The simulators will act as a replica of human bodies.
These will help medical students for their training said, said Dr Devi Shetty,
chairman, Narayana Health.

At the launch of 'Patient-Friendly' standards for hospitals at a workshop
conducted by ACME on Saturday, Dr Shetty said these simulators have a great
utility for medical students and professionals as the dummies perfectly
replicate the human anatomy, something that will prevent those practising on
them to take the practice lightly. This, he said will keep the students on their
toes and will avoid complications when they get into the real world.

Dr Shetty said that once the patient-friendly standard is implemented, it will
surely help hospitals and bring in the idea of being polite, friendly and
empathetic towards patients.

The patient-friendly standards is divided into seven broad sections, covering
structure, process, outcome, safety, legal and ethical aspects of patient
friendliness. The standards define the structural requirements within which the
patient care amenities are organised, keeping in mind the care requirements and
safety requirements, right from the point of entry into a healthcare setting to
covering all process aspects of registration, admission, clinical care, stay
amenities and leading up to the point of discharge and post-discharge care. The
critical activities that are required to be put in place to meet up with the
legal and regulatory requirements that bind on the safety and the ethical
aspects of care are also given due representation.

The patient-friendly standards is divided into seven broad sections, covering
structure, process, outcome, safety, legal and ethical aspects of patient
friendliness. The standards define the structural requirements within which the
patient care amenities are organised, keeping in mind the care requirements and
safety requirements, right from the point of entry into a healthcare setting to
covering all process aspects of registration, admission, clinical care, stay
amenities and leading up to the point of discharge and post-discharge care. The
critical activities that are required to be put in place to meet up with the
legal and regulatory requirements that bind on the safety and the ethical
aspects of care are also given due representation.

Dr Giridhar Gyani, founder-director general, AHPI, said, "Patients are the most
important visitor in the hospitals. Like the other norms, that we introduced,
the patient-friendly standards are also devised keeping in mind the long-term
benefits for the hospitals. We are confident that hospitals will experience a
positive transformation."

Dr VL Sateesh, medical superintendent, Nimhans, observed that medical technology
is drastically improving and healthcare is becoming a big business, amid which
many a time the patient-friendliness aspect is getting lost. The expectations of
the patients are increasing, hence coming up with these kind of standards is
essential.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


