                              175 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            February 27, 2017 Monday

'Best doc knows when not to prescribe drugs'

LENGTH: 682 words

DATELINE: Chandigarh


Chandigarh, Feb. 27 -- In a hard hitting reflection on the medical system and
the society, veteran cardiologist Dr BM Hegde on Sunday said It is not that the
doctors who have become corrupt but it is the society which has become corrupt.

"Doctors are not falling from heaven and are a part of the society so same
number of corrupt people are in medical profession also", said the Padma Bhushan
awardee, a leading cardiologist and a recipient of numerous national and
international awards,

Speaking at the annual conference and award function of Society for Promotion of
Ethical and Affordable Healthcare (SPEAK), which was attended by senior doctors
from across the country here, Dr. Hegde said, "Today drugs are like a laundry
list and I always say a good doctor always knows how to prescribe, a better
doctor knows when to prescribe, but the best doctor knows when not to prescribe.
We over-treat patients, over-diagnose patie-

nts, maltreat patients, mistreat patients but don't treat patients",

The veteran said, "But we must look at the core issue which is that we have
changed the education system which was earlier to make an authentic human being
but today we make a wealthy career in education."

The first 15 years of education are very important and if we change that I think
we will make this world a good place. In corporate hospitals bills are in lakhs
and if you don't pay that even the body of the patient is not returned.

He cited the example of Cuba where cash is given to the patient when he leaves
the hospital. This is the only country in the world which has a cash counter
which gives cash to the patients, adding the hospitals were indulging in 10,000
per cent profits and this can't go on.

Dr. Ram Kumar, President of SPEAK) said, "The government should enact a law to
reduce prices of stents, joint replacement devices and common medicines. Further
there should be a law to put a cap of 20 per cent profit on medicines, and
eliminating all cuts and commissions in healthcare sector".

He informed SPEAK has also approached the PMO with these recommendations, and
several others, prominent of which include MBBS admissions should not only be on
marks but also on care, empathy and healthy lifestyle teaching curriculum, while
primary healthcare needs to be boosted, prices of stents be brought down.

Dr Kumar also laid stress on several factors which are essential in
strengthening the doctor-patient relationship, and said compassion was the most
important quality a doctor must possess while dealing with patients.

Ajit Chatha, former Chief Secretary, Punjab said, doctors have a vital role to
play so that a few black sheep should not tarnish the image of this noble
profession and to make healthcare practices more ethical and cost effective.

Dr. Rajeev Singh of Jeevanshree Radiology and Diagnostic Centre, Jaipur, a
crusader against cuts and commissions besides spearheading campaigns against
female foeticide, while addressing the audience said, the greed of the doctors
is because of short-sightedness.

SPEAK had earlier during the week released a book, 'Ethical Healthcare in
India'. The book was written by Dr Kumar. SPEAK high level jury, comprising Ajit
Chatha, former Chief Secretary Punjab Govt, L.M. Goyal, former Chief Secretary
Haryana, M.G. Devsahayam, former Deputy commissioner Chandigarh, R.N. Parashar,
former Principal Secretary Haryana Government, Dr Raj Bahadur, former Director
PGI, Dr. Amod Gupta, Padma Shri awardee, Dr. S.K. Jindal & Dr. SK. Prabhakar
former HODs at PGI, and Dalip Sharma, Director ASSOCHAM) had selected the
topmost doctors and hospitals from all over the country for SPEAK India awards
of excellence.

Meanwhile, in public hospitals category PGI Chandigarh has been selected as the
most patient friendly hospital. In the corporate hospital category Narayana
Hridalaya, Banglore has been chosen as most ethical and affordable hospital in
the country.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


