                              177 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Daily Yomiuri(Tokyo)

                            October 3, 2006 Tuesday

Doctor not a transplant society member

BYLINE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 824 words

DATELINE: MATSUYAMA


A doctor who transplanted an allegedly illegally purchased kidney has never been
a member of the Japan Society for Transplantation, which sets ethical guidelines
for transplants, it was learned Monday.

The 59-year-old man who received the kidney and his 59-year-old common-law wife
were arrested Sunday on suspicion of violating the Organ Transplant Law.

Makoto Mannami, head of the urology department of Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital in
Uwajima, Ehime Prefecture, told The Yomiuri Shimbun that he had never taken any
measures other than checking health insurance certificates to confirm the
identities of donors.

The society is the only organization that stipulates the eligibility of donors
and the procedures for conducting organ transplants. Since the illegal
transplant was conducted by a nonmember doctor, the society is facing problems
on how to conduct investigations and how to take measures.

The society's secretariat confirmed that Mannami, 65, and other doctors at
Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital never belonged to the society.

Mannami, however, is a renowned figure who has conducted a substantial number of
kidney transplants in Uwajima.

After graduating from Yamaguchi University in 1969, Mannami began working at
Uwajima Municipal Hospital. He conducted 545 kidney transplants from living
donors from 1977 to 2004, when he retired from the city hospital.

In 2000 alone, the hospital conducted 36 kidney transplants from living donors--
the second-largest number in the nation--and 35 transplants in 2001, which was
ranked third in the nation, according to the society.

After he moved to Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital, which opened in April 2004,
Mannami conducted 82 transplants.

His research focused on kidney transplants between patients and donors with
different blood types, as well as ways to treat patients with new medicines, but
Mannami reportedly did not present his findings at academic society meetings.

Mannami was the only doctor in charge of kidney transplants from living donors
conducted at the Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital. Concerning the identification of
donors, he told The Yomiuri Shimbun, "I confirmed it by seeing a health
insurance certificate, but there's no other way to confirm it, aside from
believing what the person says." He also said he did not take any other forms of
identification from the donors.

Mannami used the same method to confirm the identities of donors at the
municipal hospital. Mikio Ichikawa, director of the Uwajima Hospital, said:
"Although almost all the transplant cases were conducted by Dr. Mannami, he
managed to establish a rapport with patients and their families. So we didn't
conduct any particular inspections [to confirm the donors' identity]."

The society's ethical guidelines do not specify concrete procedures to confirm
the identities of organ donors and the kinship between donors and patients. Such
procedures are generally left to the discretion of individual hospitals.

"We have never thought about how to apply the ethical guidelines to a nonmember
doctor," said society president Koichi Tanaka. Because the guidelines are
nonbinding, Tanaka said the best option would be for the hospital to voluntarily
set up its own investigation committee and the society could provide
professional assistance.

"Basically, the hospital has a problem... because it has no ethical committee
and has not obtained any written consent from the patient about the transplant,"
he said.

Couple explored other options

The common-law couple in Uwajima arrested on suspicion of violating the Organ
Transplant Law, tried to persuade a male relative of the husband to donate his
kidney, it has been learned.

According to the police and Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital, Suzuo Yamashita, a
59-year-old director of a fishery firm, suffered from diabetes. His condition
worsened two or three years ago and a transplant became his only option.
Yamashita's common-law wife, Tomoko Matsushita, 59, offered to donate her
kidney.

In April 2005, the couple visited Makoto Mannami, the head of urology at the
hospital and the doctor who later performed the operation for Yamashita. But the
couple's blood types did not match.

They later brought Yamashita's relative to see Mannami at the hospital as a
possible donor. However, the relative was reluctant to donate his kidney and
eventually refused.

Police suspect Matsushita was so desperate to help Yamashita that she offered
money and a car to a woman if she would donate her kidney.

She falsely introduced the woman as her sister to Mannami at the hospital,
saying she could be a potential donor.

The couple asked Mannami to perform tests to see if the woman could donate a
kidney for Yamashita. After confirming the blood types were a match, they asked
the woman to go through with the transplant several times since August 2005.

The woman agreed, and the transplant was conducted in September 2005.

The police sent the couple to the public prosecutor's office Monday afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


