                              173 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           November 27, 1986 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

IS IT RIGHT OR WRONG?

SECTION: NORTHERN HERALD; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 449 words


THE Sydney Adventist Hospital plans to hold a second national bioethics
conference in April next year. The aim of the conferences is to look at
bioethical issues from a Christian perspective.

The positive support and interest in this year's conference, which attracted
delegates from nearly all the States, resulted in the decision to make it an
annual event.

The purpose of the conference is to help professionals in medical and related
fields find answers to the difficult ethical questions they face frequently.

Bioethical concerns have become increasingly topical as technology increases.
Scientists ask the question: can they do it? And the researchers often answer:
yes, they can. But it falls to the family, doctor, nurse, social worker or
minister to ask, should we do it? Is it right or wrong? As ethical questions are
associated with medical practice they become bioethical issues.

The first national bioethics conference, held in April, fulfilled a dream for Dr
Bert Clifford, the hospital's general superintendent. He has had a long-standing
interest in the field of bioethics and felt that the hospital was well qualified
to stage such a conference.

The senior chaplain at the hospital, Dr T.H. Ludowici, helped to make Dr
Clifford's dream a reality.

Dr Jack Provonsha, chairman of the Centre for Christian Bioethics at Loma Linda
University in California, gave the opening address entitled What Is Human? He
also spoke about euthanasia.

Professor Gareth Jones, the chairman of the Department of Anatomy at Otago
University in Dunedin, New Zealand, was another guest speaker who addressed the
conference on the quality of life. Other speakers came from interstate.

The 1987 conference will deal with issues such as Australia's pioneer work on
frozen embryos and the question of organ transplants. It will also take a
critical look at Mrs Elizabeth Kubler-Ross's book On Death and Dying.

An important aspect of the conference will be the group discussion periods that
will focus on the principles involved in the making of ethical decisions

Several overseas guests are expected to attend, and participants will be able to
talk to these experts during the panel discussion periods. According to Dr
Clifford, the conference is already shaping up to be a challenging and
stimulating occasion.

It is expected that the conference will attract interest among members of the
public who have a personal interest in ethics, legal and medical practitioners,
clergy, hospital staff, social workers, counsellors and medical and theology
students.

The conference will be held at the Sydney Adventist Hospital at Wahroonga.
Anyone interested in attending should contact the chaplain's department at the
hospital.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illus: The Sydney Adventist Hospital, where the second national
bioethics conference will be held in April.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1986 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


