                              169 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             June 29, 2006 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

Doctors urge ethics review

BYLINE: BY JOANNE LOWRY Health Correspondent j.lowry@newsletter.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 348 words


TWO Belfast anaesthetists have urged an ethical review of patients' "living
wills' to protect doctors from accusations of euthanasia.

Writing in the medical journal Anaesthesia, Dr Michael McBrien and Dr Gary
Heyburn said hospital staff faced an ethical dilemma when having to resuscitate
people with a Do Not Attempt Resuscitation order.

The doctors, based at the Royal Victoria Hospital, said it was becoming
increasingly common for DNAR patients to be referred for anaesthesia and
surgery.

They fear a change in legislation could leave doctors open to being sued when
the Mental Capacity Act " which gives legal recognition to a patient's right to
make advance decisions about their treatment " becomes law next April.

Dr McBrien and Dr Heyburn write: "A review of the basic ethical principles
involved is needed to decide how individual anaesthetists and anaesthetic
departments in the UK should manage the situation.

"It is not difficult to see the dilemma facing the anaesthetist and surgeon who
are involved in the care of a patient who has a written record of a wish not to
receive any of these resuscitative measures even though they are likely to be
needed as a natural consequence of providing anaesthesia and surgery.

"If the anaesthetist was to proceed and strictly obey the general understanding
of a DNAR order under such circumstances, it could possibly be construed as an
act of euthanasia or assisted suicide.

"The European Convention on Human Rights is now enshrined in UK law and the
Mental Capacity Act is expected to come into force on April 1, 2007.

"If we are to face litigation in the future we must read, understand and
implement what the law requires of us in this area.'

Automatically suspending a DNAR order during surgery may in future no longer be
an option.

On the other hand, sticking rigidly to the letter of an instruction not to
resuscitate could result in a patient's death, the doctors said.

They also point out the need for clear guidance on how to handle requests made
by the parents of sick children or relatives of patients not thought to be
legally competent.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Century Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


