                              19 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                            June 29, 2016 Wednesday
                                 Mumbai Edition

On July 1, doctors will join hands with public forums to promote ethical medical
practice

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 399 words


On the occasion of Doctor's Day on July 1, a group of doctors will join hands
with consumer and patients' forums to not only discuss the vexed doctor-patient
relationship but also consider setting up a joint forum to promote ethical
medical practice. SATHI, a non-governmental organisation, in association with
The Times of India, is organising the talk titled, 'Dear Doctor, how should we
heal our health system', in Dadar on July 1.

"We remember our doctor as one who has the knowledge, skills, determination and
concern required to relieve a patient from disease and pain, who is perpetually
on call," said SATHI's Dr Abhay Shukla. "But, on Doctor's Day , it is also
crucial to address certain serious issues such as how ethics in the medical
profession is under threat due to commercialisation," he added.

Dr Shukla and Dr Arun Gadre from SATHI recently wrote a book called 'Dissenting
Diagnosis', exposing the current unethical practices (such as cut practice) and
commercialisation in the private

medical sector through testimonies of 78 doctors across India.

They found that, in a city like Mumbai, 'targets' are given to doctors in
corporate hospitals. "There are ethical doctors who are resisting the tide, but
they are under severe pressure from commerciali

zation. People must take care to search for an ethical doctor and seek second
opinion when possible," said Dr Shukla. However, he noted that patients too are
getting affected by medical consumerism. "For example, when a patient comes for
second opinion, after being told by some doctor in a large private hospital to
get her uterus removed, the ethical doctor may assure the patient that no
intervention is required. But their advice may be ignored and impressed by
glitter of a large hospital, she gets herself operated. We would hence caution
people of Mumbai to avoid this typical consumerist framework, where we think
that high cost automatically means better quality," the doctors said.

The open house is hence an effort to "bring together rational, ethical doctors
and active citizens in Mumbai" to develop a common platform. "We want citizens
to support ethical doctors, become aware of their rights as patients, and
contribute to developing some solutions," said Dr Shukla. The forum could
counsel needy patients, and provide a database of ethical doctors to patients.
Such forums are already in existence in Bengaluru and Pune.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


