                              172 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Times (South Africa)

                             May 04, 2016 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

HPCSA loses bid to stop Netcare hiring specialists

BYLINE:  Zelda Venter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 485 words


PRETORIA: Netcare hospitals around the country were accredited to employ
registered medical physicists and radiotherapists where oncology health-care
services were provided.

In a groundbreaking victory for the private hospitals in the high court in
Pretoria, Acting Judge MP Canca overturned a decision by the Health Professions
Council of South Africa (HPCSA) to refuse Netcare accreditation to employ
medical physicists and radiotherapists at its oncology units. Judge Nicolene
Janse van Nieuwenhuizen concurred with the judgment.

The medical watchdog had recommended that Netcare instead outsource the services
of these practitioners, but the court found this did not make sense.

The court was told that all medical institutions were subjected to the ethical
rules of the HPCSA. Rule 18 stipulated that an unregistered employer such as
Netcare should obtain accreditation from the medical body to employ health-care
professionals.

The HPCSA also issued a policy document relating to undesirable business
practices, in which it is stated, among other things, that if the motive for the
proposed employment was to generate income to the employer or to remunerate the
employee on a fee-sharing basis, accreditation should not be approved.

In adhering to the recent policy document, Netcare applied for accreditation to
employ the practitioners in question. Netcare, in its application to the HPCSA,
explained in detail that patients at its oncology units were treated by a team
led by an oncologist.

The radiotherapists and medical physicists did not determine whether a patient
received treatment and what |the treatment should be, but merely assisted with
the treatment, HPCSA was told.

The watchdog, however, refused permission to accredit these professions, stating
that it was against its ethical framework.

One of the reasons stated for the refusal was that private hospitals should not
be allowed to employ practitioners because of their profit motive.

It recommended that Netcare enter into a service agreement with these
practitioners and hand over said copy of the agreement for approval.

"The committee's stance with respect to private hospitals and practitioners in
private practice, given that both are in business to make a profit, defies
logic.

"The criterion that private hospitals should not employ practitioners because of
their profit motive, save where the practitioners were employed to undertake
emergency services, was possibly unconstitutional as it unfairly discriminated
against private hospitals merely because they are profit-driven organisations,"
the judge said.

"Yet, practitioners in private practice who were also profit-driven |were
allowed to employ other health-care professionals registered with the HPCSA."

The judge concluded there was no evidence the practitioners' clinical
independence, ethical or professional responsibilities would be compromised by
their employment with Netcare.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


