                              182 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                  April 2, 1989, Sunday, SUNDAY SECOND EDITION

The ethics of life and death Drawing the line on critical care

BYLINE: By Marilyn Dunlop Toronto Star

SECTION: INSIGHT; Pg. B5

LENGTH: 1869 words


   In the critical care unit at St. Michael's Hospital, a young man, breathing
with the help of a mechanical ventilator, sat propped up in his bed, wearing his
glasses and reading the day's paper.

He had the lethal acquired immune deficiency syndrome and had developed the kind
of pneumonia that often occurs in people with AIDS.

Nurses and doctors looking after him were deeply distressed, saddened by the
knowledge they could not save his life, and also faced with an ethical dilemma
concerning his care.

The man had instructed his doctors to take aggressive, heroic measures to keep
him alive if he should lapse into a state that made him unable to communicate.
But that could involve keeping him attached to life-support machines when there
was no hope he would recover.

"He was comfortable on the ventilator," Dr. Robert Byrick, co-ordinator of
critical care, said later. "But he was not responding to treatment. He was
continuing to deteriorate. Further treatment would be of no value."

Should the treatment be discontinued?

To help resolve the dilemma, Byrick asked for a consultation with George
Webster, clinical ethicist for the St. Joseph Health System, which includes St.
Michael's Hospital, St. Joseph's Health Centre and Providence Villa.

When Webster began this work in 1982, there was no such position as ethicist in
hospitals. Today other hospitals have created posts for ethicists, but Webster
remains unique.

"He works at the bedside and that is unusual," Byrick says. "I don't know of any
other bedside ethicist."

Webster joined Byrick to talk with the man about what he really wanted the
medical team to do as his condition worsened.

"George plays an important role in helping us deal with ethical issues - death
in particular," Byrick said. "Often there is difficulty in talking about it,
especially for the nurses who spend eight to 10 hours a day by their patients'
bedsides and become close to them."

The man knew he would die soon. His fear was less of death than of being
abandoned by those looking after him, if he told them he wished them to stop
trying everything to keep him alive.

"We were able to keep him comfortable and let nature takes its course," Byrick
said.

About the same time, at Providence Villa, a long-term care hospital, a patient
and staff members were facing the opposite kind of dilemma.

There, a middle-aged man with a fatal disease that attacks muscles, nerves and
brain - amyotrophic lateral sclerosis - was reaching the stage where he would
require feeding by means of a stomach tube and ventilation so he could breathe.

"He wanted none of that," said Dr. Peter Cranston. "He had made that clear when
he was still well. But the staff was having difficulty in facing the possibility
of carrying out his order to cease and desist any form of treatment."

He was not old nor incapable of living.

Enter Webster.

"George assisted in clarifying the issues for us," Cranston said.

The most troublesome issue for staff members was the morality of withholding
nutrition. If the stomach tube was not put in, he would waste away. How could
they let him starve?

"Food is a basic life need. It is not ordinarily seen as medical treatment,"
Cranston says. "But is it only prolonging the dying process in some cases? We
have had patients and families who have said, 'Enough.' They want the stomach
tube removed."

Feeding is not an ethical issue as long as a patient can take even a little food
and fluid by mouth. Spoon-feeding such a person is part of ordinary
compassionate care that should be given the dying, he says.

Cranston says on occasion family members have wished staff to stop giving food
to a patient who is in a mentally vegetative state, but who can still swallow.
That is never acceptable.

The dilemma arises when a patient can only be given nourishment intravenously or
by means of a tube into the stomach. Is that medical treatment?

It is not considered unethical to forego futile medical treatment. Is artificial
feeding any different than ventilation or any other means of artificially
sustaining life?

"It is still a controversial issue. I'm not sure where we stand," Cranston says.

Webster says no single issue has brought forth such deeply rooted feelings and
emotions: "The debate is fierce."

The bedside aspect of his work began taking a large slice of his time in the
last year to 18 months. (He also is responsible for ethics education in the
hospitals and at the University of Toronto's department of anesthesia, and works
with hospital ethics committees.) It developed slowly because to have a
non-medical person act as a consultant on specific cases did not initially seem
approriate to physicians.

"There were a lot of questions about confidentiality (of information about a
patient) and liability," he says.

He becomes involved in discussions about a patient only when invited to meet
with the physician in charge and the team.

"In the last year or so there has been a remarkable increase in requests," he
says.

Two or three times a week, he can be found engrossed in conversation with a
patient, family members, nursing staff and doctors who are grappling with
ethical decisions.

"He is a person with great skills in helping people express their feelings,"
says Cranston, who is in charge of a 56-bed, constant-care unit.

"He's a great help to families. In education, his forte is in teaching us how to
approach a problem in order to make an ethical decision."

At Providence Villa and other similar long-term care hospitals, a number of
patients are elderly and suffering from dementia. Some are in a vegetative
state. Many are nearing the end of their lives. It is a setting in which ethical
decisions must be made almost daily.

Webster says there has been a shift toward agreement that patients have the
right to play an integral part in making decisions about their own care.

"It is the patient who bears the consequences of those decisions," he says. "But
in the past, many decisions that were really moral decisions were cast as
medical judgments."

Often, various members of a medical-nursing team have strong but differing views
on what is right for a patient.

"George has brought about a major improvement among staff of understanding each
other's opinions," Byrick says.

Webster says that in the process of arriving at a consensus, everybody may come
to see the problem more clearly. But, he adds, there is also a danger of a team
becoming susceptible to "group think".

To agree may make everyone more comfortable, but that is no guarantee the
decision is ethical.

"One has to be careful," he says.

He winces if anybody refers to him as an ethics expert.

"I work solely as adviser," Webster says. "I am not the (ethics) police. I raise
questions and offer approaches to thinking that can sometimes clarify the issue
and form a framework for addressing the problem."

His training for the job included postgraduate courses at the Toronto School of
Theology, University of Toronto, and experience in dealing with patients under
the guidance of noted ethicist Abbyann Lynch of the Westminster Institute of
ethics in London, Ont.

Webster is a member of the board of the United States Society for Bioethics
Consultation; a member of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics, Washington D.C.; and
a member of the American Society of Law and Medicine, as well as holding
membership in a number of Canadian ethical and theological organizations.

He is also a consultant at Casey House AIDS Hospice and a director of the St.
Elizabeth Visiting Nurses Association of Ontario.

Regularly, he's invited to discuss ethical problems confronting staff in
different departments of the hospitals. The topic is whatever is bothering them.
He doesn't know in advance what that is.

"I don't prepare anything. I fly by the seat of my pants."

Over the years, he says, the most frequent question concerned how much
information should be disclosed to dying patients. What should doctors do when a
family insists: "Don't tell mother she is dying."

Webster believes in telling the truth to patients about something as crucial to
them as their own death.

"All studies show that people do well with the knowledge of their death if it is
given to them in an open and respectful way."

Another key issue, he says, is whether it is right to stop treatment once it has
begun. Cranston says a number of patients already have feeding tubes that have
been inserted at a general hospital.

"They are more inclined to go for broke," he says. It is not always a kindness
to a patient.

At the chronic care hospital, staff face the touchy problem of whether to
continue the therapy.

"Many see a moral distinction between withholding and withdrawing treatment
(from a dying patient)," Webster says.

Withholding treatment seems passive; it means not doing anything to delay
natural death, not putting the patient on a ventilator or feeding tube.

But once done, is it unethical to disconnect the devices and stop holding death
at bay?

It is often more distressing to staff to shut off the machine or remove the
tube. Withdrawing a life-sustaining procedure seems a deliberate act, speeding
death, somehow different than never starting the procedure in the first place.

"It comes up over and over again," Webster says. "But there is no difference
morally. It has become routine to decide to stop ventilation when the patient
cannot recover, although air, like food, is a basic need."

Webster is working with a subcommittee of the three-hospital ethics committee,
which is looking at the issue of nutrition with the goal of establishing
guidelines that will help staff.

Another subcommittee with which he worked has already drawn up legally
acceptable guidelines covering "do not resuscitate" orders.

Byrick, who has chaired the ethics committee, says the policy that was developed
took into account the views of physicians, nurses and all others involved with
caring for patients at risk of cardiac arrest. This organized approach to
determining guidelines has served patients well, and helped those critical-care
nurses and respiratory technologists who face the dilemma almost every day, he
says.

In seven years, the matter of ethics in hospitals has expanded to cover the full
spectrum of life, from reproductive techniques to create new life, to palliative
care, the compassionate care of the dying.

Webster says there is no end to ethical issues that must be dealt with in
future.

"The major question for the province and health-care institutions will be the
issue of allocation of resources," he says. If we can't provide care for
everyone, who should get priority?

"We're seeing the tip of it with instances when there are more patients than
beds, and with the tragic deaths of cardiovascular patients on waiting lists for
surgery.

"The government and the people of Ontario will have to make difficult choices
over the next 10 to 20 years."

But at this moment, Webster, responding to a call on the beeper he carries, has
been asked to help a patient, his family and medical team, make a difficult
choice about the care of one individual.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Star photo (Mahler) George Webster with doctors at St. Michael's
Hospital

                  Copyright 1989 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


