                              180 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                              May 9, 2009 Saturday

Hospitals get a pass, for now

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. L05

LENGTH: 514 words


Q: Recently, I went to a doctor whose offices are at a Toronto hospital. I was
told to get a "patient's card," which I did. Ever since, I've been swamped with
fundraising letters from the hospital's foundation. The only way I can figure
they got my name is from the patient registry and, if so, that raises serious
ethical questions. I thought patient information - including the fact that I was
a patient - was protected by confidentiality. Surely it can't be okay to use
this information to raise money?

A: Surprisingly, Ontario's privacy laws do permit hospitals to use patient
information for fundraising purposes. In order for them to do so, the patient is
required to give consent - but this is where it gets tricky.

Ideally, at the time of admission, hospitals would ask patients "is it okay if
we contact you for fundraising purposes?" But that doesn't yield as many
positive responses as hospitals like, so most fall back on something called
"implied consent." Simply stated, this means, "unless you tell us otherwise, we
assume that, since you came here as a patient, you don't mind us asking you for
money."

Patients are usually not told they are giving this implied consent, but
hospitals do put up posters or signs advising patients they will be contacted
for fundraising purposes unless they explicitly tell the hospital not to do so.

And privacy legislation allows only the patient's name and contact information
to be given to the foundation - nothing about their diagnosis or prognosis.

So, ethically, is this okay?

The whole notion of implied consent is tricky. It feels like the "negative
option billing" controversy that rocked Rogers Cable more than a decade ago,
when it argued that, by failing to tell the company to delete new cable
channels, customers were giving implied consent for Rogers to bill for them.
There was a consumer revolt at the time - yet what the hospitals do is quite
similar.

But there is a significant difference. The Cable Man took the money without
permission; hospitals ask for the money without permission, but don't actually
get a cent until you agree.

Their solicitations may (or may not, depending on your perspective) be a
nuisance - but they don't cost you anything unless you say okay.

The root of the problem lies in the fact that successive Ontario governments
starved the health care system so egregiously that hospitals have to raise
dollars wherever they can. Hence, the proliferation of Timmies-in-the-lobby and
$20 parking fees.

Health care costs big money, and if we elect governments who don't understand
that, we're going to pay for it some other way.

From an ethical point of view, I hate the whole idea of implied consent.
Whenever permission is required for something, whether it's sex or chocolate
cookies, it's better to ask than to assume.

In this case, however, given that all your hospital assumed was the right to ask
for what it needs, I'm prepared to give their foundation a clean diagnosis -
subject to ongoing monitoring.

Ken Gallinger's column appears every Saturday in Weekend Living. Email him at
ethical @ sympatico.ca.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

