                              184 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             July 2, 1994, Saturday

Medical miracles, moral costs Tackling tough questions:

BYLINE: By Ann Hardie STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SCIENCE; Section E; Page 1

LENGTH: 1089 words


With technological advances, doctors, hospitals and families are looking toward
ethics committees for guidance in life-or-death decisions.

Even as hospitals in Atlanta and around the country push the technological
envelope to keep people alive, they increasingly are returning to an ancient
discipline for moral guidance.

The field of ethics is becoming a part of this country's most modern health
care, alongside organ transplants and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

Hospitals are forming teams to think through ethical dilemmas involving
everything from genetic testing to post-menopausal pregnancy to the withdrawal
of artificial life support.

Although ethics committees often don't come up with clear-cut answers, they seem
to provide an element of comfort in an area where the difference between life
and its end increasingly comes down to a piece of machinery.

"Technology is a wonderful servant but a poor master," said G. Robert Gary, vice
chairman of Emory University Hospital's recently formed ethics committee and
director of Emory's Center for Pastoral Services. "There is an increasing
awareness that we are pushing the boundaries medically and morally on how much
should be done for our patients."

Those lines are certain to become more blurred with medical advances such as
sophisticated genetic testing that could determine if people are predisposed to
certain health problems and diseases.

The ethical question then becomes: Who gets access to the information,
especially if there isn't a cure or treatment for the illness? Patients who
could plan their lives accordingly? Employers who could factor it into hiring
decisions? Or insurance companies who might use it in deciding who gets
coverage?

In addition, health care reform probably will ease the ethical dilemmas facing
hospitals and their doctors.

With the realization that there isn't enough money to pay for all of medicine's
bag of tricks, ethics committees may be called upon to decide who gets a heart
transplant or ventilator.

"I think they are going to expand into new areas, like rationing," said Arthur
L. Caplan, president of the American Association of Bioethics and director of
the Center of Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania. "I think they could
well find themselves in the middle of issues like payment and insurance and
charity care."

When should life end?

One of the most common ethical dilemmas in hospitals today is when to withdraw
artificial life support. Kathy Kinlaw, associate director of Emory University's
Center for Ethics and Public Policy in the Professions, has helped hospitals
across the state form ethics committees.

"We frequently hear questions that have to do with the end of life, whether it
has to do with how aggressive we should be with a very low- birthweight infant
or an aging person who has a chronic illness and recurrent pneumonia," Kinlaw
said.

"The fact that our technological capabilities have increased so dramatically
means that the questions are intensified," she said. "It is not clear to me,
that because the technology exists, that the right thing to do is to take
advantage of it."

One of the most difficult distinctions doctors and patients and their families
must make is when medical technology such as ventilators and feeding tubes is
prolonging life or painfully delaying an imminent death.

"Life is not going to go on forever and at some point it might become morally
wrong to pretend that it is," said Jan C. Heller, director of ethics at St.
Joseph's Hospital in Atlanta.

Heller says people often are surprised that St. Joseph's, a Roman Catholic
hospital, does not necessarily sanction doing everything medically possible to
keep a person alive. "At some point, we must surrender our lives to God,'' he
said.

For ethical and legal questions, hospitals and physicians say they err on the
side of doing too much unless a patient or his family specifies otherwise.

"And when the treatment is a painful and unproductive one and the physician or
nurse feels they are brutalizing the patient, someone cries for help," Gary
said.

Those cries increasingly are being heard by ethics committees, whose emergence
in hospitals has been a long time coming.

The oath of ethics that doctors swear to is named after the Greek physician
Hippocrates, who died more than 2,300 years ago. St. Joseph's is the only
hospital in the metro area that employs a full-time ethicist. Such positions are
rare nationwide.

80 percent of hospitals have ethics panels

But an estimated 80 percent of the country's hospitals have an ethics committee,
comprising mostly doctors, nurses, chaplains and other members of the hospital
community.

Many ethics committees were formed in the '80s after heated public debate on how
aggressively to treat premature and disabled infants.

That debate still is raging. Atlantans became attached to the plight of Baby
Pumpkin, born four months premature to a woman who was addicted to crack. Baby
Pumpkin's eight-month stay in Grady Memorial Hospital's intensive-care unit cost
taxpayers about $ 500,000.

The child, who died at 27 months after choking on a grape, lived on a diet
consisting mainly of baby food because disabilities had slowed her development.
She was making weekly visits to physical and respiratory therapists.

"Some of these babies are so small that you wonder if it is medically futile or
not," said Catherine J. Futch, assistant vice president of nursing services at
Grady and co-chair of its ethics committee. "They could have lung problems,
cerebral palsy, damage to their brain or liver. Then you see that one child at
[age] 5 who is fine."

In the past five years, the scope of most ethics committees has been expanded to
include all medical disciplines in a hospital.  In the current clamor for health
care reform, those taking on medicine's ethical dilemmas see their role becoming
even greater.

"On the one hand, you have an emphasis on patient rights and respect for the
person to let them decide how much they want to do," Heller said. "On the other
hand, you have this tremendous pressure to control cost. We can't seem to decide
these issues on a societal level like we ought, so they are being pushed down to
the bedside."

And the issues are being pushed to ethics committees, which Futch says could
face some very difficult questions in the future.

"How many livers should a person have? If you drink, should you get another? If
you are fat, can you get an angioplasty? It could go on forever," Futch noted.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH941840018

GRAPHIC: Color photo: Jan Heller talks with nurses Jill Stansell and Marianne
Baird in the intensive-care unit. / JOEY IVANSCO / Staff Color photo: Baby
Pumpkin, born weighing 1 1/4 pounds, typifies the tough decisions doctors and
families must make. / JOEY IVANSCO / Staff

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


