                              179 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                          December 31, 2014 Wednesday

Where now for doctors after life support case?;
Legal issues are clearly important but must not trump good medicine

BYLINE: Muiris Houston

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 523 words


The burial of the brain-dead pregnant woman marks a closure of sorts for her
family, following a long saga that began with her admission to hospital about
four weeks earlier.

Declared brain dead at a Dublin hospital on December 3rd and subsequently
transferred to a local hospital, she became the centre of a legal issue that
ended in the High Court. There, three judges cleared the way for the woman's
life support to be withdrawn, describing the continuation of somatic support as
a "futile exercise".

With constitutional and legal factors to the fore, it seems the practice of
ethical medicine was forced into a supporting role. The Eighth Amendment to the
Constitution, which enshrines the unborn's constitutional right to life and the
perceived risk of prosecution by doctors should they withdraw life support for
the mother, was a major factor.

It appears doctors were also fearful of conviction under the Protection of Life
During Pregnancy Act, 2013, which carries a possible 14-year prison sentence for
procuring an illegal abortion.

Clinical practice However, for many observers linking a 16-week pregnancy in a
brain-dead woman to abortion is perplexing. In the past, such tragedies have
been managed with sound clinical practice guided by medical ethics.

When a person is declared brain dead after a car crash or other cause of
catastrophic brain trauma, it means the brain stem - the part that drives basic
involuntary acts such as breathing and circulation - is irrevocably damaged.

Once this diagnosis has been carefully made, continuing life support can only be
justified for the purpose of harvesting the deceased's organs for donation or -
in the case of a woman in the later stages of pregnancy - to allow for a viable
foetus to be delivered by Caesarean section.

Challenging dilemmas For many physicians, turning off life support in the case
of a young brain-dead woman in the early stages of pregnancy would not pose an
especially difficult ethical dilemma. Not that such a decision should be taken
lightly by a lone practitioner; in practice doctors consult health professional
colleagues. For especially challenging dilemmas in hospitals, the availability
of a clinical ethics service is increasingly considered best practice.

Arguably a necessity rather than an option, such a service can be a powerful
motivating force in driving a renewed ethic of care for a broad range of health
professionals. It would ensure the kind of dilemmas that are unavoidable in a
high-tech environment are dealt with on an inclusive and ongoing basis.

Some important questions arise in the wake of the recent High Court case: do
Irish hospitals have access to trained ethicists to help inform best practice?
How many hospitals here have a clinical ethics service?

For doctors themselves, the practice of ethical medicine is a cornerstone of
professionalism. And while legal issues must be considered, it would not be
healthy for the practice of good medicine - or indeed for society in general -
for ethical issues to be routinely trumped by legal considerations. Overly
defensive medical practice is rarely good for patients and their families.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


