                              181 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          February 16, 2011 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Doctor denies signing forms on lost funds;
NEWS

BYLINE: Malcolm Brown

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 429 words


A MEDICAL director who signed documents which facilitated alleged fraudulent
payments of more than $200,000 to a medical researcher at the Royal Hospital for
Women has insisted some of the signatures shown to him on documents were
forgeries. Professor Neville Hacker, director of the Gynaecological Cancer
Centre at the hospital, said in answer to Robert Stitt, QC, for the researcher,
Sandra Lazarus, that although the signatures looked like his, some had
peculiarities which indicated he had not written them. He said when he had
signed forms authorising payment for research Ms Lazarus claimed to be doing -
testing a device called "Medex" for the early diagnosis of cervical cancer - he
had done so in the belief the money was coming from a trust fund established by
an outside sponsor.

He now knew no such fund had been established at the hospital and the money had
come straight from the hospital account. He had made it clear at the outset the
hospital was not to pay any money. Professor Hacker was appearing before the
Independent Commission Against Corruption, headed by Mr David Ipp, QC, which is
examining whether Ms Lazarus and her sister Michelle defrauded the Royal Women's
Hospital of $218,350 and Royal North Shore Hospital of $465,300. Professor
Hacker said that although earlier in the inquiry he had accepted he had signed
certain documents, he now questioned whether he had. He believed he had not
signed a form Ms Lazarus submitted for ethical approval to conduct the trials.
Nor had he signed a scientific assessment form. Ms Lazarus had told him she
obtained ethical approval and on that basis he agreed to let her pilot study go
ahead. He had not seen the approval document. "I have never been in a situation
before where someone has tried to do research in my department fraudulently," he
said. He had not heard of the companies Wish Consulting Pty Ltd or Medical and
Clinical Informatics Consultants Pty Ltd, now revealed to have been controlled
by one or other of the two Lazarus sisters, when he purportedly signed their
requisition forms. Now he questioned whether he had signed them and said in any
event he would not have signed five consecutive forms for 10 tests each when he
had only given approval for one pilot study of 10 tests. He had never seen any
printouts of tests results of patients. He had not seen her at all after the
decision had been taken to initiate the study. He had made inquiries and had
been informed it was very difficult to find her and he was not aware of any
patients who had been tested. The inquiry resumes today.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sandra Lazarus leaving the Independent Commission Against
Corruption.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


