                              178 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               September 20, 2010

Consultations on ethics are not limited to the curbside

BYLINE: Ethics Forum. Posted Sept. 20, 2010.

SECTION: PROFESSION; Ethics Forum; Pg. 18 Vol. 53 No. 38

LENGTH: 1256 words



HIGHLIGHT: American Medical News: views and opinions on issues in medical
practice


Where can physicians seek help when they have ethical dilemmas?

Scenario: Where can physicians seek help when they have ethical dilemmas?

The author polled several local practice environments to see what is available
to doctors and who took advantage of these resources.

Reply:

I offer the medical environment of small- to mid-sized group practices in my
community of Greeley, Colo., to discover how smaller clinics and practices here
managed ethics concerns. I queried the Greeley Medical Clinic, the one large
multispecialty clinic in town (about 80 physicians); Family Physicians of
Greeley, the largest family practice group (21 physicians at three locations); a
cardiologist from the Cardiovascular Institute (22 cardiologists and
cardiovascular surgeons); and residents and attending physicians in the North
Colorado Family Medicine training program -- a three-year fully accredited
family practice residency program with 24 residents and 10 attending physicians.

Our nonprofit 398-bed hospital serves the town's population of about 100,000, as
well as northern and eastern Colorado, southern Wyoming and western Nebraska and
Kansas, for a referral population of about 250,000. It has 220 staff physicians,
including all 22 members of the Cardiovascular Institute and 12 hospitalists.

I asked these medical professionals the following questions: How does your
practice deal with ethical dilemmas -- both those involving patients and those
involving problems with physician behavior or performance? Are there any typical
ethical questions you encounter? Are you satisfied with the mechanisms you have
for resolving such conflicts?

Not surprisingly, the hospital had the most formal arrangement, having
established an ethics committee about 20 years ago. The committee meets monthly,
is chaired by a university philosophy professor and is composed of 12 to 20
volunteer members of the medical and lay communities. The committee hears ethics
consults (perhaps half a dozen a year) and provides a forum for ethics education
and discussion. Consult requests may be brought to the committee by patients,
families or any member of the health care team.

Responses to the question about management of patient care dilemmas were
similar. Nearly all said they "curbside" other docs -- usually within the
practice, but sometimes outside. All said they were aware of the option of using
the hospital ethics committee, and none would hesitate to use it, although
almost none had.

Each practice has a slightly different mechanism for dealing with
physician-related ethical issues such as behavior problems. At the Greeley
Medical Clinic, questions about a doctor's conduct are referred to the medical
director. If the director cannot resolve the problem alone, it goes to the
seven-member clinic board elected by the shareholders, which can sanction,
dismiss or order the physician to take corrective measures.

The Family Physicians of Greeley convenes a group of two or three doctors, with
one physician designated to address physician issues for that year, then
investigate and decide on a course of action. If the group believes dismissal is
in order, it must bring the recommendation to the entire practice group for
approval.

Members of the Cardiology Institute, because they are all employed by the
hospital, refer physician concerns to the hospital chief medical officer, who
proceeds with an investigation following hospital protocol. If the physician
matter relates to quality of care, it is addressed by quality improvement
mechanisms.

The most common ethical issue cited by the doctors was financial -- most
pressingly how to take care of uninsured and underinsured patients. It also was
cited as the most difficult to resolve. The region has a substantial population
of patients who are uninsured and underinsured and a number of people who are
not legal residents, complicating availability of nonemergency services.

Interestingly, many physicians, particularly older doctors, felt they had
adequate resources to deal with ethical issues and that doctors should be able
to handle most such problems alone or with a curbside consult. Many of the
younger physicians said they would prefer more options and training. The younger
doctors tended to curbside their older colleagues.

It is difficult to know whether these physicians do not need and would not use
additional ethics resources if they became available. None of the physicians I
spoke with reported any formal ethics training, and none had ever practiced in a
setting that had such resources -- an active in-house consult service, for
example, regular ethics grand rounds or an easily obtainable outpatient ethics
consult.

Sometimes services are not perceived as useful when and where they don't exist.
Before our hospitalist program started 18 months ago, for example, most doctors
saw no need for hospitalists; now most local physicians consider them
indispensable. These same physicians may be living without ethics services
simply because they are not available.

Although mechanisms for resolving patient care questions seem to be adequate for
many physicians, it is not clear that mechanisms to address "doctor problems"
are. A recent article by The Associated Press suggested that many doctors don't
report troubled colleagues, and I suspect my region is no exception.

The mechanisms for reporting are cumbersome and not at all user-friendly.
Through the years, we have all seen episodes of physician behavior reported in
the regional and national media and wondered, "Who knew what? And when? Was
anything was reported? And, if so, was anything done about it?"

Many years ago, I reported a physician in a neighboring area for using a
dangerous off-label treatment that clearly endangered a patient. I learned only
years later that a letter of admonition was issued four years after the fact,
and the physician was still practicing. My experience makes me think that the
procedure itself discourages reporting, and the evidence for the effectiveness
of self-regulating in medicine has not been encouraging. An article and
editorial in the July 14 issue of The Journal of the American Medical
Association tend to bear this out.

Of the two types of ethics issues identified by colleagues in my town --
patient-related and physician-related -- most physicians seemed satisfied with
available mechanisms for resolving the former, though I continue to suspect they
might find more extensive ethics services useful were such services available.
Less comfort surrounds concerns about physicians' ethical violations. Although
each of us must take responsibility for confronting doctors who violate
professional norms, such responsibility should be supported by practical, useful
mechanisms both for reporting and for helping such doctors improve their
practices or behaviors.

Patricia A Mayer, MD, medical director, Hospice and Palliative Care of Northern
Colorado; associate professor, Bioethics Program of Union Graduate College/The
Mount Sinai School of Medicine

Weblink

American Medical Association Ethics Resource Center (www.ama-assn.org/go/erc)

"The Role of Professionalism and Self-Regulation in Detecting Impaired or
Incompetent Physicians," The Journal of the American Medical Association, July
14 (jama.ama-assn.org/cgi/content/short/304/2/210/)

"Physicians' Perceptions, Preparedness for Reporting, and Experiences Related to
Impaired and Incompetent Colleagues," abstract, The Journal of the American
Medical Association, July 14 (jama.ama-assn.org/cgi/content/abstract/304/2/187/)

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

