                              188 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                 July 29, 2004

Reid plans more elitist hospitals;
 UNISON rages at ethical recruitment exemption

BYLINE: by DANIEL COYSH

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 395 words


HEALTH Secretary John Reid announced a doubling of the number of elitist
foundation hospitals yesterday amid union fury at plans to exempt them from "
ethical recruitment."

Another 20 NHS hospitals have been given the goahead to apply for foundation
status, which would take the total number to 40.

Outlining an expansion of the controversial scheme, Mr Reid (right) said that
the independent regulator has indicated that the next batches will be authorised
in November 2004 and February 2005.

The arch-Blairite claimed that the announcement is "another important step on
the road to decentralisation, " freeing the NHS from Whitehall control and
giving local patients more power.

But health union UNISON raised more concerns over the plans, noting that they
involve a "shameful" government U-turn on poaching nurses from developing
countries.

The Health Secretary told the annual congress of the Royal College of Nursing in
May that the code of conduct on ethical recruitment needs strengthening.

He made the commitment after RCN and UNISON exposed numerous cases of staff
being lured over from countries such as South Africa, which has a critical
shortage of nurses.

Often, such staff find themselves at the mercy of private agencies, which then
force the qualified health workers into low-paid care jobs in private homes.

Despite this, a new code of practice has been drafted, which declares that
foundation trusts will now be treated like private hospitals, which are merely
"invited" to adopt the code of conduct.

UNISON head of health Karen Jennings said: "It is shameful that the government
is considering giving foundation hospitals carte blanche to poach nurses from
overseas.

"We have long argued that the guidelines need to be given more teeth and
extended to cover the private sector.

"This is to try and stop unscrupulous agencies breaching the guidelines and
taking staff from countries like South Africa, with no real comeback, " she
added.

RCN senior employment relations adviser, Howard Catton condemned Mr Reid for
reneging on the promise given at May's congress.

Ms Catton warned that new Labour's obsession with creating "competition" in the
NHS through the mantra of "payment by results" will encourage foundation trusts
to scrap the practice of ethical recruiting in the race to secure enough staff.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2004

               Copyright 2004 People's Press Printing Society Ltd


