                              195 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Child hearts could be used again minutes after death

BYLINE: Sarah-Kate Templeton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 692 words


TIME is running out for 16-month-old Jack Morris. Suffering from dilated
cardiomyopathy, a condition in which the heart muscle becomes thin and
stretched, he is in desperate need of a new heart. Jack is far from alone. With
a chronic shortage of donated hearts, British surgeons have begun discussions
with the transplant ethics committee for the right to remove the hearts of
children just five minutes after they are pronounced dead. Those organs would
then be implanted into other youngsters and restarted.

Surgically, the practice is comparatively straightforward. Ethically, however,
it presents the medical world with a conundrum: how can the donor be pronounced
dead on the grounds that his or her heart has stopped beating when the organ can
be restarted inside the recipient's chest? Such ethical questions brought a
similar trial in America to a halt. Between 2004 and 2008, surgeons in Denver
removed the hearts from dead children 75 seconds after they stopped beating and
implanted and restarted them in three babies.

Surgeons from the Freeman hospital in Newcastle upon Tyne and Great Ormond
Street hospital in London believe a simple alteration to the US scheme -
removing the hearts after five minutes rather than 75 seconds - would allow the
technique, used only after parental consent is granted, to be employed again.

Their case is based on a near-universal acceptance among doctors that a person
whose heart has failed to beat for five minutes is dead. Yet even after that
period, it is possible for the organ to be restarted in another body.

Asif Hasan, a child heart transplant surgeon at the Freeman hospital and one of
those behind the proposal, acknowledged the ethical concerns.

"You take the hearts, resuscitate the hearts and then use them again. That is an
ethical minefield at the moment," he said. "That is because one of the
definitions of death is that the heart should have stopped beating and that
circulation should have stopped. Now, if you restart the heart then it will mean
[in the minds of some] that the patient was never dead in the first place."

Dr Joe Brierley, intensive care consultant at Great Ormond Street hospital, said
changing views about the nature of death offered the scope to revisit the issue
and potentially save lives.

"As death was being certified using cardiorespiratory criteria, it troubled some
that the heart and/or lungs could then be restarted in another person," he said.
"Current ethical thinking, however, suggests that death is the complete death of
the individual person as a whole." Brierley said the new transplants would save
the lives of children, and babies in particular, who would otherwise die waiting
for an organ.

The problem that faces Jack's mother, Laura Campbell, 25, and countless other
families is that surgeons can use hearts only from those pronounced brain dead.
These donors must have no activity in their brain stem, no potential for
consciousness, and their hearts must be kept beating only by a ventilator.

There is a shortage of such donors, meaning that a fifth of children on the
waiting list die before they receive a heart.

Agonisingly for Campbell, the ethical wrangling affects only hearts. Over the
past decade surgeons have been transplanting other organs, including kidneys,
livers and lungs, from patients diagnosed as dead on the basis that their hearts
had stopped beating.

"Families of dead children are in a terrible situation but I would just ask them
to consider organ donation because it does save lives," said Campbell, from
Liverpool.

"If their child passes away, it would be fantastic if they could consider giving
a child like Jack the life they deserve."

The device keeping Jack alive is also slowly sapping his strength. A Berlin
heart, an artificial organ, has caused him to suffer a stroke and there is a
limit to how long he can use it.

Dr Richard Kirk , his paediatric cardiologist at the Freeman, has become
accustomed to lengthy, and sometimes fruitless, waits for donor hearts. He hopes
the proposal will be accepted and such delays become infrequent. "At the moment
there are a lot of families who have to wait an extraordinarily long time."

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Laura Campbell with son Jack, who needs a new heart
PAUL VICENTE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


