                              21 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Pantagraph (Bloomington, Illinois)

                             August 02, 2013 Friday

Voice for the sick, dying

BYLINE: By Paul Swiech;pswiech@pantagraph.com

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 1189 words


BLOOMINGTON - A chronically ill patient is dying and his physician at the
hospital has determined that the patient is not likely to recover.

The patient has no advance directive specifying what steps should be taken when
he can no longer make his own health care decisions and who should make those
decisions on his behalf. His family has not come to terms with the patient
dying.

"The family says 'Do anything to keep him alive,'" the Rev. Mollie Ward said in
her scenario.

The patient experiences sudden cardiac arrest and CPR is performed to help
restore blood flow and defibrillation is done to try to restore heart rhythm.
But the steps work only briefly, meaning CPR and defibrillation must be
performed again.

The patient is frail and further chest compressions are likely to break ribs,
putting the patient in more pain, Ward said. The medical professionals attending
to the patient question the value of continued treatment that merely will delay
the inevitable death.

"The staff may feel ethically uncomfortable continuing this line of care that
could further harm the patient," Ward said.

At that time, a doctor or nurse may call for an ethics consultation with a
member of the hospital's ethics committee.

While largely unknown to the average person, Central Illinois hospitals have
ethics committees whose responsibilities include being able to respond to
emergency ethical concerns.

The scenario described by Ward - a member of the Advocate BroMenn/Eureka Ethics
Committee - is an example of an ethical emergency that committee members address
from time to time. Dr. Paul Pedersen - a member of the OSF St. Joseph Medical
Center Ethics Committee - provided a similar example.

"We have a trained ethics triage person (a BroMenn staff member and member of
the ethics committee) on call for ethics consults 24/7," said Ward, an Episcopal
priest who is Advocate BroMenn manager of spiritual care and clinical pastoral
education.

In Ward's scenario, the ethics triage person would talk with a representative of
the staff and family to try to get the two sides to come to agreement that does
not violate hospital policy.

Generally, an agreement happens. If the two sides don't come to agreement, the
ethics triage person can call for an emergency meeting of the entire ethics
committee, which consists of about a dozen people representing doctors, nurses,
social workers, chaplains, clergy and the community.

The frequency of those meetings varies but they happen about once a month. Some
committee members join via conference call.

"We can put a committee meeting together in 30 minutes," said Linda Slotky, a
St. Joseph nurse and chairwoman of the hospital's ethics committee.

The committee would develop a consensus opinion and recommend that course of
action to the hospital administrator.

Ethics committees aren't new. For example, Advocate BroMenn in Normal, Advocate
Eureka in Eureka, OSF St. Joseph in Bloomington and OSF Saint James-John W.
Albrecht Medical Center in Pontiac have had ethics committees for at least 20
years.

"It is our goal to help people to do the right thing when it comes to making
medical decisions and providing treatment," Ward said.

"At the heart of any discussions is the patient," said Paula Corrigan,
chairwoman of the ethics committee at Saint James, where she also is vice
president and chief financial officer.

Availability of ethics consultation is required by regulators, said Pedersen,
also St. Joseph vice president and chief medical officer.

"We deal with a diverse population and different belief systems," Pedersen said.
"Trying to understand that - while providing high quality, consistent medical
care - can lead to questions."

Many ethics committees' emergency responses involve end-of-life decisions
affecting patients who don't have advance directives. In fact, the awareness
work of ethics committees in recent years is one reason that advance directives
and end-of-life planning have become more popular, committee members said.

"The single biggest category of concern has to do with end-of-life care and the
aggressiveness of treatment, particularly when a person does not have an advance
directive," Ward said. When there isn't agreement among family members and
medical professionals on how to proceed, ethics committee members get involved.

"We try to facilitate conversation," Ward said.

- Medical professionals caring for a patient determine that he or she isn't
mentally capable of making his or her own health care decision. A committee
member gets the patient's family involved. If the patient has no family, the
committee may bring in an administrative law judge to conduct a hearing on the
patient's competency, Pedersen said.

- A Jehovah's Witness has been in a traffic crash and needs a blood transfusion
to live. Witnesses believe blood transfusions are not allowed in Scripture.

In that case, an ethics committee member will explain to the patient and family
that delaying treatment could be fatal, Pedersen said.

As ethics committee members deliberate, they consider the patient's medical
condition, goals and risks of treatment, probability of success, patient
preferences, whether the patient understands his or her options, whether there
is an appropriate surrogate for an incapacitated patient and patients' religious
beliefs and cultural factors.

"An advance directive has priority," Ward said.

"If the patient has an advance directive, we honor that," Slotky said.

"The underlying goal is to provide an ethical response for patients and
providers that meets the ethical and religious directives of our institution,"
Pedersen said.

Catholic hospitals are bound by the ethical and religious directives of Catholic
health care systems, Slotky said. "If a patient wants to terminate a pregnancy,
we won't do that here."

But, "there is a misperception that Catholic institutions keep people alive at
all costs and that's not the case," Slotky said. "It's what is ethically correct
according to our religious directives as well as what's right for the patient.

"We want to support the family but the patient comes first," Slotky continued.
"With ethics, sometimes it's not always black and white."

In addition to responding to ethical emergencies, committees also meet about
every other month to discuss their response to emergencies and to review
proposed hospital policy changes and new regulations. Committees also encourage
awareness of ethical issues. For example, the St. Joseph committee offers two
workshops a year on ethical issues for hospital staff, Slotky said.

Ethics committees and ethics consultations re-assure family members that
decisions aren't being made in a vacuum and that everyone's opinion is
validated, Slotky said.

"It gives the family peace of mind."

Ethical concern?

Anyone - a doctor, hospital staff person, patient, family member or visitor -
can request an ethics consultation at a hospital. If you have an ethical
concern, discuss it with your doctor or nurse. If your concern isn't resolved,
tell them you would like an ethics consultation or that you'd like to speak with
a representative of the hospital's ethics committee.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: This is a Quark CopyDesk document!

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Pantagraph


