                              189 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             March 25, 1988 Friday
                                  Late Edition

MORALITY MAKERS: THE NEW BREED AND THE OLD

BYLINE: KIM LANGLEY

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Agenda; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1406 words


A WOMAN with a fatal nervous disease requested that her life support system be
removed. Doctors at St Vincent's Hospital in Melbourne agreed, it was revealed
this week - on the advice of a moral philosopher.

The film Fatal Attraction showed a child's slaughtered pet rabbit boiling on a
stove. The Film Censorship Board said children under 15 could not see it

What gives these people the right to make such decisions? Certainly not the
authority of the cloth which traditionally allowed the clergy to shape public
morals.

Secular ethical advisers - predominantly men - can now be found in hospitals,
universities, schools, businesses and the public service. They help people make
vital decisions about issues ranging from business to euthanasia and abortion.

Dr Peter Singer, head of Monash University's Centre for Human Bio-ethics, said
there were more secular ethical advisors because "we no longer accept the
teachings of clergy and the priests".

He said people did not accept religion because it was "not a rational thing to
believe in", and did not explain the increasingly complex world.

HOSPITAL ETHICIST

ADVISING that a terminally ill woman be permitted to die was only one of
hundreds of moral decisions Nicholas Tonti-Filippini helped make at St Vincent's
Hospital in Melbourne.

Last year, Australia's only hospital ethicist had 480 consultations with staff
on matters of medical ethics. The issues included the withholding of diagnoses
from patients, relatives blocking information to a patient, reproduction,
resuscitation, and euthanasia.

Mr Tonti-Filippini says he makes moral decisions on well-established principles.
In the case of the terminally-ill patient, he and the other members of the
hospital's bio-ethics committee were satisfied the woman made a free, informed
and competent decision to refuse treatment. They were also convinced the burden
of medical intervention was disproportionate to its benefits.

Mr Tonti-Filippini, 32, became the hospital's moral guardian six years ago while
doing a master's degree in philosophy at Monash University. Although he accepts
the hospital's Catholic philosophy, he also defends his appointment on broader
ethical grounds.

"I think problems have become more complex with the development of technology.
Thus it has become very difficult to sort them out. With a lot of what we're
doing there is no clear-cut policy for us to follow."

Mr Tonti-Filippini says cultural changes also require an ethicist's
intervention.

"Medicine used to be fairly paternalistic, with doctors making the decisions.
Now decision-making is open to scrutineers. If the doctor makes a decision, he
can expect it to be looked at. The doctor-patient relationship is not as private
or confidential as it once was, particularly in a large public hospital where so
many people are involved in the care of a patient. That's unfortunate, but it is
the case."

Mr Tonti-Filippini sees his role as "essential", and expects more and more
philosophers will be employed by hospitals. Many hospitals already have
bio-ethics committees.

FILM CENSOR:

John Dickie is a neophyte moral custodian, who says he doesn't feel qualified to
be one.

Dickie, 47, has been chief censor for seven weeks. Prior to that he headed the
Attorney General's Department Censorship Policy Branch and worked for the Human
Rights Commission and The Age newspaper.

Last year the Film Censorship Board watched 500 feature films and 4500 videos to
protect public sensibilities.

Mr Dickie says the censors make their judgments according to criteria spelt out
in legislation.

Films are classified either G for general, PG recommending parents accompany
their children, M for people 15 years and over, R for those 18 years and over,
or X if they are non-violent and sexually explicit.

Films are refused classification if they contain child pornography, bestiality,
terrorism or sexual violence.

Mr Dickie concedes subjective judgements are made to classify a film. Language,
visuals, theme and sexual content may be taken into consideration.

Mr Dickie says censors play an important function. "I think the community in
general probably goes along with the view people ought to be able to see, read
and listen to what they wish, but I think there is consensus in the community
that some things are really beyond the pale. People shouldn't have those things
they don't wish to see foisted upon them and there should be appropriate
safeguards for children."

He says the eight-person Film Censorship Board (five male, three female)will
increase by two people this year, so it can expand activities to include visits
to public cinemas to gauge audience reaction.

SCHOOL TEACHER

LAWRIE Fabian helps Balmain High School children between the ages of 14 and 17
make decisions about AIDS, drugs, sex and religion.

Mr Fabian teaches personal development, one of the Education
Department's"growth" subjects. Like many other teachers, he is probably the
first person outside the home with whom many children discuss moral questions.

Mr Fabian, 32, says "I'm not a conventional religious person. I just present the
information from both sides of any argument, and give it to the kids: they make
up their own minds.

"For example, with my year 10 class right now, I'm doing a thing on drugs
-everything from heroin to alcohol and tobacco. It is presented in as clinical a
way as possible, covering the positive and negative aspects. The positive aspect
of any drug is it makes people feel part of a group. The negative aspect is the
damage to the body and the brain."

Mr Fabian says his main aim is to boost children's self-esteem. "Self-esteem
issues are invariably why kids get involved in drugs, why they move around in
gangs ... I want to teach kids to say 'No', and to give them enough background
information to make solid decisions."

Children question religion, he says. "I don't believe (The Church) has the
relevance to the kids any more. They say 'How can a church that embodies
Christianity allow things like Ireland to go on and South Africa to occur?'"

He says the syllabus varies according to what is relevant to the age group. For
example, year eight children are taught about smoking, while year 10 children
study parenting skills and relationships.

Mr Fabian is one of three personal development teachers at Balmain High(the two
others are women). He has taught the subject for three of the 10 years he has
been a teacher. He has no specific training in personal development, but attends
Education Department seminars on the subject.

PRISON CHAPLAIN

ONE of the first things a prisoner did when he got out of Long Bay Jail was
marry his de facto wife. Among the wedding guests was the man who helped bring
him to the altar - the prison chaplain, the Rev Reg Clark.

Mr Clark, 58, has worked at Long Bay for seven years. Many prisoners still look
to clergy like him for moral guidance.

He says: "We go there primarily as counsellors and advisers, someone who can
empathise with the prisoners, and help them see where their frustrations and
anxieties are stemming from."

Mr Clark also advises prisoners' relatives and prison officers, helps train
officers, serves on departmental committees, and conducts religious services,
weddings and baptisms.

One of four prison chaplains in the State, Mr Clark has over 10 years'parish
experience and attended a training course to secure the job.

"I believe the basic skill involved is being a good pastoral man - someone who
has genuine concern for their flock and is able to bear with them in moments of
grief."

Despite the fact he helps some prisoners become Christians, Mr Clark says: "We
have very little influence on the morals of the prisoners. The main reason for
our existence from the inmates' point of view is we are the only persons within
the jail scene who are not departmental.

"For example, an inmate confided he was hanging out and needed some methadone.
We organised it so the medical people came in and gave him what he needed in his
cell after lock-up, and didn't report it to the prison authorities.

"From the department's point of view, I think we have a softening effect on the
inmate population. There was a young Aboriginal whose grandmother had died while
he was in here. He was hostile, wouldn't talk to the prison officers, and
wouldn't fill in the form to allow him to go to the funeral.

"I spent three-quarters of an hour in the cell with him to get him to calm down.
He even apologised to the officer he was mouthing off at."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Four illus: Nicholas Tonti-Filippini, Australia's only hospital
ethicist. Photograph by RON ROBERTSON Chief censor John Dickie: "There is
consensus that some things are really beyond the pale". Photograph by David
Trood Lawrie Fabian: "I just present the information from both sides of any
argument: they make up their own minds." Photograph by Doris Thomas Mr
Clark...little influence on prisoners' morals. Photograph by Palani Mohan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1988 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


