                              186 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                     April 23, 1995, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

A DEAL'S A DEAL: Roman Catholic hospitals have a right to abide by their beliefs

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 311 words


Many Albertans will not be pleased if the board of Mineral Springs Hospital in
Banff decides to drop contraceptive medical services because it determines they
are in conflict with ethical guidelines set down by the Roman Catholic Church
for its hospitals.

But Alberta Health accepted these inevitable conflicts between faith and medical
service when it signed on Roman Catholic hospitals, and it would be unfair to
attempt to renegotiate the arrangement at this late date.

Yes, it is an important principle of our health-care system that a full range of
medical procedures be offered at publicly-funded facilities.

But there are exceptions to every rule, and Alberta long ago accepted this one.

A deal's a deal. It's well known that the Roman Catholic Church does not approve
of vasectomies to sterilize men and laparoscopic tubal ligations to sterilize
women, unless the procedures are done for medical reasons other than
contraception.

The Mineral Springs board has not determined whether the hospital bylaw
requiring compliance with the ethical standards of the church would disallow
providing these services under all circumstances. Nor has it decided if the
hospital will change the bylaw or abandon the procedures altogether if they are
found to be in conflict.

But the point is that a Roman Catholic hospital has every right to set its own
policies in these matters and, if it turns out that these procedures cannot be
accommodated within church guidelines, the board's decision should be accepted
with regret but without recrimination.

The ethical dilemma would take on larger dimensions if Banff patients were being
denied essential medical procedures. But residents who require the treatment can
easily drive to Canmore or Calgary. It's an inconvenience, but no more, and most
residents will easily put the matter in perspective.


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1995 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


