                              192 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                             April 9, 2016 Saturday

Meet focus on treatment

BYLINE: Our Correspondent

LENGTH: 346  words


Ranchi, April 9: Jharkhand government must make treatment and medicines
absolutely free for poor patients at Sadar Hospital.

The remark came from a group of doctors who had assembled in the capital for a
daylong seminar on "Ethical Practices in Medical Profession and Providing
Acceptable Healthcare to Common Citizens" held at XISS auditorium today.



"In Bhimrao Ambedkar Multi Specialty Hospital, registration fee is Rs 1 for poor
patients. Medicines are also free," said Dr R.N.P Mishra, the former chief
medical officer of the hospital in Noida.

Speaking on how government hospitals have earned ignominy due to lack of
facilities, Mishra said it was important for doctors to be honest and devote
time to their patients.

"If they (doctors) do not do their work, we don't need them," he said at the
conference organised by Jharkhand Nagrik Prayas.

Chief guest D.K. Saraf, secretary of Anandalok Hospital, Calcutta, said that he
had met chief minister Raghubar Das yesterday and requested him to provide five
acres of land to open a hospital that will offer high end treatments at
affordable costs.

"Das has promised to provide the land and once this hospital comes up, it will
provide health care at nominal rates like Anandalok Hospital," he said.

Speaking on "Hospitals for the Common Citizens", Saraf said that he charged Rs
75 only for treating patients in ICU.

"Private hospitals charge Rs 2,000-Rs 4,000 for the same. For computerised eye
testing, the rate is only Rs 20 at the hospital," he added.

Ranchi-based Dr Siddhartha Mukherjee, while speaking on the topic "Ethical
Practices and Healthcare", said there was no health check-up in city schools and
majority of adolescent girls were suffering from anaemia.

"Where are the ethics of doctors if they cannot attend to patients at 10pm? We
have 80 per cent population still residing in villages. Why these doctors are
not going there? During my 20 years of service, I had organised 10 health camps
per year in remote areas and was really disturbed to see how poor people suffer
due to lack of drinking water facilities," he rued.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


