                              187 of 997 DOCUMENTS

          Copyright (c) 2012 Loyola University Chicago School of Law,
                  Beazley Institute for Health Law and Policy
                              Annals of Health Law

                          ASLME Special Edition, 2012

                              Annals of Health Law

                             21 Ann. Health L. 181

LENGTH: 4967 words

ARTICLE: Institutional Ethics Committees: Should We Kill All the Lawyers? The
Role of Lawyers on Hospital Ethics Committees

NAME: Joanna K. Weinberg, J.D., LL.M*

BIO: * Senior Lecturer in Law, Center for State and Local Government Law,
University of California Hastings College of the Law. Adjunct Professor of Law,
Health Policy and Ethics, Institute for Health and Aging, University of
California San Francisco.

TEXT:
 [*181]

   I. Introduction

 Lawyers who serve on hospital ethics committees frequently find themselves
wondering what precisely the role of law is in resolving ethical dilemmas, how
law affects the functioning of hospital ethics committees, and what non-lawyer
colleagues on these committees think lawyers ought to be doing.

   This article explores the role of lawyers on institutional ethics committees,
and whether the presence of lawyers on institutional ethics committees affects
the form or content of the committee's discourse or activities. This question,
of course, immediately raises several normative questions: what is the purpose
of institutional ethics committees, what do they do, where did they come from,
and who selects the members?

   The idea of asking a group of people not directly involved with a patient's
care to advise the patient's physicians about ethical issues is a very recent
phenomenon and is still in its adolescence. n1 But it is an awkward adolescence,
without clear rules or direction. The "accepted wisdom" is that institutional
ethics committees were established for the purpose of assisting physicians in
resolving complicated ethical problems involving the care and treatment of
patients within the healthcare institution. n2 Their decisions are, for the most
part advisory. But despite the endorsement of the formal medical establishment,
n3 they are frequently not welcomed within  [*182]  their own facilities. It is
not clear why institutional ethics committees have evolved the way they have, as
quasi-professional bodies composed chiefly of medically oriented members. An
early example suggests what "might have been."

   II. The "Birth of Bioethics": The Seattle Swedish Hospital "God Committee"

 In 1961, Seattle Swedish Hospital's Artificial Kidney Center formed a
proto-ethics committee, an Admissions and Policy Committee, to assist the
medical staff make recommendations as to which patients should receive a
then-new form of kidney dialysis which greatly expanded the number of patients
who could benefit from receiving hemodialysis, far beyond the limited capacity
of the hospital's center. The hospital created the committee in part to protect
doctors from having to make these decisions about their own patients.

   The committee, later termed the "God Committee," was composed of seven lay
members - a lawyer, a minister, a housewife, a state government official, a
banker, a labor leader, and a surgeon who served as a "doctor-citizen". It met
every two weeks for four years. Journalist Shana Alexander received permission
to attend some of the Committee's meetings and discussed their debates in a 1962
Life magazine article. n4 She said of the Committee "these seven citizens are in
fact a Life or Death Committee. With no moral or ethical guidelines save their
own individual consciences, they must decide, in the words of the Hebrew prayer,
"Who shall live and who shall die; who shall attain the measure of man's days
and who shall not attain it; who shall be at ease and who shall be afflicted.'
They do not much like the job." n5

   At the outset the Committee had to decide whether it should accept the
recommendation of the kidney doctors at the hospital, that patients over
forty-five and children should be excluded on the grounds that they were most
likely to suffer other health problems that could compromise their dialysis -
the committee did. Ultimately, the committee created its own list of criteria,
an extensive list based upon age, sex, marital status and number of dependents,
income, net worth, emotional stability, educational  [*183]  background,
occupation, past history and future potential, and names of people who could
serve as references. The Committee also limited eligibility to residents of
Washington State. Subsequent analysis of the Committee's selections over the
four years showed that those with the best chance for acceptance by the
committee were white middle aged, middle class men, not surprising since all
members of the committee were middle class white men, with the exception of the
"housewife" (who was married to a middle class white man).

   The Committee struggled with how to determine the standards that should be
employed in making its decisions.



   HOUSEWIFE: If we are still looking for the men with the highest potential of
service to society, I think we must consider that the chemist and the accountant
have the finest educational backgrounds of all five candidates.



LAWYER: Both these men have made provisions so that their deaths will not force
their families to become a burden on society.



SURGEON: How do the rest of you feel about Number Three - the small businessman
with three children? I am impressed that his doctor took special pains to
mention that this man is active in church work. This is an indication to me of
character and moral strength.



HOUSEWIFE: Which certainly would help him conform to the demands of the
treatment ... .



LAWYER: It would also help him endure a lingering death ... .



STATE OFFICIAL: But that would seem to be placing a penalty on the very people
who have perhaps been most provident ... .



MINISTER: And both of these men have children too.



LABOR LEADER: For the children's sake, we've got to reckon with the surviving
parents opportunity to remarry, and a woman with three children has a better
chance to find a new husband than a very young widow with six children. n6

 This is only a small fragment of the committee's deliberations, but it is
unnerving. What was the committee's charge? Were they presented with a clear
definition of ethical decision-making, or were they simply told to devise their
own standards for determining eligibility? Were their recommendations advisory
or determinative; in effect, did they have the authority of a jury? Was the
patient or family involved in the committee's deliberations, and was there an
opportunity for the patient or family to appeal the committee's decision, or to
present evidence? Finally, it seems clear that only patients who had traditional
support systems were considered; there were no patients who might need
assistance from  [*184]  surrogate or any form of long term care in order to
continue their dialysis treatments.

   What was the lawyer's role on this committee? He didn't "act like a lawyer;"
he didn't raise issues one would expect a lawyer to raise. In fact, his comments
might be said to have violated a lawyer's obligations as an officer of the
courts, except that in this case the committee debates appear to have been more
those like of a jury - confidential, only made public following the "verdict,"
due to the presence of a reporter.

   The Life magazine article spawned an NBC television documentary, which
highlighted the stories of some of the successful recipients. n7 A small town in
Washington raised $ 30,000 for a young milkman. The "Bucks for Buddy" campaign
included pancake breakfasts, bake sales, and a radio announcer's daily pitches
for support. Another recipient, after discussing his dialysis, was asked if he
knew what happened to the other applicants for the kidney machine. He replied,
""Only two of us were accepted... . I don't know why [the others were rejected]
- either for medical reasons or psychological reasons or [they] just didn't have
the $ 30,000.'" n8 When asked if he knew what happened to the others, he
replied, "They're dead." n9

   The "God Committee" has been disparaged; it was not really an ethics
committee, but a rationing committee of laypersons, using social worth criteria
to make its decisions. However, the outcome of the Seattle affair was not an
immediate shift to institutional ethics committees, at least not with respect to
disputes about end-of-life care and distribution of scarce medical resources.
The outcome was a shift to rationing under a different guise. Perhaps in
response to the negative reaction of the public, discussions about dialysis
moved inside the institution to become less visible, often only among
physicians, excluded laypersons (and lawyers) and became less specific about the
process of and reasons for their decisions. n10 The facilities still considered
personal details, but these became part of the medical judgment. The
economically disadvantaged and those with an "unsavory" past were not considered
a good risk for dialysis because they did not have the emotional support of
stable families. Subsequent allocation methods included administration of IQ,
personality, and vocational tests; lotteries (from a medically acceptable pool),
and first-come first-served, premised upon the utilitarian principle of
"maximizing outcome". n11

   The "God Committee" has frequently been cited as the case that led to  [*185]
the "birth" of ethics committees. It is also set off a chain of events that led
to a significant advance in health law. The 1972 amendments to the Social
Security Act created the End State Renal Disease Program, ending the need for
decisions about allocation of dialysis technology and making dialysis
universally available under Medicare, without consideration as to age, income or
medical condition. n12

   With respect to the "birth" of "bioethics" and ethics committees, the credit
falls somewhere between law, medicine and philosophy. Albert Jonsen suggests
that it does not much matter, "whether [the] birthday [of ethics committees] was
November 9, 1962, the date of the Life article about the Seattle committee, or
June 16, 1966, the day [Henry] Beecher's article on the ethics of research
appeared in the [New England Journal of Medicine], or March, 31 1976, when the
New Jersey Supreme Court rendered its decision In the Matter of Karen Ann
Quinlan, all these events pushed medical ethics out of its past into its
future." n13 Nor does it matter whether bioethics was conceived "in the
inspiration that struck Dan Callahan and Will Gaylin in 1969 to start The
Hastings Center and, almost simultaneously, struck Andre Hellegers to start the
Kennedy Institute for Bioethics in Georgetown, the ideas for bioethics were
waiting to be heard." n14

   III. From Rationing Committees to Ethics Committees - Not a Great Leap

 However, many people consider the New Jersey Supreme Court's decision in In re
Quinlan to have given institutional ethics committees an official stamp of
approval. Ethics committees began to move into the mainstream following that
court's opinion. Quinlan involved a father's request to remove his daughter from
life support, a young women whom all physicians agreed was in a permanent
vegetative state following a drug overdose. The court held that Quinlan's father
had the right to act as her surrogate decision maker and to direct the actions
of her physicians. In its opinion, the court noted the years of contentious
litigation and expressed its frustration at the lengthy adversarial process. It
was "impossibly cumbersome" for the courts to be involved in patient care
decision making, said the court, suggesting that an ethics committee within the
health facility would more effectively and knowledgeably act as an alternative
to the more  [*186]  traditional probate court process. n15

   The Quinlan court recognized the failure of the adversarial process in
ethical disputes over patient care. As courts often do, it is likely that the
Quinlan court picked up on a nascent trend in medical society, a frustration
with increasing disputes over medical decision-making, and the emergence of the
field of medical ethics (the seminal work on the topic is The Principles of
Biomedical Ethics n16 by Thomas Beauchamp and James Childress). As a result,
institutional ethics committees have become nearly universal since Quinlan, and
are now required by a number of official bodies. n17 The only membership
requirement is diversity; members must come from a variety of disciplines and
theoretical backgrounds, and must be representative of the local community. n18

   In 1998, over ninety percent of U.S. hospitals had ethics committees,
compared to just one percent in 1983. n19 In many institutions, physicians have
been unenthusiastic about the presence of ethics committees. n20 However, the
American Medical Association Code of Ethics suggests that "preferably, a
majority of the committee should consist of physicians, nurses, and other health
care providers," n21 and this is how most institutional ethics committees are
composed at present, with most additional members also drawn from the facility -
social workers, chaplains, and occasionally institution administrators.

   Institutional ethics committees' duties have also evolved. Initially their
duties primarily involved clinical consultation, advising treating physicians
and families about treatment options and assisting in resolving disputes over
patient treatment and care. Gradually they began to take on a policy function as
well; to review and draft institutional policies that touch on issues of ethics,
and more recently, to provide training in core ethics competencies to
institutional committee members. n22 However, they struggle with somewhat
incompatible goals - to make the process of consultation and consideration of
ethical issues less adversarial and to bring tough  [*187]  decisions into the
open.

   IV. The Role of Lawyers

 Lawyers have been members of institutional ethics committees from the
beginning, although only a minority of institutional ethics committees has a
lawyer as a member. Most are appointed as community members, although
occasionally legal representatives of the institution or risk managers are
members.

   Despite the history, the role of law and lawyers on ethics committees has
been controversial. Do (or should) lawyers bring a particular expertise to
ethics committees, or should they behave like the lawyer on the Seattle "God
Committee" - like just another member of the community? What role should lawyers
play in the training of institutional ethics committee members?

   For example, consider the following hypothetical dilemma. An institutional
ethics committee in a community hospital was asked to give an advisory opinion
about an experimental in vitro fertilization procedure proposed by a
physician-owner of a local fertility clinic. The physician did not request the
participation of the hospital; he simply wanted the input of the ethics
committee as to what ethical issues he could expect. However, the description of
the project was framed as a "proposal." The committee was composed of various
members of the hospital staff including physicians, nurses, and a social worker,
three community members, including a lawyer, and was chaired by two staff
members - a physician and a hospital chaplain. It also had a paid ethics
consultant. Prior to the meeting, the ethics consultant distributed a lengthy
analysis of the fertility physician's proposal. The committee engaged in a
lengthy discussion of the ethical issues, led by the ethics consultant, but the
lawyer felt that there were significant legal issues as well, and wished to
include those in the discussion.

   What should the outcome be? The ethics consultant felt the purpose of the
discussion was solely to address the ethical issues, and that the legal issues
would divert attention from the serious ethical concerns. The lawyer felt that
the committee needed to have all of the relevant information, legal as well as
ethical, in order to address the issue in a coherent way.

   This highlights a key conflict over how institutional ethics committees view
their role in clinical ethics consultation - one that is exclusively ethical,
regardless of individual members' disciplinary training, or one that draws on
committee members' individual expertise as contributors to an ethical discourse
and seeks multidisciplinary perspectives.

   The emergence of professional bioethicists and ethics consultants have raised
the bar for what constitutes training, as has the report defining the  [*188]
Core Competencies for Health Care Ethics Consultation, initially adopted by the
Association for Bioethics and Humanities in 2008 and revised in 2010. n23 The
focus on core competencies shifted the direction of institutional ethics
committee discourse in the direction of requiring that all members have formal
training in ethics consultation. To its credit, the report does not take a
position on whether professionally trained bioethics consultants, or
institutional ethics committees should perform ethics consultations. n24

   The report defines the nature and goals of ethics consultation, the types of
skills, knowledge and character traits important for conducting ethics
consultations, and the special obligations of consultants. n25 Individuals
engaged in healthcare ethics consultation ("HCEC") should be able to access,
critically evaluate, and use relevant knowledge in the following concepts:



   . Moral reasoning and ethical theory as it relates to HCEC



. Common bioethical issues and concepts that typically emerge in HCEC



. Health care systems



. Clinical context as it relates to HCEC



. The local health care institution in which the consultant (or committee
member) works



. The local health care institution's policies relevant for HCEC



. The beliefs and practices of the local patient and staff population



. The relevant codes of ethics and professional conduct and guidelines of
accrediting organizations; and



. Relevant health care law. n26

 There is little doubt that all, or at least most, institutional ethics
committee members should have an effective grasp of the concepts contained in
items two through eight. It is also likely that most institutional staff that
serves on committees should receive basic training in these concepts, although
many of them will already have a basic understanding. It is less clear whether
the more esoteric concepts of moral reasoning and ethical theory require
precise, explicit training, or whether patients and physicians may be better
served when institutional committee members contribute the moral principles and
ethical perspectives of their own  [*189]  disciplines.

   Looking at the three key functions of institutional ethics committees -
clinical consultation, bioethics education, and policy development, lawyers have
been involved in institutional policy development ever since institutions began
to develop policies, since policies are generally reviewed by institutional
legal staff before final approval. But does it make sense for lawyers to
participate in policy-making or advising on policy through their participation
on institutional ethics committees as well? All policies should comply with
legal requirements relating to the topic under consideration, especially since
many issues involve legislation, regulations, or official policies. If an
institutional ethics committee is asked to assist the institution in drafting an
institutional policy, for example a Physician Order for Life Sustaining
Treatment ("POLST") form, what should be the role of a lawyer-member of the
ethics committee? Institutional policies are generally reviewed by institution
administration, often including an institution attorney, before final approval.
What does the committee lawyer-member contribute that is different? Consider the
other two functions of the institutional ethics committee - ethics consultation,
and staff, and now, committee education. With respect to all three ethics
committee functions, the lawyer-member can provide the basic knowledge of the
law - one of the Core Competencies relevant to bioethics consultation (e.g.,
end-of life decision making, competency, informed consent, privacy). n27
Non-lawyers can acquire general legal knowledge; however, the lawyer-member has
the advantage of recognizing that the law in its "black letter" context may
interpret similar concepts differently. n28 Lawyers can explain how legal
concerns might impact ethical analyses, not just "black-letter" law, but legal
perspectives of ethical issues such as informed consent, confidentiality, and
futility. The expanded framework can provide the committee with useful tools for
ethical analysis. n29

   This argument frames the discourse in favor of including lawyers as community
members on institutional ethics committees, and it suggests that it may not be
wise to delegate all training of members of committee members to bioethics
consultants, or to turn over all ethics consultation to professional ethics
consultants. (Lawyers employed by the institution have different interests
altogether).

   The core competencies explicitly include education in relevant health care
law as one of the competencies. Who should provide this education? Perhaps it is
sufficient if some members of the committee (whether or not a  [*190]  lawyer)
take on this role. Or should only lawyers (whether committee members or not) be
the "educator" whose role is to "teach" the non-lawyer members about the law and
the legal issues involved in ethical decision-making? And it adds a further
question - what should be the content of legal training?

   The ethical principles of the Beauchamp and Childress trope are autonomy,
nonmaleficence, beneficence, and justice. n30 The concept of "justice," for
bioethicists, does not always mean due process for the patient, as that might
create an adversarial relationship between patient and provider. n31 However,
the point in the article cited above is not that the conflicting interpretations
of due process (legal and ethical) are adversarial or that legal "due process"
is not a "lawyerly enemy of the physician." The point is that legal and ethical
due process, if it were possible to marry the two, are a tool to guarantee that
the patient is heard. n32

   V. Conclusion

 The above discussion suggests that lawyers are appointed to ethics committees
to temper and to balance the tone of ethical discussions. Looking closely at the
issues that ethics committees are struggling with today, ethical issues in
health care have gradually been re-defined as legal issues. However, who is
doing the defining? Does this make it easier or more difficult to make decisions
about these controversies? And are these things that can be taught to
non-lawyers? These questions affect both the design and functioning of ethics
committees, as well how and who should train ethics committee members.

   Institutional ethics committees have taken on a more significant role in the
functioning of institutions since Quinlan, and have expanded to include, in
addition to patient consultation, education - of institution staff and committee
members, and institution policy development. Consultations are now a key
component of bioethical issues in patient care, and the the Core Competencies
have codified most of the skills necessary for a "good" ethicist." But not
enough is known about what legal skills, or legal knowledge, are necessary,
whether the skills can be taught, or whether a lawyer-ethicist can provide the
training "on-site"? That is an issue crying out for research. In any event, the
role of lawyers, still developing, will become more relevant, clear and
important; ideally it will not be long before the "good" lawyer-ethicist will
become widely accepted as an integral member of institutional ethics committees.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawTreatmentEnd-of-Life DecisionsLife SupportLegal EthicsGeneral
OverviewPublic Health & Welfare LawHealthcareGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Susan M. Wolf, Ethics Committees and Due Process: Nesting Rights in a
Community of Caring, 50 Md. L. Rev. 798 (1991).





n2.  American Med. Ass'n, Code of Medical Ethics, Opinion 9.11 - Ethics
Committees in Health Care Institutions (2010-2011), available at
http://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/physician-resources/medical-ethics/code-medical-
ethics/opinion911.page.





n3.  See, e.g., Sharon E. Caulfield, Health Care Facility Ethics Committees New
Issues In The Age Of Transparency, Hum. Rts., Fall 2007, at 10, 10 (citing the
1992 mandate of the Joint Commission - then the Joint Commission for the
Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations ("JCAHO") - that healthcare facilities
should have in place a mechanism for the consideration of ethical issues that
arise in the course of patient care).





n4.  Shana Alexander, Thirty Years Ago, Hastings Ctr. Rep., Nov./Dec. 1993, at
S5.





n5.  Shana Alexander, They Decide Who Lives, Who Dies, Kidney Times (Mar. 2011),
http://kidneytimes.com/article_ print.php?id=20110304143111.





n6.  Id.





n7.  Sally T. Sanford, What Scribner Wrought, 13 Rich. J.L. & Pub. Int.337, 344
(2010).





n8.  Id. at 345.





n9.  Id.





n10.  Sally L. Satel & Benjamin E. Hippen, When Altruism Is Not Enough: The
Worsening Organ Shortage and What it Means for the Elderly, 15 Elder L.J. 153,
171 (2007).





n11.  Id.





n12.  Social Security Amendment of 1972, Pub. L. No. 92-603, § 299I (1972).





n13.  Albert R. Jonsen, The Birth of Bioethics, Hastings Ctr. Rep., Nov./Dec.,
1993, at S1, S3 (citing Henry Beecher, Special Article, Ethics and Clinical
Research, N.Eng. J. Med., 24; 274, 1354-1360)





n14.  Id.





n15.  In re Quinlan, 355 A.2d 647 (N.J. 1976).





n16.  Thomas Beauchamp & James Childress, The Principles of Biomedical Ethics
(Oxford Univ. Press 2008) (1979).





n17.  Pat Milmoe McCarrick, Ethics Committees in Hospitals 1-2 (1992), available
at http://bioethics.georgetown.edu/publications/scopenotes/sn3.pdf.





n18.  JCAHO, Comprehensive Accreditation Manual for Hospitals 104 (1992).





n19.  Glenn McGhee et al., A National Study of Ethics Committees, Am. J.
Bioethics, Fall 2011, at 60, 62.





n20.  Bernard Lo, Behind Closed Doors: Promises and Pitfalls of Ethics
Committees, 317 N. Eng. J. Med. 46 (1987) ("The committee may feel attacked by
various groups [including] attending physicians who fear that their power is
being usurped.").





n21.  American Med. Ass'n, supra note 2.





n22.  McGhee et al, supra note 19, at 60.





n23.  Am. Soc'y For Bioethics & Humanities, Core Competencies For Health Care
Ethics Consultation (2010).





n24.  Frederick Adolf Paola, Law, Humanities and Equipoise in the Education of
Physicians Assistants, Internet J. Allied Health Sci. & Prac., Apr. 2006, at 1,
2, http://ijahsp.nova.edu/articles/vol4num2/paola.pdf.





n25.  Am. Soc'y for Bioethics & Humanities, supra note 23, at 22-33.





n26.  Id. at 27.





n27.  Id.





n28.  Amy L. McGuire et al., The Ethics of Lawyer-Ethicists, 33 J.L. Med &
Ethics 603, 605 (2005).





n29.  Id.





n30.  See, e.g., Beauchamp & Childress, supra note 16.





n31.  Wolf, supra note 1, at 858.





n32.  Id. at 806.


