                              193 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Patients here happy to donate tissue for research;
Consent rate has increased as NUH gets doctors to explain to patients how the
samples will help to cure diseases

                            November 15, 2002 Friday

Chang Ai-Lien


WHEN patients at the National University Hospital were first given a new consent
form early this year asking them to donate some of their surplus tissue from
operations to research, half of them said 'no'.

But all that changed when doctors started speaking to patients personally to
explain the importance of such research in helping to cure diseases, reassuring
them that their welfare came first, and of the steps taken to ensure patient
confidentiality.

They were also given information brochures, as well as the option of withdrawing
their consent at any time.

Now, eight in 10 people are happy to give this gift to science.

Said Associate Professor Lee Kok Onn, chairman of the hospital's institutional
review board: 'Once they overcame their initial suspicion, the attitude was that
as the excess tissue was useless to them and would be otherwise thrown away, why
not use it to help other people with their disease in future?'

Where possible, a different doctor than the one treating the patient makes the
request, so that there is no misconception that the patient will get better
treatment if he donates his tissue, added Prof Lee.

The hospital was one of the first institutions here to put in place a formal
system for getting tissue samples from patients specifically for research.

In many developed countries, including Britain, consent is implied and there is
no formal written consent, which means that samples for research are taken from
tissue left over from operations.

This is changing, as countries all over the world grapple with ethical issues in
the wake of the new life sciences, where genetic details can predict a person's
chances of getting a disease, and insurance companies can refuse cover or charge
higher premiums based on such information.

In the United States, some hospitals have begun asking for consent to use
patients' tissue samples of say, tumours or skin, if they are needed for
research.

Singapore is the first country in the world to come up with a focused national
effort to spell out the ethical and legal issues in the field.

This is through the efforts of the Bioethics Advisory Committee, which on
Tuesday released ethical and legal guidelines governing the collection, storage
and use of tissue samples for research, placing strong emphasis on patient
consent and confidentiality.

Hospitals and institutions here, working under their own ethical bodies, have
been collecting these samples for decades.

As early as the 1960s, several people agreed to donate their brains to science
after they died, to help teach medical students about blood circulation and
stroke.

There was no formal procedure although, sometimes, doctors and researchers did
get consent for specific studies, said Prof Lee.

The National University Hospital (NUH) review board, comprising doctors,
lawyers, nurses, members of the public, religious professionals, a social worker
and a bio-statistician, said that its new guidelines are in line with the
national approach.

'We're still working out what the best way to go about collecting tissue is...
As science moves forward, things may change,' added Prof Lee.

The process of collecting tissue for research at NUH is now separate from that
of agreeing to, say, an operation, with patients signing separate consent forms
for each.

The hospital has a comprehensive electronic tracking system to keep tabs on each
tissue sample donated to research, which means that the sample can be withdrawn
from the bank if the patient changes his mind later on.

NUH is working with the Singapore Tissue Network - a national bank - to build up
Singapore's store of healthy and diseased human tissue.

SAMPLES: Preserved at -80 deg C

IN THE past, tissue banks here, which have collected thousands of samples over
the decades, have been built up largely as a by-product of operations and other
diagnostic procedures, said Professor Yap Hui Kim, vice-dean of research at the
National University of Singapore's medicine faculty. Only about 30 per cent are
useful in the quest to understand and find cures for diseases, she added.

But as part of Singapore's efforts to boost the biomedical sciences, stores of
tissue specifically for research are being set up here, including the Singapore
Tissue Network, a national bank for healthy and diseased human tissue which aims
to help researchers find cures for diseases such as cancer.

When storing tissue for research, small pieces of tumours, for example, are
placed in individual containers which are flash-frozen in liquid nitrogen or
kept at a temperature of minus 80 deg C.

While it is more expensive to store samples this way, it is the best method of
preserving the cell and researchers can look at the intact proteins in them.

Tissue samples taken as part of the patient's medical records are generally kept
indefinitely. Many of these have been preserved in paraffin wax blocks, which
can be kept at room temperature.

While not so suitable for research, these can still be useful in sifting out
certain DNA sequences in some cases, said Prof Yap.

SECTION: TECH & SCIENCE

LENGTH: 848 words

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Singapore Press Holdings Limited


