                              191 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                               May 5, 1980 Monday

Drug sales effort indicated competition

BYLINE: Dan Westell; GAM

LENGTH: 522 words

DATELINE: Toronto ON


The pharmaceutical companies' attempts to sell ethical or prescription
 drugs may be the most promotion-intensive sales effort of any Canadian
 industry.

Total promotion and marketing expenditure of $154.2-million in 1978
 represented 21.5 per cent of sales of $717.4-million, although the selling
 cost was down from the 30 per cent of sales in 1964, according to
 statistics collected by the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association of
 Canada.

Each one of the 117 pharmaceutical companies in the ethical or
 prescription market spent an average of $15.53 on each of the 61,970
 physicians, dentists and health care workers who are the target audience
 for ethical drug promotions.

The companies spent an average of $1,817 on each worker. Assuming
 physicians, the bull's-eye in the advertising target, bore the brunt of
 the attack alone, each one was the beneficiary of $2,905 of promotion
 expenditure.

Advertising, largely through professional journals, accounted for $20-
 million, field selling (the "detail men" who do the rounds of physicians'
 offices distributing literature and free samples) for $70-million, samples
 for $13.6-million, and administration and other costs for slightly more
 than $50-million.

The promotion effort indicates the competitive nature of the business
 but it also shows the importance of reaching the health care
 professionals, particularly doctors, who actually make decisions on what
 drug the patient will use.

For the doctor struggling to keep pace with rapid developments in all
 areas of medicine, advertising often is a cheap way to follow developments
 in the pharmaceutical field.

If repeated promotion can convince some doctors to prescribe a brand
 name product rather than a generic or a similar but less well promoted
 brand, regardless of price, the advertising has been effective.

Leslie Dan, president of Novopharm Ltd. of Toronto and co-chairman of
 the Canadian Drug Manufacturers Association, said promotion in the
 hospitals is also very effective because doctors are attached to hospitals
 and frequently "develop the habit of prescribing that product (used in the
 hospital)."
    There are, however, instances where promotion is wasted. In
 Saskatchewan, the provincial Government requires the companies to tender
 for contracts to supply drugs and will choose to buy the cheapest if the
 competing drugs produce the same medical effect.

In some other provinces, under drug insurance plans the dispensing
 pharmacist is required to substitute the cheapest drug regardless of the
 doctor's prescription based on a list of equivalents developed by
 government research.

Drug promotion also spills over into some controversial areas of
 medical practice, including the whole "give 'em a pill" approach to
 medical services and the possible dangers of frequently prescribed drugs,
 such as the common tranquilizer Valium.

The use of drugs is one of the indirect messages of the promotion
 material, but the position of those questioning parts of ethical drug use
 has recently been strengthened by a World Health Organization report,
 which says only 200 of the 2,000 drugs currently marketed are
 indispensible for health care.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1980 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


