                              190 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday

Front: Leading doctors raise alarm over delays to medical trials: Britain could
be left unprepared for outbreak of infectious disease

BYLINE: Ian Sample, Science correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words


A major outbreak of infectious disease could sweep through the country and leave
thousands dead or ill because hospitals cannot test life-saving treatments
quickly enough, senior doctors have told the Guardian.

Profound delays in the approvals process for clinical trials mean doctors face
months of form-filling and administrative checks that make it impossible to run
crucial tests in good time, said Jeremy Farrar, in his first major interview as
director of the Wellcome Trust.

Farrar, a world expert on infectious diseases at Oxford University, has taken
over from Sir Mark Walport, who left the medical charity to become the
government's chief science adviser.

Farrar's warning is backed by other senior figures including Sir Michael
Rawlins, president of the Royal Society of Medicine, and Prof Peter Openshaw,
who advised the government during the pandemic flu outbreak in 2009.

Farrar said the unwieldy system puts public health at risk, particularly when
pandemic flu and other infectious diseases strike, because doctors have no idea
which interventions work. "The systems we have got in place are not fit for
purpose when the situation is moving quickly," said Farrar. "We have nothing
that enables us to respond in real time."

The Department of Health yesterday approved proposals from the Health Research
Authority to streamline clinical trials, but some leading experts argue that far
more work is needed within the NHS to fast-track trials in an emergency.

An emerging infection such as bird flu, Sars or pandemic influenza could spread
across Britain and burn itself out within the space of eight weeks.

But doctors hoping to test drugs or other interventions in patients can face
delays of more than a year before they can recruit a single case.

The delays mean that doctors have almost no hope of learning which treatments
might save lives during an outbreak because patients will have recovered or died
before a trial can start.

Farrar said the system needed a radical overhaul so emergency trials could
launch within 24 hours of an epidemic emerging. "Getting this information early
on is critical to inform what we do and how we treat patients. Without it we are
completely in the dark," he said.

Pandemic influenza is considered the most serious civil emergency risk that
Britain faces, but other infections, such as novel coronaviruses and the
alarming rise of drug-resistant pathogens, are also a serious threat. Clinical
trials need formal approval from the NHS and other bodies before doctors can
recruit patients, but the process is held up at almost every stage. Researchers
must apply for grants, submit study protocols and patient consent forms, gain
ethical approval, find hospitals with the right facilities, equipment, supplies,
staff and patients, and then sign legal contracts with them all. The process is
necessarily thorough to protect patients and hospitals from litigation. Trials
can go spectacularly wrong, as happened in 2006 when six young men were nearly
killed by an experimental drug in a trial at Northwick Park hospital in north
London.

The 2002 Sars pandemic killed 774 people and infected more than 8,000. Had the
virus not been contained it could have killed far more. The reason the death
toll was not higher was that patients were most infectious when they were most
sick, so isolating the ill stopped the virus spreading. "There is no doubt we
were very lucky with Sars," said Farrar. "But nobody knows where it has gone and
we don't have a vaccine. If it were to come back tomorrow and I got infected,
the doctor treating me wouldn't have a clue which drug, if any, to give me."

Without hard evidence, the government's preparedness rests on educated guesses.
The Department of Health spent £424m stockpiling Tamiflu (oseltamivir) for a flu
pandemic. But the lack of trials in sick patients means doctors disagree on how
well the drug works.

A 2011 report from the Academy of Medical Sciences (AMS) raised major concerns
about delays to clinical trials. The report quoted Cancer Research UK data that
found the typical time taken to launch a trial and treat the first patient was a
staggering 621 days. The bulk of that time was spent obtaining NHS approval. The
time has come down since, to around 18 months, but has not improved much in the
past year or so.

Sir Michael Rawlins, president of the Royal Society of Medicine, who chaired the
report, said progress was disappointing. "It's going in the right direction, but
it's painfully slow," he said.

The Health Research Authority was set up in response to the AMS report and
charged with streamlining approval times. It has already cut delays that held up
ethical approval. One change was to hold weekly meetings of ethical committees
to consider and approve trials submitted in the days beforehand, and a system
for convening ethical committees virtually when a trial is urgent. One trial to
look at the effect of a vaccine in pandemic influenza received ethical approval
in two days.

But the major delays are not with ethical approval, but sign-off from the NHS
centres that host trials. It is here that the HRA proposals aim to make their
greatest impact. Instead of individual NHS hospitals duplicating each other's
work by independently reviewing, querying and finally approving a trial, the HRA
will act as a central authority, giving a single sign-off for all participating
hospitals.

Relieved of that workload, hospitals can focus on the practicalities, such as
obtaining trial drugs and making sure patients are enrolled. If the health
department agrees to the plans, a simple trial could be approved within 25 days.

"We will give researchers a lot more confidence that the NHS can respond if the
HRA is doing the greater part of the approving," said Janet Wisely, chief
executive of the HRA.

She said that ultimately, they should be able to approve emergency trials within
24 hours. "If you are intending to treat someone in a 24-hour timeframe then
research should match that. It's a challenge, but it's what we should aim for,"
she said.

Farrar wants more trials pre-approved so that doctors can start emergency tests
in patients the moment an outbreak is identified. "We need generic protocols
which have been pre-approved by ethics committees and institutions at a national
level. All the information, from what samples to take to the forms we'd record
patient data on, would be openly available. Then, in an emergency, a group that
has worked on the top three or four interventions can start enrolling patients
within 24 hours," he said. "There are groups trying to address this, but it's
nowhere near there yet."

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


