                              196 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                            September 9, 2011 Friday

Big dollars, little sense

BYLINE: Erika Stutzman

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 541 words


Our for-profit health care world, some of which will be partially addressed by
the Affordable Care Act, continues to produce some jaw-dropping numbers.

To be sure, no system is perfect when it comes to major money, insurance and
health care -- there are a lot of moving parts. But when there are clear costly
or ethical problems that arise from the mere promise that some individuals could
enrich themselves at a cost to the system as a whole, they should be addressed.





 Infertility treatments are big business. Concerns have arisen over the sharp
rise in multiple births from doctors who implant more than one embryo --
sometimes several, in one famous case as many as 12 -- in the hopes that their
success rate will increase. Success rates in this field are virtually a license
to print money, at a high ethical cost.



 Sperm banks with very successful donors also increase their odds. As many as
60,000 babies are born using sperm banks in America, which unlike several other
countries does not limit how many children can be fathered by one donor.
Motivated by a lucrative trade, a clear ethical breach has occurred: A story in
the New York Times this week uncovered sperm donors who have fathered 70, even
150, children. It increases the chance that rare genetic diseases could spread
through a population, and increases the chances of accidental incest between
half siblings, which can also lead to dangerous health conditions.



 Drug companies pay thousands of dollars -- sometimes hundreds of thousands --
to physicians, a multi-million dollar business designed to earn them billions
from patients. Some are no doubt for needed research and education, but results
in some serious ethical concerns. The Denver Post reported Thursday that the
ethics board at the University of Colorado School of Medicine has rejected more
than a third of contracts it found questionable since it took over approving the
deals on June 1.



 We have, by far, the most costly health care system in the world. GOP
candidates for president continue to enthusiastically promise the repeal of the
Affordable Care Act, but for what? The status quo? Despite our spending,
neonatal deaths here put American babies at 41st in the world in terms of infant
mortality, behind Cuba, Slovakia, Croatia and all of Western Europe and
Scandinavia, according to the World Health Organization.



 A new study by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services shows that at
any given time, one in 20 hospital patients has a hospital-acquired infection.
The death toll on those is an estimated 99,000 per year, and an unnecessary $33
billion price tag. A study that included routine, cheap interventions -- from
hospital workers washing hands to brushing the teeth of patients on ventilators
-- had patients released from the hospital an average of two days earlier, and
hospital bills that were an average of $12,000 less.



 And then there are the administrative costs our current system requires: The
August issue of the journal Health Affairs, found that per-physician
administrative costs in the United States averaged $82,975 annually, while
Ontario-based physicians averaged $22,205. This is the system some promise they
will retain?



 -- Erika Stutzman, for

 the Camera editorial board

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Prairie Mountain Publishing
                              All Rights Reserved


