                              198 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            April 28, 2016 Thursday

Catholic Church's influence over Irish hospital medicine persists;
Doctors at St Vincent's must sign pledge to adhereto hospital ethos

BYLINE: Claire Hogan

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 675 words


The Institute of Obstetricians has expressed concern that St Vincent's hospital,
which is owned by the Religious Sisters of Charity, will govern the National
Maternity Hospital when it transfers to the St Vincent's campus. Chairman Dr
Peter Boylan stated that "Catholic-controlled hospitals around the world forbid
the provision of modern contraceptive services, IVF, sterilisation operations
and gender reassignment surgery", and also expressed concern about the
implementation of the Protection of Life in Pregnancy Act.

Despite a common perception of secularisation, many modern Irish hospitals are
still run according to Catholic mores. The running of the Irish health service
was largely undertaken by religious orders in the past. Orders of nuns were
responsible for the setting up of many of Ireland's hospitals in the 19th and
20th centuries.

In 1978, the then archbishop of Dublin, Dr Dermot Ryan, asked all Catholic
hospitals to set up ethical committees which would "set out clearly ethical
policy, both for the day to day running of the hospital and for the problem
cases".

This request was accompanied by an ethical code which stated: "The concern of
the hospital for the good of the patient is not confined to his bodily and
mental welfare but extends to the spiritual wellbeing which is inseparably
connected with bodily and mental welfare." The 1980s marked a difficult period
between church and State on the issue of negotiation of the "common contract"
pursuant to which the State was established as the employer of hospital
consultants, including those working in Catholic voluntary hospitals.

 Bind doctors

These hospitals were concerned that the contract did not bind doctors to a
Catholic ethos. In later years, there followed a change in ownership of some of
the voluntary hospitals. Nonetheless, the influence of religious orders was
preserved. For example, in 2001 the Sisters of Mercy sold the Mater hospital to
the State with the contingency that its Catholic ethos, first espoused by the
order's founder Catherine McAuley, be retained.

The mission of St Vincent's is described as being: "To bring the healing love of
Christ to all we serve." The first core value is "human dignity respecting the
sacredness of human life and the dignity and uniqueness of each person".

Nuns are on the board of directors and doctors must sign contracts promising
adherence to the ethos of the hospital.

There are myriad ways in which the law of the State has reflected and continues
to reflect Catholic thinking on certain reproductive/life issues, such as the
constitutional ban on abortion and the fact that Ireland was the last country in
Europe to legalise the sale of modern contraception. However, hospital treatment
which goes beyond the dictates of the law is also relevant. Both the Mater and
St Vincent's prohibit female sterilisation, a standard procedure which is not
illegal, and is carried out in non-Catholic-run institutions, as well as other
treatment centres. In the 2006 Lourdes hospital inquiry report, Judge Maureen
Harding Clark highlighted that the "prohibition on sterilisations" gave rise to
the performance of what have been described as compassionate hysterectomies.

Between the 1940s and 1980s, the barbaric symphysiotomy procedure was performed
in preference to Caesarean sections, a decision driven by religious ideology.

Further evidence that medical care at State-funded hospitals is often influenced
by the religious views of board members surfaced in 1994, when the Mater banned
HIV- prevention leaflets and posters from its Aids unit. The hospital's chief
executive agreed the Catholic ethos was a factor in this decision.

 'Sensational'

The chairman of St Vincent's quickly dismissed as sensational the "tale of nuns
attempting to control Irish maternity services". However, history shows that
ethos affects treatment. The concerns of the Institute of Obstetricians ought
perhaps be given more consideration. Claire Hogan is a barrister and has a
doctorate in the area of constitutional freedom of religion

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


