                              200 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            August 19, 2004 Thursday
                                 First Edition

When to make an ethical call;
Health Careers

BYLINE: Alan Mascarenhas

SECTION: HEALTH & SCIENCE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 589 words


Helping doctors and nurses confront dilemmas is a fine balancing act, writes
Alan Mascarenhas.

Few hospital staff can list a PhD on Aristotle on their re{aac}sume{aac}. Then
again, Dr Bernadette Tobin is a rare breed: while she works at St Vincent's
Hospital in Sydney, her specialisation is philosophy, not medicine.

Tobin is director of the hospital's Plunkett Centre for Ethics - a job that
involves advising doctors and nurses on the daily dilemmas associated with
clinical care. The hospital is governed broadly in these matters by the Code of
Ethical Standards for Catholic Health and Aged Care Services in Australia, which
Tobin - herself a practising Catholic - played a role in drafting.

Yet, despite her religious faith, Tobin believes ethics stem from something even
more fundamental: natural law. "Ethical principles are ones that any person of
goodwill can recognise as true and become committed to," she says.

"While there are special questions that may confront a Catholic ethicist in a
Catholic hospital, my time is mainly spent on questions that confront health
care professionals [everywhere]."

Perhaps the most complex of these is guarding against the "over-treatment" of a
dying patient. "It's possible, for example, that a person in the last stage of
cancer might be offered another round of chemotherapy," she explains. "But a
judgement has to be made as to whether that would be the right thing to do. Very
often, when people know they're dying, they want to spend their last moments of
life not being treated [but] sometimes doctors who are very well meaning can
inadvertently impose their own view."

If the patient is not competent to make their own decisions, Tobin says the
hospital's ethics code comes into play. "For every possible treatment, one has
to ask if it is likely to bring the patient sufficient benefit to make
administering it worthwhile, or is it going to impose [excessive] burdens."

She believes doctors are entitled to withhold treatment where it would be of
insufficient value to the patient. However, she is at pains to distinguish this
situation from euthanasia where the doctor deliberately withholds treatment to
hasten the patient's death.

Tobin also advises on whether patients should receive a transplant to improve
their quality of life; there is a debate, for example, on whether those with
intellectual disabilities should have equivalent access to donor organs. Another
responsibility, where a coma patient is unresponsive, is helping to decide the
appropriate time to switch off life support.

Tobin is assisted at the hospital by two part-time ethicists and her services
are open to any health professional who wishes to discuss a case. "Generally,
I'm [consulted] when [hospital staff] are a bit troubled by how things are
going," she says. "People can become very involved and I don't just mean
emotionally . . . the issues often activate their sense of right and wrong."

Another important element of Tobin's job is teaching ethics to medical students
who pass through the hospital in the fourth year of their degree.

For people looking to enter her line of work, Tobin says the best training
ground is philosophy or a law degree with high jurisprudence content. A number
of universities, she says, also have degrees and diplomas in applied ethics.

But perhaps the essential prerequisite lies in having a clear-cut and methodical
mind. While Tobin concedes that the issues surrounding euthanasia are
contentious, she is adamant that ethics stem from objective standards of right
and wrong.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Getting to the heart of the matter: Dr Bernadette Tobin,
director of St Vincent's Plunkett Centre for Ethics. Photo: by Natalie Boog

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


