                              202 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 6, 2014 Tuesday

Ethical guidelines being flouted in the East

BYLINE: Prithvijit Mitra

SECTION: KOLKATA

LENGTH: 661 words


KOLKATA: Guidelines for medical research ethics were being routinely flouted in
Kolkata and the east. Patients and research participants were often kept in the
dark about the fact that they were being subjected to experiments, which was
illegal and unethical, according to Vasantha Muthuswamy, former deputy
director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Considered to
be the force behind the research ethics movement in India, Muthuswamy - who
graduated from the RG Kar Medical College in Kolkata - has stressed on the need
for training members of the city's ethical committees that approve research
procedures.

In Kolkata to deliver a lecture, Muthuswamy - also a renowned drug developer -
claimed that committee members in Kolkata were not trained to screen the
observance of ethical guidance. "Rules are flouted everywhere but its
exceptionally bad in Kolkata and the east. Here, no effort is made to train or
upgrade the ethical committees which are just routinely appointed by research
institutes and hospitals. There is no monitoring of research work, which often
uses animals and humans to test drugs. It could lead to a dangerous situation so
we are eagerly waiting for the implementation of a government committee
guideline that lays down the functioning requirement of ethical committees,"
said Muthuswamy. Other than playing a major role in the ICMR's drug development
activities, she has worked on the ethics of animal and human experimentation,
promotion of research by medical students and the development of various
guidelines to facilitate research.

While more than 600 private and government institutions around the country had
ethical committees, few functioned effectively, she said. "Screening is poor
simply because there is no pressure on the committees to perform certain duties.
They are not accountable either," added Muthuswamy.

The scenario was poor in Kolkata, reveals a survey done by a team of clinicians
and researchers in Kolkata. A study of 10 government and non-government research
institutions in the city showed that ethics committee members were not
sufficiently aware of the norms. "The level of awareness on the functions they
need to peform is low. Most committees have senior people on board and they hold
honorary posts. Also, while the government regulations make it mandatory to have
non-medical people on the committee, several do not have them," said Subhrojyoti
Bhowmick, medical superintendent, Peerless Hospital and Research Centre. Ethics
committees should have at least one lawyer, a social scientist, a
pharmacologist, a clinician and a lay person. "The government regulations lay
down that they should have more non-medical people on board, which is not the
case in Kolkata. Interestingly, our survey disclosed that the medical people
were less aware of the regulations than the non-medical members," said Bhowmick.

The primary function of the committee is to make sure that informed consent is
received from research participants before they are made a part of an
experiment. While Muthuswamy said there were yet no specific complaints from the
east, flouting of norms can't be ruled out. Some experts said that while consent
was taken, it wasn't done in the proper way. "It is not enough to tell a patient
about a new drug that will be tried on him. It also has to be conveyed to him
that the consequences may not be favourable. Our doctors rarely do that," said
Sujit Kar Purakayastha, medical director, Peerless Hospital.

It was imperative to look at the safety and well-being of participants,
according to Bhowmick. For instance, there could be an experiment to check the
efficacy of a medicine which lowers blood pressure. Now, it could also lower the
blood sugar level. Participants have to be informed about this and they can't be
forced to agree. More importantly, there is a need to screen the big
pharmaceutical-funded research projects,"" said Bhowmick.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


