                              203 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            October 7, 2010 Thursday

Ethics at life's end

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 416 words


DYING IS more than a medical event. Innumerable ethical issues surround it and
general end-of-life care. There is a reluctance sometimes to face many of these,
even to realise that there might be questions of ethics involved. This is not to
say that there is an unwillingness to be ethical. Ethics is a component of
medical courses and the majority of healthcare professionals are conscious of
the sacredness of death as an inevitable conclusion to life s experience. But a
weakness of focus has been apparent.

Hospital staff can have varying stances and protocols on  do-not-resuscitate
orders, on providing patients with information and on consent. Research shows
the public is unfamiliar with many of the terms and issues involved. A recent
Seanad debate on end-of-life care reflected the often uneven level of public
discourse on such matters. There is some reluctance, too, to accept that Ireland
is not immune to the controversies surrounding assisted suicide and euthanasia.

The Irish Hospice Foundation s National Audit on End-of-Life Care reflected well
on the quality of such care but it exposed many problems. Among these was the
disinclination of medical staff to make decisions to stop invasive treatments of
dying people. How often does technology s availability lead to futile treatment,
sometimes at immense discomfort to the patient? When is it appropriate to tell
someone they are dying? How is a patient s autonomy respected? Is it ethical to
withhold nutrition and hydration?

These are among the topics tackled in an  Ethical Framework for End-of-Life Care
which was published yesterday in Cork for the Irish Hospice Foundation s Hospice
Friendly Hospitals Programme. The framework   compiled in collaboration with
University College Cork and the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland   has had
inputs from clinicians, sociologists, legal experts, theologians and ethicists.
It draws on national and international research; is aimed at health
professionals, patients, families and the general public; and is instructive in
recognising the complexity of many situations.

The framework performs a valuable public service in highlighting issues such as
managing pain, confidentiality, governance in clinical care, breaking bad news,
healthcare decision-making and life-prolonging treatments. In that regard, it
should encourage open public debate and enable healthcare professionals to be
collaborative, informed and confident in addressing these matters, however
complex and contentious.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


