                              201 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             June 5, 2008, Thursday
                                 First Edition

Kids in Third World 'sweatshops' make surgical tools for Wales, warns BMA

BYLINE: Catherine Evans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 683 words


WELSH hospitals are spending millions of pounds on surgical instruments made by
children in the Third World working in appalling conditions, according to a
report by the British Medical Association.

The report - entitled Ethical trade in surgical instruments: bringing change to
the supply chain - was produced by BMA International to highlight the need for
hospitals to purchase operating equipment with greater ethical consideration.

Dr Terry John, chairman of the BMA's International Committee, said: "People are
increasingly aware of the importance of buying Fair trade products. Health
professionals and patients deserve to know more about the origins of the
surgical instruments that are used in operations. This is a complex issue but
the NHS can exert its influence on the supply chain by calling for improved
conditions."

Two-thirds of the world's basic surgical instruments are made in Sialkot,
Pakistan. Although products such as surgical scissors are sold by the
manufacturer for as little as pounds 1, the item retails for approximately
pounds 30 after being repackaged in Britain.

The Sialkot surgical instrument manufacturing industry makes an estimated 100
million products annually.

Thousands of these products are used in Welsh operating theatres every day.

But the BMA is concerned that employment conditions in the industry are poor and
exploit the vulnerable, such as children living in poverty.

"The NHS purchases millions of pounds' worth of medical equipment every month,
much of which is manufactured in developing countries," states the report.

"International labour reports have found that working conditions in surgical
instrument factories can be unsafe and unhealthy.

"The BMA feels that more can be done to ensure that the instruments used by
health professionals are ethically procured."

Recent estimates state that between 2,000 and 5,000 children are employed in the
surgical instrument sector in Sialkot. They do not attend school and work to
support their families. These children are employed on a contractual basis,
working long hours with little pay. They suffer exposure to machinery, metal
dust, noise, repetitive strain injury and exposure to toxic and corrosive
materials.

Injuries and pain are frequent in the industry. And workers, who have few
rights, are also said to be inadequately paid - the minimum wage in Pakistan is
just 4,000 rupees (pounds 31) per month.

The report advises the health service to implement policies to promote fair and
ethical trade, call for improved standards and to learn from the experience of
other industries.

"To date there has been no direct interaction between the instrument
manufacturers and the end-users in the NHS," says the report.

"However, just as consumers are demanding to know how the tea, coffee and
bananas they buy are grown, the UK health service is starting to examine how the
surgical instruments that supply its hospitals are made, and how to ensure that
they are traded ethically, as part of a wider initiative of sustainable
development in the healthcare sector."

The Department of Health is working to ensure that national contracts for the
purchasing and supply of healthcare commodities promote international labour
standards.

And the NHS Purchasing and Supply Agency (PASA) is currently preparing
guidelines on ethical procurement in the healthcare sector. Each NHS
organisation must adopt its own code of conduct, policies and approaches.

A spokesman for BMA Wales said: "NHS PASA is going to produce some guidelines in
September, then the home counties will look at them.

"Representatives from the Welsh Assembly Government and Welsh Health Services
have been looking in on these discussions. Welsh hospitals buy these
instruments. It is up to them whether they take up the guidance."

A Welsh Assembly Government spokesman said: "We acknowledge ethical concerns,
but this needs to be balanced against ensuring that the quality of equipment is
of a high standard, as patient safety must be our number one priority.

"We will ensure that both ethical and quality control issues feature in future
procurement in Wales."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


