                              197 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                              May 7, 2015 Thursday

Helping families make tough ethical decisions;
Three-pronged approach when child is ill best way to find 'last moral peace'

BYLINE: Laura Armstrong Toronto Star

SECTION: SPECIAL SECTION1; Pg. M3

LENGTH: 818 words


When patients, families or health-care professionals at Toronto's Sick Kids find
themselves faced with a clinical ethical dilemma, the hospital has a
three-pronged plan: the lawyer, the nurse and the doctor.

Randi Zlotnik Shaul, a trained lawyer, Rebecca Greenberg, with her background in
nursing, and Jonathan Hellman, the former clinical director of the hospital's
neonatal intensive care unit, make up the Department of Bioethics, a small
department that helps hospital patrons and employees deal with some
life-changing decisions.

"Watching a child, caring for a child who's ill, having to make decisions for a
child who's ill is very different than when it's an adult," said bioethist
Greenberg.

"It feels different, it pulls at your heartstrings more and so we come into
challenges in having to support families to make decisions and be able to feel
at peace with these incredibility weighty decisions."

The Department of Bioethics at Sick Kids was initiated in 1991. Zlotnik Shaul,
its director, says the department receives eight consultation requests each
week. Some consultations can be resolved quickly, while consultations with more
tension, which require research or necessitate bringing to the table families,
medical practitioners or experts in fields such as social work or religion, can
extend for several days, she said.

No two cases are the same, said Zlotnik Shaul. "A 'typical' case is that it's
not really so typical."

The goal in bioethics is to help all those involved in the decision-making
process reach a "last moral peace" in the face of tough choices, Zlotnik Shaul
said. The "right thing," she said, is hard to know for sure, but there are
better and worse ethical arguments and ways forward that are more or less
defensible.

"You want all the players involved hopefully to have felt that the appropriate
issues were considered, that the appropriate voices were brought to bear," she
said.

"Hopefully, at least if one looks back years from now and says, 'I wish a little
bit differently,' at least they can feel confident that a good process went
through and the proper considerations and voices were brought to the table."

Classically, hospitals had ethics committees, said Hellman, who acts as the
medical adviser for the department. But in the Department of Bioethics at Sick
Kids, the aim is not to simply impose recommendations on families or hospital
employees.

"It's not as though we come and say, 'You should transplant,' or 'You shouldn't
transplant,' " he said.

The old notion of "doctor knows best," that he or she will decide what's right
for the patient, has been replaced by a more democratic process of
decision-making that gives patients and their families more autonomy, Hellman
said.

Shared decision making can be positive, he said, but also intimidating.

"This is the grey area that's emerged in medicine that the public often doesn't
appreciate. They think, 'You guys should know what to do. I came here with this
disorder; surely you've seen it before. You should know what to do.' What we're
trying to do is incorporate respect for that patients' values and views in this
whole decision-making process."

That decision-making process becomes even more difficult when dealing with
children. At Sick Kids, the hospital uses a model called child and
family-centred care. The child is at the centre of care and the family is
central to care. Still, balancing a child's wants with their needs and their
primary decision-makers choices can again be complicated, Hellman said.

"When a 12-year-old was asked if he would have a second lung transplant for
cystic fibrosis he said, 'I would have to, or my mother would be so
disappointed.' How do you tease out what he's really feeling versus his role in
the family? For us to try to get to the voice of the child is very complex."

Through research, education and policy-making - which, combined with
consultation, are the four pillars of bioethics at Sick Kids - the bioethicists
hope to be able to weigh in on innovative issues.

Right now, for example, the department is involved in talks about the legal and
ethical issues around potential future face and limb transplants on a child.
What could such surgeries mean for their identity, social interaction or
psychological adjustment? Zlotnik Saul says they're looking into it.

"This is still in the future, but can we anticipate what might be some of the
ethical issues that may come up? Can we try and prepare for them, or preempt
them?"

But innovation aside, the department still has a day job, she said.

"For every family going through (these decisions), this is perhaps the first
time. It's overwhelming and tragic and the values are no less complex," Zlotnik
Saul said.

"For one bioethics department, it can be things that are quite innovative that
we'll weigh in on, and pieces that happen quite frequently but are again almost
no less profound to the players, and to the families."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

