                              211 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                THE KOREA HERALD

                          December 14, 2005, Wednesday

Hwang leaves hospital again with focus on work

BYLINE: By Jin Hyun-joo

LENGTH: 602 words



Stem-cell research pioneer Hwang Woo-suk left hospital again yesterday to
continue his research against the advice of his doctor. Hwang was readmitted to
hospital on Monday night after first returning to his lab early that morning
following an 18-day absence. Hwang went into seclusion on November 24 after
admitting at a televised news conference to ethical breaches in his stem cell
research and spent several days in hospital.

Hwang returned to his lab early on Monday morning, after an 18 day absence. He
was admitted to hospital last Wednesday suffering from stress and exhaustion
caused by media scrutiny over allegations of ethical misconduct in his stem cell
research.

A physician looking after Hwang said he insisted on returning to his laboratory,
even though he was advised that it will take him a month to recover.

"I don't know how long he's going to stay in hospital, but I think it may take
about a month to treat him," said Ahn Cu-rie, Hwang's doctor and close
associate. "Personally, I hoped he would stay for treatment in hospital for
enough time to get well, but he wants to return to work due to concerns that his
research may hit a snag without him."

Hwang's return on Monday coincided with the launch of an investigation by SNU
into possible ethicial misconduct in landmark research carried out by his team.
The university yesterday began appointing an investigative committee yesterday
made up of school faculty members. The school authorities said, if necessary,
they may invite outside experts, including staff from the University of
Pittsburgh where a co-author Hwang's research Gerald Schatten works. The
American university recently launched its own probe into possible problems
within the work. The panel will initially look into data used by Hwang - images
and DNA fingerprints of stem cells - in response to suspicions from some
scientists that they were fabricated. After reviewing the data, the committee
will decide whether to conduct DNA tests to verify the authenticity of the
patient-tailored stem cells cloned by Hwang's team.

Hwang's team announced in May that it had successfully produced 11 different
embryos from cells of patients and cultivated stem cell lines from them, an
announcement that increased hopes that therapies for hard-to-cure diseases can
be developed. However, Korean scientists recently expressed suspicions about the
number of stem cells cloned by Hwang. The scientists said the total of cloned
cells may be far fewer than the 11 initially claimed in his research and that
the landmark stem cells may have not existed at all, citing flaws in data
published alongside the paper. Critics say that some of the stem cell
photographs were duplicated and that the DNA fingerprints of stem cells
presented as independent are unusually similar. Hwang's team denied such
accusations in a statement, saying the duplicate images are a simple publishing
mistake and that the similar DNA fingerprints are visibly different when
magnified.

Hwang's reputation was also tarnished by ethical breaches he eventually admitted
to ethical breaches that happened during the procurement of human eggs for the
research last year. The irregularities came to light last month when Hwang's
former research partner Schatten ended their collaboration, citing ethical
impropriety in obtaining human eggs for his paper published in Science last
year.

Hwang officially admitted he used ova donated by two researchers, an act frowned
on by the international scientific community because of the possibility of
coercion being used to gain the ova.  (hjjin@heraldm.com)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

Copyright 2005 The Korea Herald


