                              210 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                           September 23, 2005 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Mr. Frist's Curious Timing

SECTION: Editorial; A22

LENGTH: 467 words


TENNESSEE Republican Bill Frist has been a senator for almost 11 years now,
majority leader for three. During his tenure, Mr. Frist, a heart surgeon, has
worked on  --  and often taken a leading role in  --  such health care issues as
the Medicare prescription drug bill, limits on medical malpractice awards and
managed-care legislation.

Throughout that time, Mr. Frist rebuffed suggestions that his extensive holdings
in HCA, the giant hospital chain founded by his family, posed any ethical
problem. When Democrats denounced this as a "blatant conflict of interest"
during his run for a second term, Mr. Frist dismissed those concerns,
brandishing opinions from the Senate's Select Committee on Ethics stating that
he was free to vote on health care matters despite millions of dollars in HCA
holdings. Indeed, Mr. Frist insisted, he had gone the extra ethical mile of
putting his  holdings in a blind trust.

So it's more than a little curious that Mr. Frist, who will end his Senate
career next year, has chosen this time to decide to heed ethics concerns and
sell off his HCA holdings. The senator's blind trust turns out to allow for a
little peek-a-boo, and Mr. Frist instructed the trustees in June to get rid of
the stock. That was good timing: The company's stock price fell 9 percent the
next month, after it disclosed lower-than-expected second-quarter profits.

Mr. Frist's spokeswoman, Amy Call, said the move was based "purely on wanting to
avoid any future appearances of conflict." But, of course, if that was a
problem, why did it take the senator more than a decade to figure it out? After
all, any such perception didn't seem to bother Mr. Frist this year, when he
championed medical malpractice caps even as his family's hospital empire
included a large malpractice insurer.

One possible explanation for Mr. Frist's action is that he is weighing a
presidential run and wanted to get any potential ethical issue out of the way. A
more conspiratorial explanation comes to mind, as well, which is that Mr. Frist
had some advance knowledge of the company's impending bad news. Mr. Frist's
brother is HCA's largest individual shareholder, its chairman emeritus and a
member of the company's board. There's no evidence that Mr. Frist had inside
information or traded on it, though Ms. Call's careful phrasing  --  that the
senator "did not have any conversations with HCA executives about HCA stock when
he was making the decision to divest"  --  is curious.

Still, Mr. Frist's sudden and well-timed change of mind about his ethical
obligations at least warrants further inquiry; this is the kind of thing the
Securities and Exchange Commission does routinely. It ought to do so in this
case, too  --  if only to clear the senator of the worse of two unflattering
possibilities.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 The Washington Post


