                              206 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            August 22, 2006 Tuesday

Confusion over resuscitation decisions

BYLINE: Eithne Donnellan, Health Correspondent

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 625 words


A national study has found a high level of dissatisfaction, confusion and
varying practices among Irish consultant physicians regarding the making of
decisions on whether to resuscitate patients in certain circumstances.

More than 170 consultants across 38 hospitals took part in the study and while
58 per cent of them indicated they "nearly always" discussed a patient's
resuscitation status with the patient's relatives, 37 per cent said they did
this only "sometimes" and 3 per cent indicated they "almost never" did so.

The study's authors have called for the formation of a national policy on
resuscitation decision-making, which they say exists in many countries.

They also say it is of concern that 10 of the doctors surveyed were not making
resuscitation decisions at all, with some of them leaving it to junior doctors.

Doctors make decisions not to resuscitate patients in different circumstances.

The most common reasons cited by doctors in this study for making "do not
attempt resuscitation" or DNAR orders included, in order of frequency: end-stage
disease (34 per cent); futility (21 per cent); cancer-related diagnosis (16 per
cent); elderly with co-morbidities (13 per cent); and expected poor quality of
life post-resuscitation (4 per cent).

When asked if they thought any patient group was more likely to be the subject
of a DNAR order, the most common groups mentioned by the consultants questioned
in this study were "terminally ill" people, "elderly" people or the "terminally
ill and elderly".

Some 59 per cent of physicians said they believed both they and the next of kin
were jointly responsible for deciding resuscitation status of an incapacitated
patient with no advance directive as to what should happen to him/her, while 35
per cent felt they were solely responsible in such circumstances.

Only one-fifth of the doctors said they were aware of a formal resuscitation
policy in their hospital.

The doctors were surveyed in 2003 but the findings have only now been published
in the latest edition of the Irish Medical Journal.

Its authors, who include doctors from Loughlinstown Hospital, Dublin and a
member of staff of the Division of Legal Medicine at University College Dublin,
warn that the legal/ethical status of DNAR orders in the Republic has not been
clarified.

They conclude: "The medico-legal and medico-ethical status of DNAR orders and
advance medical directives needs to be clarified nationally.

"The Irish Medical Council ethical guidelines do not address resuscitation
decision-making in detail," they said.

"We recommend the formation of a national policy for resuscitation
decision-making, as exists in many countries, to facilitate more widespread
local policy formation."

Asked if it was considering a national policy, the Department of Health said:
"The Medical Council ethical guidelines do refer to the issue of resuscitation
decisions.

"The issue of consent, including the role of next of kin, is the subject of a
current review by the Law Reform Commission - the outcome of which will provide
a basis for further policy in this area," the department said.

The Medical Council's ethical guidelines say it is desirable that a doctor
discusses management of a seriously ill patient who is unable to communicate
with the next of kin or legal guardians prior to reaching a decision on "the use
or non-use of treatments which will not contribute to recovery from the primary
illness".

It adds that in the event of a dispute between the doctor and relatives, a
second opinion should be sought from a suitably qualified and independent
medical practitioner.

The guidelines also say that where death is imminent, "a doctor is not obliged
to initiate or maintain a treatment which is futile or disproportionately
burdensome".

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


