                              205 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 19, 1982, Friday, Late City Final Edition

HOSPITALS TURN TO PHILOSOPHERS ON LIFE ISSUES

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1721 words


Several New York teaching hospitals are using philosophers in their day-to-day
operations to help their medical staffs make better decisions affecting the life
and death of patients.

John D. Arras, a philosopher recently appointed to the clinical staff of
Montefiore Hospital and Medical Center in the North Bronx, said the intent was
to have philosophers help physicians make judgments about life and death with a
deeper insight into the ''meaning of life'' and into the complex and conflicting
moral and ethical questions that are involved. In some instances, they give
advice on specific cases, and in other instances, they are consulted by
physicians on general problems they confront in their practices.

Typically, the philosphers are called into a case by medical staff members who
are confused or troubled, and they give advice based on ethical literature and
legal precedents. They do not go along on medical rounds and they rarely talk to
patients or their families.  Often they pose questions to the doctors rather
than provide answers.

The philosophers, for example, give advice on when or whether a terminally ill
patient or a deformed or brain-damaged infant should be allowed to die, or who
should be admitted to an overcrowded intensive care unit, or under what
circumstances a patient can refuse exotic life-support technology. But the
philosophers only offer advice and never make any actual decisions.

''We do not tell doctors what to do,'' Mr. Arras said.  Jay Kantor, a
41-year-old philosopher who conducts ethics conferences for medical students and
physicians at Methodist Hospital, Downstate Medical Center and Brookdale
Hospital Medical Center, all in Brooklyn, says: ''The time is ripe for us.
Hospitals and physicians have become acutely aware of the ethical issues
involved in medical care and they are hopeful that philosophers like myself can
help them find better solutions.''

For example, determining the mental competency of a person to stand trial for a
crime is a psychiatric discipline. However, mental competency is an extremely
difficult and troublesome issue for most psychiatrists, and Mr. Kantor, who is
also a philosopher in residence in the forensic psychiatry service at Bellevue
Hospital Center, helps them define the issue more clearly.

While many medical schools in the country use philosophers to give students a
grounding in medical ethics as part of their academic training, Montefiore
believes that the idea of having philosophers actually become an integral part
of a hospital's clinical staff and thus become personally involved in the
day-to-day medical decisions involving patients is highly unusual.

According to Montefiore officials, a few medical centers - such as the
University of California at Los Angeles, the University of Wisconsin at Madison
and the University of Texas at Galveston -use philosophers on a consulating
basis. However, the officials think that Mr. Arras, a member of its department
of social medicine since last year, is the only philosopher in the country with
a full-time appointment to a hospital's clinical staff.

Like Mr. Arras and Mr. Kantor, the other philosophers working in New York
hospitals have received doctorates in philosophy. All of them have taught in
academic settings.

The idea for the hospital programs grew out of a pilot project at Montefiore and
New York University Medical Center that began five years ago. At its inception,
the program was experimental. It evolved gradually, moving from advice to
medical students into clinical settings in hospitals, and it was not until last
year that one of the philosophers, Mr. Arras, received a full-time hospital
appointment.

'Stretching Vision'

''This is particularly valuable for young doctors,'' said Dr. Carl Eisdorfer,
Montefiore's president. ''We see philosophy's wisdom as stretching people's
vision in managing human lives.''

The project was initially financed by the New York Council for the Humanities in
cooperation with the Society for Philosophy and Public Affairs. Both are private
organizations that sponsor research programs in philosophy and the humanities.

Michael Buckner, a philosopher at the N.Y.U. School of Medicine, is the acting
head of the school's department of urban affairs and community medicine, which,
along with its philosophy-medicine program, is to be eliminated in June as a
result of cuts in Federal and state aid to medical education.

Mr. Buckner and Natalie Abrams, a philosopher who is also on the medical
school's faculty, have spent five years teaching ethics to students and helping
physicians and nurses at the New York University Medical Center and at Bellevue
sort out the often conflicting ethical, legal and moral issues that can confound
the keenest medical minds.

For example, does a living fetus that has been aborted have a right to survive
even though the abortion was clearly intended to destroy it? Should a hospital
permit surgery so that a severely deformed infant can survive an otherwise fatal
intestinal obstruction? Should a hospital authorize kidney dialysis for an
elderly patient who is near death?

Crises and Questions

In most hospitals, such decisions are usually made by committees of physicians,
often influenced by the wishes of the patient and his family. While most cases
are decided purely by medical factors, some are undone by the crisis of the
moment, such as a cardiac arrest, or become hopelessly complicated by profound
ethical questions that trouble the collective consciences of hospitals and the
physicians who are required to make them.

Dr. Eisdorfer of Montefiore said in an interview that one of the longest and
most powerful traditions in medicine -the physician's determination to keep a
patient alive at all cost - was changing under pressure from patients and their
families. He said this change was creating enormous conflicts for hospitals and
the lawyers they retain to protect them from law suits.

According to Dr. Eisdorfer, philosophers like Mr. Arras can help resolve ethical
conflicts, such as when should a physician or a hospital stop attempting to
effect a cure and begin helping a patient to die as peacefully as possible.

Dr. Eisdorfer, who is a psychiatrist, said that while psychiatrists and
psychologists in hospitals were involved in dealing with complex moral and
ethical issues, ''we also employ philosophers to go beyond these professional
disciplines to broaden our approach and understanding.''

'No Code' Patients

In an interview, Mr. Arras - who is 37 and on leave from his position as
chairman of the department of philosophy at the University of Redlands in
California - and Nancy Dubler, a Harvardtrained lawyer and an expert on the law
dealing with medicine and patient's rights, said that in most hospitals the
issue of whether ''heroic'' and ''extraordinary'' means should be used to save a
patient is skirted by unoffically designating such patients as ''no code.''

''In other words,'' Mr. Arras said, ''it is just understood that nothing will be
done for them if they go into cardiac or respiratory arrest.''

Some states, such as Massachusetts, have approved legislation authorizing ''no
code'' hospital protocols, Mrs. Dubler said, but New York has not, so hospitals
here that use ''no code'' designations do so at their legal peril.

Accordingly, some physicians have traditionally perceived the law with suspicion
and animosity, Mrs. Dubler said. But she said she hoped to convince doctors that
the law could be used as a solid foundation for ''decent, humane medicine.''

Last month, Mrs. Dubler and Mr. Arras were called into a case involving a
15-year-old girl who had tried to kill herself by jumping from a building in the
South Bronx. She did not die, but became totally paralyzed and will be so for
the rest of her life.

A Change of Mind

By means of blinking her eyes, she communicated to members of the medical staff
that she still wanted to die. The staff members then asked Mr. Arras and Mrs.
Dubler for their advice on what to do if the girl went into respiratory arrest -
should they put her on a respirator, or allow her to die as she wished?

The conflict for the staff was resolved when the girl changed her mind and
signaled that she wanted to live. But the issue still haunts physicians.

Dr. Victor Sidel, the chairman of Montefiore's department of social medicine,
said the question of suicide was a major issue for hospitals. ''Physicians are
pledged to protect life, but there is a conflict when a patient wants to end
his. There is no use sweeping the conflict under the rug.''

Dr. Sidel said he saw philosophers as ''clarifying assumptions that physicians
like myself make and sharpening the conflicts that divide us, while raising our
collective consciousness.''

At Bellevue, Mr. Buckner, who is 35, recalled a case that troubled medical
students and residents and in which he was called in to give advice.

''It was classic - a middle-aged alcoholic who was dying from a destroyed liver
and heart disease,'' he said. ''Some of the students took the critical view that
the patient had destroyed herself and thus did not deserve any extraordinary
means to help save her. Others felt it was more merciful to allow her to die if
she went into cardiac arrest - in other words, be treated as a 'no code'
patient.

''Then the issue became more complicated. A shortage of whole blood developed,
and this patient was using up a lot of it, and the staff questioned whether she
should be allowed to get it, given her condition, her circumstances, and the
fact that perhaps more deserving patients should get it first.

''But the conclusion,'' he said, ''was that she was given a 'remote' chance of
surviving, and she did not become a 'no code' patient.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


