                              209 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                January 23, 2003

Irish Council for Bioethics launched by Tanaiste

BYLINE: By DICK AHLSTROM, Science Editor

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 411 words


Guidelines for medical researchers on the ethical handling of human tissue
samples will be ready before the end of the year, prepared by a new bioethics
body launched by the Tanaiste.

Ms Harney yesterday officially launched the Irish Council for Bioethics. Its
role is to consider the ethical issues raised by developments in biological and
medical research.

The council had a significant role because of the dramatic increase in State
spending on research, Ms Harney said yesterday.

"It is important we would have available to the country the best possible
expertise. Ethical issues are going to arise more and more and we need the best
possible advice," she said. "Because of the independence of the council it will
have authority," she stated.

"Ireland can not and will not be involved in any experiments involving human
embryos," she declared.

The new council is based in the Royal Irish Academy in Dublin but operates
completely independently from it. Its chairman, Prof Patrick Fottrell, announced
the creation of three working groups, which will focus on specific ethical
areas.

These include expert groups on the proper handling of human biological material;
on genetically engineered organisms; and on ethics committees already in place
here.

The discovery that many hospitals had retained tissues without consent including
deceased children's organs, caused widespread public indignation. The issue
continues to cause controversy between the Minister for Health and Children, Mr
Martin, and the families. Ethical guidelines meant to control the handling of
tissue samples should be ready within six to 12 months according to the head of
the biological samples working group, Dr Mark Lawler, a molecular haematologist
at St James's Hospital and Trinity College. "I want to move it forward as
quickly as possible," he said. "We would be aiming to produce a report within
the year."

The council has 21 members and experts can be co-opted into the working groups,
Prof Fottrell said, and all are volunteers. "There hasn't been a body heretofore
looking at these issues with such a breadth and depth of expertise," he said
yesterday. "We would hope to engage the public through every means possible," he
added. "We will try to see if we can win over public confidence and we intend to
do that."

The body received funding from Forfas to cover its small secretariat and its
scientific officer, Dr Siobhan O'Sullivan, for three years.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2003 The Irish Times


