                              207 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                              May 15, 2017 Monday

CME Group president talks about business ethics

SECTION: BIZ LEDGER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 489 words


CME Group president talks about business ethics

ROMEOVILLE -- CME Group President Bryan T. Durkin provided a business case for
attaching oneself to ethical principles during the 2017 Lewis University College
of Business Ethics Week.

Durkin, a Lewis University alumnus, is responsible for overseeing the CME
Group's Technology, Global Operations, Market Technology and Data Services, and
International businesses, as well as the company's GFX division. He stressed the
importance of a strong education in forming one's personal judgment, adding "I
know I received a great deal of this ethical grounding from this university."

The former Lewis University adjunct instructor has been part of the futures
industry in Chicago for more than 30 years, beginning his career with the Office
of Investigations and Audits at the Chicago Board of Trade. He has held several
key positions at CBOT, and then later at CME Group, including roles as CME
Group's Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. And, as part of
his responsibilities, he led the global integrations following CME Group's
merger with the Chicago Board of Trade and CME Group's acquisition of the New
York Mercantile Exchange.

"Every day, CME Group provides economic value, integrity, confidence and trust
in the marketplace," added Durkin, who earned a bachelor's and master's degree
from the Lewis University College of Business.

Ethics Week is an annual observance for the College of Business. Professors put
an extra emphasis on integrating ethical leadership into their lessons during
the week.

Silver Cross receives 'A' from Leapfrog for hospital safety

NEW LENOX -- Silver Cross Hospital has once again been awarded an "A" Hospital
Safety Grade by the The Leapfrog Group, a nonprofit organization committed to
driving quality, safety, and transparency in the U.S. health care system.

The group rates how well hospitals protect patients from errors, infections, and
accidents that can cause harm. Only 38 out of 113 hospitals in Illinois received
an "A" and Silver Cross is the only hospital in Will County to do so. It is the
fifth time Silver Cross has received "Straight A's."

"At Silver Cross, we see it is part of our mission and commitment to deliver
safe, high quality care," said Paul Pawlak, President and CEO of Silver Cross
Hospital.

The A grade is one of the most meaningful honors a hospital can achieve, and one
of the most valuable indicators for patients looking for a safe place to receive
care. The Leapfrog Hospital Safety Grade uses 30 measures of publicly available
hospital safety data to assign A, B, C, D and F grades to more than 2,600 U.S.
hospitals twice per year. It is calculated by top patient safety experts,
peer-reviewed, fully transparent and free to the public.

According to the Armstrong Institute for Patient Safety and Quality at Johns
Hopkins, over 33,000 lives could be saved if all hospitals performed at the
level of A graded hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bryan T. Durkin, president of CME Group, delivers the keynote address
at the 2017 Lewis University College of Business Ethics Week. Bryan T. Durkin,
president of CME Group, delivers the keynote address at the 2017 Lewis
University College of Business Ethics Week.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Paddock Publications, Inc.


