                              213 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday

'It's time to discuss, rebuild doctor-patient bond'

BYLINE: Malathy Iyer

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 531 words


MUMBAI: A group of doctors, fed up with the tag of commercialization attached to
the Indian medical fraternity, has come up with a Munnabhai-style campaign to
counter it.

On the occasion of Doctor's Day on July 1, these doctors will use a
letter-purportedly written by a patient - thanking his/her doctor for being
ethical unlike others being accused of over-prescribing medicines and tests.

The national group - which calls itself the Network of Doctors for Ethical,
Rational and De-commercialised Healthcare' - wants all doctors to put up this
letter outside their clinic to establish their credentials as non-commercial
doctors.

''The doctor-patient relationship is at an all-time low. Using this letter, we
want to revive this relationship by providing a talking point for patients and
doctors,'' said Dr Abhay Shukla of the network.

The five-day letter-campaign will be kickstarted on the social media, with NGO
Oxfam India putting it up on its social networking sites.

The letter not only has patients expressing their gratitude to their doctor, but
also lists out the various problems with the Indian medical system. For example,
it reads, "I feel rather awkward to let you know that I hear many of my friends
alleging openly that their doctors are referring them to a particular hospital/
laboratory/ imaging centre, while pocketing a hefty commission which is then
extracted from the patient."

* Touching upon ''unethical practices by a hospital management, which tends to
put money above all other considerations'', the letter appeals to ethical
doctors and patients to come together and persuade hospitals to discontinue such
practices.*

Dr Shukla said that patients have a tendency to only discuss their immediate
health issue with their doctors. ''The allegations of cut practice or
unnecessary tests are never discussed. It's time to discuss and rebuild the
doctor-patient bond,'' he said.

This introspective mood is also reflected in an article carried in the British
Medical Journal where two doctors have written out a prescription for all that
ails Indian medical system. ''Right from anomalies/cheating in entrance
examinations for medical courses, fraud in medical education, to corruption in
medical practice, it's quite clear that regulation has served as a poor barrier
to avert these practices. It's important for the profession to address
corruption in its ranks and practice with urgency,'' wrote Dr Anant Bhan and Dr
Bhavna Dhingra in BMJ's online journal.

Introspection points for Indian doctors

Corruption: is a major crisis for the profession.

Trust deficit: rising incidents of doctor-patient conflicts evidenced by regular
occurrences of attacks on doctors.

Interprofessional healthcare practice: Doctors need to work with allied
professionals such as nurses, medical technicians, and social workers etc

Public engagement: There is a proactive need for doctors to engage with media
and the public to dispel misconceptions. Use social media.

Collective action: Make policy makers respond to the needs of medical
professionals such as ensuring safety at workplaces, enhanced recruitments,
regular supply of healthcare drugs and devices.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


