                              23 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Ethical issues pit patients against doctors

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Your Health: Trends - Discoveries; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 322  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


Canada's health-care system is increasingly gripped with "ethical challenges"
stemming from clashes involving patients or their families who disagree with the
treatment being ordered by medical professionals, says a new report.

The report, published Sunday in the British journal BMC Medical Ethics, is an
unprecedented analysis of the "top 10" ethical issues faced by the Canadian
public and health-care professionals today.

It found the No. 1 ethical problem is the growing occurrence of conflict over
how a patient should be treated -- whether it involves something as simple as
prescribing an antibiotic, or as serious as providing life-sustaining treatment
to a dying patient.

The report says while such disagreements are most common in a hospital's
intensive care unit, they occur virtually everywhere in the system.

The report was prepared by experts at the University of Toronto's Joint Centre
for Bioethics, a medical ethics think-tank. The authors of the report surveyed
12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto hospitals to rank the most important
ethical challenges facing the health system.

Dr. Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics and one of the report's
co-authors, said in an interview he hopes the report draws more public attention
to the issue -- particularly disagreements over patient care.

"It's floating under the surface like a shark," said Singer.

Other ethical challenges include waiting lists. The report says the wait lists
now plaguing the system create ethical questions because, in some cases, the
lengthy waits can harm patients' health, impede their ability to return to work
and contribute to "psychological distress."

Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill was also an
issue cited in the report. The system has traditionally marginalized these
groups in regards to their priority for treatment -- a discriminatory practice
that must be openly acknowledged and ended, it says.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

