                              208 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

Spanish priest dies of Ebola; UN debates ethics

BYLINE: Chico Enterprise-Record

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 780 words


MADRID (AP) &GT;&GT; A Spanish missionary priest being treated for Ebola died
today in a Madrid hospital amid a worldwide debate over who should get
experimental Ebola treatments.

After holding a teleconference with medical experts around the world, the World
Health Organization declared it is ethical to use unproven Ebola drugs and
vaccines in the current outbreak in West Africa provided the right conditions
are met. Its statement, however, sidestepped the key question of how to decide
who should get the limited drugs.

Two more experimental Ebola treatments were reportedly heading today to Liberia
to be used on two infected doctors   the first Africans to receive the untested
drug.

The U.N. health agency says 1,013 people have died so far in the Ebola outbreak
in West Africa and authorities have recorded 1,848 suspected or confirmed cases.
The killer virus, spread by direct contact with bodily fluids like blood,
diarrhea and vomit, was detected in Guinea in March and has since spread to
Sierra Leone, Liberia and possibly Nigeria.

Two Americans and reportedly the Spanish priest who died had gotten the drug
named ZMapp, which has never been tested in humans. But the vast majority of
Ebola victims have been Africans, and some have protested that their citizens
are not getting access to the novel drugs.

"We can't afford to be passive while many more die," said Aisha Dab, a
Senegalese-Gambian journalist who was tweeting using the hashtag
"GiveUsTheSerum."

The company that makes ZMapp said Monday that its available supply was
"exhausted."

The Spanish missionary, 75-year-old Miguel Parajes, died in Madrid's Carlos III
Hospital, the hospital and his order said. The hospital would not confirm that
he had been treated with the drug, but his order and Spain's Health Ministry
said earlier that he would be. His body will be cremated Wednesday to avoid any
further public health risks, the hospital said.

Parajes had worked for the San Juan de Dios hospital order, a Catholic aid
group, and had been helping to treat people with Ebola in Liberia when he became
ill and was evacuated.

WHO decided it is ethical to use experimental treatments and vaccines in West
Africa even though there's no evidence yet that these experimental drugs can
actually help fight Ebola and it is possible they could be harmful or have no
effect at all.

The agency said the size of the outbreak   the biggest-ever in history  made the
experimental use of drugs ethical.

"It seems some of the usual methods we're using ... are not working as well,"
said Dr. Marie-Paule Kieny, an assistant director-general at WHO, during a press
conference. "We don't have enough people to rely on the traditional methods if
we want to stop the outbreak as soon as possible."

WHO said it was OK to use unproven treatments if certain criteria were met,
including informed consent, confidentiality and freedom of choice.

The panel said a "more detailed analysis and discussion" are needed to decide
who should have access to any experimental treatments, since there is an
extremely limited supply of the novel drugs and vaccines. WHO also said the
world had "a moral duty" to collect evidence about any untested treatment's
safety and effectiveness in proper scientific trials.

Kieny said it was difficult to judge how the few experimental treatments have
been doled out so far.

"I don't think there could be any fair distribution of something available in
such small quantities," she said.

She added that some companies were speeding up trials of their new Ebola
vaccines and it was possible there might be some preliminary safety data by the
end of the year.

West African nations are struggling to control both the deadly outbreak and the
fear it has engendered. Most airlines flying in and out of the Liberian capital
of Monrovia have suspended flights amid the unprecedented health crisis.

The Ivory Coast, which shares borders with Liberia and Guinea, banned direct
flights from those countries and said it would increase health inspections at
its borders.

Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf suspended all travel by executive
branch officials for one month. She also ordered those already abroad to return
home within a week "or be considered as abandoning their jobs," according to a
statement.

A U.K.-based public relations firm representing Liberia said the experimental
Ebola treatment named ZMapp would be arriving within the next 48 hours to treat
the two Liberian physicians.

"The two doctors gave their consent, themselves being medical professionals, for
the drug to be administered," the statement said. "The drugmaker has agreed to
supply a sufficient amount of this drug only for these two patients."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Aid workers and doctors on Thursday transfer Miguel Pajares, a Spanish
priest who was infected with the Ebola virus while working in Liberia, from a
plane to an ambulance as he leaves the Torrejon de Ardoz military airbase, near
Madrid, Spain. (AP Photo/Spanish Defense Ministry, File)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


