                              212 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Daily Yomiuri(Tokyo)

                            October 5, 2006 Thursday

Kinship faked for kidney donations

BYLINE: Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 929 words

DATELINE: OSAKA


A number of cases have been discovered in which patients in need of kidney
transplants have falsified their relationship with donors to meet the ethical
guidelines of the Japan Society for Transplantation, which approves organ
transplants between patients and their relatives.

In the most recent case, a patient who received a kidney transplant at a
hospital in Uwajima, Ehime Prefecture, and his common-law wife were arrested on
suspicion of illegally purchasing a kidney. They claimed the donor was the
wife's younger sister.

As the case followed on the heels of another in which a patient married a donor
to meet the society's guidelines for transplant, a number of hospitals have set
stricter regulations than those of the society to prevent similar incidents.

According to Shigekazu Haruki, a 65-year-old psychiatrist of Matsue who
counseled patients in need of kidney transplants at the Kidney Center of Tokyo
Women's Medical University, a middle-aged woman requiring a kidney transplant
married a man to act as a donor about 10 years ago.

Suspicious of the couple's story, Haruki repeatedly held counseling sessions
with them prior to the transplant. At about the same time, Haruki received a
letter from the patient's former husband, saying the patient and donor had
married because of the transplant.

According to the letter, although the former husband had planned to donate a
kidney, he was unable to do so due to physical reasons. The patient then
discussed the issue with a male friend at an alumni reunion, resulting in the
man offering to donate his kidney. The patient then divorced her husband and
married her potential donor.

Haruki said the couple and the former husband initially plotted the scenario
together, but they seemed to have had financial troubles, and the transplant was
eventually canceled.

In another case, a gang member brought a young man he claimed was his adopted
son to the hospital as a donor. According to Haruki, the young man nervously
explained: "I owe my father-in-law a debt of gratitude. So I want to give him my
kidney."

When Haruki asked the young man when he was adopted, he gave a different date
from the one recorded on his family registry. Six months later, the two gave up
on the transplant and disappeared, Haruki said.

The ethical guidelines stipulate that donors should be relatives within the
sixth degree of blood kinship or within the third degree of matrimonial kinship.
If an intended donor does not meet the criteria, the decision whether to approve
the donor rests with ethical committees at hospitals.

Kyoto University Hospital has approved as donors relatives of fourth degree
blood relationship or closer in exceptional cases.

In one case at the hospital, a donor who claimed to be a cousin of a patient was
found to have no kinship, leading the hospital's ethical committee to stipulate
in 2005 that donors should be blood relatives within the third degree of kinship
or spouses of patients.

Hospital probed over fraud

OSAKA--The Ehime Health Insurance Bureau decided Wednesday to inspect an Ehime
Prefecture hospital on suspicion it used misappropriated public money to perform
surgeries, including a transplant of an illegally purchased kidney.

Uwajima Tokushukai Hospital in Uwajima in the prefecture is suspected to have
provided its patients with only a verbal explanation of the procedures involved
in a kidney transplant, failing to present the required written explanation.

When one of any 24 types of operations, including kidney transplants, are
performed using public health insurance, the hospital in question is required to
provide the patient with an explanation of the surgery in writing.

If insurance officials determine the hospital failed in this duty, the bureau
likely will order the hospital to repay the incurred fees, which could reach
into several tens of millions of yen, greatly affecting the hospital's
management.

According to the insurance payment system, which was revised in April, hospitals
must fulfill four conditions to receive public health insurance money to cover
the costs of any of the 24 operations, which also include lung, esophageal and
prostate cancer surgeries, and heart bypass surgery.

Hospitals are also expected to make public the number of such operations
performed at their institutions over the previous year.

Only after meeting the four requirements and reporting to health insurance
bureaus, hospitals are allowed to request medical costs be covered by public
health insurance.

Hospitals are required to attach copies of documents given to their patients in
their medical records.

Under the system as it was between fiscal 2004 and 2005, hospitals that failed
to meet these standards were allowed to receive up to 70 percent of the surgery
costs from the insurance scheme.

However, it was revealed during a press conference Monday the hospital had
failed to provide written explanations to its patients or obtain written consent
for any of the 82 kidney transplant operations performed by urology department
head Makoto Mannami since April 2004.

This means the hospital issued fabricated payment requests to the Ehime Health
Insurance Bureau as it had failed to meet the requirements.

According to the bureau, payment agreements are revoked when a hospital is
discovered to have failed to meet the requirements.

The revocation also will affect requests other than kidney transplants, leading
the bureau to ask the hospital to repay all the insurance payments used to cover
any of the operations since April, and at least 30 percent of the payments made
between fiscal 2004 and 2005.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


