                              216 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2010 American Society of Law, Medicine &
                                     Ethics
                       Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics

                                  Winter, 2010

                      Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics

                           38 J.L. Med. & Ethics 847

LENGTH: 13676 words

INDEPENDENT: How Bioethics Can Enrich Medical-Legal Collaborations

NAME: Amy T. Campbell, Jay Sicklick, Paula Galowitz, Randye Retkin, and Stewart
B. Fleishman

BIO: Amy T. Campbell, J.D., M.B.E., is an Assistant Professor in the Center of
Bioethics and Humanities at Upstate Medical University and at the Syracuse
University College of Law (courtesy), and Associate Faculty in the Bioethics
Program of Union Graduate College -- Mount Sinai School of Medicine. She
received her law degree from Yale Law School (New Haven, CT), and her Master's
in Bioethics degree from the University of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia, PA). Jay
Sicklick, J.D., is the Deputy Director of the Center for Children's Advocacy in
Hartford, Connecticut, and is an Adjunct Professor of Law at the University of
Connecticut School of Law, and an Assistant Clinical Professor in the Department
of Pediatrics at the University of Connecticut School of Medicine. He received
his law degree from Boston College Law School (Boston, MA). Paula Galowitz,
M.S.W., J.D., is a Clinical Professor of Law at New York University School of
Law. She received her M.S.W. Wurzweiler School of Social Work, Yeshiva
University (New York, NY) and her J.D. from Brooklyn Law School (Brooklyn, NY).
Randye Retkin, J.D., is the Director of LegalHealth, a division of the New York
Legal Assistance Group. LegalHealth partners with medical professionals to
address the non-medical needs of low-income people with serious health problems.
She received her law degree from Howard University (Washington, D.C.). Stewart
B. Fleishman, M.D., is the Founding Director of Cancer Supportive Services at
Continuum Cancer Centers of New York: Beth Israel Medical Center and St.
Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He also serves as the Associate ChiefMedical
Officer of Continuum Hospice Care-Jacob Perlow Hospice and Chair of their Ethics
Committee. He received his M.D. from the Autonomous University of Guadalajara
(Mexico) with degree conferral by the State University of New York.

HIGHLIGHT: Medical-legal partnerships (MLPs) -- collaborative endeavors between
health care clinicians and lawyers to more effectively address issues impacting
health care -- have proliferated over the past decade. The goal of this
interdisciplinary approach is to improve the health outcomes and quality of life
of patients and families, recognizing the many non-medical influences on health
care and thus the value of an interdisciplinary team to enhance health. This
article examines the unique, interrelated ethical issues that confront the
clinical and legal partners involved in MLP5. We contend that the ethical
precepts of the clinical and legal professions should be seen as opportunities,
not barriers, to further the interdisciplinary nature of MLPs. The commonalities
in ethical approaches represent a potential bridge between legal and health care
advocacy for patient/ client well-being. Bioethics has a role to play in
building and analyzing this bridge: bioethics may serve as a discourse and
method to enhance collaboration by highlighting common ethical foundations and
refocusing legal and clinical partners on their similar goals of service for
patients/clients. This article explores this bridging role of bioethics, through
a series of case studies. It concludes with recommendations to strengthen the
collaborations.

TEXT:
 [*847]  Introduction
Medical-legal partnerships (MLPs) -- collaborative endeavors between health care
clinicians  n1 and lawyers to more effectively address issues impacting health
care -- have proliferated over the past decade.  n2 The goal of this
interdisciplinary  n3 approach is to improve the health outcomes and quality of
life of patients and families, recognizing the many non-medical influences on
health care and thus the value of an interdisciplinary team to enhance health.
There are currently over 180 MLPs at over 200 hospitals and health centers in
the United States, with increasing federal interest and potential legislative
support of this model.  n4

   This article examines the unique, interrelated, and often similar (although
at times conflicting) ethical issues that confront the clinical and legal
partners involved in MLPs. We contend that the ethical precepts of the clinical
and legal professions should be seen as opportunities, not barriers,  n5 to
further the interdisciplinary nature of MLPs. In turn, our perspective
emphasizes the shared ethical foundations. Among legal and clinical
professionals, there is a "shared set of core social and ethical values,
interests, and experiences," and a shared "respect for the individual and a
commitment to reason, professional judgment, and experience as a basis for
decision making."  n6 An integral part of the ethical canons of each profession
is the primacy of their duties (fiduciary obligations) to the people they serve.
Each has a code of ethics that is self-imposed and in many ways remarkably
similar.  n7 Each professional can be seen as a healer and an advocate.  n8

   Although the theories, schema, and specific guidance may vary, the
commonalities in ethical approaches represent a potential bridge between legal
and health care advocacy for patient/client well-being. Bioethics  n9 has a role
to play in building and analyzing this bridge: bioethics may serve as a
discourse and method to enhance collaboration by highlighting common ethical
foundations and refocusing legal and clinical partners on their similar goals of
service for patients/clients. This article explores this bridging role of
bioethics.

   In Section I, the medical-legal partnership model is briefly explained. In
Sections II and III, the principal  [*848]  tenets of legal ethics (II) and
bioethics (III) are examined. Section IV applies the legal and bioethics
principles and perspectives to specific case studies that illustrate legal and
clinical ethical issues that may arise in MLPs. In Section V, we conclude with
specific suggestions for next steps to improve these collaborations, focusing on
changes in education in the professional schools and during the collaboration;
awareness of the availability and importance of ethics consults; and
modifications to legal ethics rules to facilitate interdisciplinary
collaborations, such as those in MLPs.

I. Medical-Legal Partnership Overview
The MLP model has grown since the 1993 creation of a partnership to serve
low-income pediatric patients and their families at the Boston City Hospital
(now the Boston Medical Center).  n10 In 2006, the National Center for Medical
Legal Partnership was established to promote the development of medical-legal
partnerships across the country.  n11 Recognizing the success of the
medical-legal partnership model, the American Bar Association (ABA) adopted a
resolution in 2007 to encourage the development of medical-legal partnerships.
n12 In 2008, the ABA launched the Medical-Legal Partnerships Pro Bono Support
Project to further promote the creation of these programs.  n13

   There are a variety of models used by individual MLP network members to
facilitate collaborations between clinicians and lawyers.  n14 The most common
model is where a legal service entity partners with a hospital or health clinic
to establish an onsite legal clinic at the health care facility to serve the
patients of the health care entity. MLPs may also be based in law school
clinics. In addition there are various pro bono models: for example, a law firm
may "adopt" a medical clinic or a department within a health care setting.

   While most MLPs started in pediatric departments, several have branched out
successfully to other clinical departments, including: oncology, palliative
care, HIV/AIDS, geriatrics, family medicine, internal medicine, and maternal
health.  n15 MLPs provide services in the areas of law that are most relevant to
patients with health concerns, including: government benefits; housing; advance
planning (wills, health care proxies, powers of attorney and permanency
planning); immigration; insurance issues; family law; debtor/creditor matters;
employment matters and special education.

   An essential element of the MLP, regardless of the model, is collaboration
between the legal and clinical partners to ensure ease of patient access to
legal services or advocacy that may enhance care. The MLP builds upon the trust
that the clinician has already established with the patient since it is often
the clinician making the referral for legal assistance.

   In addition to the direct legal services, another essential activity of the
MLP is to facilitate training of legal and clinical professionals. Clinicians
may learn about the legal (individual and systemic) issues affecting their
patients. This training helps them make informed legal referrals and, where
appropriate, assist with advocacy efforts. Such advocacy assistance could
include filling out government and other forms with/ for patients, writing
letters to landlords, or educating lawmakers about the critical impact of
policies on health. Lawyers may learn more about clinical issues affecting
patient and family interests, and gain a better understanding of the language
and culture of health care.

   Working together enables clinicians and lawyers to address problems more
effectively than either could do alone. Studies by various MLPs have shown that
these models are cost effective and in fact can provide health care recovery
dollars for the health care facility.  n16 Studies have also shown that MLP
training curricula positively affect physician behavior in addressing a
patient's nonmedical needs.  n17 MLPs also positively impact
relationship-building among professionals through the collaborative experiences.
n18 Finally, there have been evaluations on a MLP's positive impact on health
outcomes and alleviating distress.  n19

   As MLPs flourish, it would not be unexpected for more legal and clinical
ethics issues to arise. In 2009, more than 13,000 people were served by MLPs
across the nation.  n20 The sheer number of cases might under-standably  [*849]
lead to a rise in ethical issues. In addition, as MLPs increasingly move from
pediatric settings into other clinical disciplines (e.g., geriatrics, oncology,
internal medicine, maternal health), MLPs will encounter new populations (the
elderly, cancer patients, new mothers) who will generate a new set of ethical
dilemmas. For example, MLPs centered in a geriatric practice will encounter
issues regarding capacity. Maternal health patients may have concerns about the
hospital's right to test their newborn for various diseases and drugs and turn
to the MLP lawyer for advice. MLPs in oncology or hospice settings will most
certainly encounter end-of-life ethical issues.

   In addition, as MLPs become more integrated into the culture of the hospital
and have greater involvement in the activities of hospitals and clinicians, this
shift will generate a whole new set of ethical issues. For example, what happens
when a clinician calls on the MLP lawyer (and not hospital counsel) for
interpretation of the law: when does that information cross the line so that the
MLP lawyer is perceived as the definitive legal source (and not hospital
counsel)? Additionally, as more clinicians rely on the services of the MLP
lawyer and seek more advice from the MLP lawyer, friendships and familiarity
might lead to blurred roles and open the door to ethical dilemmas.

   There is no doubt that MLPs will encounter a wide range of ethical concerns
as their numbers grow and activities expand. Thus, an understanding of the legal
ethics and bioethics frameworks in which they operate will only prove to enhance
their effectiveness when providing direct services to patients or engaging in
training activities. Before considering ethical issues in the context of case
examples, the fundamentals of legal ethics and bioethics frameworks should first
be examined. We begin with legal ethics.

II. Legal Ethics Primer
Legal ethics and professional responsibility are critically important concepts
that dictate the essence of the legal profession and apply to all aspects of
lawyer conduct. Typically, states regulate ethical conduct through an office or
administrative agency charged with the responsibility of lawyer conduct and
ethical oversight. Each jurisdiction chooses a baseline set of rules and
principles that are codified in Rules or Codes of Professional Conduct which
govern the ethical spectrum of the practice of law in that jurisdiction.

A. Principles of Legal Ethics  n21
The American Bar Association (ABA) has adopted a model set of ethical rules,
namely the Model Rules of Professional Conduct (Model Rules), which are
precatory in nature but serve as the basis for most state ethical rules and
guidelines regulating lawyer conduct. Since the inception of the Model Rules in
1983, most states have adopted the exact format (or close parallel) of the ABA
Model Rules.  n22 The Model Rules are broken down into seven major categories,
which form the framework for defining the essence of a lawyer's responsibility
in any setting -- namely, representation of a client with competence and
diligence in a confidential fashion, free from any conflicts of interest. The
basic principles of legal ethics that pertain to the representation of clients
in a MLP revolve around the following core concepts: Lawyer-Client Relationship;
Lawyer as Zealous Advocate; Conflict of Interest; Lawyer's Role as Counselor and
Advisor; Independence of Professional Judgment; and Confidentiality (discussed
in detail below).

   Lawyers who work in an MLP are bound by the same principles of ethical
conduct as lawyers working outside the MLP realm. A lawyer's conduct, whether
the lawyer is an employee of a law firm, a legal service organization, health
care institution, or a participant in a pro-bono program, is governed by rules
of conduct that take into consideration employment venues, but do not alter
essential standards or premises of ethical conduct based on the employment
arrangement.

B. Principles Applied to Collaborative Setting
1. THE LAWYER-CLIENT RELATIONSHIP
The formulation of the lawyer-client relationship is the critical mechanism that
triggers the application of the rules governing lawyer conduct in any setting.
The MLP lawyer must remember that a lawyer-client relationship is not formed
with the clinicians even though the lawyer's expertise may be utilized as an
advisor  n23 or "consultant" on matters such as eligibility for government
benefits, remedies for substandard housing, or issues surrounding child
protection or elder abuse. Thus, an MLP lawyer may work with and participate on
an interdisciplinary team, provided that the lawyer makes it clear to the team
that she is not the staff's legal advisor.  n24 The lawyer's ethical obligations
under state rules and codes do not attach until the lawyer meets with the
client. It is when the lawyer interacts with a prospective client that the
principles of loyalty, confidentiality, and conflict of interest arise.

2. LAWYER AS ZEALOUS ADVOCATE
A lawyer is ethically bound to assert her client's position as a diligent and
competent advocate, even if she finds the client's goal and objectives
repugnant.  n25 This unique concept, whereby the lawyer stands as a zealous
advocate for a client but remains detached from her client's ends, is often
referred to as the principle of "neutral partisanship."  n26 Thus, the MLP
lawyer may  [*850]  have to advocate for a position that is antithetical to the
recommendation of the very same clinicians with whom the lawyer consults and
works with on a daily basis. The MLP lawyer, however, must proceed as an
advocate for the client, whose position (and thus the position advocated by the
lawyer) may in fact conflict with the recommendations of the other (non-law) MLP
partners. It is important that collaborative team members are made aware that
the lawyer's ethical duty to advocate on behalf of the client is not an
endorsement of the client's views or activities, but merely serves to fulfill
her ethically mandated role as diligent or zealous advocate.  n27

3. CONFLICT OF INTEREST
Conflicts of interest in legal representation are generally governed by
principles of loyalty, independence of professional judgment, and the duty of
confidentiality to present or former clients. In the MLP setting, a lawyer must
be attuned to the traditional rules governing conflicts of interest, making sure
that present client matters do not conflict with the lawyer's other existing
client matters, a lawyer's responsibilities to a third party, or the same or
substantially related matters in which the lawyer represented previous clients.
n28 In the MLP setting, conflicts of interests are likely to arise in a number
of ways, including:


     . As a potential conflict of interest between the potential/actual
     representation of the client vs. the interest of the collaborative
     partner (the hospital); and
     . As a potential conflict of interest between the potential/actual
     representation of a client vs. the interest of a family member of a
     client.  n29


In the first scenario, since the MLP lawyer does not, nor presumably has ever,
represented the hospital at any time, the potential conflict that arises many
not implicate the applicable Rules of Professional Conduct, but the potential
conflict is an actual one. The lawyer may be concerned that the continuation of
the MLP might be jeopardized by her representation of an interest of a client
that is in conflict with that of the hospital.  n30

   In the second scenario, the lawyer must be attuned to a possible conflict of
interest with the client's family, especially in areas where the clinicians may
be working in a family-centered model to assure patient buy-in and family
support. Here there may be conflicts between the clinician's efforts to provide
holistic care (through family support) and the patient's individual wishes
(independent of family desires). The lawyer and the clinician must be aware that
ethical conflicts may arise, and that even those conflicts not involving rule
interpretation might negatively affect the entire collaborative venture.

4. LAWYER'S ROLE AS COUNSELOR AND ADVISOR
A fundamental responsibility of ethical lawyering is based on the principle that
a lawyer must provide independent advice and counsel to a client, utilizing not
only legal rationale, but also taking into account social, economic, political,
and moral factors as well.  n31 Before the lawyer engages in advocacy,
negotiation, or litigation on behalf of a client, she must first serve the role
as an advisor, which provides the client with the backdrop on which to decide
the course of action in the representation.

   Often times, the lawyer's expertise can provide clients (i.e., patients) with
greater access to clinical services -- both through the direct advice provided
to clients, and also as an information resource to clinicians who seek the
lawyer's counsel on core issues surrounding poverty law, child welfare, and
countless other patient centered legal matters. Keep in mind, however, that the
lawyer's role as an "advisor" to a client is a legal duty, while her role as an
information resource (a much less formal role) to members of the collaborative
team is borne out of the unique relationship of the lawyer embedded in the
clinical setting.

5. CONFIDENTIALITY
A crux of the lawyer-client relationship lies in the principle of client
confidentiality. Confidentiality is a broad term that encompasses the benchmark
concepts of the "ethical duty of confidentiality" defined in formal rules of
professional conduct and the "attorney-client privilege." Thus, confidentiality
not only refers to oral statements made by a client to her lawyer (implicating
the attorney-client privilege), but just as important is "information relating
to representation of a client" (implicating the lawyer's ethical duty of
confidentiality).  n32

   The common perception of lawyer-client confidentiality is that information
provided to a lawyer by a client is protected by an inviolate obligation, which
may not be breached unless certain conditions are met. The "attorney-client
privilege" is the product of evidentiary law, and specifically protects
communications (usually oral) proffered by clients to lawyers from being
divulged by the lawyers in a testimonial (i.e., court) setting.  n33 According
to an ethical duty of confidentiality, however, any information relating to the
representation of a client is confidential; thus, this duty to protect client
secrets sweeps far broader than the attorney-client privilege. All jurisdictions
have codified the duties surrounding confidentiality, and  [*851]  the
exceptions to this broad notion of client loyalty, in the applicable rules of
professional conduct.

   Obligations related to confidentiality lead to some critical questions, such
as:


     . May the collaborative lawyer routinely reveal the fact that she is
     representing a patient/family to the interdisciplinary medical team?
     . How much, if any, information may the collaborative lawyer routinely
     reveal to a health care clinician or a treatment team about the
     representation in general and the client in particular?
     . Are members of the interdisciplinary medical team part of the "firm"
     that represents a patient/ family in a legal matter? May the legal
     collaborative "deputize" members of the medical team to the "firm?"
     . Are mandated reporters of child abuse and neglect (e.g., hospital
     social workers and doctors) working with the collaborative project
     exempt from reporting abuse or neglect to the requisite child
     protection agency if the information is obtained as part of the
     confidential legal intake process?  n34
     . If the collaborative lawyer learns about a forthcoming action
     adverse to the client as a result of participation in an
     interdisciplinary team meeting, does the lawyer have an ethical
     obligation to inform the client/patient about the impending action?


These scenarios occur on a daily basis in a MLP, so MLPs should think through
these sorts of questions to ensure that the client's rights are not violated,
and that the interdisciplinary collaborative team serves the best interest of
the patient.

   It has sometimes been suggested that lawyers in an MLP should have a client
sign a release as part of the case-opening paperwork that would allow the lawyer
to share information with the medical provider. However, such an approach may
display a misunderstanding of the ethical rules that apply to lawyers. Model
Rule 1.6 (which most states follow) provides, in relevant part, that a client
give "informed consent" before a lawyer can reveal information relating to the
representation of a client; informed consent is defined in Model Rule 1.0 (e) as
"the agreement by a person to a proposed course of conduct after the lawyer has
communicated adequate information and explanation about the material risks of
and reasonably available alternatives to the proposed course of conduct." Thus,
a conversation between the lawyer and client that includes the material risks
and alternatives could only take place after there has been sufficient
discussion of the issues and the ramifications, and not as part of the
case-opening paperwork.

   The MLP lawyer is not simply acting in a legal realm but also situated within
a clinical one. Both clinical and legal professionals operate under a
time-honored principle of confidentiality (i.e., physician-patient,
psychiatrist-patient, and psychotherapist-patient), an obligation that is
breached only under specifically defined circumstances.  n35 Difficulties arise,
however, when the lawyer joins the clinical team in a discussion regarding the
team's patient -- who also happens to be the lawyer's client.  n36 The freedom
and candor that surrounds the interdisciplinary discussion is anathema to the
lawyer's ethical obligation of confidentiality (and may be to the clinician's as
well). The lawyer is bound not to reveal information that may be critically
important to the team's decision. Thus, the lawyer must be fully aware that she
is operating in an environment that may preclude her from full participation in
critical decision-making events.

   While legal ethics cover the MLP lawyer in the clinical setting, it should
not be forgotten that other ethical obligations govern the health care partners.
Bioethical approaches play an important role in guiding the course of
collaborative patient care, and often impact the outcome of the most challenging
cases. Thus, all partners (especially legal ones) could benefit from a better
understanding of bioethics.

III. Bioethics Primer
While law may ask what must we do, ethical inquiry asks what ought we do. In
health care, the concept of ethical practice is not new; indeed, thousands of
years ago, the Hippocratic Oath offered ideas of the right sort of doctoring,
then primarily vis-a-vis protecting confidences and maintaining a "fatherly
insistence on deciding unilaterally what is best for [patients]."  n37 However,
the 20th century brought with it advancements in health care technology altering
our conceptions of what we can treat and how (e.g., transplant surgeries, test
tube babies), our vision of what it means to be human (e.g., genomics), and our
view of who should control who lives and dies (e.g., decision making at
beginning and end of life). In addition, individuals increasingly began to call
into question the authority vested in physicians to guide patient
decision-making.  n38 Coupled with the technological advancements were concerns
over the complexity and costs of treatment in the face of limited resources.
Bioethics emerged from a traditional understanding of "medical ethics" as its
own field of applied study -- crossing many professional boundaries -- to help
guide individuals, institutions, policymakers, and the public in an
ever-changing and increasingly complex  [*852]  environment.  n39 Law did not
recede in having influence in health care decision-making;  n40 rather,
bioethics became another mechanism to help resolve disputes.

A. What Is "Bioethics"?
First, it is important to explain what is meant by bioethics, and to consider
how one distinguishes between bioethics  n41 and medical ethics (which may in
practice be used interchangeably). Medical ethics in its technical sense
connects to the medical (i.e., physician) profession; medical ethics governs how
a physician, as a professional, should practice -- and has traditionally been
seen as within the province of physicians only.  n42 Bioethics, in recognition
of our more complex health care environment, takes within its orbit medical
ethics, but also includes ethical concerns of a range of professions and
individuals, e.g., nurses, social workers, hospital administrators. In addition,
it expands the scope of ethical inquiry to include not only clinical (i.e., "at
the bedside" medical or nursing) issues but also many more "beyond the bedside"
concerns, e.g., what happens at the institutional, research, public health, and
policy levels.  n43

B. Bioethics Approaches (Methods)
It may also be helpful for all MLP partners to have some understanding of the
methods of bioethics.  n44 Although typically considered an applied field of
study, bioethics grounds itself in theory. Two primary theories are discussed in
the literature: one focused on an individual's duties (not dissimilar from a
lawyer's fiduciary duties), and the other focused on the consequences of an
individual's actions.  n45 Their application is much like what their descriptive
terms imply. A duty-bound professional would follow dictates of a relevant duty
(e.g., obtain informed consent before any procedure); alternatively, a
consequentialist would look not to a preexisting duty but rather to the
consequences of potential actions (e.g., obtaining informed consent or not), and
would seek to maximize good over bad outcomes (e.g., enhanced patient outcomes
and satisfaction).

   Moving from theory to practice, principles are often employed to frame
bioethical issues in clinical settings. Typically four main principles are
recognized today: (1) beneficence, (2) non-maleficence, (3) justice, and (4)
autonomy.  n46 Beneficence refers to acting for the benefit of someone's health;
alternatively, non-maleficence put simply means "do no harm." Justice refers to
seeking fairness in distributing benefits and burdens of treatment and in
allocating limited health care resources. Autonomy, of paramount importance in
law and ethics, relates to self-determination: the ability of a competent adult
to decide what treatment he or she wants or does not want.  n47

   Finally, casuistry has emerged as a key ethical approach for dealing with
clinical cases in context.  n48 A pragmatic approach to addressing ethical
issues, casuistry involves the search for a case sufficiently similar to one's
own to help figure out what to do and how in the current situation. This
approach benefits from its similarity to medical (and legal) reasoning wherein
clinicians turn to prior experience to guide decision-making. Collectively, in
practice we see a blend of approaches applied in real-world cases, akin to tools
that clinicians may use to analyze difficult cases. These tools may also help
facilitate communication across professions and with patients and families.

C. Moving Theory to Practice: Ethics Consulting in Clinical Settings
So, how do ethical issues play out in the health care setting? First, the "who:"
for larger health systems and academic medical centers, a select group of
individuals will often take the lead role as ethics consultants for the
institution (or health system), with regularly scheduled rotations as on-call
consultants. Smaller and community hospitals may rely on nearby larger centers
with more expertise or academic colleagues knowledgeable about bioethics to help
with consulting. Increasingly, ethics consultants have additional training in
bioethics to help conduct analyses and guide decision-making processes,
particularly with complex, emotionally fraught, or novel issues.  n49

   Larger health care institutions often also have an ethics committee.  n50 In
addition to an ethics consult (or case review) role, institutional ethics
committees take a lead in the review and drafting of ethics-related policies,
and may also be responsible for ethics education of staff and trainees for the
institution or system.  n51 A multidisciplinary body (ideally led by someone
with ethics training), members typically include physicians, nurses, social
workers, other clinicians, community representatives, and spiritual care staff
Some committees also choose to include hospital counsel and/or risk management
staff, although including these individuals is not without controversy.
Certainly, many ethical issues dovetail legal matters; however, the committee
may take on a more or less "legalistic" (i.e., institutional, risk averse) tone
with their inclusion. Caution is often urged, as is the enunciation of a clear
description of each member's role on the ethics committee and the committee's
purpose.  n52

   Depending on the setting within which the MLP is situated -- namely for those
increasing number of MLPs based in hospitals or academic medical center settings
serving patients with complex needs (as of 2008, MLPs housed in 73 hospital
settings, a growing number)  n53 -- an ethics consultant or ethics committee
[*853]  may thus be an additional resource to offer a different perspective on a
vexing case facing an MLP. The consult may serve to reorient parties to common
goals and to reaffirm, to the fullest extent possible, patient decision-making.
Even when formal ethics consultations are not an option, an understanding of
bioethics principles may serve as a useful discourse to navigate thorny issues
crossing disciplinary boundaries in patient care.

   How might an ethics consult happen? Normally anyone involved in the case may
call the designated ethics institutional number for ethics guidance, including
faculty, staff, patients, and family members. After the call is made and a
consult requested, the process typically includes a discussion with the
requestor, the attending physician (if not the requestor), and the patient and
relevant family members (if not the requestors).  n54 The consultant also meets
with others on the medical team to get a clear picture and ascertain key facts
and points of conflict. The case may require legal research (but not necessarily
a referral to hospital counsel) to assist in the ethical analysis, but purely
legal or risk management perspectives are not the substance of the ethics
consult. Potentially an MLP attorney may be consulted during this process, so
long as care is taken not to negatively impact any lawyer-client relationship.
n55 The MLP lawyer should view this as an opportunity to enhance collaboration
by being part of forward progress on a case (or as a means to remove obstacles),
and not as a challenge to his/her authority. It would be helpful for all MLP
partners to see the bioethics consult (formal or informal) as a means to think
more broadly, across traditional boundaries, about how best to serve the
patient/client -- similar to how the MLP itself represents a broadened
perspective on the diversity of professionals and resources that can work
together to enhance patient care.

   Why might a consult be requested? Sometimes a member of the clinical team
calls for a consult because of a disagreement within the team, a challenge with
communication (not necessarily an ethical issue, but often referred for an
ethics consult), and/or an issue with a patient or family decision.
Alternatively, a patient or family member may seek a consult because a clinical
order is seen as over- or under-treatment. Or there may be a concern about the
patient's capacity to make a decision, or whether a surrogate decision-maker is
acting in the patient's best interest. Thus, a frequent focus is on patient
decision-making capacity. The ethics consultant does not perform the capacity
assessment, but considers what sorts of assessments have been made and applied
to the current decision, and helps sort out the role, if any, of the family and
treatment team in decision-making.

   Ethics consultants do not superimpose their judgment on the clinician-patient
relationship or make a clinical treatment decision (or legal decision), but
rather foster conflict resolution by identifying ethical issues and guiding
decision-making through ethical reasoning. To do this, the ethics consultant or
committee draws on ethics principles and other bioethics approaches, and also
examines patient and family preferences and contextual issues (e.g., cultural
and religious factors, financial and economic factors, legal and institutional
policy issues, etc.).  n56 The goal is to support favored options via reasoned
judgment, with due consideration of each option's consequences.

   It is worth noting that many lawyers enter the ethics field and act as ethics
consultants, which may become their primary or sole role for the institution.
These legally trained representatives should be clear about the difference
between ethics consulting and legal counseling, be able to identify when they
are acting in which role, and recognize the limits of such roles. MLP legal
partners should also be clear about their role as distinguished from hospital
counsel. When there is a bioethics consult on a case in which an MLP is also
involved, it should be emphasized that while legal matters may be an issue, they
are not the issue for the consult.

   Now that some of the basics of bioethics analysis and ethics consultation
have been explained, and to better understand how bioethical issues might arise
[*854]  and/or how bioethical analysis might help bridge clinical and legal
perspectives in the context of MLPs, it would be helpful to see how the
perspectives apply in different sorts of cases. A range of case types exist,
from bioethics mutually supporting (i.e., working in concert with) law to
actualize patient goals, to bioethics guiding parties struggling with the
application of the law, to bioethics illuminating and expanding law's focus. A
sample case from each general type follows. These cases are illustrative of the
sort that have vexed several of the authors and have been in the press.  n57
They are intended to illustrate how bioethics might offer a different
perspective for the MLP partners that is of particular importance when there may
be a legal response available for a particular issue, but one that does not
necessarily resolve the underlying conflict. As more MLP partners become aware
of the benefits of a consult or the value in understanding basic bioethics
theories, these offer the MLP team a new tool and allows them to think outside
the box in enhancing patient/client care. It also dovetails with the holistic
systems-based approach that MLPs endorse, building on a social work perspective
(who are often critical members of the MLP team).

IV. Case Studies
A. Ruth and Bioethics Mutually Supporting the Law
Ruth, a 58-year-old single woman, was taken to the hospital Emergency Room with
severe shoulder pain. An X-ray showed a significant amount of fluid in the
lungs. Further tests showed that Ruth had ovarian cancer, which had already
spread to the lungs. She began chemotherapy in advance of surgery. After
admission to the hospital, it was discovered that she did not have any advance
directives, and was referred to the onsite MLP lawyer.

   Ruth wanted her good friend Jane to serve as her health care agent and power
of attorney and asked Jane to be present when she met with the MLP lawyer.
During the bedside legal consult the lawyer heard Ruth clearly state her wishes
regarding end-of-life care. She expressed that she did not want to be maintained
as a "vegetable" (in a neurovegetative state), and wanted "no tubes; I am going
to die anyway?" The lawyer helped her complete a New York State Health Care
Proxy and Power of Attorney form.

   The day following the lawyer's visit, Ruth developed severe respiratory
distress and was unable to communicate with the health care team. As was the
custom at the hospital, a covering doctor called Ruth's sister, listed as
"next-of-kin" on the face sheet of the medical record, having been so identified
in a previous admission. Her sister arrived in New York to learn of the gravity
of Ruth's condition, which soon deteriorated; she developed a severe pneumonia,
needing intubation and sedation. Jane, acting as Ruth's health care agent,
wanted to follow Ruth's wishes, but Ruth's sister from California, with whom
Ruth was not close, wanted her to be intubated as she was upset about her
sister's newly diagnosed illness and did not want to "let her die."

   The Intensive Care Unit staff was unsure if they could follow the agent's
direction, and in frustration, the agent called the MLP lawyer, who reinforced
her rights through the proxy form. The hospital administration was uncomfortable
allowing the physician to follow the agent's direction when a family member
opposed that direction. An ethics consult was called.  n58

1. THE LEGAL PERSPECTIVE
The principal role of the MLP lawyer in this case was to act as an advisor and
retained lawyer who worked on Ruth's behalf to help her complete the Health Care
Proxy and Power of Attorney form. The lawyer-client relationship arose when the
lawyer advised and assisted Ruth during the bedside consultation. In Ruth's
case, the lawyer has an ethical duty to avoid a conflict of interest while
representing Ruth, even though the representation merely consisted of a bedside
consultation and limited assistance in filling out paperwork. Any confidential
information acquired from Ruth during the consultation must be preserved, unless
the lawyer is implicitly authorized to reveal that information as part of her
representation or permitted to reveal by the client; in this case, the client
did not authorize any release of confidential information.  n59 The questions
then arise as to (a) whether the fact that the MLP is partially funded by the
hospital creates an ethical conflict of interest; and (b) whether the lawyer's
relationship with the hospital, and specifically the MLP's relationship as an
inherent part of the health care team, creates an untenable practical conflict
of interest.

   First, while the lawyer's employment in the MLP is partially funded by the
hospital, this does not create a de facto ethical conflict of interest that
would prevent her from advocating on Ruth's behalf, even in matters affecting
the hospital administration. It should be clear to all parties from the outset
that the MLP lawyer is not retained to represent the hospital and thus she has
not formed a lawyer-client relationship with the hospital in any manner. It is
incumbent upon the hospital administration to recognize the boundaries
encompassed by the MLP lawyer, and to respect the role the lawyer plays in
representing her client in a diligent, competent and zealous fashion, even when
it conflicts with the hospital administration.

   In this case, members of the clinical team might be curious about the
lawyer's conversations with Ruth, or  [*855]  any information the lawyer learned
during the brief interaction between the two while filling out the proxy forms.
Here lies the crux of the lawyer's dilemma, as she is ethically bound to keep
those interactions confidential -- unless the client gives informed consent,
n60 yet she also may feel obligated to participate in the clinical process,
answer questions posed by her clinical partners, and avoid being evasive. An MLP
lawyer's communication with other partners about these obligations of
confidentiality before the fact, however, often alleviates this dilemma;
clinicians must understand from the outset the lawyer's limited ability of
information sharing.

2. THE BIOETHICS CONSULT
A central issue in this case for ethical analysis is who should decide what to
do, and related to this, what is the capacity of the patient to make her own
decisions. At this time, Ruth is sedated, so it is hard to gauge her current
wishes. A likely initial ethics consultant question to the clinical team would
be whether Ruth could be awakened sufficiently to have the "capacity" to discuss
her wishes given the current state of affairs.

   If able to do so, proxy decision-making would not be necessary given the
patient's capacity. If unable to communicate with Ruth (as the facts seem to
indicate here), having an agent designated and wishes stated so close in time to
Ruth's current status would weigh on the side of no intubation, especially given
the gravity of Ruth's diagnosis. During the consult, Jane should describe the
discussion she had with Ruth when she was designated as Ruth's agent: that Ruth
did not want to be in a vegetative state or on tubes. An ethics consult could
help to clarify, however, what Ruth meant by "no tubes." Perhaps intubation
might simply be a time-limited event to deal with the pneumonia. It would be
important to clarify Ruth's wishes as to what she wanted, and whether Ruth's
wish not to be intubated was a general request (as was not being in a
"vegetative state"), or might be something she would allow in certain
circumstances for a certain time period (e.g., to recover from pneumonia to have
surgery).

   ICU team discomfort might relate to not being a party to the discussion about
Ruth's wishes. Ideally, the physician is involved in these important
discussions.  n61 It would be advisable for the physician to discuss Ruth's
wishes with her and include information from the discussions in the patient's
record. Formal documentation (e.g., proxy document) should also be in the
record. The hope is that the agent and the clinical team are familiar with the
patient's wishes to ensure that the agent does not simply act in the patient's
best interests (a secondary surrogate decision-making goal), but in fact decides
as the patient would have if able, i.e., substituted judgment (a primary goal
for surrogate decision-making).

   One might argue that it seems the distant sister is acting in Ruth's best
interests by keeping her alive, given how new her diagnosis is and the option of
surgery. Although a proxy form was signed and agent designated, given Ruth's
sisters concerns, the ethics consultant may recommend that the team and Jane
spend more time with Ruth's sister describing the full clinical picture, the
gravity of Ruth's diagnosis, what Ruth had said she wanted, and the potential
risks and benefits of aggressive care, such as intubation and mechanical
ventilation. This could "buy" a little time to allow Ruth's sister to absorb the
information and grieve.

   The MLP lawyer can be party to certain ethics discussions, particularly since
the MLP lawyer was there when the client signed the proxy form (mindful, of
course, of limits on what the lawyer can share). In this case, the consult
process was separate from any MLP involvement. While such may be typical of how
MLP lawyers become involved in ethics consults, more education about the ethics
consult process and bioethics approaches could help lawyers and other MLP
parters to better understand how they fit within the context of the case and to
be better prepared to address issues from a bioethics perspective. In the
future, however, the MLP lawyer may also more proactively consider how an ethics
consult or bioethics approach could clarify Ruth's wishes via a more
"collaborative" process (i.e., through a shared "ethics" discourse) to build
bridges between legal and clinical advocacy for Ruth.

   In sum, a bioethics consult in this case would investigate many of the same
issues a legal consult would: capacity, autonomy, decision-making authority, and
when placed in context, how to deal with relationships affected by our
decisions. Bioethics may help support legal goals of effectuating Ruth's wishes.
This perspective also brings to light capacity concerns and benefits from
seeking out interdisciplinary input into addressing those concerns to achieve
Ruth's wishes: bioethics is a tool to engage deeper discussions across
disciplinary boundaries.

B. Annie and Bioethics Informing the Law's Application
Annie is a 15-year-old girl who is regularly seen in the adolescent clinic in a
large metropolitan hospital. Annie's mother has signed a general hospital
"Consent to Treat" form that allows Annie to receive routine well and sick care
without the need for an accompanying adult. At her last well-care visit upon
turning 15, Annie asked her primary care physician (PCP) about  [*856]  methods
of contraception and admitted that she has recently begun a sexual relationship
with a new boyfriend. She would not reveal the boyfriend's age during that
encounter.

   During her most recent visit, she presented with the following information:
she is having unusual abdominal pains; is bleeding abnormally; has experienced
periodic burning sensations while urinating; and that day experienced a small
amount of discharge from her vagina. Her PCP ran a routine battery of tests and
took a detailed history, during which Annie admitted that she is presently
engaged in a sexual relationship with a 20-year-old man whom she calls her
"boyfriend." Annie reported that because of her mother's displeasure with the
relationship, she has recently moved in with her boyfriend and the boyfriend's
sister, saying her mother would "kill her" if she returned home now.

   The PCP asks Annie whether any of her sexual encounters were forced, and
whether she is a consensual partner in the relationship with her boyfriend.
Annie refuses to answer. The PCP notices heavy makeup around her eye; yet, when
he attempts to examine Annie's face, she pulls away. The PCP suspects that Annie
has been subjected to facial trauma and is attempting to hide a black and blue
mark on her right cheek.

   At this point, the PCP believes that Annie has contracted a sexually
transmitted infection (STI), is possibly pregnant, and may be holding out other
vital information regarding her relationship with her boyfriend. The PCP calls
the MLP lawyer, saying he will go to hospital counsel to discuss reporting
obligations (if any) related to parental neglect;  n62 however, he would like
advice about what to do with Annie generally in this situation since there are
tricky confidentiality and other legal issues. Furthermore, he suspects that
Annie is not capable of negotiating the maze of social services that may be
available to her and requests that the MLP lawyer meet with her to discuss her
legal options.

   The MLP lawyer meets with Annie in the exam room and informs her that their
conversation will remain confidential, subject to a few exceptions (e.g., if
fear of substantial bodily harm). At first Annie is hesitant to say anything to
the lawyer, but eventually she admits that she has been assaulted a "couple of
times" by her boyfriend, and that he has forced her to engage in sexual
intercourse on a few occasions against her will. Despite this, she indicates
that she loves her boyfriend and wishes to return to his apartment and continue
her relationship with him. She also asks the MLP lawyer to keep this information
confidential; although she likes and respects the PCP, she thinks that he might
take steps to separate her from her boyfriend.

1. THE LEGAL CONSULT (AND LEGAL ETHICS PERSPECTIVE)
The MLP lawyer in this case is faced with several significant legal ethical
dilemmas. As is typical of many MLP lawyers, the lawyer in this scenario is
playing a dual role -- that of an informal consultant to the medical provider,
and as a legal confidante and advisor to the patient. While many times these
roles coincide and result in collaborative outcomes, in this case the lawyer is
faced with a difficult ethical conflict.

   Although the PCP has referred Annie to the MLP lawyer, the lawyer is not
retained by the PCP or the adolescent clinic but is merely serving in an
advisory capacity, and neither the PCP nor the adolescent clinic are "clients"
under any set of legal ethics rules or codes. The expectations of the PCP,
however, are rooted in the notion that the lawyer and clinician are working
toward the same goal -- ensuring the health and well-being of the adolescent
patient. If the lawyer's only contact was with the PCP as information resource,
her advice would be rooted in her knowledge of the law surrounding an
adolescent's right to make health care decisions independent of parental
notification or consent. The relationship, however, would not be lawyer-client
based.

   Upon meeting with Annie, however, the MLP lawyer must work within the
constraints of legal ethics rules to determine whether she must honor the
confidentiality of the prospective client/patient (i e, Annie) or whether there
are extenuating circumstances that might compel her, as a matter of ethical
duty, to reveal the issues of domestic violence and physical harm. In addition,
the lawyer is bound by her ethical duty to counsel and advise the teenager in
terms of the legal ramifications of her status as a minor and the potential
implications of a child welfare referral by the PCP.

   Most difficult here is the practical conflict of interest that arises when
the lawyer discovers from the adolescent client the forced sexual activity and
the physical assault -- and how that information plays into her role as an
"advisor" to the PCP. While the lawyer has no legal "ethical" duty to reveal the
adolescent's confidences to the PCP, her failure to do so may practically
impinge upon the critical collaborative relationship that exists between the two
professional providers. Thus, the lawyer might be upholding the highest
aspirations of her profession by keeping the patient's information confidential,
but she may be undercutting the notions of trust and loyalty that play an
important part of the lawyer's role in the medical-legal collaborative setting.
With this tension in mind, the lawyer is not in a position to discuss potential
referral to the child welfare agency with the PCP, and should direct the
clinician to seek counsel from colleagues or hospital counsel.

 [*857]  2. THE BIOETHICS PERSPECTIVE (AND POTENTIAL BIOETHICS CONSULT)
In this case it is not clear that mandatory reporting would apply given a lack
of involvement by the parents in the case; however, clinicians may be confused
about legal obligations and concerned with how such affect ethical ones. It is
here that bioethics has a role to play, where legal obligations may be seen as
impinging on certain ethical obligations of the PCP. Confidentiality in health
care is a paramount value in health care, especially with adolescents where
confidentiality may enhance their help-seeking behavior; trust in their PCP; and
their engagement in care, with the ultimate result being more effective
treatment. The PCP must consider what is in the best interests of his patient.
This includes avoiding harm to Annie, which breaking confidences may do; the
latter may also negatively impact the ability to develop a strong
physician-patient relationship.

   Thus, the PCP may feel torn between potential legal reporting requirements
and his desire to maintain a strong relationship with Annie to get her the care
she needs. A bioethics consultant's role is not to endorse breaking the law, but
she can urge sensitivity when working with clinicians who may struggle to
balance legal and ethical obligations, and can also sensitize the lawyers to the
ethical concerns these clinicians face. Lawyers and clinicians may also be
better educated about how reporting plays out in real world situations.

   It is also important to remember that Annie, as an adolescent, sits within a
family, raising further ethical obligations. The PCP can try to partner with
Annie and facilitate conversations between Annie and her mother so that Annie
gets the support she needs. He may feel frustrated by legal requirements that
would set bright-lines on disclosure when he wishes to maintain a bit more
discretion in how this process unfolds. A formal ethics consult may help the PCP
think through the best process and means of communication in sensitive
situations such as this.

   If a potential ethics consult precedes (or runs parallel to) MLP involvement
with Annie's case, the MLP could see the consult as a means to clarify legal
obligations, and the limits of the MLP lawyer role in contrast to hospital
counsel, in a less adversarial (or "turf" challenging) way. If no consult has
been called, however, the MLP lawyer could use a bioethics approach as a
mediating function: it can be an invaluable means to open up the lines of
communication so that all critical voices are heard and the focus reoriented to
Annie's best interests, a unifying goal among all MLP partners.

   In sum, in these sorts of cases, bioethics can help explain how law may seem
clear but may (a) be questionable in application (e.g., if the PCP must report
in this sort of situation where there is no clear parental involvement); and/or
(b) create other ethical concerns if applied (e.g., Annie's confidentiality and
trust in PCP). Bioethics facilitated and framed discussion may help to
illuminate these issues and clarify roles, expectations, and obligations of all
parties, with Annie's best interests as the unifying objective.

C. Mr. G. and Bioethics Illuminating the Law and Expanding Its Focus
Mr. G., a 75-year-old undocumented immigrant from Mexico, was admitted to the
hospital for a neurological work-up. He had radiation necrosis from prior
radiation on a brain tumor. The hospital determined that the tumor was
inoperable, but because of Mr. G.'s altered mental status (including possible
dementia), inability to communicate, and an inability to walk or eat without
assistance, he could not be safely discharged to his home. Other than Mr. G.'s
niece, with whom he lived, his family still lived in Mexico, including a younger
sister (his niece's mother).

   As an undocumented immigrant, Mr. G.'s only access to health benefits in the
hospital was Emergency Medicaid, which covered his care when first admitted as
an emergency patient, but which was not covering his on-going (non-acute)
treatment. The social worker assigned to Mr. G.'s case was urged to find him a
nursing home for discharge as his on-going needs did not require hospital care,
and the growing costs of that care were falling on the hospital. However, each
nursing home she approached declined transfer due to his lack of insurance and
immigration status.

   At this point, the hospital unit's social worker referred Mr. G.'s niece to
the onsite MLP, a project funded in part by the hospital, to determine whether
Mr. G. would be eligible for non-Emergency Medicaid. After interviewing Mr. G.'s
niece, the MLP lawyer determined that there was no basis to adjust Mr. G.'s
status in the U.S. and therefore no basis to make him eligible for non-Emergency
Medicaid.

   The hospital administration then considered if discharge and subsequent
private repatriation might be the best solution, as they believed that the care
would be adequate and he had a sister in Mexico to help manage that care. The
Administrator asked the unit social worker to begin to work with the niece to
safely transport Mr. G. back to Mexico. The niece, knowing how poor the family
in Mexico was, did not think that repatriation was in the best interests of Mr.
G. and expressed her concerns to the MLP lawyer.

 [*858]  1. THE LEGAL CONSULT (AND LEGAL ETHICS PERSPECTIVE)
When initially consulted, the MLP lawyer was working in concert with the goals
of the hospital to investigate and potentially advocate on Mr. G's behalf
regarding Medicaid eligibility However, as time went on, it became apparent that
the goals of the MLP as advocate for the client and the hospital's goal to
obtain financial remuneration for Mr. G.'s care began to diverge. The hospital
was concerned about the costs of having Mr. G. remain in the hospital and now
sought repatriation, not insurance reimbursement. The MLP lawyer was concerned
about the potential consequences of this discharge plan. There is a clear
conflict now between the MLP's duty to its client, the niece, and the hospital
administration.

2. THE BIOETHICS PERSPECTIVE (AND POTENTIAL BIOETHICS CONSULT)
The social work staff was quick to consult with the legal team regarding
immigration issues; however, they should be encouraged to seek out an ethics
consult for a different framing of this situation. An ethical analysis would
focus on concerns over a potential unsafe discharge and abandoning a patient
with medical issues. A central theme in ethics is to "do no harm": an
immigration/deportation focus in this case may harm Mr. G. by taking him from a
place where clinical relationships have formed. Also, his unstable medical
condition could suffer from movement to a country with potentially inadequate
resources for someone in his medical condition. Beyond individual harm, Mr. G.
also resides in an immigrant community to which the hospital provides a variety
of services, which it is able to do because over time it has built trust with
this community. Acting hastily with Mr. G. could harm trust not only at the
individual level, but also at the community level, raising a potential public
health risk (i.e., risk at a larger immigrant population level).

   The MLP lawyer in this case, unlike the preceding two, may not see the
bioethical issue or need for an ethics consult, but rather may feel the sole
conflict is that between her own legal obligations to the client and a sense of
loyalty to the hospital and its interests. Critically, then, recognition of the
availability of a bioethics consult or use of a bioethics approach may help the
MLP lawyer and other partners see the case through a new lens: that of providing
care to a vulnerable patient from an immigrant community where clinical input
may be invaluable in making a strong case, and not simply a legal matter.

   Thus, in this case a bioethics perspective might serve to educate the
interdisciplinary team as to issues they might not otherwise recognize as
critical in this sort of case, namely issues when addressing health care needs
of an immigrant and an immigrant community. While focused on the legal status of
Mr. G. and concerns of deportation, viewed through a bioethics prism, the
partners might also recognize other harms to Mr. G.'s health (e.g., unsafe
discharge) from a move. Furthermore, at issue is not simply deportation of Mr.
G. but also how the treatment of one patient may affect relationships with a
larger pool of patients from Mr. G.'s community (e.g., raise fears of
deportation or repatriation if seek treatment).

V. Implications/Next Steps
There are many ways that the collaborations between and amongst the
professionals involved in MLPs could be further enhanced by changes and
improvements. We will focus on three main recommendations in this article: (1)
changes in education -- in professional schools and during the collaboration
(both as part of the formation stage of the MLP and after its creation); (2)
awareness of the availability and importance of an ethics consult to expand the
options of MLPs in dealing with points of conflict; and (3) modifications in the
applicable legal ethics rules to facilitate interdisciplinary collaborations,
such as those in MLPs.

A. Changes in Education
As to education in professional schools, many issues arise from the nature of
ethics and how it is traditionally taught. Legal ethics are codified  n63 while
bioethics is less focused on the right "code" and more on the application of a
range of methods and approaches to help resolve difficult cases in context.  n64
In part the divergence in aims relates to the greater formalism in legal ethics;
additionally, bioethics must confront and incorporate a ranges of professions in
its application (i.e., not guide the behavior of a single professional).  [*859]
We recommend that each profession's ethics training incorporate positive aspects
of the other (as is true for many issues in these collaborations).  n65

   In addition to the changes in traditional ethics training, professional
training should also address specific ethical challenges raised by
interdisciplinary collaboration.  n66 Professor Tobin Tyler noted that educators
have called for "more attention in [the] curriculum to teaching
client/patient-centered counseling, ethical reflection, cultural competency, and
interdisciplinary and holistic problem-solving to address complex client and
patient problems."  n67 Clinicians' professional training and that in law
schools should incorporate electives on interdisciplinary advocacy and healing
into the curriculum.  n68

   In the formation stages of the MLP, discussions between the various
professionals should include an understanding of the ethics rules of each of the
professions and the potential impact of those rules on the MLP. Protocols to
address some of these ethical issues should be created prior to the beginning of
the MLP.  n69 All members of the MLP should also receive training in bioethics
and the value of a bioethics perspective (including potentially a consult) in
the MLP (discussed below). Once the MLP has been created, continuing discussions
of the ethical and professional role issues should be built into the MLP.  n70

   Education offered by and through MLPs has typically been primarily about the
legal partners training clinicians on legal and advocacy matters. Endorsed here
is greater attention to what the legal partners have to learn about clinicians'
various ethical obligations and professional standards. For example, it would
help if lawyers better understood the ethical and professional tensions that
arise in the face of mandatory reporting obligations (e.g., concerns with
maintaining confidentiality and enhancing trust in clinician/patient
relationship).

   Further, additional training in bioethics for all partners could make real
the idea of a cross-disciplinary "collaboration" by focusing attention on common
ethical issues (e.g., capacity and informed consent, confidentiality) and
fiduciary obligations to help actualize patient/client interests. While each
profession's language may differ, expertise vary, and approaches diverge,
bioethics can be a bridge across professions to help members of the MLP team see
differences not as oppositional but as varied approaches to reach similar
desired ends. No profession's expertise would be discounted, but rather brought
to the table to reach mutual goals. The intent would be to use bioethics
education to lessen points of conflicts, and to facilitate understanding of the
various professional roles and values in the MLP.

B. Use of Bioethics Consult and Bioethics Review
For those times when conflict cannot be avoided, use of ethics consults could
introduce a neutral party into the issues in which the MLP lawyer is involved.
While we recognize that not all MLPs may have access to institutional ethics
committee or ethics consultants, we also realize that a growing number of MLPs
are within hospitals or academic medical centers, or otherwise have ties to
such, and so access to committee review is increasingly an option, especially as
laws give more validity to the ethics committee role.  n71 The MLP partners
should be educated about the value of the ethics consult and, when appropriate,
how to request it. For example, the ethics consult could be useful to resolve
family conflicts in end-of-life care, even when legal issues are involved. A
bioethics consult could foster communication and reframe seeming conflicts as
opportunities for sharing and mutual learning. Bioethics is not about consensus
or majority rules; however, the consult process may facilitate conflict
resolution through greater understanding of the many facets of a case through
appropriate sharing by each team member regarding his/her knowledge of key facts
and expertise in how to deal with issues. Consults may also point towards the
need for additional education or policy activities (e.g., education of unit
staff about working with immigrant populations; policy development to better
clarify obligations when working with the potentially abused adolescent
patient). Moreover, even if the MLP is in a setting where an ethics consult or
committee review is not readily available, the bioethics training recommended
for all MLP partners could be useful to navigate complex issues.

C. Modification of Legal Ethics Rules
As to changes in the applicable ethical rules, modifications could be made to
allow for increased collaboration in multidisciplinary practice. When the ABA
examined multidisciplinary practice in 1998 through a Commission of
Multidisciplinary Practice, the focus was on multidisciplinary practice in the
corporate business world (e.g., law and accounting) and not in the non-profit
world. The Commission specifically looked at Model Rule 5.4: Professional
Independence of a Lawyer, proposing five new models to allow attorneys to
practice in multidisciplinary practice,  n72 all of which the ABA House of
Delegates rejected.

   It is time to take a fresh look at these multidisciplinary practices in
non-profit organizations, including MLPs: a specific model that should be
explored is the expansion of the definition of the "legal team." A possible
approach is to expand this definition to include non-lawyers that assist the
lawyer in the representation of the client in non-profit multidisciplinary
organizations  [*860]  providing direct legal services to low-income and "other
vulnerable client populations."  n73

   Importantly, while there have been many suggestions to substantially change
the form of the legal relationship, changes to legal ethical rules are not
simple and could have unintended consequences. Understanding the complicated
nature of these suggestions, we recommend that the ABA (and perhaps state bar
associations) create a commission to study and recommend changes that could be
made to facilitate nonprofit interdisciplinary collaborations.  n74 The
commission could also examine other suggestions to facilitate MLPs in non-profit
organizations, such as modifying the rules to permit the offering of
interdisciplinary services while maintaining client confidentiality.  n75

Conclusion
In this era of health care reform, with an expanding health care consumer base
and cost-driven calls for innovation in practice models, it is likely that MLPs
will grow in number and scope. Our recommendations seek to foster this growth by
focusing on that which we believe can solidify more effective interdisciplinary
partnership: an understanding of and participatory discourse in ethics. The
commonalities in ethical approaches of the various professions in MLPs represent
a bridge between clinical and legal advocacy for patient/client well-being.
Understanding the similarities and differences, and the role of bioethics, would
help the interdisciplinary partners in the MLPs to navigate the often complex
and intricate ethical challenges that confront this unique treatment team.
Building on our vision of bioethics as a bridging discourse, we see in bioethics
a means to reinforce the collaboration that is the foundation of the MLP. We
suggest that bioethics represents a potentially valuable resource for conflict
resolution and cross-professional collaboration by providing a discourse that
borrows from legal and medical ethical traditions. MLP lawyers, in particular,
may value the bioethics perspective to better understand the health care
landscape within which they practice.

Acknowledgements
The authors kindly thank Tenley Mochizuki, University of Virginia Law School,
and Nick Moore, Syracuse University College of Law, for their assistance with
compiling and verifying references.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
EvidencePrivilegesAttorney-Client
PrivilegeExceptionsEvidencePrivilegesAttorney-Client PrivilegeWaiverLegal
EthicsPublic Service

FOOTNOTES:





n1  It is recognized that lawyers and health care professionals may each be
considered "clinicians;" however, within this article, when "clinician" is used,
it will refer strictly to the health care professional.





n2  There is ample literature on the medical-legal partnership model and theory.
See, e.g., E. Cohen, et al., "Medical-Legal Partnership: Collaborating with
Lawyers to Identify and Address Health Disparities," Journal of General Internal
Medicine 25, Supp. 2 (2010): 136-139; R. Retkin et al., "Medical-Legal
Partnerships: A Key Strategy for Mitigating the Negative Health Impacts of the
Recession," Health Lawyer 22, no. 1 (October 2009): 29-34; J. Wettach, "The Law
School Clinic as a Partner in Medical-Legal Partnership," Tennessee Law Review
75 (2008): 305-313; P. Tames et al., "The Lawyer Is In: Why Some Doctors Are
Prescribing Legal Remedies for Their Patients and How the Legal Profession Can
Support This Effort," Boston University Public Interest Law Journal 12 (2003):
505-527.





n3  Some use the terms interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary interchangeably,
but they have different meanings. Multidisciplinary is more akin to a "separate
but equal" partnership, while "interdisciplinary" implies a more integrated
teaming among disciplines. See R. L. Jessup, "Interdisciplinary Versus
Multidisciplinary Care Teams: Do We Understand the Difference," Australian
Health Review 31, no. 3 (2007): 330-331.





n4  See National Center for Medical Legal Partnerships, "About Us," available at
<http://www.medical-legalpartnership.org/about-us> (last visited October 6,
2010) [hereinafter NCMLP]. As for federal support, the Medical-Legal Partnership
for Health Act was introduced into the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate
on July 29, 2010 (H.R.5961 and S.3668).





n5  Much of the relevant literature examines how to deal with the ethical
barriers in interdisciplinary work. A. Anderson et al., "Professional Ethics in
Interdisciplinary Collaboratives: Zeal, Paternalism, and Mandated Reporting,"
Clinical Law Review 13 (2007): 659-718; see Tames et al., supra note 2, at 513,
525-526; J. M. Norwood and A. Paterson, "Problem-Solving in a Multidisciplinary
Environment? Must Ethics Get in the Way of Holistic Service?" Clinical Law
Review 9 (2002): 337-372.





n6  P. D. Jacobson and M. G. Bloche, "Improving Relations between Attorneys and
Physicians," JAMA 4 294, no. 16 (2005): 2083-2085.





n7  There is remarkable similarity between the two professional codes. See Model
Rules of Professional Conduct, at Preamble (2002); American Medical Association,
Principles of Medical Ethics (Chicago: American Medical Association Press,
2008).





n8  A lawyer as an advocate and a doctor as a healer are typical
characterizations. However, as described by Professor Charity Scott, a doctor is
also an advocate as an "economic advocate" (advocate with health insurance
providers for the patient to obtain treatment that is medically necessary) and a
"care advocate" (advocate for the patient in any conflict over the care with the
patient or patient's family). C. Scott, "Doctors as Advocates, Lawyers as
Healers," Hamline Journal of Public Law and Policy 29 (2008): 331-399. A lawyer
can also be a healer, as part of the broader roles for a lawyer in the Model
Rules (i.e., counselor; consider moral, economic, social and political factors
in acting as advisor), and as a problem solver, helping to make things better
for people involved in the legal system. Id.





n9  Medical ethics and bioethics are sometimes used interchangeably. However, as
discussed in this article, bioethics results from a recognition that ethics
apply to more than the physician profession and the clinical realm; bioethics
encompasses ethics in health care and biomedicine.





n10  NCLMP, "About Us: History," available at
<http://www.med-ical-legalpartnership.org/about-us/history> (last visited
October 6, 2010).





n11  Id. (formerly the "Medical Legal Partnership for Children").





n12  D. I. Schulman et al., "Public Health Legal Services: A New Vision,"
Georgetown Journal on Poverty Law & Policy 25 (2008): 729-779, at 763 (citing
American Bar Association, Health Law Section, Report to the House of Delegates,
Recommendations (August 2007), available at
<http://wwwaba-net.org/AIDS/dots/ABA_MLP_Resolution_Aug2007adopted.doc> (last
visited May 25, 2010).





n13  H. Thomas Wells, American Bar Association President, to American Bar
Association Members, October 21 2008, available at
<http://www.abanet.org/legalservices/probono/medlegal/docs/wells_letter.pdf>
(last visited May 25, 2010).





n14  While it is beyond the scope of this article to be an exhaustive treatise
on MLP models, there are several articles that define the MLP's purpose and
potential models. For example, see, B. Zuckerman et al., "Why Pediatricians Need
Lawyers to Keep Children Healthy," Pediatrics 114, no. 1 (2004): 224-228; R.
Retkin et al, "Lawyers and Doctors Working Together -- A For-midable Team;'
Health Lawyer 20, no. 1 (2007): 33-36; see also references in supra note 2.





n15  LegalHealth, "Our Trainings," available at
<http://legalhealth.org/about/ourTrng.htm> (last visited October 6, 2010).





n16  K. J. Rodabaugh et al., "A Medical-Legal Partnership as a Component of a
Palliative Care Model," Journal of Palliative Medicine 13, no. 1 (2010): 15-18,
at 16.





n17  See Cohen et al, supra note 2, at 137-39.





n18  Id., at 137.





n19  E. Lawton et al., "Disparities in Health, Disparities in Law: The Global
Potential of Individual Advocacy," in P. Cholewka and M. M. Motlagh, eds.,
Health Capital and Sustainable Socioeconomic Development (Boca Raton: CRC Press,
2008): at 419-439; D. Weintraub et al, "Pilot Study of Medical-Legal Partnership
to Address Social and Legal Needs of Patients," Journal of Healthcare for the
Poor and Underserved 21, Supp. 2 (2010): 157-168.





n20  NCMLP, "2009 Medical-Legal Partnership Site Survey Results;' available at
<http://www.medical-legalpartnership.org/mlp-network/network-site-survey> (last
visited October 6, 2010).





n21  This Section provides an overview of fundamentals of legal ethics,
particularly areas relevant to MLPs. Readers wishing a more thorough examination
could consult a number of treatises on legal ethics, e.g., D. L. Rhode and D.
Luban, Legal Ethics, 5th ed. (New York: Foundation Press, 2009); L. G. Lerman
and P. G. Schrag, Ethical Problems in the Practice of Law, 2nd ed. (New York:
Aspen Publishers, 2008).





n22  For a comprehensive guide to each state's application of ethical rules and
codes, see American Bar Association, "Center for Professional Responsibility:
Links to Other Legal Ethics and Professional Responsibility Pages;" available at
<http://www.abanet.org/cpr/links.html> (last visited April 19, 2010).





n23  The term "advisor" is used in a generic sense -- to provide general legal
information to the collaborative team. It is not meant to imply that the lawyer
has assumed the role of an "advisor" pursuant to the Rules of Professional
Conduct. See Model Rules of Professional Conduct, supra note 7, at R. 2.1
("Advisor") (2002).





n24  See Tames et al., supra note 2.





n25  Interestingly, the Model Rules do not contain a requirement that a lawyer
"zealously" advocates for a client. The preamble to the rules, however, provides
that a lawyer "zealously asserts the client's position under the rules of the
adversary system." See Model Rules of Prof'l Conduct, supra note 7, at Preamble
§ 2. It is generally accepted that lawyers may refuse to represent a prospective
client, or withdraw from representing an existing client, if the client's
position is morally repugnant to the lawyer's. See Model Rules of Professional
Conduct, supra note 7, at R.1.16 ("Declining or Terminating Representation").





n26  See D. L. Rhode, "Ethical Perspectives on Legal Practice," Stanford Law
Review 37 (January 1985): 589-651, at 605; W. H. Simon, "The Ideology of
Advocacy: Procedural Justice and Professional Ethics;" Wisconsin Law Review 29,
no. 1 (1978): 29-144, at 36-38. Note that this concept should be recognizable to
clinicians, who also have an obligation to uphold a capable/competent patient's
autonomous wishes, even if not the clinician's own.





n27  See Model Rules of Professional Conduct, supra note 7, at R.1.2(b) (2002)
("[a] lawyer's representation of a client...does not constitute an endorsement
of the client's political, economic, social, or moral views or activities").





n28  Present and former client conflicts are governed by the principles of
loyalty (to present clients) and confidentiality (to former clients). See Model
Rules of Professional Conduct, supra note 7, at R. 1.7 and 1.9 (2002) (providing
the guideposts for identifying conflicts of interest for present clients, and
the duties to avoid conflicts of interest to former clients, respectively).





n29  While this paper does not intend to focus on the nuances and complexities
of the rules of professional lawyer conduct, it raises the issue of potential
conflict of interest that should be addressed at the outset of every potential
collaboration.





n30  For example, the lawyer may encounter a client who seeks redress for a
medical error committed by the hospital, but her pursuit of a remedy on behalf
of the client would likely be her last act as a collaborative partner with the
hospital. The very nature of MLPs precludes adverse action by the lawyer in the
collaborative setting against the collaborative partner.





n31  The lawyer's role as an Advisor is found in Model Rule 2.1. See Model Rules
of Professional Conduct, supra note 7, at R. 2.1 (2002) ("in representing a
client, a lawyer shall exercise independent professional judgment and render
candid advice. In rendering advice, a lawyer may refer not only to law, but to
other considerations such as moral, economic, social and political factors, that
may be relevant to the client's situation").





n32  See Model Rules of Professional Conduct, supra note 7, at R 1.6 (2002).





n33  See Restatement (Third) of Law Governing Lawyers § 68 (2000) (stating that
privilege is generally extended to include "(1) a communication, (2) made
between privileged persons, (3) in confidence, (4) for the purpose of obtaining
or providing legal assistance for the client").





n34  See Anderson et al., supra note 5, at 659-718; P. Galowitz, "Collaboration
Between Lawyers and Social Workers: Re-examining the Nature and Potential of
Relationships;" Fordham Law Review 67 (1999): 2123-2154; R. Retkin et al.,
"Attorneys and Social Workers Collaborating in HIV Care: Breaking New Ground;"
Fordham Urban Law Journal 24 (1997): 533-565.





n35  All three relationships are governed by codes that allow for the breach of
confidentiality. Typically, lawyers may breach confidentiality when faced with a
situation where she knows that a client is about to commit an act that will
result in substantial bodily harm or death. See Model Rules of Professional
Conduct, supra note 7, at R 1.6 (2002). A psychiatrist may reveal confidential
information in order to protect individuals or the community from "imminent
danger." See American Psychiatric Association, The Principles of Medical Ethics
with Annotations Especially Applicable to Psychiatry, 2009 rev. ed. (Arlington:
American Psychiatric Association, 2009): at 5-6.





n36  See Tames et al., supra notes 2 and 24, at 514-517.





n37  L. Vaughn, Bioethics: Principles, Issues, and Cases (New York: Oxford
University Press, 2010): at 51. For more on the "Hippocratic Tradition;" see R.
M. Veatch, A Theory of Medical Ethics (New York: Basic Books, Inc. Publishers,
1981): at 18-26.





n38  D. J. Rothman, Strangers at the Bedside (NY: Basic Books, Inc., 1991): at
1.





n39  See A. R. Jonsen, The Birth of Bioethics (New York: Oxford University
Press, 1998) ("Even though medical ethics, bioethics' predecessor, was shaken by
notable and notorious events, it was a slow accumulation of concerns about the
ambiguity of scientific progress that turned the old medical ethics into the new
paths of bioethics," at 3).





n40  See C. Scott, "Why Law Pervades Medicine: An Essay on Ethics in Health
Care;" Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics and Public Policy 14, no. 1 (2000):
245-303; G. J. Annas, Standard of Care: The Law of American Bioethics (New York:
Oxford University Press, 1993).





n41  "Biomedical ethics" is also sometimes used.





n42  See Rothman, supra note 38, at 102; for information on the difficulty of
defining "medical ethics;" see Jonsen, supra note 39, at ch.1; for a "contract"
theory of medical ethics, see Veatch, supra note 37.





n43  For an interesting discussion of "Bioethics as a Discipline," see Jonsen,
id., at ch. 10.





n44  This discussion is not meant to be an exhaustive exploration of the field
of bioethics, but rather to provide a brief overview of certain core concepts
and methods of bioethics. There are any number of sources readers may turn to
for a more in-depth exploration, some mentioned in references in this paper.
Other leading treatises include (but are not limited to), R. B. Baker and L. B.
McCullough, eds., The Cambridge World History of Medical Ethics (New York:
Cambridge University Press, 2008); B. Steinbock, ed., The Oxford Handbook of
Bioethics (New York: Oxford University Press, 2007); B. Steinbock, J. D. Arras,
and A. J. London, eds., Ethical Issues in Modern Medicine, 6th ed. (New York:
McGraw-Hill, 2003); E. H. Loewy, Textbook of Healthcare Ethics (New York: Plenum
Press, 1996).





n45  T. Shannon, ed., Bioethics, 4th ed. (Mahwah, NJ: Paulist Press, 1993): at
3-5; see Vaughn, supra note 37, at 31-36. For a more in-depth discussion, see
also references, id.





n46  See T. L. Beauchamp and J. F. Childress, Principles of Biomedical Ethics,
6th ed. (New York: Oxford University Press, 2008); see also Shannon, id., at
5-10.





n47  "Autonomy" seems an obvious value, but can be tricky as applied. How much
capacity does a patient need to autonomously make a decision? What if one's
wishes are not clearly known and the family cannot agree on a decision? Or what
if the patient is an adolescent, on the cusp of legal adulthood? These are the
sorts of cases that vex the treatment team and may result in an ethics consult
(and certainly have been known to cause many a legal issue as well).





n48  See A. R. Jonsen and S. Toulmin, The Abuse of Casuistry: A History of Moral
Reasoning (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1988).





n49  It is also worth noting that medical schools include some sort of ethics
training, as do schools of nursing and health professions, with the aim that all
entering health care professionals be capable of ethical analysis.





n50  Smaller health care institutions, while perhaps lacking this formal ethics
committee structure, will have a process to evaluate ethics cases.





n51  For a discussion of the role of ethics committees, see C. J. Dougherty,
"Institutional Ethics Committees," in S. G. Post, ed., Encyclopedia of Bioethics
, 3rd ed. (Woodbridge: MacMillan Reference, 2003): at 444-447. See also B.
Hosford, Bioethics Committees: The Health Care Provider's Guide (Rockford, MD:
Aspen, 1986) (discussing factors influencing growth in number of ethics
committees, how they are formed, key functions, legal issues, and special
types).





n52  See K. A. DeVille, "Lawyers and Bioethics: Balancing Being Lawyers and
Conferring with Medical Ethics Advisors," Defense Counsel Journal 68, no. 4
(2001): 466-473. See also Hosford, id., at 129-136.





n53  NCMLP, Medical-Legal Partnership Network Annual Partnership Site Survey --
March 2009, available at
<http://www.medical-legalpartnership.org/mlp-network/network-site-sur-vey> (last
visited October 7, 2010).





n54  . For an informative summary of the clinical ethics consultation process,
see G. A. Kanoti and S. Younger, "Clinical Ethics Consultation," in Post, ed.,
supra note 51, at 439-44.





n55  Section IV of this article includes case examples with an ethics consult.





n56  Prominent models for clinical bioethical analysis may be found in A. R.
Jonsen, M. Siegler, and W. J. Winslade, Clinical Ethics: Approach to Ethical
Decisions in Clinical Medicine, 4th ed. (New York: McGraw-Hill, Inc., 1998); J.
C. Fletcher, P. A. Lombardo, M. F. Marshall, and F. J. Miller, eds.,
Introduction to Clinical Ethics, 2nd ed. (Hagerstown: University Publishing
Group, 1997); M. P. Aulisio, R. M. Arnold, and S. J. Younger, Ethics
Consultation: From Theory to Practice (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University
Press, 2003). See also L. C. Kaldijan, R. F. Weir, and T. P. Duffy, "A
Clinician's Approach to Clinical Ethical Reasoning," Journal of General Internal
Medicine 20, no. 3 (2005): 306-311; B. Lo, Resolving Ethical Dilemmas: A Guide
for Clinicians, 3rd ed. (Philadelphia: Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins, 2005): at
7, Table 1-1.





n57  . See, e.g., D. Sontag, "Immigrants Facing Deportation by U.S. Hospitals,"
New York Times, August 3, 2008.





n58  Intended here is a "bioethics" (i.e., a health care related ethics)
consult; however, within hospitals and health systems, which would be less aware
of "legal ethics" related consults, typically one would refer to this as an
"ethics consult" (vs. bioethics consult).





n59  The assumption is made that the lawyer and Ruth entered into a retainer
agreement defining the scope of the representation, even in this limited
capacity.





n60  Discussed infra Sec. 11.5.





n61  A process and form has been developed to facilitate this communication and
translate it into a formal medical order, in New York known as the "MOLST"
(medical order for life-sustaining treatment). N.Y. Pub. Health Law § 2977(13)
(McKinney Supp. 2009). This additional sort of "paperwork" has its own critics,
but physicians should be aware of policy support of formal documentation of
patient wishes.





n62  At this point, the PCP may have an obligation to report child neglect
pursuant to his state's mandatory child abuse and neglect reporting statute.
Generally, mandatory reporters (those defined by statute) are required to report
abuse, neglect, injuries detected that are inconsistent or at variance with
explanations provided, and children who are placed in imminent risk of harm.
Many state reporting schemes require that a parent, guardian, or someone
responsible for the care and protection of the child cause the abuse, neglect or
imminent risk of harm. As a result, the mere fact that a minor is engaged in
potentially illegal conduct (e.g., statutory rape) may not implicate child
welfare reporting laws in many states because the conduct complained of does not
emanate from parental malfeasance or parental nonfeasance.





n63  The codification is the beginning of the process for resolving many ethical
legal issues, not the source of resolution.





n64  See Annas, supra note 40, at 6 ("[t]he law is mandatory, setting standards
that can only be breached at the risk of civil or criminal liability. Ethics is
aspirational, setting forth universal goals that we should try to meet, but for
which we suffer no temporal penalty when falling short.").





n65  See E. A. Egan, K. Parsi, and C. Ramirez, "Comparing Ethics Education in
Medicine and Law: Combining the Best of Both Worlds," Annals of Health Law 13,
no. 1 (2004): 303-325.





n66  See, for example, Anderson et al., supra note 5; Norwood and Paterson,
supra note 5; E. T. Tyler, 'Allies Not Adversaries: Teaching Collaboration to
the Next Generation of Doctors and Lawyers to Address Social Inequality,"
Journal of Health Care Law and Policy 11 (2008): 249-294.





n67  See Tyler, id., at 252.





n68  There are valid differences of opinion amongst those involved in MLPs about
whether the "training" in interdisciplinary collaborations should be during the
professional school training or when the professionals are in practice. The
authors believe that it is important to have it during the professional school
training so that it affects and influences the training and socialization of the
professionals.





n69  Some of the issues that should be addressed in these protocols include the
interaction with the referring source (i.e., what information provided by the
healthcare professional as part of the referral and what information is reported
back by the lawyer to the healthcare professional) and the respective roles in
interdisciplinary case consultations.





n70  See Norwood and Paterson, supra note 5.





n71  See, e.g., Chapter 8, Laws of 2010, adding N.Y. Public Health Law Article
29-CC ("The Family Health Care Decisions Act"), at sec. 2994-m.





n72  S. P. Simmons, Report to the House of Delegates, 1998 A.B.A. Comm'n on
Multidisciplinary Practice.





n73  S. L. Brustin, "Legal Services Provision through Multidisciplinary Practice
-- Encouraging Holistic Advocacy While Protecting Ethical Interests," University
of Colorado Law Review 73 (2002): 787-865.





n74  We do recognize the "not another commission" argument against this
recommendation, but stress that this proposed commission would be formed with
the specific goal to address the sorts of non-profit multidisciplinary practices
that MLPs represent, and that are of growing use.





n75  See H. A. Wydra, "Keeping Secrets within the Team: Maintaining Client
Confidentiality While Offering Interdisciplinary Services to the Elderly
Client," Fordham Law Review 62 (1994): 1517-1545, at 1537-1541.


