                              214 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             July 1, 2015 Wednesday
                                 Mumbai Edition

It's time to discuss, rebuild doctor-patient bond'

BYLINE: Malathy.Iyer@timesgroup.com

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 390 words


A group of doctors, fed up with the tag of commercialization attached to the
Indian medical fraternity , has come up with a Munnabhai-style campaign to
counter it.

On the occasion of Doctor's Day on July 1, the doctors will use a letter
-purportedly written by a patient -thanking his/her doctor for being ethical,
unlike others being accused of over-prescribing medicines and tests.

The national group, the Network of Doctors for Ethical, Rational and
Decommercialized Healthcare, wants all doctors to put up this letter outside
their clinic to establish their credentials as non-commercial doctors.

"The doctor-patient relationship is at an all-time low . Using this letter, we

want to revive the relationship by providing a talking point for patients and
doctors,'' said Dr Abhay Shukla of the network.

The five-day letter campaign will be kick-started on social media, with the
Oxfam India NGO putting it up on its social networking sites.

The letter not only has patients expressing gratitude to their doctor, but lists
problems with the Indian medical system. For example, it reads, "I feel rather
awkward to let you know that I hear many friends alleging openly that their
doctors are referring them to a particular hospital/laboratory/imaging centre,
while pocketing a hefty commission, extracted from the patient."

Touching upon "unethical practices by a hospital management, which tends to put
money above all other considera

tions,'' the letter appeals to ethical doctors and patients to come together and
persuade hospitals to discontinue such practices.

Dr Shukla said patients only discuss

immediate health issues with doctors "Allegations of cut practice or unneces
sary tests are never discussed. It's time to discuss and rebuild the
doctor-patient bond,'' he said.

The introspective mood is reflected in an article in British Medical Journal in
which two doctors have written out a prescription for all that ails the Indian
medical system. "Right from anoma lies/cheating in entrance examinations for
medical courses, fraud in medical education, to corruption in medical practice,
it's quite clear that regulation has served as a poor barrier to avert these
practices. It's important for the profession to address corruption in its ranks
and practice with urgency ,'' wrote Dr Anant Bhan and Dr Bhavna Dhingra in BMJ's
online journal.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


