                              215 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Prince Rupert Daily News (British Columbia)

                            January 26, 2007 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Humboldt, Sask., mayor doesn't want new hospital run by Catholic church

BYLINE: Canadian Press

SECTION: RELIGIOUS NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 339  words

DATELINE: HUMBOLDT, Sask.


HUMBOLDT, Sask. (CP) -- A southern Saskatchewan mayor wants the provincial
government to ensure that the Roman Catholic church isn't involved in running a
new hospital being built in his city.

"The message council has received from the community is that there is a clear
desire for a public hospital," said Humboldt Mayor Malcolm Eaton. "In order to
have a hospital that doesn't get into Catholic ethical issues, we need a public
hospital."

Other communities in the area have also expressed support for a publicly
operated hospital instead of a faith-based facility, Eaton said.

Construction is to start on the new hospital this spring.

The current hospital, St. Elizabeth's, serves about 35,000 people in the region
and is owned by the Saskatchewan Catholic Health Corp. The Catholic-run board
receives operating money from the Saskatoon Health Region.

The hospital made the news last year when its board prohibited elective tubal
ligations to prevent pregnancies. That decision sparked ethical debate in and
around Humboldt, about 100 kilometres east of Saskatoon, about faith-based
hospitals.

"I stress that we have not severed ties with the Catholic church. No final
decision has been made," Eaton said.

The final word actually rests with Health Minister Len Taylor, said Louise
Greenberg, associate deputy minister of health.

The minister is to meet with the Catholic Health Corp. and Catholic bishops in
the coming weeks, as well as with people living in the communities served by the
new hospital, she said.

Community representatives already met once this month with Health Department and
health region officials to discuss the new hospital's operation.

The community was clear about its support for a publicly operated hospital, but
the province also heard there is still a role for spiritual care, such as
religious programs and chapel services, Greenberg said.

"It's not black and white."

Calls to the Saskatchewan Catholic Health Corp. and the Catholic diocese were
not immediately returned. The Saskatoon Health Region declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

