                              221 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                     Copyright (c) 2017 Maryland Law Review
                              Maryland Law Review

                                  SPRING, 1991

                               50 Md. L. Rev. 859

LENGTH: 15239 words

SYMPOSIUM: HOSPITAL ETHICS COMMITTEES AND THE LAW: THE BIOETHICS MOVEMENT AND
HOSPITAL ETHICS COMMITTEES

NAME: JOHN C. FLETCHER, PH.D. *

BIO:



   * Ph.D., Professor of Biomedical Ethics and Religious Studies, University of
Virginia.  Director, University of Virginia Center for Biomedical Ethics.

 TEXT:
 [*859]  INTRODUCTION

   This Article responds to Susan Wolf's analysis of the strengths and
weaknesses of hospital ethics committees.  Her argument is that a kind of
identity crisis exists among these rapidly proliferating groups.  n1 When
decisionmakers in very hard cases ask for their help, are these committees
advisory only or do they exist to adjudicate and protect patients' interests?
n2 Wolf argues the latter case, and she finds little evidence of ethically sound
due process procedures for case review in the vast majority of committees.  n3 I
agree with her major argument that ethics committees exist to protect patients
and to be a force to work for the best outcome in cases where the patient's best
interests are in dispute.  This argument is consistent with the purpose of
clinical ethics.  n4

    [*860]  Identity crises or confusion about what roles are appropriate for
ethics committees to play can be minimized if one understands the functions
performed by such committees in the past and those to be carried out in the
future.  My response to Wolf begins in Part II with a historical perspective on
the "bioethics" movement, its major concerns, and the enduring institutional
expressions of these concerns.  It then moves in Part III to an agenda for
national and regional action.  Strategies to start or strengthen ethics
committees in health care institutions have a high priority within this larger
agenda.  One strategy is to strengthen the committee by defining its place of
pre-eminence within an institutional ethics program that also serves the
community.  Although most ethics committees in hospitals or nursing homes are
isolated, unrecognized, and unrelated to clinical and other crucial activities,
this situation can be changed by systematic intervention and hard work.  Three
other major issues on the agenda are also discussed.  Hopefully, this Article
will illuminate more clearly the role and future of hospital ethics committees.

   Wolf's diagnosis of the "identity crisis," which involves a conflict between
the ethics committee's roles as "consultation model" and "adjudicatory model,"
n5 can almost always be resolved in favor of patient interests if the ethics
committee has won the strong support of leaders in the institution and in the
community.  Wolf is correct that the committee's role must include case reviews
with procedures that adequately protect the patient's due process rights.  n6
However, serious committee review of cases, in either the adjudicatory or
conflict resolution model ought only to occur after prior ethics  [*861]
consultation efforts that involve the patient, family, and others have been
inadequate to assist decisionmakers in resolving the ethical problem.  Ethics
consultation at the bedside can be done by an ethics committee subgroup
specializing in such encounters, or by a consultation service accountable to the
committee.  In most cases, this timely and personal service will be sufficient
to assist the person most involved in the case to identify, think through, and
attempt to resolve the ethical problems in the case.  Thus, optimally the ethics
committee case review is a second-tier of conflict resolution that occurs after
prior ethics consultation, provided on behalf of the committee, has proven
insufficient to resolve conflict.  n7

   Resolution of ethical issues in clinical settings will always remain a
volatile area.  The basic tensions in competing ethical positions and arguments
for divergent options that arise in the care of particular patients cannot be
avoided.  Even when the utmost care is employed during consultations and
committee deliberations, those who give advice on clinical-ethical problems
approach these issues from a variety of perspectives, and their suggestions and
counsel will continue to fuel heated debate.  Although there is rarely one
correct way to resolve an ethical dilemma, the committee must reach a conclusion
based on what members believe is the best possible outcome.  And to make a
decision means to cut off options.  Depending upon the nature of the case, some
options and the values and principles that underlie them must be forsaken.
Grief over the loss of valued options in a contested decision is as real as
grief over the loss of any other real entity or person.  Ethics alone cannot
address the loss of values and the finiteness of human existence.  Ethics does
not subsume the meaning or purpose of human existence.  T. S. Eliot may have had
this reality in mind when he wrote these lines:

   Footfalls echo in the memory

   Down the passage which we did not take

   Towards the door we never opened

   Into the rosegarden.  n8

   I.  BIOETHICS AS A PLURALISTIC MOVEMENT

   Bioethics was a child of the 1960s, a time of turmoil, rapid international
cultural change and revolutionary zeal.  The rapidity and  [*862]  dilemmas of
cultural change, were captured in Margaret Mead's famous line that "everyone
born and bred before World War II is an immigrant in time."  n9 Although
bioethics drew some intellectual resources from the ancient discipline of
medical ethics, its major themes have their roots in the 1960s movements for
civil rights, women's rights, and consumer interests.  American culture, its
institutions, its chronic racism, and the morality of the Vietnam War were under
radical criticism and reform.  My characterization of bioethics as a pluralistic
movement fits in part with the analysis of Renee Fox, an astute social
chronicler of bioethics in the United States, who describes this period and its
"manifestations of bioethical concern."  n10 The pluralism of thought within the
bioethics movement perhaps is not always apparent to Fox.  When describing a
social movement, however, one has considerable latitude.  It is broad enough to
include conservative and liberal religious thinkers as well as those -- like
myself -- who seek significant reform of national, regional, and local health
care patterns.  Fox tends to view bioethics as dominated by analytical
philosophers who reinforce individualism and lack appreciation for the social
context of ethical problems in health care.  n11 If the bioethics movement today
includes all of those who labor in the areas of research ethics, patient care
ethics, American health care reform, religion and philosophy, then "pluralism"
is a fitting term.

   Social movements depend upon, interact with, and react to political
movements.  One can better understand bioethics -- in its local, regional, and
national expressions -- as a pluralistic movement responding in part to national
political movements.  Today, local and regional interests in bioethics are
stronger, in part because of the politics of the 1980s, which were marked by a
resurgence of "American and family values" and regional, local, and special
interests.  Such special values cut towards special interests and regionalism.
The politics of the 1960s and 1970s, despite its turmoil and conflict, was more
focused on structural values -- like respect for persons, justice, and equality
-- that cut towards sets of more general  [*863]  interests and the renewal of
national institutions and liberal democracy.  Renewal of national institutions
that belong to all the people -- the branches of national and state government,
public health, public education, public welfare, and public safety -- has been
muted, even abandoned in the 1980s, as these structural values were muted.  The
1980s also saw nationally elected officials withdraw from active support of an
enduring national forum in which to debate and consider bioethical issues.  n12
The avoidance of ethical labors at the national level -- and its replacement by
moralism and bureaucratic fiats -- is especially apparent in the lack of
coherent public policy on research activities involving the human embryo, fetus,
and fetal tissue transplants.  The need for a national forum for civil bioethics
debate of these issues and the restoration of the freedom of scientific inquiry
at the federal level must be on the bioethics agenda.  Cessation of disciplined
debate and suppression of research in these areas harm the quality of ethical
and scientific considerations in the whole body politic.  Whenever scientific
research and ethical debate is stifled on the national level, it also endangers
the freedom of research and information on the local level.  Local and regional
bioethics groups, including ethics committees in health care institutions, can
study these two issues and express their concerns to elected and appointed
officials.

A.  The Objective of Bioethics

   The role of ethics committees in health care can be understood, in part, by
viewing them as one outcome of an older movement of social forces arrayed to
implement the objective of "bioethics."  n13 Bioethics is not strictly an
academic discipline in the traditional sense, as ethics is a branch of
philosophy or religious studies.  It is true that bioethics is being studied in
many interdisciplinary programs.  Real changes in curricula and faculty
assignments have occurred in the name of bioethics.  The scholarly literature in
bioethics is enormous and still growing rapidly.  n14 A second edition  [*864]
of an Encyclopedia of Bioethics is now underway.  The first edition, published
in 1978, took five years to produce and publish.  n15 It defined bioethics as
"the systematic study of human conduct in the area of the life sciences and
health care, insofar as this conduct is examined in the light of moral values
and principles."  n16 This definition, however, is overly confined to
intellectual activity.  Ethics and politics are inextricably linked, as
Aristotle's writings convey, although Alasdair McIntyre stresses that the Greek
word used by Aristotle for politics "covers both what we mean by political and
what we mean by social and does not discriminate between them."  n17 Bioethics
in the context of this Symposium is best understood as a series of actions with
an objective that is ethical and politico-social in nature.  Those attracted to
bioethics can view themselves as a group of persons taking part in such a series
of actions over a period of time.

   The general objective of bioethics, arising from the special dilemmas of
human freedom in the late twentieth century, is to guide the life sciences,
including medicine and its institutions, into practices and actions that respond
to and embody some key structural values and ethical principles of democratic
societies -- without unjustifiably infringing on the freedom of those engaged in
these disciplines to seek knowledge and healing within these general limits.
n18 This objective of bioethics combines two goals in creative tension: the goal
of ethical guidance and the goal of protection of freedom to do scientific
research and to practice the health sciences (including medicine) in an optimal
cultural climate.  This article will show how academic and scientific freedom
has been violated in the United States in federally-funded fetal, embryo, and
fetal tissue research,  [*865]  with great losses of benefits to patients,
families, and society.  This situation ought to be of utmost concern to all who
espouse the objective of bioethics.

   Since the 1960s, the ethical principle of respect for persons and their
autonomous choices has guided significant changes in research and practice
procedures.  As illustrated below in a brief history of bioethics, respect for
and protection of research subjects and patients was and remains one of the
bioethics movement's primary concerns.  The ethical gains of the past must not
be lost.  However, the ethical imperatives of the present and future require
that the bioethics movement in the United States balance the principle of
respect for persons with the principle of justice.  Unfair access to adequate
health care (and to the benefits of clinical research) for millions of Americans
is arguably our most egregious social problem.  n19 Our society's tolerance of
unequal access to health care and unequal opportunities to participate in
research poses the single greatest threat to the well-being of the next and
future generations in the United States, especially because of the lack of
adequate access to preventive prenatal care and genetic services.  n20

   In addition to these enormous inequities, the contradictions posed by the
over-restrictiveness and even suppression of clinical research in reproductive
genetics and embryology in the federal sector manifest an urgent need for
national action to address this bioethical issue.  Also, local and regional
efforts to develop institutional ethics programs that will serve their
communities are needed.  n21 Major resources of the bioethics movement need to
be committed to these issues in the near future.  Ethics committees, the subject
of Wolf's paper, will do their work in a larger cultural climate in which these
issues circulate and demand attention.  And, to  [*866]  the extent that ethics
committees are a consequence of the bioethics movement, their work will be
affected by the objectives of that movement.  The next Part will trace briefly
the history of the bioethics movement with the aid of the works of Fox and
others.  n22 It focuses on the four main stages of the movement, the principal
concern of each, and the institutional changes that endured.

   II.  FOUR STAGES OF BIOETHICAL CONCERN

A.  Research Ethics

   The earliest bioethical problem concerned the lack of sound guidance in
research ethics and the need to shape a body of research ethics to protect human
subjects and investigators.  This issue surfaced after the Nuremberg war crimes
trials and crested in the early to mid-1960s.  n23 Henry Beecher was the leader
who sounded ethical alarms and educated other scientists to this concern.  n24
However, far too little credit has gone to leaders who initiated policy and
social changes that laid the groundwork for institutional review boards and
research ethics policy in the United States.  n25

   In the late 1950s and early 1960s, there was a vigorous debate about how best
to protect research subjects from researchers' zeal and how to protect
researchers themselves from conflicts of interest that arose when conducting
experiments with their own patients.  Was the best protection in "informed
consent" and the consciences of responsible investigators?  Or was it primarily
in prior group review of research, supplemented by these other two elements?
The first principle of the Nuremberg Code,  n26 requiring an absolute approach
[*867]  to the research subject's voluntary informed consent was the focus of
much debate suggesting that informed consent was the primary way to protect
subjects.  In my view, this emphasis was mistaken and overlooked the opportunity
in the planning stages of research to protect subjects and balance the interests
of researchers.  A disinterested group of peers, including laypersons, should
conduct a group review session to scrutinize potential risks to the subjects
before the research begins.  Only after the research risks and benefits have
been anticipated should attention be given to the arrangements for and content
of informed consent.  Group review also should consider when the research should
start and how subjects will be recruited and selected.

   In 1966, after the occurrence of several disasters caused by the lack of
well-articulated research ethics,  n27 a Public Health Service policy was
promulgated to the effect that any grant proposal or contract to involve human
subjects in research could be considered only after a local prior group review
had found the proposed project and its plans for informed consent ethically
acceptable.  n28 Policy makers finally faced the primary ethical question in
research: ought the project be done at all? The self-interest of researchers
must be checked and balanced by a countervailing interest in the protection of
human subjects.  This check and balance system guards against the researchers'
own vulnerability to excessive risk-taking in the name of science.

   In 1974, federal law and regulations made each grantee institution
responsible for ensuring that it had an interdisciplinary institutional review
board with at least one member coming from the public to conduct prior group
review.  n29 These bodies are publicly regulated in that the National Institutes
of Health (NIH) has authority  [*868]  to review the membership and to stop
research under certain conditions.  n30 Federal regulations prohibit the conduct
of research with human subjects absent institutional review board approval.  n31
Today the institutional review board remains the institutional expression of the
decisions and events of this period and the locus of accountability for
institutional research ethics.

   In 1975, federal regulations mandated the creation of an Ethics Advisory
Board (EAB) to advise the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS) on research proposals that presented significant ethical issues
with long-range consequences, such as research involving human embryos, fetuses,
prisoners, and children.  n32 This national group was designed to be a forum for
national debate and advice.  An EAB functioned between 1977 and 1979 but was
allowed to lapse and has not been rechartered, in violation of federal law and
regulations.  n33 The suppression of research in the federal sector and the
collapse of all national forums designed to discuss bioethical issues ought to
be of major concern to local and regional groups.

B.  Education in Ethics and Humanities

   The second major bioethical concern was to improve and expand ethics and
humanities education among medical and nursing students.  n34 In the late 1960s
and 1970s, many educators started "humanities programs" in medical and nursing
schools.  The Society of Health and Human Values, founded in 1968, paved the way
for many of these changes.  Many ethics programs especially those set up in
academic medical centers, had their origins in such educational efforts.  Some,
like Albert Jonsen, who pioneered the area of ethics consultation were not
physicians, but were educators at the time they first received requests for
consultation.  n35 Virtually all medical and nursing schools today have some
course that focuses on the study of ethical problems, and many have courses in
other aspects of the humanities.  The institutional expression of this second
[*869]  phase of bioethical concern was a change in the curricula and faculties
of medical and nursing schools in the United States.

   Other key educational institutions were founded in this period, as well.  The
founding of the Hastings Center in 1969 and the Kennedy Institute of Ethics in
1971 were further expressions of public and academic concern for education.
These institutions played a prominent role in the dissemination of research,
discussion, and literature about ethical issues in medicine and other life
sciences.  Without them, the growing literature and dialogue about bioethical
concerns could not have been possible.  The Park Ridge Center, a third major
institutional force, has emerged in the 1980s, and gives expression to broad
religious themes in the ethical analysis of health, health care, and research.
Today, there are more than a hundred bioethics organizations of various types in
the United States and Canada.  n36

C.  Ethical Concerns in Patient Care and Access to Health Care

   The third stage of bioethical concern focuses on ethical problems in patient
care and inequities in the delivery of health care in the United States.  In the
last decade, the dominant ethical issue in patient care in hospitals and
long-term care facilities was that of foregoing life-sustaining technologies.
Possibly beginning with the Karen Ann Quinlan case, but prefaced by issues of
patient selection for dialysis and transplants, concern about ethical issues in
the care of terminally ill or incapacitated patients has dominated patient care
ethics.  n37 At the same time, a contradictory problem loomed large -- outside
the institutions' doors, the greatest ethical issue was access to basic health
care.

   During this period, the hospital ethics committee was born.  n38  [*870]  The
Massachusetts General Hospital was one of the first to report that an optimum
care committee  n39 assisted with controversial decisions in its intensive care
units.  This committee and others like it that serve hospital staff and patients
were the forerunners of the hospital ethics committee, an institutional
expression now well-described in the literature.  n40 The President's Commission
for the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral
Research found that institutional ethics committees promoted good decisionmaking
practices in hospitals.  n41

   Although most ethics committees have arisen from within institutions
themselves, there are two important exceptions.  In the early 1980s, the HHS
attempted to make rules requiring "infant care review committees" to provide
advice on selective non-treatment choices for handicapped newborns.  n42 This
attempt eventually was overturned in American Academy of Pediatrics v. Heckler.
n43 Today, Maryland is the only state to require such bodies.  Since 1985, state
law has required all hospitals to have a patient care "advisory committee."  n44
Diane Hoffmann's evaluation  n45 of these committees in Maryland, the District
of Columbia, and Virginia found: (1) a very low utilization rate;  n46 (2)
infrequent use by patients and families;  n47 (3) a lack of awareness of the
existence of the committees by health care professionals;  n48 and (4) few
hospitals in the District of Columbia or Virginia with formal means of notifying
patients and families  [*871]  of the committees' services.  n49 Maryland's
hospitals perform better in notifying patients and families, as reported by
eighty-eight percent of this state's hospitals.  n50 State laws soon may require
such groups in all health care facilities.

   Senators Danforth and Moynihan introduced a bill known as the Patient
Self-Determination Act of 1989,  n51 which, after amendment and passage,  n52
required each health care facility receiving Medicare and Medicaid funds to
implement an educational program designed to assist all patients over eighteen
years old in understanding and considering the need for advanced directives for
care at the end of life and for durable powers of attorney for health care
decisions.  n53 A component of the bill that would have mandated the creation of
hospital eithics committes ethics committees  n54 was deleted in conference
because of two countervailing forces: was deleted in conference because of two
countervailing forces: first, the threat that the Health Care Financing
Administration would gain the power to regulate the committees if the law had
passed in that form and second, because of concern among smaller hospitals about
the costs of an ethics program.  n55 Memories of the excesses and ideological
problems associated with federal involement involvement with infant care review
committees in "Baby Doe" cases were sufficient to compel the removal of this
aspect of the bill, despite arguments that excesses in regulation regulations
could be confronted by court action as was done in the "Baby Doe" era.  n56

   Inadequate and unfairly restricted access to basic health care is another
dominant ethical concern in the United States today.  More Americans are
affected adversely by this social problem than by any other.  n57 A grassroots
bioethics movement has developed in response to this tragic problem.  Local and
regional groups have organized  [*872]  "town meetings" and other fora to make
the populace and legislatures aware of the inequities in access to health care.
Oregon Health Decisions is the prototype of this kind of movement, which finds
expression in many states today.  n58

D.  The 1990s: The Next Stage of Bioethical Concern

   In the 1990s the bioethics movement needs to: (1) place access to adequate
health care and preventive strategies in health care as the highest priorities
in local, regional, and national activities; (2) strengthen local institutional
ethics programs in health care institutions that also serve their communities;
(3) restore freedom of scientific inquiry and federal support for research
activities involving the human fetus, embryo, and fetal tissue transplant; and
(4) restore one or more fora for debate and dialogue about bioethical issues at
the national level.  The final Part of the Article discusses each item of this
proposed agenda.

   III.  A BIOETHICS AGENDA FOR THE 1990s

A.  Universal Access to Health Care with Preventative Strategies

   The highest priorities on the bioethics agenda for the 1990s are reforms to
ensure fairer access to health care and to implement preventive strategies.  It
is unfair to restrict access to health care to those able to pay for it when an
individual's economic opportunity itself depends in great measure on his or her
health and educational status.  Other nations with universal health care provide
free services to Americans who become ill in their midst.  Since these nations
(e.g., Germany, France, United Kingdom, Scandanavian nations, Japan, etc.) do
not spend nearly as much on health care as the United States, it is only logical
to raise the question as to why we cannot do the same for aliens and strangers
who become ill in the United States.

   The adequacy of health care in a developed nation ought to be evaluated in
terms of the following criteria: (1) fairness of access to adequate health care,
measured by the opportunity to be seen by, consult with, and be treated by
qualified physicians and other licensed  [*873]  health care professionals
concerning duly diagnosed health needs; (2) fairness in distributing among all
sectors of society the economic burdens of health care, research, and education
of health care professionals; (3) scaled preventive strategies to ameliorate the
causes of disorders and conditions that carry the greatest mortality and
morbidity for human beings; and (4) well-tested approaches to prenatal care and
genetic services for those who need them most.  n59

   These basic concerns and the growing health needs of the American people
gradually can empower leaders in government, industry, and labor in the United
States to shape and effect a universal approach to health care and preventive
strategies -- and not just a reimbursement plan.  In any reformed system we must
assume that in addition to other preventive strategies, adequate prenatal care
and genetic services (for example, screening, counseling, prenatal diagnosis,
and treatment for genetic diseases) will be included in a basic "floor of
services" that will be available to all pregnant women and to all individuals
and families at a higher genetic risk, affected by a genetic disorder, or
carrying genes that make them more susceptible to harm from common disorders or
hazards in the workplace.

   This concern for access to health care and prevention is both ethical and
political in nature; it is based upon claims of justice as fairness and
predictions that continued refusal to address the moral and economic crises in
health care will lead to a variety of harms and avoidable disasters.  Even
barring other major social or biological calamities, unless present trends
change, the contradictions and costs that exist in the present arrangements will
become too burdensome to persist into the twenty-first century.

   The moral case for a universal health plan grounded in justice as fairness
has been argued in a broad body of literature and commentary.  n60 This
literature describes health care institutions as driven to use technology
largely to postpone death, rather than motivated to prevent or ameliorate the
major causes of harm to human health.  Of special political note, this
literature describes vast waste and administrative burdens in health care, as
well as harsh inequities  [*874]  that reflect economic, racial, and educational
differences.  n61 The moral case for judgment and reform is clear.  The burden
to rebut the compelling arguments in favor of these changes rests on those who
oppose a national health plan.

   Beyond the fairness issues, the success of human gene mapping and the growing
scope of testing for genetic diseases will also ease the way for development of
a more universal plan.  The health care plan of the future will probably see an
equal emphasis on personal responsibility for health and a recognition of the
role that genetics plays in disease.  In the future, more Americans will see
that they are not to blame for cancer, diabetes, heart disease, or other common
disorders.  Genetics is a great equalizer in the realm of disease.  Eventually,
most people will understand that they suffer from diseases as a result of some
genetic predisposition.  At that time, insurers will be forced by a more
enlightened nation not to exploit persons at higher risk with the highest
premiums.  We will need a sufficient pool of social insurance to share and bear
these risks and burdens.  n62

   An important caveat to this arguement is that progress toward a national
health plan may take many years, and controversies will arise about the
inclusion of genetic services in the plan because of their present association
with abortion.  For example, health planners in the Bush Administration envision
only a modicum of genetic services in the national health plan in the year 2000,
such as screening maternal and newborn serum for alpha-fetoprotein.  The
planning documents are devoid of any references to genetic screening of
carriers, prenatal diagnosis, abortion, or genetic therapy.  n63 Americans can
learn much about the role of genetic services by studying the total health care
systems of other nations.  n64

    [*875]  B.  Strengthening Local Institutional Ethics Programs

   A second objective of the bioethics movement in the next decade is to
organize outreach and training resources to provide health care institutions
with an opportunity to start or strengthen their own institutional ethics
programs that also serve the local communities.  For this task to be
accomplished, older bioethics centers -- especially those in clinical settings
-- will need to prioritize service and outreach efforts alongside their
traditional activities of research, teaching, and policy analysis.

   A programmatic approach, with strong institutional and community support,
will check and balance the self-protective character of some ethics committees
that Wolf describes.  The word "program" implies a planned approach that an
institution's leaders place in a "must do" category, rather than an ad hoc "nice
to do" category.  The strength of the combined elements in a program will
undergird and broaden the effectiveness of the ethics committee.  Too many
hospital ethics committees fail or flounder for lack of institutional support
and recognition, as well as underuse of their central functions.  n65 Too many
ethics consultants in health care operate in the absence of identifiable
programs or structures of accountability.  By making ethics programs a priority,
those necessary elements can be knit together for a systematic approach in
hospitals and communities to service, education, and research on ethical
programs in clinical care.  The time has come for ethics programs to be part of
the culture of health care and to gain enough independence and community support
to be viewed as credible institutions.  In the 1990s, ethics programs must
become accepted actors in the health care arena and the communities they serve,
just as prior group review is part of the culture of research and researchers.

   A full institutional ethics program has five necessary elements: (1) a duly
appointed and constituted interdisciplinary ethics committee with community
members; (2) a clinical ethics and health care law education program for
professional staff and community members; (3) ethics consultation on request;
(4) at least two resource persons within the institution with advanced education
in clinical ethics and health care law; and (5) resources to evaluate the four
elements of the program and to conduct research on the dynamics and causes of
ethical problems that arise in the clinical and community settings.

    [*876]  1.  Institutional Ethics Committees. -- Some of the causes
contributing to the need for institutional ethics committees are:

   (1) new choices about the uses and applications of powerful medical
technologies,

   (2) ethical pluralism,

   (3) the value of patient self-determination,

   (4) the value of sharing decisionmaking with family,

   (5) court and national commission recommendations,

   (6) the perceived threat of medical malpractice suits, and

   (7) media attention given to ethical issues in public life.

   The ideal composition and activities of ethics committees has been well
described elsewhere.  n66 The ethics committee has four major functions: (1) to
provide a forum to which any member of the institution or community can bring an
ethical issue related to patient care; (2) to sponsor or provide education for
the staff and community on ethical issues and related health care law or policy;
(3) to sponsor or provide ethics consultation upon request; and (4) to assist in
the development of policies and guidelines on issues with ethical content.

   In addition, the ethics committee also ought to oversee the other four
elements of the ethics program discussed in the following sections.  The ethics
committee in a health care setting should be defined and constituted as an
official committee of the institution (with all of the protections afforded
hospital committees by state law), responsible to the governing body of the
institution, and connected by function to the medical or clinical staff of the
institution.  Placing ethics committees under the control of the medical or
clinical staff rather than making them directly accountable to the governing
body would stifle their independence in many settings and would erode stronger
community support and credibility.  Community support for the institutional
ethics committee can be garnered in a number of ways, for example by holding
town meetings, inviting community members to observe committee meetings, asking
community leaders for ideas, inviting community members to take part in the
committee's educational programs, and using the ethics consultation process when
appropriate.

    [*877]  2.  Education in Clinical Ethics and Health Care Law. -- The ethics
committee must sponsor and provide the second element of the program: education
in the form of an on-going course or annual series of programs in clinical
ethics and health care law for professional staff and, if possible, for the
community as well.  The goal of this aspect of education is to expose the staff
and the community to the most common ethical problems.  Staff education is vital
because physicians, nurses, and other clinicians are the people best able to
identify and resolve ethical problems that arise daily in clinical care.  These
same professionals must learn to identify legal issues in their medical cases,
become less afraid of legal threats, and know when to seek legal advice.
Ideally, the educational program or course will become so well regarded and
evaluated that eventually it will become part of the orientation and continuing
education process for health care professional associated with the institution.

   One approach to teaching clinical ethics and health care law to health care
professionals suggests holding training sessions and small group meetings to
discuss issues such as:

   (1) communication to promote informed consent and shared decisionmaking, and
how to address major breakdowns in communication,

   (2) truth-telling and disclosure dilemmas,

   (3) privacy and confidentiality,

   (4) determining patient capacity,

   (5) informed consent to treatment,

   (6) refusal of treatment

   (7) foregoing life-sustaining treatment,

   (8) terminal illness,

   (9) reproductive health care choices,

   (10) access to health care,

   (11) controlling the costs of health care, and

   (12) allocation of health care resources.  n67

   The list includes "major breakdowns in communication" as an ethical rather
than an "emotional" problem.  The rationale for this characterization is that
good communication between health care professionals and their patients is
necessary to informed and shared decisionmaking.  When communication breaks
down, shared decisionmaking is impossible.  When poor communication threatens
the  [*878]  integrity of the physician-patient relationship, the threshold of
an ethical problem has been reached.

   Practical education in the above areas, based on cases that clinicians can
identify as paradigms, help to equip them for the everyday tasks of working
through ethical problems and familiarize them with the relevant legal issues
that arise within such cases.  If staff members are prepared for everyday
problems, they will be more likely to recognize situations in which they should
request ethics consultations.

   3.  Ethics Consultation: Definition and Need. -- Possibly a major reason why
ethics committees have received unfavorable evaluations by clinicians and others
results from the built-in inadequacies of whole committees as primary providers
of ethics consultation.  n68 The function of consultation on a request to assist
with ethical problems that arise in the care of particular patients must be
differentiated from the function of the ethics committee as a forum where anyone
can bring an ethical issue for discussion.  Consultation can be provided in a
number of ways: (1) the whole committee can act as a consultant, under the
leadership of the chairperson, who is the contact person for consults; (2) a
sub-group of the committee can provide consultation under the leadership of the
chairperson or a designated leader, using the whole committee as a second-tier
when needed; (3) the ethics committee can delegate consultation responsibilities
to an ethics consultation service (whose members may differ from or include some
of the committee members) that acts on behalf of the committee, reports to it,
and evaluates when a second-tier consultation by the entire ethics committee is
necessary; or (4) ethics consultation can be delegated to one or more
individuals.  The fourth option may be a good choice for small institutions, but
should not be used without committee oversight of the consultants' activities.

   Differentiation between the consultation function and the committee function
is important.  The ethical problems that arise in patient care may involve very
personal and private material.  n69 Often the parties already are angry with one
another and have exchanged threats of various types, including threats to sue.
The prospect of  [*879]  entering a conference room and sharing these private
disputes with a large number of strangers raises anxieties and creates a
"tribunalistic" flavor .  Also, many physicians may prefer not to bring this
dispute into a committee setting initially, but would be open to consultation in
the traditional sense.  Such consultation must be personal, timely, and must
take place in or near the patient's room in the hospital or nursing home.

   Ethics consultation involves the provision of specialized help on request, to
identify, analyze, and resolve ethical problems that arise in clinical care.
n70 There are numerous compelling needs for ethics consultation.  The major need
for such assistance arises when good faith attempts to resolve ethical problems
fail and parties are involved in a dispute that materially affects the
continuity of care of the patient or concerns a problem of conscience for one or
more of the health care team.  Ethics consultation also is needed to resolve the
very complex cases that occur rather frequently in health care situations today.
Consultation helps to keep health care providers' fears of liability from
interfering with good medical practice and to reduce the number of "unnecessary"
malpractice suits -- suits that arise because ethical problems left unresolved
at the bedise smolder and then flame into disputes.  Ethics consultation --
informed by health care law -- often can clarify misunderstandings of law,
reduce legal threats, and resolve the problems in the case on ethical grounds.
Figures from the Bureau of Insurance in Virginia on the incidence of settlement
of medical malpractice suits show that in sixty-one to seventy-two percent of
the cases settled between 1985 and 1987, no money was awarded to the plaintiffs.
n71 Whether many of these cases involved resolvable ethical disputes remains
unknown pending further study, but such a hypothesis must be advanced.
Moreover, prevention of unnecessary malpractice suits through the use of ethics
consultation services would lower the costs of health care and reduce a trend
toward "defensive medicine."

    [*880]  In addition to is usual functions as a forum for discussion of
ethical issues, policy development, and health education, the ethics committee
should provide or oversee ethics consultation on request.  The ethics committee
must also study how best to provide ethics consultation in the institution.

   Whichever methodology is used, the primary responsibility for ethics
consultation should reside in the ethics committee, which should be accountable
for the quality of the consultations it conducts or authorizes.  The committee
must oversee the activities of the consultants to prevent the potential harms
that can arise from the following situations: Unchecked ethical bias of one or
more consultants; role confusion that results in ethics consultants issuing
medical orders or giving legal advice; consultants operating in a loose,
undefined manner without clear guidelines for proper consultation procedure; or
ethics consultants becoming involved in cases without the knowledge of the
attending physician or the patient.

   Each institution must promulgate a policy statement to define the goals,
functions, and responsibilities of its institutional ethics committee.  The
existence of a policy on ethics consultation reassures consultants that they
have institutional support.  The policy also will help to protect them and
others involved in the case from ethical or legal challenges made during or
after the consultation.

   An institutional policy statement on ethics consultation should have seven
features:

   (1) a philosophy locating responsibility for ethical decisionmaking with
clinicians and patients,

   (2) a statement of encouragement to clinical staff to request consultation
under certain conditions,

   (3) assurances that anyone who requests a consultation will be protected from
intimidation,

   (4) an ethically and legally sound approach to receiving requests for
consultation,

   (5) a protocol for ethics consultation,

   (6) a statement that ethics consultation will be provided free of charge, and

   (7) an accountability structure for ethics consultation.  n72

   The institution must rely on educated clinicians to respond to ethical
problems and encourage them to request ethics consultation,  [*881]  especially
in three situations: when their best efforts to resolve an ethical problem are
unsuccessful and the problem is provoking a dispute in which they are involved;
when a patient has no guardian, family member, or appropriate surrogate
decisionmaker; and when a very complex case with ethical problems arises.

   The policy of no billing for ethics consultations is based on the principle
that it is the hospital's obligation to make ethics consultation services
available to patients, much as religious and social work organizations provide
professional services without direct charge.  The decision not to charge for
consultation services is also appropriate because some ethical problems are
systemic and are not caused by the individual patient.  n73 However, although
patients should not be charged separate fees for ethics consultations, their
hospital bills will reflect the costs of the salaries and facilities needed to
support these services.

   4.  Resource Persons in Clinical Ethics. -- As the institutional ethics
program is strengthened, it will require continued nurturing.  Each institution
will need resource persons to support and implement the elements in the program,
in addition to a strong ethics committee chairperson who is able to relate as a
peer both to clinical staff and administrators.  An institutional ethics program
requires at least two resource persons, in addition to an effective chairperson,
to fulfill these roles.  Ideally, one resource person should be a physician and
the other should be another health care or health-related professional, such as
a nurse, administrator, a chaplain, or social worker.  The more solid their
community connections, the stronger will be their abilities to strengthen those
aspects of the program that involve community members.  The institution must
recognize and finance the time that the resource persons and chairpersons spend
in performing their functions.

   These resource persons should be trained at existing clinically-based
bioethics centers.  The training should enable local resource persons to:

   (1) assist the members of the ethics committees to educate themselves
concerning relevant issues,

   (2) teach in the clinical ethics education program,

   (3) keep up with ethics and health care law, and literature,

   (4) speak in the hospital and community on request, and

   (5) serve as ethics consultants or as resources to those who are consultants.

   This training program can be one element in an outreach program for health
care institutions whose leadership desires to strengthen or start an ethics
program.  n74

   5.  Evaluation and Research. -- The fifth feature of an ethics program is the
capacity to evaluate the efficacy of the four aspects of the ethics program,
specifically the strengths and weaknesses of case consultation and of the
clinical ethics education program.  Ethics programs also can sponsor research on
the causes and dynamics of the most frequent ethical problems that arise in
health care institutions.

C.  Remedies for Suppression of Research in Reproductive Biology in the Federal
Sector

   The bioethics movement needs to turn attention and resources to the fact that
in the federal sector, basic and clinical research in reproductive biology is
suppressed unjustifiably.  Scientific freedom, one of the central tenets of the
bioethics movement, is being violated in this area of science.  Ironically, a
bioethics movement that began by helping to restrict research needs today to
help to free a crucial area of science from unreasonable bans, moratoria, and
lack of support.  Also, since Rush v. Sullivan,  n75 control and suppression of
physician communication about abortion services with patients served in
federally-funded family planning clinics has been added to suppression of
scientific activities with the fetus or embryo.  The growing incidence of
violations of scientific freedom, free speech, and professional responsibility
ought to be of paramount concern.  This issue cuts across research, patient
care, and community  [*883]  medicine.  These actions fundamentally violate a
key element in the objective of the bioethics movement.

   How did this situation develop?  A process of restricting investigative
research concerning the fetus and human embryo that was developed in the 1970s
has gradually become a de facto policy of suppression.  n76 In the 1970s two
Congressionally appointed groups made recommendations that cautiously encouraged
and also sharply restricted fetal and pre-embryo research.  n77 The
recommendations for fetal research of the National Commission for the Protection
of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavorial Research were adopted as federal
regulations in 1975.  n78 One of the key recommendations was the formation of an
Ethics Advisory Board (EAB) to advise the Secretary of Health and Human Services
on ethical problems in research, including fetal and embryo research.  n79 In
effect, almost no fetal research and no embryo research at all could be done
without EAB approval and advice to the Secretary.  The modest encouragement of
these regulations for limited investigational fetal research was then undone by
bureaucratic fiats and actions of Congress in the 1980s that remain unchanged.
n80 One major bureaucratic fiat has been the disbanding and refusal to recharter
an EAB, after a brief existence between 1977 and 1979.  Another fiat has been
the refusal of any HHS Secretary to approve the EAB's recommendations to
Secretary Califano in 1979 to permit federal funding to study in vitro
fertilization and untransferred pre-embryos.  n81 As a consequence, American
research in reproductive biology and allied scientific fields has lost
significant ground.

    [*884]  Webster's defines suppression as: "1a: to put down or out of
existence by or as by authority, force or pressure; b: to force into impotence
or obscurity."  n82 Both definitions apply to fetal research in the federal
sector today.  Only a small amount of federally funded investigational fetal
research has occurred since it was permitted and restricted by federal
guidelines.  n83 A review of extramural grants by the National Institutes of
Child Health and Human Development for projects on high risk pregnancy and fetal
pathophysiology for 1983-84 showed that of 183 projects, no more than three
involved instances of human fetal research that even approached the threshold of
minimal risk.  n84 In this period investigators developed the chorionic villus
sampling approach to prenatal diagnosis using new methods from molecular biology
for direct diagnosis of fetal DNA.  n85 However, institutional funds and patient
fees supported this research.  Also at this time some positive results were
attained in fetal therapy.  n86 However, with the exception of one experiment in
one case of fetal therapy  n87 the federal role in research on fetal therapy was
minimal and advisory only.

   Three types of reforms are needed in the area of federal fetal regulations.
One is to create a specific framework for the definition of "minimal risk," the
threshold at which investigational fetal research is permitted.  n88 The second
is to allow greater than minimal research risks in the first trimester of
pregnancy, a level now permitted in research with living children.  n89 A third
is the lack of a standard to permit approval, after national review, for
selective exposure of fetuses to be aborted to higher research risks before
exposing fetuses intended for delivery to such risks.

    [*885]  However, the most ethically troubling problem in the field of fetal
research is the injustice done to open debate about the ethics of specific
projects by removal of the EAB.  The resolution of public ethical problems
requires a proper national forum for debate and compromise.  However, today no
national forum for specific projects exists.

   "To force into impotence" aptly describes the result of a 1975 ban on use of
federal funds for research with the human pre-embryo.  n90 The NIH, the nation's
premier biomedical research agency, is impotent to provide peer review and
funding of research affecting infertility, human genetics, cancer, and AIDS.
Although at least 5000 children have been born after in vitro fertilization
(IVF),  n91 the NIH has not been able to contribute in any direct way to
improving the science or efficacy of this technique.  There is a major need for
research to improve the generally poor results of in vitro fertilization and
other infertility treatments and to reduce their very large costs.  Infertility
affects 2.4 million married couples of reproductive age and an unknown number of
potential parents among unmarried adults in the United States.  n92 However,
this need remains unmet due to the ban on the use of federal funds to support
these activities.

   "To put down . . . by authority" best describes a moratorium first imposed in
May 1988 by the Assistant Secretary for Health on any research funded by the
Public Health Service using fetal tissue obtained after elective abortion for
transplantation into human beings.  n93 In November 1989, the moratorium became
a ban  n94 by order of the HHS Secretary that overrode the December 1988
recommendations of an expert advisory panel convened by the NIH.  n95

   The laws of the individual states are radically different from  [*886]  those
of the federal government.  All fifty states adopted the Uniform Anatomical Gift
Act in the 1970s, permitting research involving the abortus with the consent of
the parent(s).  n96 Subsequently, five states prohibited research with the dead
abortus after induced abortion, except research involving pathological
examinations or autopsies.  n97

   Huge moral contradictions exist in United States research policy.
Investigators in federally supported studies are permitted to take more than
minimal research risks with living children with cancer.  In fact, in Phase I
cancer trials, researchers can give an agent that is toxic and will, in some
cases, lead to the death of the child before a cancer-induced death.  However,
researchers are not permitted to touch a human embryo ex utero with intent to do
research to find out how cancer begins.  Some cancers begin in the embryo.  How
will we ever understand how to treat cancer unless we know how it begins?  They
also may not subject a first trimester fetus which is to be aborted to any
research risks they would not also undertake with the fetus to be delivered.
n98

   These issues in research ethics affect the ethical climate of every health
care institution with the capacity to do fetal, embryo, and fetal tissue
transplant research.  Members of ethics committees should discuss this situation
and their responsibilities towards scientists in the institution and in the
federal sector.

D.  Restoration of a National Forum for Bioethical Issues

   There has been no successor to the national bioethics bodies of the 1970s and
early 1980s.  The Congressional Biomedical Ethics Board (CBEB), authorized by
Congress in 1985  n99 and constituted in 1988, collapsed in 1989 under the
weight of abortion controversy before being able to begin its public work.  n100
The CBEB's three mandates were to prepare reports for Congress on human genetic
engineering, to review regulations governing fetal research and the  [*887]
role of the Secretarial waiver for projects involving more than minimal risks,
and to review regulations on the feeding and hydration of dying patients.  n101
However, the short-lived CBEB should not be mistaken as an intended replacement
for the EAB.  The EAB was supposed to recommend ethically controversial
scientific guidelines for research to the Secretary of HHS and to advise him on
research policy matters.  n102 The CBEB would have advised Congress only on
ethical and scientific standards to govern fetal research and other problems as
mandated by Congress.  n103

   Recently, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the
American Fertility Society moved to establish a national ethics advisory board
to monitor fetal tissue transplant research and embryo research.  n104 This plan
by scientific leaders whose research is most affected by the separation of
federal and private support is similar to an arrangement (Voluntary Licensing
Authority) that prevailed in the United Kingdom after the government took no
immediate steps to implement the findings of the Warnock Report that approved
limited research involving human embryos.  n105

   In a democracy such as ours, a national body is needed to provide an open
forum for debate and recommendations on the issues originally referred to the
CBEB.  Such a forum also provides a place to discuss and formulate plans of
action on the critical and timely issue of access to health care.  The absence
of such a national body is causing great harm to the country.  Nothing less than
restoration of a national body will suffice, although great care must be taken
to minimize political manipulation of this body.  Although political action to
stimulate the desire for change will be necessary, local hospital ethics
committees and institutional review boards must voice their needs for clearer
national guidelines.

   CONCLUSION

   In this article, I do not dispute Susan Wolf's argument for due process and
protection of patients' rights within ethics committees.  My approach to the
issue, though, differs from hers.  Rather than focusing on the schizophrenia
that tends to burden committees' activities  [*888]  today, I place the
committee in a historical and evolutionary perspective.  Ethics committees are
in the process of evolution, and the issues they address are features on the
social and political landscape of bioethics.  These issues will affect the
evolution of committees, just as the committee decisions will reshape the
issues.  To use Wolf's nesting rights metaphor, I want to understand the tree
that the nest will be built in -- the better to build the nest and attach it
firmly to the tree.

   Above, I propose both a national bioethics agenda for the 1990s and a
programmatic approach for individual ethics committees and their institutions.
The two are inseparably linked by a commitment to raise awareness of the role of
bioethics in medicine within the medical, lay, and political communities.  My
stress on such broad educational efforts within the community and with
clinicians is particularly responsive to Wolf's argument for due process within
the ethics committee.  It suggests that many of the difficult cases committees
confront can be effectively addressed in their early stages by increased
sensitivity to bioethical dilemmas in patient care.  The programmatic approach
attempts to treat the cause of the schizophrenia within committees rather than
responding to symptoms.

   In an institutional ethics program with strong bonds with the community,
clinicians will better know how and when to ask for bedside consultation that is
more effective and engaging than a full committee proceeding.  The committee, by
restricting, not only can minimize legalistic confrontations between patients
and clinicians, but also can free resources for the tasks of educating the
community and preparing clinicians better to identify and respond to ethical
problems in patient care.

    [*889]  APPENDIX A

   University of Virginia Health Sciences Center Ethics Consultation Policy

February 9, 1990

   Primary responsibility for identifying and resolving ethical problems in the
clinical setting (conflicts of values, principles, or interests) rests with the
professional staff in concert with patients, and, where appropriate, their
families or other representatives.  The Ethics Committee of the Health Sciences
Center provides assistance with ethical problems pertaining to patient care
through its interdisciplinary Ethics Consultation Service (ECS) which is
available on a 24-hour basis to hospital staff, patients, and patients' families
or other representatives.

   Health Sciences Center staff are encouraged to seek timely involvement of the
ECS in ethically troublesome situations.  The Health Sciences Center assures
that persons requesting ethics consultation may do so without intimidation or
fear of reprisal.

   Ethics consultation seeks to facilitate communication and shared
decisionmaking in patient care; to foster greater awareness among health
professionals of the relationship of values (their own and their patients') to
health care decisionmaking; to prevent harm to patients, health professionals,
and the institution; and to teach health professionals to recognize and resolve
ethical problems.  The recommendations of ethics consultants are advisory only.
The process of ethics consultation is intended to supplement and support -- not
supplant -- existing departmental and institutional mechanisms for making
decisions and resolving conflicts in clinical practice.

Procedure

   1.  The ECS is a service of the Ethics Committee and reports directly to it.
The ECS helps those persons directly involved in a patient's care to identify,
analyze, and resolve ethical problems pertaining to the care of that patient.
Clinicians are particularly encouraged to seek assistance from the ECS when:

   a.  the best efforts of the health care providers to resolve an ethical
problem have reached an impasse;

   b.  the ethical problem involves a serious disagreement or dispute among the
health care providers;

   c.  the case is unusual, unprecedented, or very complex ethically;

   d.  the patient is incapacitated and has no family, guardian, or surrogate
decisionmaker.

    [*890]  2.  Requests for ethics consultation may be made by health care
providers, patients, family members or guardians, students, or others with a
legitimate interest in the patient.

   3.  Requests for ethics consultation are made by calling the ethics
consultant on-call (consultants are available 24 hours a day).

   4.  The ECS adheres to the following protocol in a formal consultation:

   a.  The attending physician will be informed that a request for consultation
has been made and he/she will have an opportunity to discuss the situation with
the primary ethics consultant.

   b.  The patient and/or family (if the patient is incapacitated) will be
informed that a consultation has been requested and will be encouraged to
participate.

   c.  The charge nurse will be informed of the time and place of the
consultation.

   d.  The primary consultant will place a summary of the consultation and any
recommendations in the patient's chart.  This note will be countersigned by the
ECS director or his designated alternate.

   e.  If the ECS team is unable to resolve the problems in a particular case,
the chairman of the Ethics Committee will be so notified and may then convene an
ad hoc group, as outlined below, to assist in achieving resolution.

   (1) Upon referral of a case, the chairman of the Ethics Committee may choose
to appoint an ad hoc group of at least five persons to review and discuss the
case further.

   (2) This committee, selected by the chairman of the Ethics Committee or his
designated alternate, shall include the following members: a physician, who
shall chair the group; a nurse; and three or more members selected from among an
ethicist, a member of the clergy, a lawyer, a hospital administrator, another
member of the clinical staff, and a community representative.  Committee members
may but do not have to be members of the Ethics Committee.  This committee may
at any time ask the chairman of the Ethics Committee to appoint to it additional
members (e.g., persons with special skills or knowledge).

   (3) The committee shall be available on a 24-hour basis for prompt meetings
about the case in question.

   (4) If the committee convenes meetings, it shall conduct at  [*891]  least
one meeting which is open to the patient and/or the patient's family (or
appropriate representative) and the physicians, nurses, and other health care
providers involved in the case.  Except as provided in this policy, the
committee may decide for itself all procedural questions pertinent to the
meetings about the case.

   (5) In meetings about the case, the chairman of the committee shall ask one
member to serve as special advocate for the patient.

   (6) The committee shall help ensure that the patient and the family or
appropriate representative have been fully informed of the patient's condition,
prognosis, and treatment options, and that all parties have been appraised of
all appropriate available health care and support services.

   5.  The ECS is also available for consultation on ethical problems related to
clinical research (a) prior to the submission of research proposals to the Human
Investigation Committee or (b) after approved research has begun.

   6.  There shall be no charges, billing, or fees for service for ethics
consultation.

   7.  The ECS is not intended or authorized to provide legal advice on patient
care.  Legal questions and concerns regarding patient care should be referred to
the University General Counsel through the office of the hospital's
Administrative Resident.

    [*892]  APPENDIX B

Developing Hospital Ethics Programs in Virginia

   "Developing Hospital Ethics Programs" (DHEP) is a statewide outreach program
of the Center for Biomedical Ethics at the University of Virginia (U.Va.
Center).  It is designed to assist hospitals in identifying their specific needs
with regard to strengthening or starting an ethics program, and in educating and
training two appointed resource persons, who will become fellows of the U.Va.
Center in a work-study program that will result in a plan for on-going support
for the hospital from DHEP.  During 1990-92, the program involves 20 hospitals,
10 in each full calendar year.  What follows is a phase-by-phase program plan.
n106

Project Phases

   Phase I (January 1990-June 1990). -- The first phase is designed to assist
each hospital with a needs assessment to evaluate its readiness for an ethics
program and to rank priorities among the features of the program.

   Phase II (July 1990-March 1991). -- In July, the hospital's chief executive
officer (CEO) and the hospital ethics committee will identify and appoint two
resource persons (twenty total).  Upon their appointment, these persons will
become Virginia fellows and come weekly for thirteen weeks, starting in
September 1990, for education and training to respond to the needs and
priorities of the sponsoring institution by developing a DHEP plan.  By March
15, 1991, a mid-way evaluation of the strengths and weaknesses of a proposed
DHEP plan will be completed by the local hospital ethics committee and hospital
CEO.

   Phase III (April 1991-December 1991). -- The twenty fellows, assisted by
U.Va. Center staff and working with their home hospital ethics committees, will
implement the first stage of a DHEP plan, including an evaluation component to
be completed by December 1991.

   Phase IV (by March 15, 1992). -- The U.Va. Center's DHEP project will be
evaluated by local assessment of the first stage of a  [*893]  DHEP plan for
that hospital, plus telephone or personal interviews with the twenty fellows,
hospital ethics committee chairpersons, and U.Va. Center staff.  The evaluation
will be done by an independent evaluator in the humanities to be selected.  A
written report will be prepared by the evaluator.

Project Activities

   Phase I. -- The goal of this phase is an assessment, in a participatory
process, of the hospital's readiness to support the evolution of a full ethics
program.  A simple five-part needs assessment will be given to all health care
professionals in each hospital.  Each hospital will receive a research report
that will rank the ethical problems (as seen by different professionals) that
most need attention, as well as the needs of professionals and the hospital for
a forum to raise issues, for education in ethics and health law, for ethics
consultation, and for guidelines on ethically important policy issues.  This
phase ends with a ranking of priorities for development of the local hospital
ethics program.

   Phase II. -- Two appointed persons will come to the U.Va. Center as Virginia
fellows, supervised by the Coordinator for Outreach Programs who will be
assisted by other faculty in four areas of expertise most required in clinical
ethics and ethics consults: biomedical ethics, health care law, clinical
knowledge, and interpersonal skills.

   In Phase II, the visiting fellows will engage in three activities.  First,
they will take a basic clinical ethics and health care law course.  Second, they
will complete an initial thirteen session cycle of a Virginia fellows seminar on
"Hospital Ethics Programs" designed to cover what is known about the five
elements of a program and to focus on their institutions.  The seminar will be
the major resource for developing a DHEP plan with an evaluation component.
n107 And third, they will observe the U.Va. hospital ethics program, its
hospital  [*894]  ethics committee and ethics consultation service classes, and
activities in the U.Va. Health Sciences Center relating to biomedical ethics and
health law.

   During this period, a member of the Educational Team will make one site visit
to a participating hospital.  The purpose of the visit will be to coordinate a
meeting of the hospital ethics committee and the resource persons and to help
them to compose the first draft of a DHEP.

   The fellows will work together in pairs, with the help of the seminar
leaders, to develop a DHEP plan for their hospital.  The plan will be evaluated
for strengths and weaknesses by the local hospital ethics committee and the
hospital CEO by March 15, 1991.

   Phase III. -- After the mid-way evaluation, each pair of fellows will begin
to implement the DHEP plan.  They will return to the U.Va. Center for eight
weekly seminars in April and May, 1991 to complete their seminar studies of
hospital ethics programs and to report on problems and progress to date.  The
content of the last cycle of seminars must not be planned prematurely.

   During the summer of 1991, U.Va. Center staff will conduct a final site visit
to assist the hospital ethics committee and resource persons with the plan, as
well as in planning for future components of their program.

   The hospital CEO and the chair of the hospital ethics committee, along with
the two fellows, will be invited to the U.Va. Center for a two-day conference in
November 1991 to report on the progress of their ethics programs.  At this time,
a full picture of progress to date should emerge.

   Phase IV. -- Final project evaluation will take place.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawTreatmentPatient ConsentInformed ConsentPublic Health & Welfare
LawHealthcareMaternity & ChildrenPublic Health & Welfare LawHealthcareServices
for Disabled & Elderly PersonsCare FacilitiesNursing Facilities

FOOTNOTES:




n1  See Wolf, Ethics Committees and Due Process: Nesting Rights in a Community
of Caring, 50 MD. L. REV. 798, 805, 820-22 (1991).




n2  See id. at 814-20.




n3  See id. at 802-03.




n4 " Clinical ethics" is an interdisciplinary activity to identify, analyze, and
resolve ethical problems that arise in the care of particular patients.  The
major thrust of clinical ethics is to work for outcomes that best serve the
interests and welfare of patients and their families.  This activity is related
conceptually to biomedical ethics, a broader, interdisciplinary branch of ethics
that has evolved in the last twenty years to study ethical, legal, and social
issues raised in the life sciences, including medicine.

   My own tendency is to encourage "realism" in clinical ethics.  Realism is
intended in the usual meaning of "Be a realist," that is, be concerned to get
the facts of the problem or case straight; to ascertain the patient's
preferences; to identify the ethical problems in the context of the case; to
weigh the merits of competing arguments and sets of interests against standards
that arise from practical experience; and, in the most complex cases, to be able
to accept a rough approximation of an ideal resolution after evaluating all of
the real options -- that is, realists are willing to compromise.

   Realism in ethics is wary of positions that are impracticable or overly
theoretical, visionary, and sentimental.  Moral conflicts are conflicts of
desires, interests, and principles.  These conflicts are very hard to unravel
and understand.  The purpose of theory in clinical ethics is to deepen and
strengthen the understanding of such conflicts, but not to dominate or overwhelm
the decisionmaking process.  The most elemental purpose of morality itself is to
protect human beings and other species from harm.  The basic purpose of ethics
(not morality, which is better understood as a kind of institution within
institutions) is to protect human beings, societies, and other species from the
harms that follow when real moral conflicts are avoided or obscured.  Ethics is
reflection that involves the whole person in moral problems, and in the
evaluation of the fitness for survival and evolution of the moralities required
by societies.  Avoiding real analysis of moral conflicts allows the basic causes
of these special disputes to grow, to obscure legitimate claims, and to drown
these claims with moralism.  Moralism is the language of avoidance of the honest
labors of ethics.  The first task of ethics is to provide insight into everyday
moral problems and the fitness of the moral guidance societies make for
themselves and their members.  This task must be undertaken in special settings,
like the clinical setting, and must include the persons most involved --
clinicians and their patients.

   For this reason, one must be wary of the term "ethicist" to describe what any
one person does in the clinical setting.  Clinical ethics is a group activity,
and contributions are made to it from the disciplines of medicine, nursing, law,
theology and religious studies, philosophy, the social and behavioral sciences,
and others.  Ethics is the business of everyone concerned with the welfare of
the patient, not just those with special training in the history and methodology
of ethical reasoning.  The role of those who specialize in nurturing the
activity of clinical ethics is better understood as that of a "consultant in
clinical ethics," than of an "ethicist." This term avoids the implication of
elitism or domination of the process of clinical ethics.




n5  See Wolf, supra note 1, at 814.




n6  See id. at 847-52.




n7  See Povar, Evaluating Ethics Committees: What Do We Mean By Success?, 50 MD.
L. REV. 904, 915-16 (1991).




n8  Eliot, Burnt Norton, in T. S. ELIOT COLLECTED POEMS 1909-1962 175 (1963).




n9  In 1970, Margaret Mead described the character of the era in which bioethics
was born: "all . . . are equally immigrants into the new era -- some come as
refugees and some as castaways . . . everyone born and bred before World War II
is . . . an immigrant in time . . . struggling to grapple with the unfamiliar
conditions of life in a new era." M. MEAD, CULTURE AND COMMITMENT 72 (1970).




n10  R. Fox, Advanced Medical Technology -- Social and Ethical Implications, in
ESSAYS IN MEDICAL SOCIOLOGY 413 (1979).




n11  See Fox & Swazey, Medical Morality Is Not Bioethics -- Medical Ethics in
China and the United States, 27 PERSP. BIOLOGY & MED. 336, 354 (1984).




n12  See infra subpart III(c).




n13  Van Rensselaer Potter was probably the author of the term "bioethics," but
his claim to have given birth to a field that is supposed to accompany the term
is hard to support.  Potter, Bioethics: The Science of Survival, 14 PERSP.
BIOLOGY & MED. 127 (1970).  See Fox, supra note 10, at 413 n.1.  In my view,
Joseph Fletcher's book, Morals and Medicine, was the most important early
written work in the post-World War II examination of medical ethics and the
physician-patient relationship.  It appeared just before the rise of concern
about research ethics and the explosion of knowledge in the life sciences in the
1960s.  See J. FLETCHER, MORALS AND MEDICINE (1954).




n14  The largest collection is housed in the National Reference Center for
Bioethics Literature, Kennedy Institute of Ethics, Georgetown University,
Washington, D.C. 20057.  A user can also dial (800)-MED-ETHX.  A grant from the
National Library of Medicine of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) supports
this collection of documents.  Volume 15 of the Bibliography of Bioethics has
2400 citations listed in over 70 subject areas, and is available from the
Center.  See 15 BIBLIOGRAPHY OF BIOETHICS (1989).




n15  ENCYCLOPEDIA OF BIOETHICS (W. Reich ed. 1978).




n16  Id. at xix.




n17  1 A. MACINTYRE, A SHORT HISTORY OF ETHICS 57 (1966) (emphasis in original).




n18  This definition of bioethics combines two factors: action and systematic
reflection on ethical guidance.  See R. FOX, supra note 10, at 413-14; T.
BEAUCHAMP & J. CHILDRESS, PRINCIPLES OF BIOMEDICAL ETHICS 21 (3d ed. 1989).  The
emphasis on "unjustifiable infringement" on freedom of clinicians and scientists
reflects a strong commitment to the academic and scientific freedoms underlying
the bioethics movement.  When scientific freedom is restricted or infringed, it
needs to be done in the context of a reasoned and systematic argument.  See id.
at 53.  Such reasoned and systematic argument is conspicuously missing from
government actions and statements that attempt to suppress reproductive biology
research in the federal sector.




n19  See Bayer, Callahan, Caplan & Jennings, Toward Justice in Health Care, 78
AM. J. PUB. HEALTH 583 (1988).




n20  See INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE, PRENATAL CARE -- REACHING MOTHERS, REACHING
INFANTS (1988).

   In 1985, 76.2 percent of all United States infants were born to women who
began prenatal care in the first trimester of pregnancy, 18.1 percent were born
to women who delayed care until the second trimester, 4.0 percent to women who
obtained care only in the third trimester, and 1.7 percent to mothers who had no
prenatal care at all.  When key statistics are analyzed to determine rates of
adequate care rather than trimester of onset, a slightly different picture
emerges.  In 1985, only 68.2 percent of all women obtained adequate prenatal
care, 23.9 percent had an intermediate level of care, and 7.9 percent of all
pregnant women had inadequate care.
Id. at 17.




n21  See infra at 875-78 (discussing institutional ethics programs).




n22  See generally Callahan & Campbell (eds.), Theology, Religious Traditions,
and Bioethics, HASTINGS CENTER REP., July-Aug. 1990, special supp., at 1; Fox,
supra note 10; Toulmin, How Medicine Saved the Life of Ethics, 25 PERSP. BIOLOGY
& MED. 736 (1982).




n23  See, e.g., I. LADIMER & R. NEWMAN, CLINICAL INVESTIGATION IN MEDICINE:
LEGAL, ETHICAL AND MORAL ASPECTS 116-19 (1963); Langer, Human Experimentation:
Cancer Studies at Sloan-Kettering Stir Public Debate on Medical Ethics, 143
SCIENCE 551 (1964).




n24  See Beecher, Ethics and Human Experimentation -- Henry Beecher Revisited,
317 N. ENG. J. MED. 1195 (1987); D. ROTHMAN, STRANGERS AT THE BEDSIDE 70-100
(1991).




n25  Two of these persons were James Shannon and Luther Terry, who respectively
held the positions of director of the NIH and Surgeon General in the mid 1960s
when the policy on prior group review was being shaped; cf. Fletcher, The
Evolution of the Ethics of Informed Consent, in RESEARCH ETHICS 222 (K. Berg &
K. Tranoy eds. 1983).




n26  See M. PAPPWORTH, HUMAN GUINEA PIGS 188 (1967).  The "so-called Nuremburg
Code is a judicial summary of the expert testimony presented in the case against
the Nazi doctors accused of war crimes. . . .  The code consists of ten clauses
of which the first is the most important and is developed in the greatest
detail. . . ." The first clause states that the voluntary consent of the human
subject is absolutely essential.




n27  Id. (documenting experiments made on hospital patients).  Patients died as
a result of investigators taking

   risks with patients of which those patients . . . [were] not fully aware, or
not aware at all, and to which they would not [have] consent[ed] if they . . .
[had been] aware; . . . subject[ing] them to mental and physical distress which
. . . [was] in no way necessitated by, and ha[d] no connection with, the
treatment of the disease from which they . . . [were] suffering; and in some
cases deliberately . . . retard[ing] the recovery from that disease so that
investigation of a particular condition . . . [could] be extended.
Id. at 3.




n28  See 45 C.F.R. § 46.103 (1990)+.




n29  See Protection of Human Subjects, 45 C.F.R. § 47.107; see also SURGEON
GENERAL, U.S. PUB. HEALTH SERVICE, DEP'T OF HEALTH, EDUCATION & WELFARE, PPO NO
. 129, INVESTIGATIONS INVOLVING HUMAN SUBJECTS, INCLUDING CLINICAL RESEARCH:
REQUIREMENTS FOR REVIEW TO INSURE THE RIGHTS AND WELFARE OF INDIVIDUALS (1966);
National Research Service Award Act of 1974, Pub. L. No. 93-348, § 472, 88 Stat.
342 (1974).




n30  See 45 C.F.R. §§ 46.112 (1990).




n31  See id. § 46.103.




n32  See id. § 465.204.




n33  See id.




n34  See, e.g., Pellegrino, Human Values and the Medical Curriculum - An
Educator's Response, 209 J. A.M.A. 1349 (1969) (one of 20 articles in that issue
of J. A.M.A. addressing this movement in the health sciences education
community).




n35  See Jonsen, Can an Ethicist Be a Consultant?, in FRONTIERS IN MEDICAL
ETHICS: APPLICATIONS IN A MEDICAL SETTING 157-71 (V. Abernethy ed. 1980).




n36  See KENNEDY INSTITUTE OF ETHICS, INTERNATIONAL DIRECTORY OF BIOETHICS
ORGANIZATIONS (1989) .




n37  PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION FOR THE STUDY OF ETHICAL PROBLEMS IN MEDICINE AND
BIOMEDICAL AND BEHAVORIAL RESEARCH, DECIDING TO FOREGO LIFE-SUSTAINING TREATMENT
(1983) [hereinafter PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION, DECIDING TO FOREGO LIFE-SUSTAINING
TREATMENT] .




n38  The first reference to the need for such committees was in a law review
article by a Texas pediatrician.  See Teel, The Physician's Dilemma: A Doctor's
View: What the Law Should Be, 27 BAYLOR L. REV. 7 (1975). See also B. HOSFORD,
MAKING YOUR MEDICAL DECISIONS: YOUR RIGHTS AND HARSH DECISIONS TODAY 126 (1982)
("[W]hen Karen Ann Quinlan was moved to Morris View Nursing Home, administrators
there set up an ethics committee with the membership that Dr. Teel had
recommended.").  The confusion between what the New Jersey justices wanted from
the committee (that is, to settle the issue on Ms. Quinlan's prognosis), and the
self-understanding of the committee as a source of advice to physicians and
patients, is also a matter of record.  See id. at 127.




n39  See Optimum Care for Hopelessly Ill Patients: A Report of the Clinical Care
Committee of the Massachusetts General Hospital, 295 NEW ENG. J. MED. 362
(1976).




n40  See, e.g., R. CRAIG, C. MIDDLETON, L. O'CONNELL, ETHICS COMMITTEES, A
PRACTICAL APPROACH (1986); INSTITUTIONAL ETHICS COMMITTEES AND HEALTH CARE
DECISIONMAKING (R. Cranford & A. Doudera eds. 1984); B. HOSFORD, BIOETHICS
COMMITTEES: THE HEALTH CARE PROVIDER'S GUIDE (1986).




n41  PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION, DECIDING TO FOREGO LIFE-SUSTAINING TREATMENT, supra
note 37, at 162-63.




n42  See 45 C.F.R. 1340 (1990); Murray, The Final, Anticlimactic Rule on Baby
Doe, HASTINGS CENTER REP., June 1985, at 5.




n43  651 F. Supp. 395, 399-400 (1983) (striking down as arbitrary and capricious
a regulation concerning life-sustaining medical treatment to be used to preserve
lives of severely mentally or physically defective newborns, where agency
apparently had failed to consider the disruptive nature or propriety of its
action).




n44  MD. HEALTH-GEN. CODE ANN. § 19-371 (1990 & Supp. 1990).




n45  Hoffmann, Does Legislating Hospital Ethics Committees Make a Difference?: A
Study of Hospital Ethics Committees in Maryland, the District of Columbia, and
Virginia (1991) (to be published in a forthcoming issue of Law, Medicine &
Health Care) (unpublished manuscript on file at the Maryland Law Review).




n46  Id. at 26.




n47  Id.




n48  Id.




n49  Id.




n50  Id.




n51  See S. 1766, 101st Cong., 1st Sess. (1989).




n52  The bill was finally passed as part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
Act OF of 1990, Pub. L. No. 101-508, § 4206, 104 Stat. 1388 (1990).




n53  Id Id. § 4206(a)(1), 104 Stat. at 1388.




n54  See S. 1766, 101st Cong., 1st Sess. §§ 3(a)(3), 4(b)(3) (1989).




n55  This information came from a personal communication I had with Gaelynn
DeMartino, a representative of the American Hospital Association, Washington,
D.C. (Feb. 22, 1991).  See also Hoffman, Regulating Ethics Committees in Health
Care Institutions -- Is It Time?, 50 MD. L. REV. 746, 753 n.46 and accompanying
text (1991) (providing an account of the legislative process).




n56  See Capron, The Patient Self-Determination Act: Not Now, HASTINGS CENTER
REP., Sept.-Oct. 1990, at 36; Fletcher, The Patient Self-Determination Act: Yes,
HASTINGS CENTER REP., Sept.-Oct. 1990, at 34; see also supra note 43 and
accompanying text.




n57  See 1 PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION FOR THE STUDY OF ETHICAL PROBLEMS IN MEDICINE
AND BIOMEDICAL AND BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH, SECURING ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE: A REPORT
ON THE ETHICAL IMPLICATIONS OF DIFFERENCES IN THE AVAILABILITY OF HEALTH
SERVICES 49-113 (1983) [hereinafter SECURING ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE].




n58  Jennings, A Grassroots Movement in Bioethics: Community Health Decisions,
HASTINGS CENTER REP., June-July 1988, special supp., at 1-16 (stating that the
Oregon Health Decisions program organizes participatory fora at the grassroots
level throughout the state, thus bridging the gap between health care providers
and consumer groups, and between experts and "ordinary" citizens).




n59  These four criteria stem from reflections on the literature cited infra
note 60 and supra note 57




n60  See D. CALLAHAN, SETTING LIMITS: MEDICAL GOALS IN AN AGING SOCIETY (1987)
[hereinafter SETTING LIMITS]; D. CALLAHAN, WHAT KIND OF LIFE?  THE LIMITS OF
MEDICAL PROGRESS (1990); N. DANIELS, JUST HEALTH CARE (1985); C. DOUGHERTY,
AMERICAN HEALTH CARE: REALITIES, RIGHTS, AND REFORMS (1988); 1 SECURING ACCESS
TO HEALTH CARE, supra note 57, at 11-46; Outka, Social Justice and Equal Access
to Health Care, 2 J. REL. ETHICS 11 (1974); Wikler, Philosophical Perspectives
on Acccess to Health Care: An Introduction, in 2 SECURING ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE,
supra note 57, at 107, 129-42.




n61  See, e.g., C. DOUGHERTY, supra note 60, at 7, 15, 142, 178, 209 n.30
(discussing burdens due to racially based unequal access, health care costs and
administrative waste); D. CALLAHAN, SETTING LIMITS, supra note 60, at 115-17,
119-23 (discussing financial pressure on the government due to indiscriminate
spending on health care and general administrative burdens).




n62  See Fletcher & Wertz, Ethics, Law, and Medical Genetics: After the Human
Genome Is Mapped, 39 EMORY L.J. 747, 756-58 (1990 .




n63  Public Health Service, Bureau of Maternal and Child Health,
Promoting/Preventing Disease: Year 2000.  Objectives for the Nation (1990)
(draft memorandum).  Today, the United States is the only developed nation whose
elected leaders, because of moral opposition to abortion, plan to reduce genetic
services.  Americans will eventually decide -- in their own enlightened
self-interest -- to chart the course of the nation's health in more moderate
ways, inclusive of genetic services and other forms of health care grounded in
preventive medicine and public health.




n64  See generally D. WERTZ & J. FLETCHER, ETHICS AND HUMAN GENETICS: A
CROSS-CULTURAL PERSPECTIVE (1989).




n65  See supra notes 46-49 and accompanying text.




n66  See supra note 40; see also Kanoti & Vinicky, The Role and Structure of
Hospital Ethics Committees, in HEALTH CARE ETHICS: A GUIDE FOR DECISION MAKERS
293 (G. Anderson & V. Glesnes-Anderson eds. 1987).  For the best practical guide
to ethics committees' work, see J. ROSS, C. BAYLEY, V. MICHEL & D. PUGH,
HANDBOOK FOR HOSPITAL ETHICS COMMITTEES (1986).




n67  See INTRODUCTION TO CLINICAL ETHICS AND HEALTH CARE LAW (J. Fletcher & M.
White eds. 1991) [published by Ibis Publishing Co., copy available c/o In-Print,
7 Elliewood Ave., Charlottesville, VA 22903].




n68  See, e.g., Lo, Behind Closed Doors: Promises and Pitfalls of Ethics
Committees, 317 NEW ENG. J. MED. 46 (1987); Siegler, The Progression of
Medicine: From Physician Paternalism to Patient Autonomy to Bureaucratic
Parsimony, 145 ARCH. INT. MED. 713 (1985); Moreno, Ethics By Committee: The
Moral Authority of Consensus, 13 J. MED. & PHIL. 411 (1988).




n69  See C. CULVER, ETHICS AT THE BEDSIDE (1990).




n70  A joint planning session of board members of the Society for Bioethics
Consultation (SBC) and invited guests agreed on this definition in May 1988,
prior to the Second National Conference on Ethics Consultation in Health Care.
The Society is a nonprofit, national organization that exists to encourage
ethics consultation in health care and the continuing education of those who
provide it.  Membership is open to interest persons by writing to: Laurence
O'Connell, Ph.D., President, SBC, c/o Park Ridge Center, 676 St. Clair, Suite
450, Chicago, IL 60611.  For papers from the first National Conference on Ethics
Consultation in Health Care, see J. FLETCHER, N. QUIST & A. JONSEN, ETHICS
CONSULTATION IN HEALTH CARE (1989).




n71  STATE CORPORATION COMMISSION, REPORT TO THE GOVERNOR AND THE GENERAL
ASSEMBLY OF VIRGINIA ON ALTERNATIVE PREMIUM DISTRIBUTION METHODS FOR MEDICAL
MALPRACTICE INSURANCE, H. DOC. NO. 33 12 (1989).




n72  See generally J. FLETCHER, N. QUIST & A. JONSEN, supra note 70; see also
e.g., infra, Appendix A (policy statement adopted at the University of Virginia
Health Sciences Center).




n73  One such common systemic ethical problem often arises in cases involving
conflict about foregoing life sustaining treatment.  It is the policy in most
hospitals that unless there is a written order to the contrary, a patient will
be resuscitated, and medical personnel are trained to act immediately to
resuscitate.  This institutional position created ethical problems for many
patients who had not prescribed specific instructions in advance, but who, had
they been able to speak, would have refused to be resuscitated.  Another common
systemic problem involves the obligation of confidentiality, described in most
medical codes of ethics and believed by most patients, which frequently is
breached during routine medical care in modern hospitals -- perhaps more than
100 persons see the patient's chart and know initimate details about the
patient's life.  See Siegler, Confidentiality in Medicine -- A Decrepit Concept,
307 NEW ENG. J. MED. 1518 (1982).




n74  The statewide outreach program of the Center for Biomedical Ethics at the
University of Virginia is entitled "Developing Hospital Ethics Programs." In the
next year, DHEP will complete a two-year project to assist 20 community and
private hospitals in Virginia to start or strengthen institutional ethics
programs.  See infra Appendix B.




n75  III S. Ct. 1759 (1991).




n76  See J. Fletcher, Restriction and Suppression of Fetal and Pre-Embryo
Research 1974-1990, University of Iowa, Conference on the Beginning of Human
Life (Nov. 4-7, 1990) (copy on file with Maryland Law Review).




n77  These two national groups and their reports are THE NATIONAL COMM'N FOR THE
PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS OF BIOMEDICAL AND BEHAVORIAL RESEARCH, U.S. DEP'T
OF HEALTH, EDUCATION & WELFARE, PUB. No. 76-127, REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS:
RESEARCH ON THE FETUS 61-68 (1975), and the ETHICS ADVISORY BOARD, REPORT AND
CONCLUSIONS: HEW SUPPORT OF RESEARCH INVOLVING HUMAN In Vitro Fertilization and
Embryo Transfer (May 4, 1979).




n78  See 45 C.F.R. §§ 46.201-.211 (1990).




n79  See THE NATIONAL COMM'N FOR THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS OF BIOMEDICAL
& BEHAVIORAL RESEARCH, U.S. DEP'T OF HEALTH, EDUCATION & WELFARE, PUB. NO.
(05)76-127, REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS: RESEARCH ON THE FETUS 70 (1975).




n80  For a good history, see ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN MEDICAL COLLEGES, FETAL
RESEARCH AND FETAL TISSUE RESEARCH (1988).  For congressional action, see Health
Research Extension Act of 1985, Pub. L. No. 99-158, § 498, 99 Stat. 820, 877
(1985) (restricting fetal research).




n81  ETHICS ADVISORY BD., U.S. DEP'T OF HEALTH, EDUCATION & WELFARE, REPORT AND
CONCLUSIONS: HEW SUPPORT OF RESEARCH INVOLVING HUMAN In Vitro Fertilization and
Embryo Transfer 100-14 (1979); see also 44 Fed. Reg. 35 (1979).




n82  WEBSTER'S THIRD NEW INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY 2298 (3d ed. 1981).




n83  See 45 C.F.R. §§ 46.201-.210 (1990).




n84  Fletcher & Schulman, Fetal Research: The State of the Art, The State of the
Question, HASTINGS CENTER REP., Apr. 1985, at 6, 8.




n85  See D. WEATHERALL, THE NEW GENETICS AND CLINICAL PRACTICE 114- 19 (1985).




n86  See Fetal Therapy, 29 CLIN. OBSTET. & GYNEC. 481-614 (1986).




n87  Evans, Chrousos, Mann, Larsen, Green, McCluskey, Loriaux, Fletcher, Koons,
Overpeck & Schulman, Pharmacologic Suppression of the Fetal Adrenal Gland In
Utero: Attempted Prevention of Abnormal External Genital Masculinization in
Suspected Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia 253 J. A.M.A. 1015-20 (1985).




n88  See 45 C.F.R. § 46.102(g) (1990) ("minimal risk" means that the risks of
harm anticipated in the proposed research are not greater, considering
probability and magnitude, than those ordinarily encountered in daily life or
during the performance of routine physical or psychological examinations or
tests).




n89  See id. § 46.405 (HHS will conduct or fund research in which the
institutional review board finds that more than minimal risk to children is
presented by an intervention or procedure that holds out the prospect of direct
benefit for the individual subject or by a monitoring procedure that is likely
to contribute to the subject's well-being).




n90  See 45 C.F.R. § 46.208 (1990).




n91  OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, U.S. CONGRESS, OTA-BA-358, INFERTILITY:
MEDICAL AND SOCIAL CHOICES 293 (1988).




n92  Id. at 3.




n93  See 45 C.F.R. § 46.210 (1990) (stating "[a]ctivities involving the dead
fetus, mascerated fetal material, or cells, tissue, or organs excised from a
dead fetus shall be conducted only in accordance with any applicable State or
local laws regarding such activities.").




n94  MEMORANDUM FROM THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR HEALTH TO THE DIRECTOR, NIH,
REPORT OF THE HUMAN FETAL TISSUE TRANSPLANTATION RESEARCH PANEL ESTABLISHING
TEMPORARY MORATORIUM ON USE OF HUMAN FETAL TISSUE IN TRANSPLANTATION RESEARCH
(1988).




n95  REPORT OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE TO THE DIRECTOR, NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF
HEALTH, HUMAN FETAL TISSUE TRANSPLANTATION RESEARCH (1988).




n96  See, e.g., CAL. HEALTH & SAFETY CODE §§ 7150-7158 (West 1970) (providing
that a decedent may donate his body, and including a stillborn infant or fetus
within the definition of "decedent").




n97  These states are Arizona, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, and Oklahoma.  However,
the Illinois law permits experimental transplantation with tissue of
spontaneously aborted fetuses.




n98  See supra at nn.93-95 and accompanying text.




n99  See Health Research Extension Act of 1985, Pub. L. No. 99-158, 99 Stat. 820
(1985).




n100  Cook-Deegan, Abortion Politics Deals Death Blow to Bioethics Body Set Up
by Congress, 4 KENNEDY INSTITUTE OF ETHICS NEWSLETTER 4, 5 (1990).




n101  See id.




n102  See 45 C.F.R. § 46.204 (1990).




n103  See id.




n104  See Groups Plan Advisory Board for Fetal Tissue Research, Wash. Post, Jan.
8, 1991, at A3.




n105  THE ILA SECRETARIAT, IVF RESEARCH IN THE U.S. [Report published by The
Interim Licensing Authority, 20 Park Crescent, London, WIN 4AL, United Kingdom].




n106  As the dates indicate, the DHEP program is well under way.  However, in
order to preserve the essential forward-looking character of a "plan" this
Appendix adopts the future tense of the original.




n107  Topics for the hospital ethics program seminar include:

   September 1990: Four overview sessions on hospital ethics committees,
education in clinical ethics and health law, ethics consultation, and the
biomedical ethics resource person;
October 1990: The same four sessions repeated in the context of their hospitals
using needs assessment and priorities data;
November 1990: Four sessions to develop DHEP plans in four areas, plus a
tentative design for evaluation;
Final: Plan the schedule for the last eight sessions of the fellows' seminar for
phase III.


