                              222 of 997 DOCUMENTS

            Copyright (c) 1994 Saint Louis University School of Law
                       Saint Louis University Law Journal

                                   Fall, 1994

                              39 St. Louis L.J. 65

LENGTH: 6232 words

SYMPOSIUM: ETHICS AND HEALTH CARE REFORM: INSTITUTIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS

NAME: DENNIS BRODEUR, Ph.D.*

BIO: *Senior Vice President-Stewardship of the SSM Health Care System. Father
Brodeur teaches as an adjunct faculty member at Saint Louis University's Schools
of Law and Public Health.

TEXT:
 [*65]

    THERE are different ways to identify, analyze and resolve ethical questions
raised by health care reform. One can begin with certain assumptions about the
nature of the physician-patient relationship, or the purpose of medicine, and
conclude that there are certain ethical imperatives.  n1 These include retaining
freedom of choice by both patient and physician, universal access to a defined
benefit package, ensuring quality services based on outcome measures,
establishing an affordable system either as a whole or individually for each
recipient of care, and avoiding the rationing of care as an evil, or creating
the ethical parameters within which care should be rationed. In addition,
attention can be focused on personal responsibility for one's health status and
the mitigating factors that affect health status such as education, employment,
housing, or the environment.

    Another approach focuses more on public policy or political issues which
shape the debate. What is the appropriate role of government? How should the
system be financed? Are employer mandates necessary to ensure health care
coverage for all? Who should be subsidized in such a plan? Are there limits to
the amount of health care dollars spent in society?

    Both the ethical imperatives and the political directions are shaped by
those who participate in the health care debate. This article attempts to sketch
the ethical questions, contributions and directions that should be addressed by
the formal, organized, institutional forces in the health care arena;
particularly institutions but also professional associations. What should these
groups advocate for in their political and ethical discourse? What does it mean
when organized, institutional health care groups advocate a particular health
care reform proposal? How does organized medicine impact the community it serves
and does organized medicine use its power, its wealth, and its profession [*66]
for a common good? What does this mean for the patient, the patient's family,
and for society?


   ROOTS

 Today, hospitals are the "single largest category of national health spending."
n2 Consequently, they have much to lose in a reformed health care system, but
they potentially have much to contribute to the shape of the "new" system. The
question is whether these institutions will work only for self-preservation or
self-interest or whether they will work for an overall improvement in the health
status of society and the institutional changes needed to realize this end.
Similar questions can be raised about long-term care facilities, free standing
ambulatory care centers, managed care organizations, and any of the numerous
"institutional" aspects of contemporary health services.

    The connection between health care institutions, medical care, and health is
relatively recent. Historical and sociological studies of the rise of health
care institutions  n3 identify the early purpose of these institutions as
"homes" for the poor and sick who, for whatever reason, were not cared for at
home. People who needed shelter as they recuperated - or more often died - found
hospitals a safe haven. These institutions were frequently run by religious
women of various denominations and were voluntary in nature (as opposed to tax
supported). With the advent of medical education, better infection control
procedures, surgery, anesthesia, and "miracle drugs," hospitals moved from the
periphery of society to play a pivotal role in promoting healing. As such, these
institutions embodied the dreams and values of a society.  n4 Health care
institutions contributed to the development of the common good. At its center,
health care institutions were mission driven, morally committed organizations
whose purpose was to serve.

    These commitments are questioned, criticized, and/or challenged today. The
non-profit community service organization is viewed as a center for science and
technology, as a big business that is too wealthy, as no longer serving the
needy or poor, as too costly for individuals and society, and as no longer
discerning a "privileged non-profit" place in the community.  n5  [*67]

    The traditional role of hospitals and other health care institutions as
servants of the community should be the source of institutional advocacy and
participation in the ethical concerns of health care reform. The voice of the
institution should be heard in a self-critical examination of the institution's
own need for reform and as an advocate for communal change that will improve the
health status of communities.


   REFORM COMMITMENT

 Much of the recent political debate is not about true health care reform but
rather about expanding certain entitlements to all people (universal access to a
benefit package), changing the financing structures (mandatory insurance, sin
taxes, other taxes), and the way money is dispersed to cover health services.
Adopting these changes does not create health care reform in any systematic
manner, nor does it necessarily create healthier communities. Even if all people
are easily able to receive all presently available health care services that
does not necessarily create a healthier family, community, or society.

    Other goals must be pursued if true health care reform is to occur. Charles
Dougherty outlines six key values that are at stake in health care reform.  n6
These values help outline the ethical commitments which health care institutions
should voice in the public debate. Perhaps the most significant value Dougherty
outlines is a commitment to the common good.  n7 This value requires a shift
from the more individualistic thinking commonly found in today's health care
system which emphasizes individual rights of patients, physicians, and payors to
a balance of individual rights with concern for the community's benefit -
healthy living, preventive medicine, and consensus on what promotes a healthy
community.

    In a recent study for the Healthcare Forum  n8 it was reported that an
absence of disease is not enough to create health in a community.  n9 To have a
healthy society, an absence of disease must also be coupled with concerns about
quality of life, including reduction in crime rates, violence, and gun shot
injuries; safety for children and communities; the protection and promotion of
neighborhoods, family values, education; economic opportunity; and housing.  n10
[*68]

    It would be a mistake to medicalize all of these concerns or to make all of
these issues the responsibility of health care institutions.  n11 However,
unless health care institutions participate in a reform process that pays
attention to many of these issues - even with some possible reduction of money
available for traditional medical services - costs will continue to escalate,
healthier communities will not be developed, and the problems of today's health
system will be exacerbated. Health care institutions must help forge a consensus
on how to mobilize personal and public resources to meet some of these needs, to
provide appropriate education, and to transform the current medical setting.
There will still be a need for high quality, technologically sophisticated
medical centers and services. Health care institutions will not be obsolete, but
their shape, size, and delivery patterns must change. Questions of
affordability, universal access, and quality will remain. Consequently,
universal access and finance reform are necessary. But by themselves, access and
finance reform are not sufficient changes.

    A second ethical commitment which flows from a concern for the common good
is collaboration. No health care institution in an integrated delivery system
will be able to accomplish these goals alone. Partners will be needed if
communities and individuals are to benefit from a reformed system. Partnerships
imply mutuality or complimentarity of mission and service activities.
Partnerships could include schools, congregations, neighborhood centers of play
and culture, employers, payors and governmental agencies to mention a few.
Collaboration sometimes counters the competitive forces of the market place,
which, is often suggested as a way to reduce or control costs.  n12
Collaboration implies shared goals and purposes, legitimate collusion to deliver
services, and shared financial risks to promote health.

    Collaboration will force health care institutions to examine the manner in
which they describe the population they serve. This is a radical transformation
in thinking. Many institutions today continue to focus on certain insured
persons or families. Providing health care services is a primary goal but only
to those who come to the institution. The health care institution may seek out
some people but such advertising or marketing strategies are aimed at the
"right" people, payor mix, product line, or other category that enhances the
institution's life. Those health care institutions that change may focus on a
number of covered lives such as those in a managed care setting, or those whom
the institutions have accepted responsibility for in a capitated structure. This
change does not, however, address the health care institution's responsibility
for a community where some of the health care institution's activities [*69]
could possibly benefit a competing health care system or place a health care
institution at competitive disadvantage at least in the short run. Choosing how
the health care institution thinks about the population served is a fundamental
value question with obvious ethical implications.  n13

    A third set of values with obvious ethical implications involves the
reexamination of traditional patient/physician relationships. This value
concentrates on the traditional and more individualistic values of the
contemporary health care delivery system. The two previous values, more
communitarian in nature, need to be balanced by this perspective. Fundamental to
this value is a respect for the human dignity or the sacredness of life of each
individual who enters the health care setting and a concern for the welfare of
the patient generally expressed in the ethical requirements not to harm but to
benefit the patient in the services that are rendered.  n14

    These commitments also generally include the traditional values or ethical
principles expressed in the biomedical literature. These include appropriate
consent from competent patients before treatment, proxy consent for those
individuals who are without competence to consent to treatment, truthfulness and
confidentiality in the services provided, and a just allocation of resources
where allocation or rationing may be necessary. They also include an increased
commitment to patient responsibility for overall well being, including healthy
life styles, knowledge about the health care system, wise choices in the
expenditure of health care dollars, greater sensitivity to not requesting
services that are not likely to be of benefit, or to make demands that are not
helpful economically, institutionally, and communally.  n15

    Health care institutions as presently constructed are generally concerned
about the provision of services to those who enter the institution through the
emergency room, a doctor's office, or by some other avenue. Society has already
seen fit to ask the institution to shoulder some serious responsibilities about
education and choice which may affect individual patient care.  n16 As a result,
institutions must request information about whether or not an individual has
completed some legally acceptable form of advance directive upon admission to
the institution. Families whose loved ones die are approached, where medically
appropriate, to donate organs from the recently deceased in [*70]  order to
benefit others. Social service and pastoral care departments in hospitals
frequently provide multiple pieces of information about alternative care sites
for patients once they leave the acute care setting. However, these educational
and patient focused issues are always tied up with regulation and administrative
detail. The health care system of tomorrow must begin to find partners to
participate in serious education, not only about health and health promotion but
also about the limits of health care services and the rights and
responsibilities of patients prior to the time that they enter the institution.
Anecdotal experience seems to indicate that the emotional trauma that frequently
accompanies serious illness, a life threatening disease, or death makes the time
surrounding the illness or death a poor one to address some of these fundamental
ethical concerns. The new health care system must find alternative ways to deal
with these issues. Preferably, these issues should be addressed in community
settings apart from the health care institution. Again, this requires
collaboration and the inclusion of many who, to date, have not been significant
partners in the health care system of this country.

    This collaborative relationship will have to be "financed" and is likely to
change the financial patterns that presently exist. Institutional participants
in the health care reform debate will have to argue for more financial
resources, possibly at the risk of the institution's own dollars, to create
networks that promote the well-being of the community served. New networks may
not be "hospital" or "profession" centered, thus institutions may be required to
change the way they think about their missions and broaden the scope of their
activity beyond institutional or professional centers to the community served.


   MANAGED COMPETITION

 In many of the recent proposals for health care reform, including the Clinton
proposal, and in much of the literature of professional periodicals, managed
competition is touted as a way to harness market forces, to reduce cost, or to
at least slow the rapid inflation of health care costs. It is believed that
market forces are the best way to regulate health care and to control costs. If
individuals are forced to choose health care plans based upon quality outcomes
and competing costs, competitive and integrated health care plans will develop
and be aggressively pursued by the present health care organizations, as well as
by the professions, payors, and patients.

    In analyzing this issue, several points need to be kept in mind. First, it
is important to recognize that any type of financing mechanism has possible
built-in ethical conflicts. In the fee for service tradition, individual
physicians or institutions can be encouraged to provide more and sometimes
unnecessary services simply because payment is attached to each service,
diagnostic test, or therapeutic intervention. Ethical abuse occurs where
individuals perform unnecessary diagnostic tests or therapies because
professionals and institutions will financially benefit from the provision of
these services rather than because patients need them.  [*71]

    Society's response to traditional fee for service financing was to develop
managed care options. Managed care is also open to abuse through financial
incentives to primary care physicians not to treat or not to refer to
subspecialists. Managed care also provides incentives to attempt to practice
medicine beyond one's competencies. Other health maintenance organizations hold
a percentage of physicians' salaries at risk and then distribute or deny
payments based on utilization and on the managed care organization's financial
performance. While some managed care settings are undoubtedly excellent and have
provided excellent care for recipients, the possibility of ethical abuse exists.

    Similar things can be said about the suggestions to move to a capitated
payment system. Undoubtedly, a capitated payment system will reduce some of the
excess utilization and waste in the system, but capitation runs the risk of
undertreatment based upon the financial resources available to treat a patient
or a population.

    The fact is, wherever medicine, physician, health care institutions, and
money coalesce there will be some temptation to act unethically in order to
maximize profit for personal or institutional benefit. The ethical response to
this takes many forms. One is an appeal to the professional status and the
promise of physicians and other health care professionals to view the profession
as a service or covenant. The service orientation minimizes gouging or personal
profit.  n17 One can establish regulatory mechanisms through federal and state
governments or through other payor mechanisms with the hope of curtailing
unnecessary services and eliminating unethical practice. One can even attach
civil and criminal penalties to unacceptable performance;  n18 however, whatever
financial payment is used, there will be some "incentive" to engage in
questionable behavior. The development of clinical paths and outcome measures
provide yet another opportunity to structure appropriate diagnostic and
therapeutic interventions along the lines of professional expertise, while
leaving latitude for professional judgment. Regardless of the response one
gives, ethical behavior is, in part, dependent upon the virtues, character, and
integrity of the institutions and professionals. Consequently, institutions need
to examine the ethical implications of possible payment and financial mechanisms
and design a system that upholds the fiduciary and value base of the healing
professions.

   RATIONING

 Any discussion of the financial realities of health care reform raises
questions about the unspeakable "R" word - rationing. These questions are com
[*72]  plex. The first difficulty is in defining the term rationing. I suggest
that rationing means that some possibly beneficial services will be denied to
some or all members of the population. I would suggest, along the lines of the
Catholic Health Association's rationing guidelines,  n19 that the need for
rationing must be publicly demonstrated, be an open process, be accountable, and
be inclusive to all members of society. Of course, there are competing
definitions of rationing, and this makes the debate more complicated.

    Some people argue that no rationing is necessary. If society were to
eliminate fraud, abuse, and waste in the present health care system, while at
the same time engaging in tort reform and other changes, then sufficient dollars
would be found to cover everyone in the population. Rationing is socialized
medicine, government interference, and bad medicine.

    Sometimes people confuse rationing with the planned distribution of certain
services which may impinge upon geographical access. For example, services may
seem to be rationed if some institutions are not allowed to provide highly
technological services when these services are centered in university based or
urban institutions. Individual limitations will exist because of geographical
access, transportation, a desire to live in a sparsely populated rural
community, or other personal life style choices. Even the best imaginable system
is likely to create such problems. These questions have to be put on the table
for prolonged public debate. Health care institutions and professionals may be
in a position to do this if they enter into community educational debates about
the distribution of acute care health centers and professionals. Key to this
debate will be a discussion of the "freedoms" argued for, in particular, by
physicians. "No one should tell a doctor where to practice," the argument would
likely state. Society would then be confronted with whether to accommodate
transportation and other related geographical concerns in the system, tell the
average citizen that where one lives could limit access to certain services
unless one has disposable income, or limit choices in physician practice. The
ethical dilemma is how to balance individual choice with societal needs.

    The rationing issue also raises questions about acceptable tiers of health
care. Should there be one tier of health care in the country for all people with
the possibility that those who have more money could then purchase addi-tional
amenities only but not better health care services? Or will there be multiple
tiers representing the best the country can do. I suspect that the deeply
ingrained American culture will only be satisfied with a tiered health care
system with possibly three tiers in the political arena.

    The bottom tier would be that which is likely to be provided primarily by
governmental subsidy of either health services, an insurance product such as
Medicaid or Medicare, or some combination of the two. This tier will be [*73]
available to the poor, and those who do not have the financial resources to be
able to purchase additional coverage or insurance. Much of middle America,
especially those for whom the bulk of health care insurance is paid by an
employer will feel that it deserves more than the poor do. This middle level
will probably experience greater out of pocket expenditures both for the
insurance product and for co-payments for services, but this will be "gladly"
borne by those who are solidly middle and upper middle class if they receive
more care, or care based on personal choice. In the third tier would be the
wealthy who are able to afford any service, wherever it is offered, and will
feel that it is their right to expend their income in whatever care setting they
deem best. Thus, a single tiered health care system providing a very high basic
benefit package to all people with individuals able to purchase only amenities,
such as cosmetic surgery, private and carpeted rooms, or certain other personal
services, is likely to be unacceptable to most, and too expensive for all.

    Choices about the number of tiers of care expose fundamental assumptions
about equity, equality, and the ethical values placed on access to health care.
The more one believes that health care is a basic good in life the less likely
one is to accept many tiers of care. The more one views health services as a
market commodity the more one is willing to accept disparity in available health
services. If equity is the guiding ethical principle of justice, an acceptable
benefit package is all that is needed. If equality is the guiding justice
principle, a single tier of service is more desirable.  n20

    Institutions and professionals who address this question will have to
establish value-laden definitions about the nature of health care, prevention,
access, and the benefit package. Whatever is moral or just may give way to what
is politically feasible. It is precisely in this decision about what access to
health care demands that the rationing question is most visible.


   INTERNAL CONCERNS

 It was stated above that health care institutions that enter into the ethical
discussions about health care reform should articulate values not only in
external political matters involving the development of a health care policy,
but should also articulate values that are internally self-critical. At least
three ethical discussions are worthy of note: choice, employer responsibilities,
and ethical matters in business concerns.

    Choice is a difficult concept in health care reform, in part, because of the
individualistic nature of American society.  n21 Many individuals participating
in the health care debate point to freedom and choice as a fundamental value
[*74]  commitment that should be maintained in any new structure. Physicians
want to be able to choose whom they treat and whom they will not. Institutions
want to have freedom of choice about service lines, geographical location, and
the range of services offered. Patients want to be free to choose their own
physician, their own hospital, and their own insurance plan.

    Realistically, choice is already highly circumscribed in much of the
delivery system. Most individuals do not have free reign on all health care
choices they wish to make. Often, employers or insurers choose panels of
physicians who are acceptable in a health care plan and those hospitals or
institutions in which one can be hospitalized or receive services. In addition,
there are pre-certification requirements before hospitalization and certain out
of pocket contributions that may increase when one goes outside of the health
maintenance organization, the approved hospital, or the approved panel of
physicians. Hospitals are circumscribed by who they can accept with the
expectation that payment will be made. Hospitals that do not have contracts with
certain managed care organizations or with certain insurance companies do not
get fully reimbursed for services that are rendered and must depend upon the
ability of patients to meet out of pocket expenditures or write off certain
charges as bad debt or as "charity." Physicians have been excluded from certain
health maintenance organizations, independent practice associations, certain
physician hospital organizations, or other mechanisms through which patients are
referred. Those physicians who accept Medicare or Medicaid accept certain levels
of payment for care given and as a result often close their practice to
additional Medicaid recipients in particular, but also to Medicare patients or
to other individuals who do not have the "right" kind of insurance. Choice is
elusive.

    To a certain extent, the question of choice is a fundamental question of
great ethical importance in a health care reformed system. If health care
institutions wish to transform themselves into institutions that assume greater
responsibility for the health care status of communities then choice may not be
an issue. Physicians who align themselves with hospitals as hospital employees,
or who band together in clinics trying to capture capitated payments at the
front end and to control utilization, will find themselves unable to choose as
freely as they may wish in their individual practice. Whether health care
institutions, physician clinics, and other delivery networks exist for their own
gain or for community benefit will most likely color the way the issue of choice
is resolved in health care reform. The reason that this is an internal ethical
issue is because the question of choice goes to the heart of the institution's
mission, vision, service sector, and the obligations of professional groups.

    If health care reform honors the value tenets of traditional medicine,
coverage and access may have greater ethical value than freedom of choice.
Groups would then allocate appropriate financial coverage for groups and
communities served. Adequate financial coverage would include profit and [*75]
salary considerations. These considerations would affect the professionals' and
the institutions' ability to have fiscal resources available for new technology
and to provide for employee compensation, investor returns in proprietary
organizations, and the ability to "grow" larger. Such concerns would then have
to be measured against costs to the employers, the individuals, and the
government. Resolution of conflicts between providers and payors will not be
easy. Where does the professional or institutional organization want to stand?
These organizations must address the ethical questions of service, self
preservation, the societal value of the healing professions, and the
organizations through which these services are rendered. Answering such
questions is not easy, especially if one believes that physicians,
administrators, and others make too much money, are not appropriately
distributed, or are not societally valuable enough to justify the cost.

    The second ethical concern for health care institutions is its role as
employer. In many cities and towns, health care institutions of all types, as a
conglomerate or individually, represent one of the most significant employers.
As health care reform takes place, there may be a need for fewer employees in
the health care system. When one couples this issue with the fact that health
care institutions frequently spend more than fifty percent of their operating
costs on human resources, concerns about the ethical obligations of these
institutions as employers are raised. Unfortunately, there is often a tendency,
because of the high percentage of costs associated with human resource issues,
to make financial cuts in operating budgets on the back of employees. More often
than not, it's the lesser paid employees who pay a hefty price for economic
change while many high priced executives either have golden parachutes or more
secure economic and employment settings.

    Health care institutions must ask questions about the institution's ethical
obligations to deal with employees fairly in changing economic times. This
includes traditional concerns for early retirement, appropriate outplacement
settings, and most especially, for cross-training. These programs are needed to
provide employment opportunities for those who have given much of their
professional life to health care and whose talents are needed in new delivery
systems. For example, as new technologies developed in the past, individuals
were trained for these new positions out of old ones. This experience probably
needs to be repeated but perhaps on a grander and more aggressive scale than has
been the case with the introduction of new technology.

    In addition, if community health status and employment are connected, as
they seem to be, then unemployment in a community will exacerbate health
problems which probably need to be addressed before decisions for layoffs or
downsizing are developed. This will sometimes require institutions to balance
healthy operating margins with commitments to employees, pay increases for
highly paid executives with the employment opportunities for low-wage personnel,
and to have long range strategies that enhance the institution's effectiveness
in the community versus short term goals of profitability, to make [*76]
payments to investors in proprietary institutions, and to secure the
availability of medical services for the community.

    Finally, there are certain business ethics issues that must be addressed.
Institutions cannot be ambiguous about the change from the hospital paradigm to
a healthier community paradigm, and the need to collaborate to meet this type of
goal. This will require institutions to understand what the new core processes
of the health service sector are and how those core processes can be developed
and improved to provide high quality, reasonably priced services. It will also
require institutions to deal with ambiguous relationships in a time of change,
something with which well-established health care institutions have never had
great success. These issues are not only the issues of institutions but are also
of concern for clinic operations, doctors' offices, ambulatory care sites, and
any other service in which people are employed and participate in the delivery
of health care services. Change is necessary, but changes in the health care
setting are likely to impact not just the institution or the professions but the
well being of the community. Establishing a public policy position that improves
the delivery system, the community's health status, and is respectful to
employees requires a vision of the institution and the professions as a service
more than a business.


   CONCLUSION

 The ethical debates concerning health care reform are easier to construct when
they are focused on clinical outcomes, patient choice, physician
responsibilities, quality, affordability, and the other "buzz words" that
frequently are a part of ethical discourse in these matters. It is more
difficult to construct ethical reflections that involve the entire institutional
delivery system and its communal impact. Nonetheless, these institutional
questions have to be addressed if health care reform is to fulfill its shadowed
promise.

    The substantive ethical questions require institutions to be clear about
their vision - what do the health care institutions want to deliver and how do
they wish to participate with others in the promotion of healthier communities?
Next, they will need to develop strategies that reflect the ethical commitments
made by the institutions in both their role as a fundamental part of the honored
profession of medicine and their positions as primary players in the
construction of important social goods.

    Nothing will be more difficult than blending the traditional individual
rights oriented mind-set of the American public with the need for a careful
articulation of the social goods that are at stake in health care, especially if
market or competitive forces are used as a financial mechanism to contain cost
and deliver services. Health care institutions in their present structures and
in their transformed existence in the future are parts of larger communities.
The profession and the institution by their nature, in light of their power, and
by dint of their economic strength must ask questions about what they wish to
[*77]  advocate, who benefits from their activity, and how we become a better
society for having engaged this public dialogue.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewHealthcare
LawTreatmentEnd-of-Life DecisionsDo-Not-Resuscitate OrdersPublic Health &
Welfare LawHealthcareGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Edmund D. Pellegrino & David C. Thomasma, A Philosophical Basis of Medical
Practice (1981); Tom L. Beauchamp & James F. Childress, Principles of Biomedical
Ethics (4th ed. 1994); Benedict M. Ashley & Kevin D. O'Rourke, Healthcare
Ethics: A Theological Analysis (3rd ed. 1989).




n2.  John K. Iglehart, Health Policy Report: The American Health Care System:
Community Hospitals, 329 New Eng. J. Med. 372 (1993).




n3.  See Paul Starr, The Social Transformation of American Medicine (1982);
Rosemary Stevens, In Sickness and in Wealth: American Hospitals in the 20th
Century (1989); Pioneer Healers: The History of Women Religious in American
Health Care (Ursula Stepsis & Dolores Liptak eds., 1989).




n4.  See, e.g., Charles J. Dougherty, Ethical Values at Stake in Health Care
Reform, 268 JAMA 2409 (1992).




n5.  For a discussion of non-profit health care institutions in society, see
Michael O'Neill, The Third America: The Emergence of the Non-Profit Sector in
the United States (1989).




n6.  These include (1) respect for the dignity of persons, (2) caring in
therapeutic relationships, (3) protection of the least well off, (4) service to
the common good, (5) containment of health care costs, and (6) simplicity in
system of health care provision. Dougherty, supra note 4, at 2410-11.




n7.  Id.




n8.  What Creates Health? Individuals and Communities Respond, A National Study
Conducted by DYG, Inc. for the Health Care Forum (1993).




n9.  Id. at 4.




n10.  Id.




n11.  Id. at 4-10.




n12.  See, e.g., John K. Iglehart, Health Policy Report: The Struggle Between
Managed Care and Fee For Service Practice, 331 New Eng. J. Med. 63 (1994); Jim
McDermott, Caring for the Uninsured and Underinsured: Evaluating Health System
Reform: The Case for a Single Payor, 271 JAMA 784 (1994).




n13.  Dougherty, supra note 4, at 2410-11.




n14.  See Beauchamp & Childress, supra note 1, at 106-82.




n15.  No one has resolved the difficult problem of trading off the traditional
values or ethical principles of the biomedical literature with a need for
rationing in health care resources. While many different authors attempt to deal
with the rationing of health care, disagreement exists about whether rationing
is even necessary. This may be the most intractable problem of the contemporary
health care setting.




n16.  Numerous examples of institutional responsibility for education and choice
in health care and ethical matters can be seen in the required organ donation
questions for the recently hospital deceased as well as in the Patient
Self-Determination Act of 1991, 42 U.S.C. 1395cc (1992).




n17.  See, e.g., Marc A. Rodwin, Medicine Money and Morals: Physicians'
Conflicts of Interest (1993).




n18.  Id. at 179-248.




n19.  The Catholic Health Ass'n of the United States, With Justice for All? The
Ethics of Healthcare Rationing 19-26 (1991).




n20.  Dougherty, supra note 4, at 2410-11.




n21.  See Robert N. Bellah et al., Habits of the Heart: Individualism and
Commitment in American Life (1985).


