                              217 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              May 21, 2007 Monday

At a glance

SECTION: IRELAND; Election2007; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 531 words


What happened yesterday

Fianna Fáil

Fianna Fáil will not accept Sinn Féin support for a Fianna Fáil minority
government in any shape or form after the election, three senior Cabinet
ministers said. Mary Hanafin said: "We are giving a very clear message: that
Fianna Fáil will not go into government with Sinn Féin, or go into government
dependent upon Sinn Féin."

Fine Gael

Expressing his confidence of victory, party leader Enda Kenny said he had been
confident of victory for quite some time. "A real catalyst in this election has
been the alliance with the Labour Party." Asked about Bertie Ahern's declaration
that coalition with Labour was still an option for him, he said: "I would say to
the leader of Fianna Fáil, 'Dream on, baby'."

Labour Party

Private hospitals co-located beside public hospitals as proposed by the outgoing
Government would cost at least EUR 145 million a year, Labour health spokeswoman
Liz McManus alleged. "No proper estimates are available as to the potential cost
and no assessment has been done of the impact on public hospitals or our
existing private health insurance system."

Progressive Democrats

Voters will have elected a weak, inexperienced and divided government if they
elect Fine Gael, Labour and the Greens, PD leader, Michael McDowell told a party
rally last night in Dublin. "Uncertainty would lead to recession. The
construction sector would experience a slowdown followed by a meltdown. The
Rainbow would end in a crock but not of gold."

Green Party

To coincide with his party's launch of proposals for ethical reforms, Trevor
Sargent placed a brown envelope, labelled "backhanders" and filled with notes,
into a bin outside Leinster House. He said it was a symbol of the kind of
ethical reform the Greens want to bring about in Irish political life: ". . . a
change of government means a change of policies and if you were to ask Fianna
Fáil to buy the ethical reforms that we're putting out here, that would be one
hell of a change."

Sinn Féin

The party said it did not believe assertions of Fianna Fáil and others that they
would not go into government with Sinn Féin after the election. The party's
candidate in Dublin Central, Mary Lou McDonald MEP, said: "Frankly I do not
accept the protestations of some parties that they simply will not look at Sinn
Féin."

What happens today

Fianna Fáil: Ministers Brian Cowen and Micheál Martin will be highlighting
Fianna Fáil's economic message while Taoiseach Bertie Ahern will be canvassing
in the northwest and in Cavan/Monaghan .

Fine Gael/Labour: The leaders of Fine Gael and Labour, Enda Kenny and Pat
Rabbitte, will highlight the importance of the vote transfer pact between the
two parties.

Progressive Democrats: Minister for Health Mary Harney will attend a press
conference in Dublin where the focus will be on the party's "positive agenda for
better healthcare for patients".

Green Party: Environment and energy spokesmen Ciarán Cuffe and Eamon Ryan will
revisit the issue of climate change with other party candidates at a rally in
Dublin on the theme "It hasn't gone away, you know".

Sinn Féin: Mary Lou McDonald is setting out her party's policies on neutrality
and international affairs in Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


