                              223 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Southland Times (New Zealand)

                            August 8, 2012 Wednesday

Ethical considerations

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 261 words


I am concerned about the apparent lack of ethical considerations shown in the
Southern District Health Board's decision to undertake abortions at Southland
Hospital.

Firstly, they appear to have had no regard to the legal requirement to have,
'full regard to the rights of the unborn child'.

Secondly, the lack of any announcement of the board's decision on a matter of
great public interest was insulting to the public at large and in particular to
the members of the deputation that travelled to Dunedin to present a case.

It brings no credit to the board members that the first indication of this
decision came in this column in a letter from a Whangarei resident.

Thirdly, there is the claim that their decision was based on a directive from
the Government when the deputy prime minister stated unequivocally that there
was no such directive.

Fourthly, is the lack of consideration for the majority of hospital staff who
are opposed to abortion and will have to work alongside people who are
facilitating it.

Fifthly, at a time of financial difficulty, it does not seem ethical to provide
a life-ending procedure at the expense of life enhancing procedures.

Finally, the board seems to have given no consideration to the effect on new
mothers who will be sharing a ward with those who are having an abortion,
particularly on the mothers of premature babies.

On a more positive note, it was wonderful to read your front page story on July
4 about the 10-year- old girl whose weight at birth was similar to many others
whose lives have been aborted.

DAVID MCPHERSON

Waianiwa

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


