                              230 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Beacon (Ashtabula, Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             May 6, 2015 Wednesday

Compassion, dedication and commitment top the list of nurses' needed qualities

BYLINE: Dave Deluca, Star Beacon, Ashtabula, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 673 words


May 06--Ethical practice and quality of care are the emphasis of this year's
National Nurses week, which runs from May 6-12, and Ashtabula County Medical
Center's nurses work at providing both.

For the last 13 years, nurses have earned the top spot as the public's most
honest and ethical profession in America in an annual Gallup Poll. This year's
theme recognizes nurses' adherence to the theme, "Ethical Practice, Quality
Care."

ACMC Director of Nurses John Engelmann (RN) said ACMC was unique in that it
offered more types of care than most community hospitals. That makes the
challenges ACMC nurses face greater.

"We have hospice, a cardiac/catheter lab, an OB department, Behavioral Medicine
and other things you don't often see in a community hospital," he said. "These
are things you usually find at the Cleveland Clinic and larger facilities."

Engelmann has been with ACMC for 21 years. He said ACMC was like a small city
unto itself, with its components all dependent on each other and working
together.

"People are more aware of medical techniques and technology now," he said.
"Nurses' responsibilities are greater because each technique and technology
creates a new ethical responsibility in creating a positive patient experience.
We all have to work together to bring that about."

Tina Phelps (RN), ACMC's manager of nurses, said nurses make ethical decisions
every day.

"We make these kinds of decisions constantly," she said. "As a nurse, it's an
honor to be in a patient's space. And it's not just the patient's wishes that
must be honored, it's the family's, too."

Jenn Turner (RN), of the Cardiac Catheterization lab, said honoring both the
family's and patient's wishes were among the top challenges of the job.

"It's very challenging. I have patients that come in and they look just fine.
Then we take a picture of their arteries and realize they have serious
problems," she said, adding, "Of course doctors diagnose and do much of the
work, but we have to explain to them and their families why they need care and
help them with their care path."

She said it was often a difficult job explaining to families what their loved
ones might have to go through and preparing them for the experience.

Phelps said patients are now more aware now of the needs of their individual
care paths and the overall direction of their care.

"This is another way we deal with ethics every day," she said. "It's more than
reassurance, it's helping them and their families deal with their medical issues
on a human, emotional level."

Sandy Sposito (RN), of ACMC's Patient Experience/Volunteer Services, was given a
Faces of Caring Award at ACMC's Tuesday Nurses Day Award Luncheon. The award is
sponsored by Cleveland Magazine, the Cleveland Clinic and the Greater Cleveland
Nurses Association. Sposito has worked with ACMC for 41 years, with 25 years as
a registered nurse.

"To handle all these challenges, nurses need compassion, commitment and
dedication," she said. "In the culture of nursing, the patient always comes
first."

She said being a nurse was a privilege as well as a responsibility.

"For all the challenges and responsibility we face, it is still an honor and
privilege to be a nurse and be involved with a patient's care," she said. "When
you make the decision to become a nurse, it's not something you take lightly."

Phelps said good nursing required teamwork among nurses, doctors and hospital
staff.

"Nurses represent one slice of the team," she said. "Nurses and staff must all
work together to bring about the best patient experience."

She said being a nurse required humility and dedication to service.

"In the end, it's a difficult job, but well worth it," she said.

Sposito echoed that sentiment.

"We recognize that being a caregiver is a huge responsibility and challenge, so
we honor each other during Nurses Week," she said. "I'm very happy -- and
grateful -- to have been a nurse."

___ (c)2015 the Star Beacon (Ashtabula, Ohio) Visit the Star Beacon (Ashtabula,
Ohio) at www.starbeacon.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20150506-OB-Compassion-dedication-and-commitment-top-the-list-of-nurses-needed-q
ualities-0506-20150506

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OB


                           Copyright 2015 Star Beacon


