                              224 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                               February 25, 2008

Letters to the Editor - Feb. 25, 2008

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 18 Vol. 51 No. 8

LENGTH: 618 words



HIGHLIGHT: 'Less work for ethics committees as consensus replaced controversies'
and other items

Less work for ethics committees as consensus replaced controversies

Regarding: "Willing, but waiting: Hospital ethics committees" (AMNews, Jan. 28):
Ethics committees have lost their bearings for two reasons.

First, the controversial ethical issues that they were formed to address --
controversies over the ethical appropriateness of withholding or withdrawing
various medical treatments under various circumstances -- largely have been
resolved. Through input from legal, bioethical and religious leaders, we have
reached a societal consensus on most of the matters that were deeply divisive 20
years ago.

Today, cases like those of Karen Quinlan or Nancy Cruzan would not need to go to
ethics committees. Even the case of Terri Schiavo, for all the legal
maneuvering, ultimately reinforced the prevailing consensus. After all was said
and done, even Congress and the president couldn't stop the removal of Schiavo's
feeding tube.

A second reason why ethics committees are less active than they used to be is
that most hospitals now have palliative care services. These specialists do a
lot of the work that ethics committees once did. They help patients and families
come to decisions about what to withhold or withdraw.

Does this mean that there is nothing left for ethics committees to do? Probably
not. But ethics committees need to understand better the flashpoints of
disagreement that arise in hospitals today with regard to end-of-life
decision-making.

Those disagreements likely are quite different now than they used to be. But
they are unlikely to have gone away entirely.

John Lantos, MD, Kansas City, Mo.

Financial transparency is essential to creating best possible health system

In the debate about the promises and perils of a single-payer health care system
for the United States, I have been surprised to hear so little about a vital
function our present system cannot provide: priority setting by democracy.

Currently, financial decisions that have major impact on the dynamics and
capacity of health care delivery are made strategically by market-driven
business entities, the processes of which often are private and the data usually
proprietary. This necessarily interferes with any effort by physicians, patients
or their advocates to set or enforce a meaningful agenda for health care at the
state or national level. Accountability to the true needs and priorities of our
society is nominal.

No system guarantees perfect decisions, but in a single-payer system the
decision-making process at least would be in the public record, open to
scrutiny. Obvious examples include how reimbursement rates are set, premiums
calculated, formularies structured, covered versus noncovered benefits
determined, and investments in health infrastructure allocated. Without this
information, our discourse about health care goals is purely academic.

Just as a free press has been essential to protecting our political vitality, a
transparent health care financing system will be essential to optimizing the
application of finite resources for our medical common good.

Andre Gerard, MD, Healdsburg, Calif.

Turnabout is fair play when medicine meets anonymous online venting

Regarding "Insurers' online forums invite patients to vent" (AMNews, Jan. 28):
America is a heterogeneous society with many differing values of what is
appropriate medical care and behavior.

If patients may use fake names to critique physicians, then let's balance the
field and allow physicians using fake names to post critiques of patients. Among
many other things, this would quickly make public persons abusing and exploiting
physicians' good will and dedication in order to fraudulently obtain narcotics.

Earl J. Carstensen, MD, Aurora, Colo.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

