                              227 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                             July 9, 2015 Thursday

National Steering Committee to review ethical and legal perspectives of
healthcare in India

BYLINE: EH News Bureau

LENGTH: 743  words


Discuss on how to ensure quality, ethical, easily accessible and affordable care
to all

The inaugural meeting of the National Steering Committee to Review Ethical and
Legal perspectives of Healthcare in India was held recently in Bengaluru. The
committee, consisting of all major medical and hospital societies in the
country, led by the Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI) and the
Indian Medical Association (IMA), discussed the present scenario among the
medical fraternity, and has representation from the Association of National
Board Accredited Institutions (ANBAI), Christian Coalition for Health India
(CCHI), Consortium of Accredited Healthcare Organizations (CAHO), Academy of
Hospital Administration (AHA), All India Ophthalmological Society (AIOS),
Association of Otolaryngologists of India (AOI), Association of Physicians India
(API), Association of Surgeons of India (ASI), Medical Officers Association of
ESIC, Federation of Obstetrics and Gynecological Societies of India (FOGSI),
Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP), Indian Orthopedic Association (IOA), Indian
Society of Anesthesiologists (ISA), and Indian Radiological and Imaging
Association (IRIA). All these major societies will liaise with their
subspeciality associations so that the entire medical community will be involved
in this important exercise

It was reiterated that the patient is the focus, and as health professionals,
all efforts should be made to ensure provision of quality, ethical, easily
accessible and affordable care to all. This would include standardisation of
care with minimum levels as appropriate.

Communication to and with patients, and their relative and attenders was one
area, which needed improvement. Unethical practices, like taking and giving of
commissions etc. are not acceptable, and also are cause for increased cost of
healthcare.

Recent awards of huge amounts as compensation for medical negligence have been
making the news. Members noted that these verdicts have resulted in a huge
increase in the number of cases filed against doctors, as well as a significant
increase in the premiums paid to insurance companies. Unfortunately, this
results in more expensive medical care, which is borne by the patient as is
evident from the experience in US and other developed countries. In addition,
hospitals and doctors are now reluctant to take on complicated cases for fear of
medico-legal issues, and many have stopped practice. In India, this only adds to
the already severe shortage of specialists. Again, it is the patient who
suffers, deprived of adequate medical care of an acceptable standard. Another
recognised factor for increased cost in these situations is practice of
defensive medicine, an example of which is getting excessive investigations done
by the clinician for fear of being questioned in the court of law.

One solution discussed by the committee was that it may be desirable to place a
cap on the amount that can be awarded in cases of medical negligence, as
practiced in countries such as the US. Dr Marthandam Pillai, President, IMA,
noted that capping could be a reasonable and balanced solution to the problem by
placing a limit on the amount that can be awarded against a hospital or doctor
by any court. The current type of award for medical negligence is unsustainable
and puts a lot of pressure on doctors. Putting a cap on compensation could act
as a deterrent and remind the medical fraternity of the consequences of medical
negligence but without hampering their daily practice, as is currently the case.

Dr Devi Shetty said that 80 per cent of hospital births in India are in
hospitals or nursing homes which have 30 or less beds. These smaller healthcare
facilities in rural and semi-urban areas which provide care to the majority of
patients in our country may have to shut operations if subjected to frivolous
and exorbitant lawsuits.

Dr Alexander Thomas, Executive Director, AHPI mentioned that over the last few
months, IMA and AHPI have set up a working group to tackle the issue. Much work
has already gone into this endeavor by eminent lawyers and medical personnel.

Other solutions recommended to address this issue were to set up arbitration
centers in hospitals, appointing of an Ombudsman in each state and setting up of
a fund where patients would get immediate compensation for catastrophic events.

Professor and Advocate Dr Joga Rao and Dhyan Chinnappa, Senior Advocate also
spoke on the occasion.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2015 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


