                              24 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

               January 3, 1987, Saturday, SATURDAY SECOND EDITION

The ethical dilemma in case of Baby Andrew

SECTION: LETTER; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 460 words


   Re, your editorial, Whose decision? (Dec. 24). Having watched the case of
Baby Andrew unfold, I was pleased to find The Star acknowledging the important
ethical considerations which are brought to bear for decision makers.

As a Canadian PhD candidate in Bioethics at Georgetown University in Washington,
D.C., I have observed the increasing use of ethics committees and ethics
consultants in the hospital setting. The U.S. experience may be instructive.

During the last several years, at least five cases have been heard in U.S.
courts in which parents have refused to consent to treatment for infants with
the understanding that the denial of treatment would certainly result in their
child's death. In every case, the parents were seen to be thoughtful and
compassionate individuals who believed that their decision to refuse consent was
truly in the best interests of their child.

In some of these cases the court ordered treatment, and in others the parents'
wishes were honored. What is unfortunate, however, was that no precedent emerged
from this body of cases upon which future cases could be decided. The court was
unable to articulate a set of principles (legal or ethical) to which hospitals
or parents could turn when faced with a similar dilemma.

In fact, some of the courts acknowledged an uneasiness in addressing these cases
because they were primarily medical and ethical in nature and not legal. Some of
the court decisions also acknowledged the appropriateness of referring such
cases to hospital ethics committees. Recently, the American Academy of
Pediatrics encouraged hospitals to set up ethics committees for pediatric cases,
and it is likely that a similar trend will appear in geriatric settings. These
developments should be welcomed.

Although referral to ethics committees may be difficult, it seems reasonable
that hospitals should nevertheless consider implementing committees which
include individuals trained in clinical medical ethics and hospital attorneys.
In cases such as Baby Andrew's, a committee could retrospectively review the way
the case was handled, paying particular attention to the way the parents were
informed about their child's illness, and any mechanisms used for resolving the
conflict which occurred. This activity does not require that ethics committees
be granted adjudicatory power but it does provide the hospital with an
opportunity to build up a store of ethical reflections and considerations that
can be referred to in similar cases. Hospitals would be wise to examine their
own needs for ethics consultation to ensure that cases which can be (and often
ought to be) addressed in the hospital are not hastily referred to the courts.

ERIC M. MESLIN

Washington, D.C.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1987 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


