                              225 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                  July 7, 2008

AMA meeting: AMA OKs palliative sedation for terminally ill

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, AMNews staff. Jul. 7, 2008

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 28 Vol. 51 No. 25

LENGTH: 953 words



HIGHLIGHT: The seldom-used technique is deemed ethical because the aim is to
relieve intractable symptoms, not hasten death.


  When all else fails to control patients' pain at the end of life, it is
appropriate for physicians to sedate such patients to unconsciousness, according
to new ethical policy adopted at the AMA Annual Meeting in June.

The rarely employed practice of palliative or terminal sedation is sometimes
perceived as speeding the dying process, leading critics to dub it a form of
physician-assisted suicide. But evidence of such a hastening effect is lacking,
according to a Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs report adopted by the
House of Delegates.

"These are unusual circumstances that require us to urgently relieve these
symptoms by sedating patients to unconsciousness," said CEJA member H. Rex
Greene, MD, a Lima, Ohio, oncologist and palliative medicine specialist. "This
is not intended to end life."

The ethical opinion says physicians are obligated to offer palliative sedation
as a last resort when "symptoms cannot be diminished through all other means of
palliation, including symptom-specific treatments." Such symptoms include pain,
shortness of breath, dyspnea, nausea and vomiting. Between 5% and 35% of hospice
patients have intractable symptoms in the last week of life, according to a 2000
Annals of Internal Medicine study.

Doctors should consult with a multidisciplinary team or a palliative care expert
to determine that sedation to unconsciousness is the right course of treatment,
the policy says. The rationale for the sedation should be documented in the
medical record, and patients or their surrogates should consent to the
procedure.

Physicians also should talk with patients about whether the sedation will be
intermittent or constant, and whether to withdraw or withhold other
life-sustaining treatments.

Treating patient pain

The policy draws the line at using palliative sedation to combat emotional
distress some terminally ill patients experience at the end of life. These
symptoms are better addressed with social and spiritual supports, the CEJA
opinion stated. Lastly, palliative sedation "must never be used to intentionally
cause a patient's death."

The policy "protects patients from inappropriate use of palliative sedation,"
said California delegate Melvyn Sterling, MD, a palliative care specialist. "It
provides guidance to hospitals that might otherwise be reluctant to allow this
to occur, and it provides protection to the entire health care team involved,
who might otherwise allow terrible suffering to occur."

The American Academy of Hospice and Palliative Medicine and the American Academy
of Pain Medicine support the use of palliative sedation to unconsciousness. The
AMA opposes euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide as being "fundamentally
incompatible with the physician's role as healer."

Delegates also directed the AMA to study alternatives to "do not resuscitate"
orders. The resolution said DNR terminology "is both confusing and misleading to
patients and families because of the negativism in wording, which suggests that
something is being denied, and the implication that all care, including comfort
measures, is to be withheld."

Alternatives to be studied include "allow natural death," "limitations of
emergency treatment" and "physician orders for life-sustaining treatment." In
panel testimony, most delegates agreed the study was needed, but others said
altering the terminology will do little to make talking with patients and
families easier.

"If we think changing the name changes the task, then we are deluding
ourselves," said Michael A. Williams, MD, a delegate for the American Academy of
Neurology. "There is no form we can have that will make the complex challenges
of this go away."

Meeting notes: Medical ethics

Issue: To better halt the spread of chlamydia and gonorrhea, the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention recommends expedited partner therapy, in which
doctors give patients antimicrobials for their sex partners. The practice, while
effective, may undermine informed consent and continuity of care, and violate
state laws.

Proposed action: New ethical policy saying doctors should only use EPT if they
believe a patient's partner would otherwise not seek treatment. [ Adopted ]

Issue: Some hospitals have asked medical staff members to provide personal
financial information as part of conflict-of-interest policies apparently aimed
at shutting out doctors who work for competitors.

Proposed action: A Board of Trustees report recommending that only physicians
seeking to serve in a hospital leadership position be required to disclose
employment, ownership or financial interests, or leadership positions at another
hospital. Also, the information requested should be no different from that
requested of nonphysicians. [ Adopted ]

Issue: Treating peer physicians poses special challenges to clinical objectivity
and confidentiality.

Proposed action: New policy saying doctors should not hesitate to treat peers in
emergencies, but should beware of the risk of biased treatment recommendations,
take care to respect privacy, and share decision-making as they would with other
patients. [ Adopted ]

Issue: Drug- and device-maker funding of graduate and continuing medical
education may undermine physicians' professional integrity and subtly bias
doctors' practice patterns in ways that are not in patients' best interest.

Proposed action: A new ethical opinion calling on doctors, medical schools and
organized medicine groups to end industry funding of residency positions and
clinical fellowships, educational programs and physician speakers' bureaus --
except when new diagnostic or therapeutic devices and techniques are introduced,
as industry representatives may be the only experts available to teach doctors
about them. [ Referred ]

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

