                              226 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                    October 13, 2005 Thursday, FINAL Edition

Frist using fine print to cover ethical lapses;
The Senate majority leader had a responsibility to avoid even the appearance of
a conflict.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 426 words


Sen. Bill Frist, R-Tenn., defends his handling of his personal financial
holdings - and the conflict created by them - by talking about limits, both in
terms of ethics rules and options. Unfortunately for the senator, however, no
such limits exist.

The latest revelation concerning the embattled Senate majority leader comes in
an Associated Press story examining Frist's interest in a privately-owned
hospital chain, HCA Inc. Rather than have his shares in the company managed by a
blind trust, Frist's ownership interest in the chain was held by a family
investment partnership run in part by his brother.

According to experts interviewed by the AP, that raises ethical concerns. As
Frist was voting on issues affecting the profitability of hospitals, his family
was in control of his shares in a hospital chain. With a real blind trust, Frist
would have no possible influence over the trustee controlling his investments.

A member of Frist's staff pointed out that Senate rules did not allow for
placing the private holdings at issue within a Senate-approved blind trust. The
spokesman added that Frist didn't control the assets and disclosed the holdings.

That reaction suggests that Frist did all he could to avoid a conflict, but
that's obviously not so.

For starters, he could have simply abstained from any votes or deliberations on
matters affecting hospital finance. True, that would have taken him out of major
debates over issues like Medicare, but it would have resolved any ethical
concerns.

Frist also could have sold his shares long ago when he realized the Senate's
blind trust system wasn't set up to oversee private holdings of this nature.

To some, those choices sound extreme, but Frist is making decisions that affect
the lives of millions of Americans. If they're to have confidence in the leader
of the U.S. Senate, he has to avoid the appearance of a conflict. What he did
with respect to these HCA shares falls well short of that.

Frist is already in trouble for allegedly requesting that trustees sell off
publicly traded HCA stock, defeating the purpose of a "blind" trust over which
he was supposed to have no day-to-day control.

Now, it appears, he has been lax in monitoring other potential conflicts.

One supposes Frist could argue that Senate ethics rules are arcane and that his
holdings were complex. But accountability to the public starts with stepping
away from the fine print and looking at a potential conflict with a working
ethical compass. Somehow, Senate Majority Leader Frist lost his way.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2005 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.


