                              228 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           February 11, 1988 Thursday

PEOPLE WATCH   Medicine, ethics and the law come together in a voice of reason

BYLINE: STEVIE CAMERON; GAM

LENGTH: 932 words

DATELINE: Montreal PQ


STEVIE CAMERON
  MONTREAL
   Day after day, ever since the Supreme Court of Canada announced its
stunning decision on abortion two weeks ago, many Canadians have been
listening to one clear, compassionate voice exploring the issue.

As Margaret Somerville , a Montreal lawyer and professor, races from
one interview to another, it's hard to turn on the television or radio
without hearing her. Quite suddenly Ms Somerville has become Canada's
best-known expert on medical ethics. As we all struggle in our own minds
with the explosion of ethical dilemmas raised by abortion, euthanasia,
biotechnology,  in vitro fertilization, AIDS and the costs of universal
access to medical care, such people help us understand what is happening.

Unfortunately, people like Ms Somerville are rare. This cheerful
Australian, who is 45 and holds professorships in both the law and medical
faculties at McGill University, has extraordinary qualifications - a
degree in pharmacology, a law degree and a doctorate in medical law and
ethics. (Along the way she became an expert on antiques and wrote a
cookbook.)
   Last week in Philadelphia she gave a keynote address at the American
Bar Association's national conference on birth, death and the law; today
she is in Italy for an international AIDS conference. In March she will be
one of three Canadians at an emergency AIDS meeting called by French
President Francois Mitterrand in France.

Two years ago, with money from McGill and Montreal hospitals, and with
support from the faculties of medicine, law, research, religious studies
and philosophy, Ms Somerville founded the McGill Centre for Medicine,
Ethics and Law . Here she has brought together a talented group of experts
to help hospitals and other institutions answer desperate ethical
questions.

Here you will find Dawson Schultz, a Texan with degrees in philosophy,
zoology and religious studies, who is the clinical ethicist at the
Montreal Children's Hospital; and ethicist Benjamin Freedman, who came to
McGill from the Westminster Institute, an ethics centre at the University
of Western Ontario in London. Then there is Edward Keyserlingk, who was
with the Law Reform Commission in Ottawa, and Patricia Illingworth, from
McGill's philosophy department.

What makes this centre different from places like the Westminster
Institute, or McGill's Centre for Bio-Ethics in the Clinical Research
Institute of Montreal, is that it covers so many disciplines and serves so
many different groups, from individuals and governments to drug
manufacturers, hospitals and professional associations.

Its first project was a $615,000 study of the legal, ethical, social
and economics issues raised by the fatal acquired immune deficiency
syndrome in Canada.

Now the demand for its services is staggering.

"We're not into dictating the right answers," Ms Somerville cautioned
in an interview. "What we do is set up a framework to help people deal
with these issues."

The group works out of the Lady Meredith House on Pine Avenue, one of
the great Westmount houses built of red brick, with turrets and gables. A
curving staircase lit by spectacular stained-glass windows takes visitors
up to the centre's third-floor offices. The sun streams in and you can
smell fresh coffee; any unease about the centre's authority over life and
death fades.

Ms Somerville's pink-and-grey office, with its books, paintings and
cosy sofas, is equally reassuring. A deep drawer in her desk is lined with
a soft mat; that's where her red Abyssinian cat likes to snooze.

"I won't work in a place that isn't decorated," she said. "One of the
aims here is to be civilized. There is a lot of laughter here."

The feeling is one of informality mixed with intense effort. Next door,
a group is working on a proposal from the federal Government to establish
a computerized AIDS communications system. Ms Somerville has escaped the
meeting, but people pop in every few minutes and urgent phone messages
pile up.

To get a glimpse of her life, look at her diary for late August. This
was when she went to Ottawa to address the Canadian Bar Association on
surrogate motherhood; she left the platform after her speech to get to the
Canadian Medical Association meeting in Charlottetown. Three days later
she was in South Korea to give a paper on AIDS and human rights,
travelling on to Tokyo to take part in a seminar on violence in the
family.

Thirty hours later she was giving a paper in London, Ont., for the
Canadian Psychiatric Association before heading home to Montreal for four
days. Next stop was Texas for a technocracy and ethics conference; then Ms
Somerville was off to Australia and New Zealand for more conferences. What
it added up to was two trips around the world in four weeks. Back at
McGill she teaches, runs the centre (despite her cheerful lack of
enthusiasm for administration) and does hours of research every day.

One recent paper on medicine in the 1990s summed up many of her
concerns. "I called it AAART," she said, "which stands for AIDS, aging,
allocation (of resources) and reproductive technology. They are serious
challenges to the science of medicine. AIDS has no cure. Aging brings the
problem of whether to prolong life. Allocation means we have more demand
for medical services than we are willing to pay for. Reproductive
technology can create unnatural events and alter genetics."

Given these issues, it is amazing that people can even smile in this
building. But there is great optimism and energy here. It seems a shame
the centre is not looking at ethics in government as well as in medicine.
Given the gleam in Ms Somerville's eye when the subject is raised, it may
well be the next step.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1988 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


