                              229 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             National Post (Canada)

                    December 5, 1998 Saturday FINAL EDITIONS

Campaign targets complacent investors: Ethical Funds Inc. is now managing
$2.1-billion in assets, compared with $80-million two years ago, thanks to its
aggressive and emotional advertising strategies

BYLINE: Susan Heinrich

SECTION: FINANCIAL POST; Pg. D10

LENGTH: 1161 words


It starts off looking and sounding like a public service announcement. The
images flash quickly throughout the 30-second television ad: The grieving woman
in the hospital waiting room, crying. The still body of the older woman as the
sheet is drawn over her head by a hospital attendant. And a single cigarette,
which bleeds as a scalpel cuts its white paper skin.

'Smoking killed Susan Graham's mother,' begins the narrator. 'But long before
that she hated the way tobacco companies hook kids and raise health costs for
everyone.' Then the narration take an unexpected turn, pulling in the tuned out
viewers: 'Yet every year she unknowingly sends them a donation through her RRSP.

 Know where your money goes with Ethical Funds. Do the right thing.'

It is one of four television ads that ran this fall for Ethical Funds Inc., the
Vancouver-based mutual fund company. The ads got noticed. That was the
intention. 'The message here is know where your money goes,' says John
Linthwaite of Ethical's marketing group. 'And many people don't.'

Ethical Funds is trying to convert all those investors who consider themselves
socially responsible people, but never thought of going the next step and
synchronizing their values with their investment portfolios.

The ads are meant to move people to action, said Bruce Fraser, the creative
director of Glennie Stamnes Strategy, the Vancouver advertising agency that
created the campaign. 'We are not out to shock people, but we want to snap them
out of their day-to-day complacency and get them to act,' he said. 'When it
comes to financial products it takes a little more to move people to action.'

This is Ethical Funds' second national ad campaign, but its first foray into TV.

 The four 30-second ads began running in September and are now tapering off: all

 scheduled ahead of the RRSP ad rush. 'There is just too much clutter in the
RRSP season,' said Mr. Linthwaite.

For Ethical Funds, that clutter created an opportunity to stand out, says Mr.
Fraser. 'I guess one of the biggest advantages we have is that mutual funds
advertising is a terribly cluttered, boring, homogenous category, with a lot of
silver-haired men, a lot of cliches.'

Another theme in this year's ads was child labour. Both magazine and TV spots
hit viewers with the issue of child workers: an ugly blemish on the face of
capitalism. Ethical Funds tried to draw attention to it through the ads and by
donating part of the revenue from its new Registered Education Savings Plan to
UNICEF for children's education programs in developing countries.

Ethical Funds is one of only two fund companies dedicated to socially
responsible investing in Canada. The other, Clean Environment Mutual Funds, has
a slightly different focus.

Ethical sells eight funds, all managed with strict criteria. They invest only in

 companies that encourage progressive industrial and labour relations,
environmental protection, and operate in countries that support equal
opportunities. Managers avoid companies that derive income from tobacco related,

 military, or nuclear power products. As the TV ads say: non-nuclear,
non-oppressive, non-weapons, non-tobacco.

Last year's print ad campaign caught attention as well, with one ad in
particular causing a stir. It showed a group of young teens smoking; the
headline read: Not In My Portfolio. 'There was something about showing preteens
smoking in a financial category that really shook people up,' said Mr. Fraser.

All the scuttlebutt surrounding the Ethical ads has been great for the fund
group.

Sales have grown significantly in the past two years since the company began
advertising. As of the end of November, the assets in its funds are about
$2.1-billion, compared with $803-million only two years ago.

Ethical funds are sold primarily by credit unions across the country, although
they are becoming more widely available through discount brokers and some full
service investment dealers. The company was established in 1992 as a subsidiary
of Credential Group, a national body of about 500 of the 1000 credit unions
across the country.

Like the mutual funds sold at banks, Ethical Funds are no-load, meaning
investors don't pay to buy or sell them. That has kept them off the shelves of
many stockbrokers and fund dealers who are compensated with sales commissions.

The only province where the funds are not available is Quebec. And because the
ads aired nationally, requests have been flooding in. 'We know from our Web site

 the ads are reaching people,' said Laurie Yaworski, president and chief
executive of Ethical. 'People are sending us messages asking, 'When are you
going to sell the funds in Quebec?' ' The company is considering that expansion.

Another indication they had been noticed was when the hit CBC television comedy
show This Hour Has 22 Minutes did a spoof of one of the TV ads. 'They did a
really good job,' said Mr. Yaworski. 'They called it 'Unethical Funds.' '

Jokes aside, Mr. Linthwaite said there was some debate over how emotional the
ads should be. One scene was ultimately cut from the ad with the woman in the
hospital waiting room. 'The initial concept was to have her cry,' says Mr.
Linthwaite. 'She was a wonderful actress and the tears just poured out. We
thought it was just too emotional.'

The end result seemed to strike the right chord with investors. The company
received only a handful of complaints from people who were upset by the ads.

Ethical is still a small fund player compared with many of its competitors. Mr.
Linthwaite says there are naysayers who question how funds saddled with
restrictions can produce returns on a par with funds that have free reign to buy

 anything. The funds stand on their own he says. Several of the eight funds are
above average performers and the rest are on a par with the average return of
competitors.

Still, Mr. Linthwaite is commonly asked 'Can you get good returns in ethical
funds?'

'There is still a cynicism there,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 05, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White Photo: Ethical Funds Inc. / A nurse draws a sheet over
the face of a woman in Ethical Funds' advertisement against tobacco company
investments.; Black & White Photo: Ethical Funds Inc. / A woman cries in a
non-tobacco ad.Financial Post

TYPE: Business

                    Copyright 1998 Financial Post DataGroup,
                    A division of The National Post Company
                              All rights reserved.


