                              235 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday

Irregularities at cancer institute: Panel to probe allegations

BYLINE: Hiral Dave

LENGTH: 320  words

DATELINE: Rajkot


The state government has formed a high level inquiry committee to look into the
alleged irregularities in administration and clinical trials at the V R Desai
Cancer Research Institute (VRDCRI).

Anju Sharma, Director, state Rural Health Mission, has been appointed head of
the committee, which has the Health Department director and regional joint
charity commissioner as members.

Sharma said the panel will look into various allegations, including financial
and clinical trial irregularities at VRDCRI, which is the only cancer specialty
hospital in the Surashtra-Kutch region. The institute is run by the Rajkot
Cancer Society (RCS). She said: "We are yet to visit the hospital."

Kishor Ghiya, one of the founding trustees of the hospital, has accused top
hospital authorities of practising illegal clinical research for private drug
companies under the Human Right Ethical Committee, and commercial use of the
trust-run hospital.

According to Ghiya, due to the ongoing commercial activities, like clinical
tests for private companies, the trust has lost the benefit of Income Tax
exemption from this year.

He has further alleged that the Human Research Ethical Committee (HREC), usually
comprising leading local doctors and academicians to keep a tab on clinical
trials, is functioning on the direction of VRDCRI Director V D Gupta and details
like clinical research and its accounts have not been shared with the trust
members.

"It's not a question of commercial use of a charitable trust, but the fact that
the lives of several thousand patients coming for diagnosis at the institute
that has been put at risk," said Ghiya.

He said the I-T Department has not renewed the tax exemption benefit due to the
ongoing clinical research, which is a commercial activity.

When The Indian Express had first reported about the alleged irregularities in
April 2009, the authorities claimed they had dissolved HREC and stopped the
trials.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


