                              237 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                          September 18, 2014 Thursday

Oklahoma business briefs, Sept. 19

SECTION:

LENGTH: 515 words



Oklahoma briefs

OKC inpatient facility sold

An Oklahoma City inpatient facility leased to Mercy Rehabilitation Hospital was
among five health facilities in four states that have been acquired by a real
estate investment trust for about $131.1 million. CNL Healthcare Properties,
which focuses on senior housing and health care facilities, has acquired two
specialty hospitals and three inpatient rehabilitation hospitals. The Oklahoma
City hospital contains 53,449 square feet. "This addition to our medical
portfolio gives us the opportunity to invest in two specialty hospitals and
three inpatient rehabilitation hospitals that will diversify and add to our
growing number of healthcare assets," said Kevin Maddron, senior vice president
of CNL Healthcare Properties. "The properties have highly qualified tenants in
place that are focused on providing patients with the best possible treatment
and care." The other facilities are in Texas, Nevada and Indiana.Tulsan has spot
in Staples' raceA creation by a Tulsa inventor and entrepreneur designed to make
the Apple iPad a true handheld device is among the leaders of a national
contest. James Hill entered his nHand device, which includes a detachable tablet
handle and a three-way stand, in Staples' Crowd2Shelf national contest on Sept.
1 and is in second place with nearly 5,000 votes. nHand is the only Oklahoma
product entered in the contest. Votes may be cast and more information found on
Hill's nhand device at www.fundable.com/get-n-hand. The products with the most
votes, sales and judge excitement will be featured on the shelves of Staples
nationwide.OSU to honor businessmanSTILLWATER - Oklahoma State University's
Center for Ethical Leadership will host Frank Morsani, former chairman of the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, at a Student Leaders Luncheon set for Tuesday in
Taylor's Dining Room on campus.

Morsani, who has owned more than 40 companies, will speak about his experiences
in leadership while at OSU and afterward, as chairman of the board of the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce. He received his Bachelor of Science in Trade and Industrial
Engineering from OSU and went on to work for Ford Motor Co. Recognized for his
philanthropy at OSU, Morsani also received an honorary doctorate from the
university in 2010. "Frank Morsani is the epitome of the classic cowboy way,"
said Stephen Haseley, Center for Ethical Leadership manager. "He has an
interesting career history to share that illustrates integrity, honor and the
courage to hope, even when he was the only one with hope." Those interested in
attending the Student Leaders Luncheon should RSVP to Nichole Brown in the
Center for Ethical Leadership office at (405) 744-5485 or by email at
ngbrown@okstate.edu.OK's senators are honoredBoth of Oklahoma's U.S. senators
were honored Thursday by the National Federation of Independent Business. U.S.
Sens. Jim Inhofe, R-Tulsa, and Tom Coburn, R-Muskogee, were named as Guardian of
Small Business for their voting records on behalf of small-business owners. The
group will present the award to 45 senators.

From staff reports


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2014 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


