                              234 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                          February 20, 2008 Wednesday

GROUPS WANT LEGAL PROOF OF SERVICES

BYLINE: SUE VORENBERG

SECTION: BOOKS; Pg. C-1

LENGTH: 968 words


HOSPITAL MERGER

Reproductive, end of life issues still concern coalition

Proof: Hospital officials' assurances not yet legally binding

It's not that we don't like you; it's just that we don't trust you.

That's the message a coalition of community groups say they would like to convey
to St. Vincent Medical Center and Christus Health before the two private
nonprofits enter into a partnership agreement that could threaten reproductive
services and end of life care at the hospital.

The groups, which include the American Civil Liberties Union of New Mexico,
NARAL Pro-Choice New Mexico, the Southwest Women's Law Center and several
others, want to see what's in the binding agreement between the two parties --
at least the parts relevant to key community issues -- before they'll feel
comfortable supporting the merger, said Peter Simonson, executive director of
ACLU of New Mexico.

They're concerned that Roman Catholic ethical and religious directives will
override the hospital's ability to provide contraception, sterilization
procedures and the application of living wills since St. Vincent will fall under
those directives in the merger.

So far, representatives of the hospital have said that's not going to happen,
and any problem areas will be moved to a new nonprofit organization called SVH
Support Co., which won't be under direct control of Christus.

But none of those assurances have been in legally binding documents.

"The hospital and Christus have been asking the community to simply trust that
they'll continue end of life care and reproductive health services to
perpetuity, but they're not willing to write those into an agreement," Simonson
said. "We've made that request repeatedly. We've asked to see the contract to
see how Catholic ethical and religious directives will be applied."

The coalition will hold a public meeting tonight at 6 p.m. at the Unitarian
Universalist Congregation of Santa Fe, 107 Barcelona Road, designed to educate
the public about the issues of concern, said Heather Brewer, executive director
of NARAL Pro Choice New Mexico.

"We have no problem with how St. Vincent has conducted this process," Brewer
said. "But we're starting to find that the devil is in the details. We want to
make sure that although people have heard the meaningful assurances from St.
Vincent, unless those are in writing, they aren't really meaningful."

The partnership agreement is still in due diligence and hasn't yet been
formalized, said Arturo Delgado, a spokesman for St. Vincent. There is no
deadline by which the partners have to sign the agreement, he added.

The investment by Christus will remove $37 million in debt the hospital carries
from projects such as its cancer center and emergency department remodeling and
will also pay for further hospital expansion projects.

St. Vincent and Christus don't plan on showing the agreement to anyone and
aren't legally bound to do so, he said.

St. Vincent posted a document on its Web site at www.stvin.org titled "Here it
is in Writing" that tries to reassure the public about some of the concerns.

The document says family counseling, contraception and end-of-life care will be
provided according to state law.

But some of the wording is a little suspicious, Brewer said.

"The (ethical and religious directives) provide that 'there should be a
presumption in favor of providing nutrition and hydration to all patients,
including patients who require medically assisted nutrition and hydration, as
long as this is of sufficient benefit to outweigh the burdens to the patient.'
The ethical and religious directives conform to current practices on this
point," the document says.

The Web site statement also isn't legally binding despite it being a step in the
right direction, Brewer said.

"It's great that they put that on the Web site, but unfortunately what they put
on the site doesn't guarantee that an elderly patient gets the end of life care
that they need," Brewer said.

Because St. Vincent gets federal, state and community funding, it should have
some sort of ethical obligation to prove its protecting the community as it
says, Simonson said.

"Right now, though, we're just trying to prevail upon their desire to be
faithful to the community's best interests," he said.

The other problem is that while St. Vincent representatives have said they can
dissolve the agreement at any time, the reality is that would be a very
difficult thing to do, Simonson said.

"Is it realistic to think that Support Co. could unwind itself from its
arrangement with Christus? It's not going to have a staff, a manager or support
for that capability," he said. "I think it's unrealistic to think Support Co. is
capable of buying out Christus, taking over the hospital or continuing on its
own."

That's why its important to make sure the agreement resolves community issues
before it's signed, he said.

"There are examples where Christus and other Catholic health groups have changed
the rules of the game once a merger is complete," Simonson said.

He pointed out a case where Christus acquired McCuistion Regional Medical Center
in Paris, Texas, made similar guarantees and then "two years later announced it
would remove maternity services that would let a woman have a tubal ligation
after giving birth," Simonson said.

Even if the guarantees are in writing in the contract, it's still not an
"iron-clad guarantee" that the Catholic Church won't try to overturn some
hospital practices, he added.

"Contracts can change," Simonson said. "But we would hope they would at least
disclose the relevant parts of the contract that would assuage the community's
concerns for now."

IF YOU GO

What: Community meeting sponsored by groups concerned about St. Vincent-Christus
merger

When: 6 p.m. tonight

Where: Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Santa Fe, 107 Barcelona Road

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The New Mexican


