                              240 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             July 18, 1999, Sunday

Ethics girl

BYLINE: Sally Kinnes

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 900 words


Does television really need another medical drama? The makers of Life Support,
whose central character is a female medical ethicist, certainly think so.

It's hard to imagine any television controller looking at the schedules and
diagnosing an urgent need for a medical drama. Medical series are more common
than measles. We've had doctors as fallen heroes (The Heart Surgeon, BBC1),
doctors as sick as their patients (Psychos, Channel 4), and doctors as
accident-prone, womanising nincompoops (Doctor in the House, so contagious, it
produced a decade of spin-offs on both ITV and BBC). There has been black umour
(Cardiac Arrest, BBC1) and belly laughter (Surgical Spirit, ITV). And when
television doctors have survived all that the living can throw at them, they
have become pathologists and found new life in the dead (Silent Witness and
McCallum).

Dangerfield (BBC1) survived the transplant of its leading star (Nigel Havers
replacing Nigel Le Vaillant with scarcely a drop of blood), and Always and
Everyone (ITV) has made new advances in portraying gore. Its prosthetics expert
discovered that mashed banana looks like human fat, and that dissected rhubarb
looks just like muscle.

Doyen of the genre is Casualty (BBC1), still going strong after 13 years, and
which has just given birth to a spin-off, Holby City (BBC1). But then, after
more than 250 episodes, its crew must know more about hospitals than the health
secretary.

None of this, however, has stopped the BBC commissioning a new six-part medical
series called Life Support. Ever since Emergency - Ward 10 became ITV's first
long-running soap in 1957, wheeling on the stethoscope-wielders has been one of
the quickest routes to ratings success. Audiences are addicted.

Every medical series needs to present itself as a special case. Life Support is
set in Glasgow, where it rains as much as it snows in the Chicago-based ER. The
spin is that the central character is a clinical ethicist, who looks at the
moral dilemmas involved in medical practice. And she's a woman, too (Dr
Katherine Doone, played by Aisling O'Sullivan). This puts her on a collision
course with the hospital's all-male old guard, especially the obnoxious bighead
and consultant anaesthetist, Kamran Blake (Art Malik).

In episode one, two ambulance drivers (Douglas Sannachan and Matthew Costello)
hear a thud on the roof, and watch as the windscreen slowly begins to run with
red. Doone's first patient has arrived.

It is, however, nurse Elaine MacKenzie (Jackie Kane), who faces the series'
first ethical dilemma. The almost-dead patient is her boyfriend: the ethical
dilemma is whether to turn off his life-support machine.

Producer Margaret Enefer, who developed the idea, says the ethicist steers a
middle course between doctors who say, "here's what's wrong, you decide", and
doctors who barely listen to their patients at all. "One of the reasons I wanted
to make the series was that my father died very suddenly in hospital," says
Enefer. "The hospital rang my mother at 4.30am and said, 'Your husband's just
passed away', to which she replied, 'But he's supposed to be coming home
today'." There was no ethical issue involved, but Enefer found the hospital's
rudeness and arrogance shocking. An ethicist, she feels, could have acted as
intermediary and explained - where the doctors could not - why they had done
what they did. Medical arrogance is something that Malik (still best known for
his role in The Jewel in the Crown), knows all about. "My father was an eye
surgeon and his view was that there was only one thing a consultant would aspire
to, and that was to be God himself," says Malik. "His response to ethics was
very much, 'The only ethical question you need to ask is do we or do we not have
a responsibility to care for those who are ill?' His answer was yes."

The NHS does not yet run to keeping a medical ethicist on staff, but for two
years, the John Radcliffe hospital in Oxford found the money to employ as an
ethicist Dr David Cook. Consultant to the series, Cook sums up his role by
saying: "I was recently invited to speak at a medical conference.

And when I asked why they wanted me, the doctors said, 'So we can sleep at
night'."

Cook has had his fair share of personal ethical dilemmas. In an incident that
has its parallels in the series, there came a point when his own mother was
being kept alive on a heart- lung machine. "They said, ' You've got to decide
when to turn off life support'. They do not let the mothers of medical ethicists
die."

The producers are hoping that the series will encourage viewers actively to
discuss the issues involved - which is always a tall order. The danger is that
these issues will seem one-dimensional. And the series gets off to the creakiest
of starts by introducing Doone in a lecture hall, laboriously explaining her
role. David E Kelley's sophisticated American series, Chicago Hope, would never
have made the same mistake. Chicago Hope may have been overtaken by ER, but it
had a highly sophisticated way of picking its way through ethical dilemmas.

Katherine Doone, meanwhile, needs to work on her social skills. There's no
problem thinking you are right - most of the best fictional doctors are
egomaniacs - but she lacks the charm to go with it. No wonder she gets on her
colleagues' nerves. * Life Support, Monday BBC1, 9.30pm


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Television

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited


