                              233 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                August 25, 2014

MYH Suptd issues notice to doctors under scanner

LENGTH: 347  words


Indore: MY Hospital Superintendent PS Thakur, on Saturday issued a notice to the
doctors concerned of the hospital to provide details of their Clinical Trial
Agreements (CTA) within seven days. He also sought minutes of ethical committee
meeting of the hospital.

Superintendent Dr PS Thakur reportedly issued the notice to the then HoD of
Medicine Dr Ashok Vajpai, HoD of Paediatric and HoD of Ophthalmology to provide
CTAs to the hospital administration. The notice has been served by the hospital
admn following orders of State Information Commissioner, GK Dandotiya.

While hearing the complaint of RTI activist and whistle blower Dr Anand Rai, the
State Information Commissioner has ordered Dean of MGM Medical College, Director
of Medical Education and Superintendent of MY Hospital to provide the CTAs.
Every hospital ideally has an ethics committee which discusses ethics related to
drug trials and other issues.

It is to be noted that Dr Rai had submitted RTIs for seeking information about
the drug trial agreements of the doctors of Medicine, Paediatric and
Ophthalmology Departments and the minutes of various meetings of Ethical
Committee which had given the permission of drug trials, in the year 2010.

The MY Hospital and MGM Medical College administrations refused to provide the
information to Dr Rai on the basis of 8(1)(A)(A) claiming it as a secret
information.

After which Dr Rai appealed to the first information officer but in vain.

"The information demanded by me is related to larger public interest but the
college and hospital administrations were trying to avoid the matter as they are
not taking the RTI Act seriously. I had mentioned the rules of MCI and the norms
of RTI act in my appeal with the State Information Commissioner," Dr Anand Rai
said.

The SIC had also asked the DME, Dean and MY Superintendent that why action
should not be taken against them. According to experts, with the revelation of
CTA, how much fees was taken by the doctors for clinical trials and what had
been promised to provide the subjects on having adverse effect will come to
fore.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


