                              232 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             January 6, 2013 Sunday

Gifting a bundle of joy to needy couples;
Saga of medicine in Pinkcity: Business Connect Initiative

BYLINE: Anaita Gaur

LENGTH: 266  words


This state-of-the-art, world class assisted reproduction centre is situated at
S.K. Soni Hospital, Sikar Road, Vidhyadhar Nagar, Jaipur at a convenient
distance from the railway station and bus stand.  We pride ourselves on our
highly qualified, skilled, and successful professional team whose members have
worked abroad in IVF units. We provide a range of fertility treatments to suit a
variety of clinical problems. Our aim is to provide comprehensive fertility care
with cutting edge technology in the most cost-effective way and in ethical and
transparent environment. Our vision is to provide treatment to infertile couples
worldwide.

Dr. Anita Gour, MS, DNB, MRCOG (UK) with 17 years of clinical experience is a
certified fertility specialist from the British Fertility Society and the Royal
College of Obst & Gynaecology, London, United Kingdom. She specialized in
Assisted Reproduction at Homerton University Hospital, London. She was trained
in Reproductive Medicine and Endocrinology at Newham University Hospital,
London, and Addenbrook's Hospital, Cambridge.

Services and Facility:-

IUI

IVF

ICSI

PESA/TESA

SEMEN BANK

EGG DONATION

SURROGACY

ISO 9001:2000 Certified Hospital

Excellent Success Rate

Ethical and Transparent Environment

BFS (British Fertility Society) Certified specialist

Senior Embryologist with international experience

World class centre with cutting edge technology

Affordable Treatment

In past 10 years medicine field has been significant growth

Our Mission is to provide infertile couples the best possible fertility
treatment with the highest possible rate of success at affordable cost.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


