                              238 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                              May 20, 2013 Monday

Ethical, mental health issues on agenda for national gathering of parish nurses

SECTION: CITY; Pg. C5

LENGTH: 606 words


ROTHESAY - Ethical and mental issues, and spirituality, will top the agenda next
month for a national gathering of those involved in parish nursing ministry.

"The Parish Nurse: Facing Ethical and Mental Issues" has been chosen as the
theme of the four-day Canadian Association for Parish Nursing Ministry's
conference and national general meeting, scheduled for Thursday, June 6, to
Sunday, June 9, at the Villa Madonna Retreat House.

Fifty-five parish nurses have registered for the event.

Beth Lawson, national convention chairwoman and parish nurse at Trinity Anglican
Church in Saint John since September 2008, says several top-notch speakers have
been lined up for the public portion of the gathering - known as Education Day -
on Friday, June 7.

They include Father Mark Miller, a highly respected ethicist who currently works
in Toronto as the superior of his Redemptorist Province, as well as part-time
ethicist at the Centre for Clinical Ethics at St. Joseph's and St. Michael's
hospitals.

Miller, who is passionate about Catholic and faith-based health care,
palliative/hospital care and parish nursing, will open the Education Day
dialogue by speaking on the topic of "Christian Ethics" from 9:30 a.m. to noon.

Dr. Tim Christie, regional director of ethics services for the Horizon Health
Network in New Brunswick, and Stephen P.H. Slyke, a member of the faculty of
nursing at UNB Fredericton, will address concurrent sessions of the delegates
from 1 to 3 p.m.

Christie, formerly director of ethics at the Atlantic Health Sciences
Corporation, will speak on "Methodone Clinics: Affects on the Community," while
Van Slyke, who has worked in the area of psychiatric and mental health nursing
for 26 years, has chosen "Mental Health Challenges: Recovery and the Parish
Nurse" as his topic for the day.

"Spirituality and You" is the subject of the final Education Day address, at 4
p.m., by Sister Anne Somers of the Sisters of Charity of the Immaculate
Conception. Somers has worked as a mediator, facilitator, educator, spiritual
director and retreat director.

Lawson said parish nurses who attend the conference will also have plenty of
time to engage in worship and fun events, including a riverboat cruise of the
Kennebecasis River and Tea for Two and walkathon fundraisers.

"Our conference is an opportunity for parish nurses across the country to share
with one another their diverse ministry experience and, also, to experience
fellowship with one another," Lawson said.

Quoting an old saying that says, "If you've seen one parish nurse, you've seen
one parish nurse," Lawson said it holds a lot of truth.

"That's because each parish nurse ministers in the community they work in and
the ministry can be very different depending on where they're situated," she
said.

"For example," she added, "in my position here, Trinity Church is situated in
the south end where many people don't have doctors and they need a lot of help
making their way through the red tape of the mental health system.

"Here at Trinity, as well as caring from the congregation, I also do a lot of
outreach ministry whereas, another parish nurse that may minister in a more
affluent area, there may be other needs that come to her. She may be more
involved with families and children and that type of thing."

Lawson said she chose Villa Madonna for the national get-together "because of
its beautiful setting, which lends itself to prayer and nature walks, and for
it's hospitality and good home-cooked meals."

The Education Day events are open to the public at the cost of $75, plus meals.
Anyone interested may pre-register by visiting the CAPNM website: capnm.ca.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2013 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


