                              236 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 28, 1987

Law Report: The right to have a baby

BYLINE: By SHIRANIKHA HERBERT, Barrister

LENGTH: 1128 words


Queen's bench Division
 Regina v Ethical Committee of St Mary's Hospital,
 Manchester, ex parte Harriet
 Before Mr Justice Schiemann

 26 October 1987

Where a hospital's ethical committee is set up as an advisory body and a forum
for discussion, rather than a decision making body, the court will not compel
the committee to give advice, or to embark upon an investigation, as to whether
treatment should be given or refused in a particular case.

THE FACTS

The applicant wished to have a child but had difficulty in conceiving. Her
social services department to be allowed to adopt or foster were refused because
of her criminal convictions for running a brothel and soliciting for
prostitution, and her allegedly poor understanding of the role of a foster
parent.

The applicant then sought to be considered for in vitro fertilisation (IVF)
under the National Health Service. In January 1983 she was put on the waiting
list, and in March 1984 a laparoscopy was performed upon her. In July 1984 she
was seen for the first time by the doctor at the IVF unit. In August 1984 her
past convictions were disclosed to a counsellor at the unit.

In December 1984 the doctor saw the applicant again and informed her that it
would not be possible to treat her because of an infection her husband had and
because she had a liver function abnormality.

In March and June 1985 the hospital's ethical committee, which had been
established in the light of the report of the Warnock Committee of Inquiry into
Human Fertilisation and Embroyology (Cmnd 9314), met, and the applicant's case
was probably discussed. Both doctors who were in charge of the IVF unit were on
the committee. The committee emphasised that doctors retained the right to
decide upon treatment vis a vis their clinical judgment.

In September 1985 the applicant and her husband were for the first time informed
of the actual reason for refusal to treat her, namely that adoption agencies had
refused to consider placing children with them.

The applicant sought judicial review of the decision refusing her treatment.

THE DECISION,

Mr Justice Schiemann said that the applicant made no complaint as to the general
policy that couples accepted on the waiting list for IVF must, in the ordinary
course of events, satisfy the general criteria established by adoption societies
in assessing suitability for adoption.

THE CLAIM AGAINST THE COMMITTEE,

There was no statutory duty on anyone to set up the committee and there was no
statutory duty imposed on the committee either to decide or to advise.

The applicant submitted that, once the committee had been asked for advice on
whether treatment should be given to a particular individual, it was obliged
itself to investigate the matter and give advice following such investigation.
The judge rejected that submission. The committee's function was to provide a
forum for discussion among professionals. It was essentially an informal body.
If the committee in a particular case refused to give advice or did not have a
majority view as to what advice should be given, then the courts could not
compel it to give advice or embark upon a particular investigation.

On behalf of the committee it was submitted that judicial review did not lie to
review any advice given by the committee. The judge was doubtful about accepting
that submission in its full breadth. If the committee had advised, for instance,
that the IVF unit should in principle refuse all such treatment to anyone who
was a Jew or coloured, then the courts might well grant a declaration that such
a policy was illegal.

But that was not the situation in the present case. Here the complaint was that
the committee's advice was that the doctor must make up her own mind as to
whether treatment should be given. That advice was unobjectionable.

It was also submitted that the applicant should have beem given an opportunity
to put evidence and submissions before the committee. The judge rejected that
submission. If it was right that the committee was set up to provide a forum for
professionals to talk things over and to provide general guidelines, then the
court should be slow, if indeed it had the power, to force such a committee to
receive representations before it decided not to give advice.

Where, as here, the committee advised the decision taker that it would be proper
for her to reconsider her decision in the light of any new material which the
applicant put before her, there was even less reason for the court to interfere.

THE CLAIM AGAINST THE DOCTOR

The applicant submitted that where a doctor was making a decision removing a
woman from the IVF list, and was taking that decision exclusively or mainly on
social grounds which involved issues of contested fact, then the doctor had a
duty to act fairly.

On behalf of the doctor it was submitted that the doctor/patient relationship
was outside the purview of administrative law. For the purposes of this
judgment, the judge was prepared to assume that the applicant's submission was
correct. But even on that assumption he was not prepared to grant the applicant
relief. There were arguable grounds for criticism of the doctor's decision in
December 1984 not to treat the applicant. That decision was made without first
giving the applicant an opportunity to try and establish that the case was an
extraordinary one in some way, and that therefore she should be accepted for
treatment even though she did not satisfy the general criteria established by
adoption societies in assessing suitability for adoptions.

There were no further arguable grounds for criticism of the doctor's decision
not to inform the applicant until September 1985 of the true reason for the
refusal of treatment. She was misled and was understandably furious that time
went by in what now appeared to have been shadow boxing. However, doctors'
decisions as to whether to give or refuse treatment were not ones which, once
made, rendered the doctors powerless to change their views in the light of new
arguments and new facts.

It was not, and could not be, suggested that no reasonable doctor could have
come to the decision to refuse treatment to the applicant. In those
circumstances there was no reason to grant the relief sought against the doctor.
In consequence there was no need to decide the question whether or not in
principle judicial review would lie in respect of such a decision.

The application was dismissed. Appearances: Mr Louis BlomCooper QC and Mr Edward
Fitzgerald instructed by Hepworth & Halpern, Manchester, for the applicant; Mr
Rodger Bell QC and Mr Bruce Caulfield instructed by the Solicitor North West
Regional Health Authority for the committee.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1987 Guardian Newspapers Limited


