                              241 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 16, 1998 Wednesday

Research overseers create ethics guide  Medical field gets strict rules for
clinical trials

BYLINE: CAROLYN ABRAHAM Medical Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 498 words

DATELINE: Toronto


After four years of collaborating, Canada's three main research bodies -- the
Medical Research Council of Canada, the Natural Sciences and Engineering
Research Council, and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council --
have written an ethics policy to dictate how clinical trials should operate.

The policy document is to be plunked down this week on the desks of medical
researchers, hospital officials and university executives across the country.

Many have been eagerly expecting it. After all, any tool that may help untangle
the ethical knots of using human subjects to test new therapies is bound to be
useful, especially now.

With more researchers teaming up with pharmaceutical companies as government
funds decline, concerns about protecting patients and maintaining academic
freedom have moved to the forefront.

Every academic institution in the country will be expected to be in compliance
with the new policy by September of 1999, or risk losing funding from these
councils.

The policy spells out how patients should be informed that they can pull out of
a clinical trial any time they wish. It also outlines what other information
should be included in a patient's consent form. It addresses more recent ethical
problems surrounding research involving women of child-bearing age and human
genetics. And it also stipulates a researcher's moral obligation to publish and
share research results -- even if the results are negative.

"This is absolutely essential for us to have in having a health-care system with
an ever-changing basis of knowledge," said Dr. Francis Rolleston, director of
ethics and international relations with the MRC.

Dr. Andrew Baker, who led the symposium and is also chairman of the Research
Ethics Board at Toronto's St. Michael's Hospital, said the policy will be
regarded as "the authority" when research projects are submitted for approval.

The MRC last issued ethics guidelines in 1987. Like medicine itself, much has
changed since then.

In fact, the timing of the new policy, titled Ethical Conduct for Research
Involving Humans, could not have been better. In the past few months, the
ethical dangers of clinical research have swung from the abstract to the
headlines.

In June, the huge multinational drug firm Bristol-Myers Squibb Canada Inc. tried
unsuccessfully in court to stop publication of an independent report on
cholesterol-lowering drugs prepared by the Canadian Co-ordinating Office for
Health Technology Assessment. While the drug company framed the controversy
around a difference in scientific opinions, the researchers presented their case
as an issue of freedom of speech.

Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children, meanwhile, continues to investigate a
dispute between one of its doctors and a pharmaceutical company over a clinical
trial involving a drug for a rare blood disorder. When Dr. Nancy Olivieri
suspected the drug was harming patients taking it, Apotex Inc. threatened her
with legal action if she made her concerns public.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


