                              249 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 June 29, 2009

AMA meeting: Delegates see boosting quality of care as duty

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, AMNews staff. Jun. 29, 2009

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 777 words

DATELINE: Chicago



HIGHLIGHT: A new AMA ethics policy lays out steps physicians should take to make
sure patients get the correct treatments.


  The commitment to provide quality care to patients has long stood as a core
tenet of the medical profession, but physicians increasingly have come under
scrutiny on this front. Research shows that patients receive only about half of
clinically recommended care and finds wide regional variations in medical
utilization with little effect on health outcomes.

Government and private payers are stepping up pressure on doctors to improve
care. Now the AMA says improving quality is not just a matter of technical
competence but also an ethical duty, according to new policy adopted at the
Association's Annual Meeting.

Delegates approved a Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs report saying
doctors should work to ensure that patients get care that is safe, effective,
timely, efficient and equitable.

"This report addresses physicians' ethical obligation to provide quality care,"
said CEJA member Hilary Fairbrother, MD, MPH, an emergency medicine resident.
"This means getting the right care to the right patient at the right time."

According to the new ethics policy, doctors should:

     ·     Keep current with best practices and take part in education,
          certification and quality improvement activities.
     ·     Communicate effectively with patients, families and other
          professionals, and coordinate care appropriately.
     ·     Monitor the quality of care they deliver through case review, peer
          review and other improvement tools.
     ·     Implement quality and performance improvement measures in their daily
          practices.


In reference committee testimony, Georgia pediatrician Joy A. Maxey, MD, said
her state delegation supported the proposal. She argued that the AMA needed to
take a strong stance on doctors' unique role in medical quality.

"Physicians are the definers of what constitutes quality when it comes to
providing medical care to patients -- not industry, not insurance companies, not
government, but physicians and their associated professional organizations," Dr.
Maxey said.

The print version of this content appeared in the July 6, 2009 issue of American
Medical News.

Meeting notes: Medical ethics

Issue: Breaches of electronic medical records security can compromise privacy
and harm patients physically and emotionally. When such breaches occur, what
responsibilities do physicians have toward their patients?  Proposed action: An
ethical policy recommending that physicians promptly inform patients of any
breach and the potential for harm, describe how the breach happened and what
steps patients can take to minimize any adverse results. [Adopted]

Issue: Physician assistants and nurse practitioners are increasingly taking on
ownership roles in practices such as retail health clinics. This gives rise to
the ethically problematic situation where a doctor is hired to supervise the
work of a midlevel practitioner who also owns the practice and is the
physician's employer.  Proposed action: An ethical policy that acknowledges the
conflicts inherent in such an arrangement. The opinion says physicians have a
duty to always exercise their independent professional judgment in patients'
best interest, even if it puts them at odds with their employers. [Adopted]

Issue: Some hospital patients with racial or other prejudices are hostile to the
physicians assigned to care for them or refuse their treatment, but hospitals do
not have uniform guidelines to address these situations.  Proposed action:
Direct the AMA to work with other organizations to encourage hospitals and
health systems to adopt policies allowing patients to change doctors and have
mechanisms to address abusive patient behavior and ensure continuity of care for
a patient who declines care from the attending physician. [Adopted]

Issue: So-called chimeric embryos -- created when human genetic material is
introduced into a nonhuman embryo or transferred into an enucleated nonhuman
egg, creating a hybrid -- are being explored as an alternative to stem cell
research techniques that destroy human embryos.   Proposed action: The Council
on Ethical and Judicial Affairs said there is a lack of policy or scientific and
ethical consensus on chimeras, and the issue affects few physicians. The council
proposed examining the issue as part of its review of opinions relating to
medical genetics in the AMA Code of Medical Ethics. [Adopted]

Issue: Working with patients to plan in advance for end-of-life care situations
is a legally complicated and ethically fraught area for doctors.  Proposed
action: Direct the AMA to develop an educational session on advance care
planning at an upcoming Annual or Interim Meeting and ask CEJA to update its
ethical guidance on end-of-life issues. [Adopted]

Retrieve Attachment

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

