                              246 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                      The Observer (Gladstone, Queensland)

                            October 9, 2010 Saturday

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 861  words

Praise for Gladstone Hospital staff

OVER the years I have read complaints about our hospital. Well I am here to
praise the wonderful staff. From the doctors and nurses right down to the
cleaning staff.

I have just come out of hospital after spending two-and-a-half weeks in there. I
could not have had better treatment then I got while I was in there.

Right from the time I was in accident and emergency until I was discharged I
cannot fault the care I received. The nursing staff on floor 1 are the most
caring, wonderful people I have met. Nothing was too hard for them to do for me.
Even a cuddle when I was feeling down.

My only criticism is the conditions these wonderful people have to work under.
They are understaffed, some working very long hours because there is no funding
for extra staff and beds. There was a constant game of musical beds where the
staff were trying to fit more sick people in.

The government or powers that be need to look into our hospital, open up more
beds employ more staff and take the pressure off these very hard-working nurses.
Sue Holmes

Gladstone

No such place as an ethical fur farm

I READ your article "No Fur, Franks" with great interest and I applaud the
People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) for their persistence in drawing
attention to designers such as Camilla Franks who continue to support the fur
trade despite having knowledge of the extremely cruel nature of the industry.

Animals in fur farms are kept in horrific conditions; while they are awaiting
their fate they are kept in filthy wire cages and denied shelter, freedom to
move as well as access to adequate food, water and veterinary care.

The distress caused by such conditions often causes these animals to
self-mutilate resulting in further mental and physical anguish.

Because the majority of fur farms are in countries where there are no laws to
ensure humane slaughter, most animals are bludgeoned, beaten, electrocuted or
drowned to death and in some cases even skinned alive.

Franks' claim that the fur used in her collections is only sourced from humane
fur farms is a clear indication that she currently lacks the compassion to
change her ignorant stance on the issue.

As an international designer, Franks has a responsibility to understand that
there is no such place as an "ethical fur farm" and that no matter what
proportion of her collections feature fur, until she eliminates all fur products
from her designs she is still supporting this horrific industry.

I am optimistic and hopeful that PETA's continued efforts to raise awareness of
the fur issue will place enough pressure on the consumers and stockists of
Franks' collections to stop supporting her brand until she develops a sound
conscience and stops supporting the fur industry.

Sally Healy

Southport, Qld

Qld children 10 times more likely to suicide

ON a day when a "breach in political advertising guidelines" was one the main
thoughts on the LNP's and government's mind, I would like your readers to know
that there were other more serious and substantive issues brought to the floor
of Queensland Parliament by the Independents.

Take for example the question I put to the Child Safety Minister, Phil Reeves,
about our state's obscene child and youth suicide rates. I was shocked and
deeply disturbed when I discovered that Queensland's child suicide rate (average
of 16 per year) according to the independent Commission for Young People, was
almost double that of other states.

And when you consider credible international studies like the OECD's with the
Queensland Government's own figures, it made me very alarmed and sad to realise
that children under the protection of the Bligh Government are approximately 10
times more likely to die from suicide than other Australian children.

This stems from the fact that the majority of Queensland children who suicide
are officially known to the Department of Child Safety.

I thought that the floor of parliament would be the right place to discuss this
crisis befalling our children in state care, but according to the Child Safety
Minister, Mr Reeves, it wasn't. As part of his reply he said, "I do not think
that highlighting the issues that the Member for Burnett has does anything for
their cause".

Quite obviously, Reeves thinks that by ignoring the unusually high suicide rate
of children he is responsible for, the problem will go away or solve itself.

Rob Messenger MP

Independent Member for Burnett

Inspirational women opposing fly in, fly out

I WAS a very proud member of the Moranbah community last night when I attended
the community meeting in Moranbah who are opposing BMAs proposal for 100 per
cent fly in, fly out for the Caval Ridge Mine.

What an inspirational group of women, who are leading the way in fighting for
our families' lifestyle choices to ensure a liveable and sustainable future for
families now and into the future.

We are a strong community and together we will lobby the government for their
support in opposing this proposal for the benefit of our children and future
generations who choose to live in coal mining communities.

Leah Bull

Moranbah

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OGO


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


