                              245 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             August 19, 1994 Friday
                                  Late Edition

RESEARCHERS FACE GREATER SCRUTINY

BYLINE: MELISSA SWEET Medical Writer

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 443 words


They may not realise it, but when patients leave hospital they often leave
behind parts of themselves which may be used in future medical research.

Blood and tissue samples collected for tests as part of a patient's health care
are often stored for years afterwards and may later be used in research
providing insights into diseases ranging from AIDS to leukaemia .

Most people have no idea their "bits" are being used in this way, and
researchers have not worried too much in the past about the ethics involved
because the samples were anonymous. Now the National Health and Medical Research
Council (NHMRC) has begun work on guidelines for the use of stored body fluids
and tissues in research.

Dr Rob Loblay, the author of a draft NHMRC discussion paper, Guidelines on the
Use of Patient Tissue in Research, emphasised that researchers were already
ethically bound to obtain patient consent when collecting samples specifically
for use in a study.

The ethical dilemma arose with retrospective studies, when researchers wanted to
"go back in time" and look at stored patient samples or records which were not
originally collected for the purpose of their studies.

Dr Loblay, an immunology researcher and member of Royal Prince Alfred Hospital's
ethics committee, said this had not caused researchers any ethical angst in the
past.

But there was pressure to be more sensitive, partly because of advances in
molecular biology which allowed researchers to find out a great deal about
someone from a small blood or tissue sample - for example, whether they were
genetically programmed to develop various diseases.

"There is also a heightened awareness of ethical issues in the profession and
the community at large," Dr Loblay said.

But the discussion paper does not propose that researchers be required to obtain
informed consent from patients or their relatives for all retrospective studies.

That would "kill a lot of research out of hand" because of the logistical
difficulties involved, Dr Loblay said.

Instead, the draft guidelines recommend that ethics committees in hospitals and
other research institutions vet proposals for retrospective research and decide
whether permission should be obtained from patients or their families.

In practice, Dr Loblay expects that most retrospective projects would go ahead
without donors' knowledge or consent, although researchers would face greater
scrutiny.

The NHMRC also hopes to stimulate greater public awareness of the use of body
tissues and has discussed whether patients should be encouraged to state if they
do not want their body fluids or tissues used in research, for religious, moral,
cultural or ethical reasons.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1994 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


