                              247 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             May 18, 2013 Saturday

Maternity hospital masters differ over suicide provision in planned legislation;

Medical experts address Oireachtas committee on first day of hearings

BYLINE: Michael O'Regan

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 599 words


There were differences between the masters of two Dublin maternity hospitals on
the suicide provision in the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Bill during the
first day of the abortion legislation hearings in Leinster House yesterday.

The Oireachtas committee on health, under the chairmanship of Fine Gael TD Jerry
Buttimer, was hearing medical submissions on the heads of the Bill. There will
be further hearings on Monday and Tuesday.

Dr Rhona Mahony, master of the National Maternity Hospital, said the life of the
foetus must be vindicated where it was practicable.

"This obligation has underpinned my own clinical practice over 17 years and will
continue to do so," she added. "In current practice, all efforts are exhausted,
within the medical margins of safety, to prolong pregnancy in the foetal
interest."

Dr Mahony said this was regardless of the indication for termination of
pregnancy which, in the context of the legislation, would be to save a woman's
life. Neonatal survival was now possible from as early as 23 weeks' gestation.

It was her experience that the majority of women did not wish to lose their
babies, but they did not want to die, she said. She added that one could be
forgiven for thinking that the Bill was about the risk of suicide in pregnancy.

"It is not," she added. "It is about saving women's lives, regardless of whether
that risk to life is physical or mental."

Dr Mahony said a woman who was intent on suicide was indeed at risk of dying.
She needed to be assessed appropriately, believed, and expert psychiatric care
provided.

Dr Sam Coulter Smyth, master of the Rotunda Hospital, said the loss of life from
self-destruction was an extraordinarily rare situation, with incidence of
suicide in pregnancy of the order of one in a half-million pregnancies, as per
UK figures.          'No evidence'         "Our psychiatric colleagues tell us
that there is currently no available evidence to show that termination of
pregnancy is a treatment for suicidal ideation or intent and, as obstetricians,
we are required to provide and practise evidence-based treatment," he added.

"It, therefore, creates an ethical dilemma for any obstetrician who is requested
to perform a termination of pregnancy with the treatment of somebody who has
suicidal ideation or intent.''

Dr Coulter Smyth said he was sure the legislation was designed to create clarity
and reassurance for both health professionals and patients alike.
Ethical issue         The fact that there was no gestational limit relating to
suicide was a major ethical issue for obstetricians. He said that delivering a
baby of 25 weeks' gestation, in the case of a woman deemed to be suicidal, could
lead to death because of extreme prematurity, cerebral palsy or other
significant developmental issues.  He added that his overriding concern related
to the lack of evidence to show that termination was of any assistance in that
area of self-destruction and pregnancy.

"In relation to infrastructure and resources, it is my view, and the view of
many of my colleagues, that the inclusion of suicidality within the legislation
may, and I stress may, in the long term, lead to an increased demand for
termination in this country," he added.

He said in excess of 5,000 women annually go to the UK to have termination
procedures performed.

"We cannot be certain how many of these women would decide to use the current
legislation as a means of obtaining a termination in this country," he added.

He said he welcomed the fact that the legislation provided for a termination of
pregnancy in an emergency situation.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


