                              248 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 25, 2014 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Discharged to die;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 355 words


Sir, My neighbour is involved in the care of a man who was discharged after ten
weeks in hospital for treatment of a stroke ("One in three patients dies within
a year of discharge from hospital", Mar 19). His post-discharge care from the
local authority stopped once he was deemed able to live alone in a bed-sit -
although unable to go shopping because of mobility problems. My neighbour was
told that voluntary organisations would take over some of his care but that
further help would have to be paid for - not an option in his case. When she
went to see him this week his only food was two ready-meals, ten days out of
date. His flat needed cleaning but no one from the voluntary organisations is
supposed to help domestically and no one is insured to take him out, so he just
stares at the four walls.

Many patients are not sent out of hospital with the expectation that they are
terminal, but the level of care is so abysmal that death becomes inevitable. In
my experience as a hospital consultant, we didn't operate on elderly patients
with the aim that they would be dead within a few months. Lack of care in the
community may well be a huge contributory factor.

Jane stanford London SW13 Sir, Your article) reinforces the fact that despite
most of us wanting to die at home, busy hospital wards will continue to be the
place where many of us will die.

It is therefore imperative that hospital staff provide high quality,
compassionate care for their dying patients. The recent Neuberger Report
emphasised that the ethical framework underpinning the guidance within the
Liverpool Care Pathway was sound and in accord with the guidance from the
General Medical Council. There are still misunderstandings and criticisms of
anticipatory prescribing, clinically assisted hydration and the use of
medication to relieve anxiety and distress for the dying.

To move forward decisively in improving care for the dying, NHS England must
provide clear explanations of these difficult ethical issues while putting in
place measures to improve the organisational governance within which care is
provided.

dr gerard corcoran Formby, Merseyside

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


