                              242 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 2, 1998 Wednesday

Sick Kids should come clean

BYLINE: Michèle Brill-Edwards

SECTION: LETTER TO THE EDITOR; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 636 words

DATELINE: Ottawa


Re A Doctor Takes On A Drug Company (Aug. 13); Sick Kids Plans External Review
of Clinical Trials (Aug. 21); and Researchers At Sick Kids Threaten To Leave
(Aug. 28):

Protecting human safety is often at odds with protecting profits in drug
development. That's not news. But the striking ethical failure of the Hospital
for Sick Children's hierarchy to defend patient safety and research honesty in
the face of unethical drug-company pressure is news, ominous news.

Canada's flagship medical research organization quietly accommodated the
company, a major funder of the hospital and University of Toronto. Unauthorized
research space in the hospital was provided to the company's vice-president.
Hospital research staff published their own version of Nancy Olivieri's research
results, without Dr. Olivieri's knowledge or consent, undermining her safety
warnings.

Most inexcusable, hospital officials twice pressed Dr. Olivieri to resign, while
the company threatened suit.

This moment of truth in medical ethics finally exposes the thinking of research-
hospital management in the new era of increasing private-sector dominance of
public institutions.

Sick Kids has been entrusted to serve the public interest in conducting ethical
research to help children around the world. Yet the hospital's management now
appears to have quietly placed the public interest at the financial mercy of the
private, for-profit research sector -- the pharmaceutical industry -- in
carrying out research.

If the new research about a drug looks like bad news, it appears this hospital's
management no longer sees its duty to defend the need for warning signals,
responsibly voiced, to the hospital's own research subjects or to the thousands
of children around the world taking the company's drug. And if one of the
world's top researchers has the courage to serve that duty alone, management
simply lets her twist in the wind. It appears that top management will
accommodate the corporate sponsor instead. And if that results in public
outrage, then management will "review policy."

Can the hospital and its mother ship, the University of Toronto, recover their
ethical credibility with public donors and children's parents? Yes, with prompt,
honest action.

First, apologize. Acknowledge that patient safety and research integrity were
jeopardized by corporate pressure to silence important research results on risk.

Second, initiate an independent investigation with the results to be made
public. Who permitted the company's pressure on Dr. Olivieri and championed the
company's interests, and why? Over 120 of Dr. Olivieri's concerned colleagues
are demanding to know and are baffled by management's silence. (The "policy
review" proffered recently by the hospital is in the classic style of
bureaucratic escape: It specifically excludes investigating the Olivieri case.)

Third, state publicly the hospital's own performance standards for responding to
corporations seeking to influence the scope of drug research done by hospital
research staff and the scope and/or language of the published results.

Finally, install new leadership. Leaders of integrity, committed to honesty and
safety in research, are needed now to restore public trust in HSC and protect
HSC's world-renowned researchers who (thankfully) defend the public interest in
medical research. HSC is a beloved institution because it has served the public
interest. Anyone in the hierarchy who needs that spelled out doesn't belong
there.

This watershed event signals that medical research integrity in Canada is
imperilled by corporate pressure. The board of the Hospital for Sick Children
has a special duty now to send a clear message that pharmaceutical firms are not
to dominate and control, but are to respect the ethics of public research, at
Sick Kids and across Canada.

MD,

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


