                              244 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           The Australian (Australia)

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday
                            All-round Metro Edition

HIV experts line up to refute denier

BYLINE: Jeremy Roberts

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 522  words


ROYAL Perth Hospital has been urged to cease all support for a staff member who
denied the existence of HIV while giving evidence in court.

Flinders University emeritus professor Peter McDonald, who conducts research on
HIV-AIDS, said members of The Perth Group, led by Eleni Papadopulos-Eleopulos,
''should not be tolerated by their institutions who are employing them as
scientists and medical professionals''.

''The hospital can withdraw supplies and decree they must never indicate any
association with Royal Perth Hospital in any communication they make, either in
writing or on the internet,'' Professor McDonald said.

Ms Papadopulos-Eleopulos, who is a medical physicist at RPH, has been giving
evidence in the appeal of Andre Chad Parenzee, 35, who has been convicted of
exposing three women to the deadly virus by failing to tell them he was
HIV-positive.

She has testified for the defence that HIV does not exist, does not cause AIDS
and is not sexually transmitted.

Her testimony, along with that of her colleague at The Perth Group, emergency
doctor Val Turner, has spurred at least seven eminent Australian HIV-AIDS
researchers to give evidence for the prosecution.

That evidence starts today with a video link-up from the South Australian
Supreme Court in Adelaide to David Cooper, director of the National Centre in
HIV Epidemiology and Clinical Research at the University ofNSW.

Immunologist Gustav Nossal is expected to give either written or oral evidence
next week, along with renowned HIV-AIDS researcher and University of Melbourne
associate professor Elizabeth Dax.

Professor McDonald will also take the stand, but yesterday he expanded on claims
made in court by the prosecution that The Perth Group was misrepresenting
published scientific papers to support its claims about HIV and AIDS.

He called for Australian ethical standards, as set out by the National Health
and Medical Research Council, to be applied to The Perth Group.

A council spokesman said ethical standards were not enforceable upon scientists
unless they received council funding. The Perth Group does not.

The current joint NHMRC-Australian Vice-Chancellors Committee guidelines on
ethical standards, which dates from 1997, says: ''A researcher shall not with
intent deceive, or in reckless disregard for the truth, omit a fact so that what
is stated or presented as a whole states or presents a material or significant
falsehood.''

RPH executive director Philip Montgomery said: ''Royal Perth Hospital does not
support The Perth Group's views on HIV, and group members have been instructed
that they will not use any hospital resources for work related to their private
research.

''Furthermore, the staff have also been instructed that their private research
should not be linked in any way to Royal Perth Hospital.''

Ms Papadopulos-Eleopulos strongly denied misrepresenting others research,
admitting that she accurately represents data from papers but may disagree with
the ''analysis and speculation'' of the papers' authors.

And she said an agreement with the hospital made in 1988 allowed her to publish
research admitting her link to the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


