                              257 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 2, 2015 Thursday

'Medics dream of minting money as medical education cost rises'

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 465 words


MUMBAI: Consumer activist Asha Idnani has a pet peeve against doctors. "Why do
they charge thousands of rupees from a patient for a post-operation visit to
his/her hospital room when all they do is ask the patient how he or she feels,
check the file and breeze out," she asked.

She is not the only one. Given the incidence of attacks on doctors by patients
or their relatives, it's obvious that many share her unhappiness with the
medical system in general and doctors in particular. "I recently heard a
resident doctor in a public hospital shouting at an accident victim who was in
obvious pain to shut up or be thrown out. His attitude was wrong," said a social
worker who helps poor patients get admitted to hospitals.

On the occasion of Doctor's Day on Wednesday, the poor state of doctor-patient
relationship couldn't have been clearer. The general belief, as a new campaign
launched by the Network of Doctors for Ethical, Rational and De-commercialised
Healthcare on Wednesday shows, the once god-like doctor has metamorphosed into a
commercial, profit-oriented businessman who prescribes extra medicines, tests
and procedures for patients. "It's a free-for-all market medicine where
doctor-entrepreneurs are seeking bank loans with high interest that have to be
repaid," said Dr Sanjay Nagral, a surgeon who is on the editorial board of the
Indian Journal of Medical Ethics.

Dr Abhay Shukla of the Network of Doctors for Ethical, Rational and
De-commercialised Healthcare said, "The growth of corporate hospitals and the
proliferation of private medical schools are responsible for distorting medical
practice in such a way that costs have all gone up." Doctors in corporate
hospitals are given a target of, say, admitting five patients every day. "So the
minute a patient walks in, the doctor is wondering about ways to get him
admitted," he added. Moreover, medical students in private colleges have to pay
a donation of Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore for a seat. "Such a doctor will only
dream of minting money," added Dr Shukla.

On the occasion of Doctor's Day, the network has started a letter campaign for
the end of commercialization of medical practice and the return of ethical
practice. The network, made up of doctors, has asked its other colleagues to put
up the letter in their clinic to prove their support.

Dr Nagral said, "The gap between doctors and patients is huge. Doctors believe
they are all-knowing and patients know nothing. Doctors believe they have to
speak with an air of finality and brusqueness to appear all-knowing." Patients
have over the years become alert and don't consider their doctor to be the final
word. "But most medical professionals still behave like they did in the past,
resulting in the present impasse," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


