                              250 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                            April 12, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Desperate times call for a miracle; 'Saviour sibling' only hope for
eight-year-old battling leukemia

BYLINE: Pamela Fayerman, Canwest News Service; Vancouver Sun

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 1207  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


VANCOUVER -- Parents Mike and Pam Obadia are opting for desperate -- and
controversial -- measures to boost the survival odds of their son, who's been in
a five-year battle with leukemia.

Eight-year-old Benjamin is currently receiving chemotherapy treatment at B.C.
Children's Hospital in Vancouver after suffering a relapse of the acute
lymphoblastic leukemia he first got in 2002.

A bone-marrow transplant would improve the odds of finally beating the cancer,
but there are no family matches and an international registry of volunteer
donors has also not turned up any, after nearly two years of searching.

So even though the odds of fertility success are ever so slim because of Pam's
age (47), the couple will try to create a "saviour sibling" -- a term used to
describe a test-tube baby created to save an older, sick sibling through donor
stem cells from the newborn's umbilical cord. But the couple from Port
Coquitlam, has to go to Chicago for the procedure, which will cost up to
$30,000.

Doctors at Children's and Women's Hospital in B.C. aren't prepared to aid their
quest because of ethical and moral concerns about creating -- and exploiting --
a life to potentially save another.

"We have to do this to exhaust all the possibilities to help Benjamin," says
Pam. "It's not like we are trying to create a designer baby. We want another
child, we will love another child. If we succeed . . . (it) may help with
Benjamin's illness."

When he relapsed nearly two years ago, his younger sister, who was then four,
was overcome with sadness and confusion. She asked her parents "why the doctors
gave Benjamin his cancer back."

They told her that the drugs weren't strong enough. This time around, Benjamin
is on a regimen of about six drugs, sometimes requiring hospital stays. So far,
Benjamin has endured 295 courses of chemotherapy, 263 needles, 16 blood
transfusions and 13 bone-marrow biopsies. His life and cancer treatment are
documented on a website at www.mobadia.ca.

The couple readily admit they are grasping for a miracle.

"Though we've been told our chances are nil and it will cost us $30,000, we will
try anything to save our son," says Mike, "and we will also try naturally to
have a child and take our chances that it will be a match."

The process begins with conventional in vitro fertilization in which embryos are
created in a laboratory with the mother's eggs and father's sperm. But the next
step is controversial; doctors at the Reproductive Genetics Institute in Chicago
then screen embryos to look for one that is a tissue match. The matched embryo
would then be implanted in the uterus and when the baby is born, umbilical cord
stem cells would be harvested.

Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) has been available for genetic
screening of inherited diseases for about 15 years, but only in recent years has
it been used as well to make saviour babies. The Chicago clinic has done at
least three dozen such tissue-typing cases.

Dr. Paul Rogers, medical director of pediatric oncology at B.C. Children's
Hospital, said the medical centre here has never offered the procedure for
cancer patients. B.C. Children's Hospital did, however, use the umbilical-cord
blood from a naturally conceived newborn to transplant into a sibling, who was
then cured of his life-threatening disease.

Lori d'Agincourt-Canning, a clinical ethicist at B.C. Children's and Women's
Hospitals, said it has not become standard because of cost, moral and ethical
issues.

"We understand that parents will seize on anything to help their sick children,
but the (uninsured) costs to them are so high that we don't want to create a
burden on parents who cannot afford this," she said. "There are also ethical
concerns about whether it is right to conceive a child for the sake of another.
What if something goes horribly wrong? What if the sick child gets sick again
after a transplant? Do we presume we have the right to seek yet another donation
from the saviour child if the effects of the first wane?"

But she concedes that the Obadia case should prompt the hospital to conduct a
review on the potential harms, benefits and ethical issues. After that, some
guidelines and policies could be formed.

Pam Obadia hopes the hospital will, at the very least, tell parents about the
procedures. She's distressed that PGD for tissue typing wasn't mentioned to them
by oncologists at Children's Hospital two years ago when Benjamin relapsed. At
that time, she might have had slightly better odds of getting pregnant.

Dr. Tim Rowe, head of reproductive endocrinology and infertility at UBC, who is
not involved in the case, said it is "almost certain" that she won't produce
"viable embryos."

"So you have to wonder about the ethics of the Chicago company that is willing
to take that much money from a couple facing almost certain odds of pregnancy
failure," he said.

Echoing the perspective of the hospital's ethicist, he said: "This is the kind
of story that pulls at everyone's heart strings. Yet there are deeper concerns
here, like what if a saviour child does not help save the older sibling's life?
Think about the guilt that child might feel."

(Vancouver Sun)

pfayermanpng.canwest.com

SIDEBAR: Creating a saviour baby

With in vitro fertilization (IVF), eggs and sperm are incubated in a fertility
clinic laboratory to create embryos.

At the stage when the fertilized embryos, or pre-embryos, are just a handful of
cells, DNA material is extracted and, only days after fertilization, tests are
done to determine which embryo to select for implantation in the mother's
uterus.

In the event that the mother becomes pregnant with a baby who is a tissue match
for her sick child, the newborn would become a stem-cell donor, with stem cells
harvested from its umbilical cord at birth.

The process to screen for tissue matching is called Pre-implantation Genetic
Diagnosis (PGD). It is a form of prenatal genetic testing performed on eggs or
embryos during IVF.

PGD was initially invented to identify and select out embryos that carry
serious, life-limiting or life-threatening genetic diseases, including
Huntington disease, Fragile X, thalassemia, cystic fibrosis, neuromuscular
dystrophy and Tay-Sachs. Only embryos that do not carry the genetic markers for
certain inherited disorders are implanted into the mother's uterus.

While the primary purpose of PGD is to select embryos free of serious genetic,
inherited diseases, PGD is now being taken a step further as doctors are using
it to find embryos that are a tissue match for an ailing sibling.

Generally speaking, bone marrow and umbilical-cord-blood stem-cell transplants
help cure or cause a remission of leukemia in children who have relapsed once,
like Benjamin Obadia, about 50 per cent of the time. While every case is unique,
with chemotherapy and no transplant, there is about a 25 to 40 per cent chance
of long-term remission, so a transplant on top of chemotherapy offers an
advantage.

Studies have shown that the chances of women older than 44 having babies using
their own eggs drop close to zero, even with high-tech fertility treatments.
Women age 45 and over have a 53.2 per cent miscarriage rate, and women in their
late 40s also face a one-in-13 risk for chromosomal abnormalities in their
fetuses.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Canwest News Service Photo; The Obadia family battles Benjamin's leukemia
together ;

