                              252 of 997 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             March 24, 2008 Monday
                                National Edition

Donor, recipient want transplant to 'inspire'; Ethical concerns blocked
operation in Toronto

BYLINE: Randy Boswell, Canwest News Service

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 711  words


A long-suffering Canadian woman and the Christian activist from Australia who
gave up one of his kidneys to save her say they want to "inspire" the world with
their controversial transplant --performed on Thursday in Cyprus after a Toronto
hospital refused to do the operation last year on ethical grounds.

Sandi Sabloff, a Toronto woman in her fifties, and Ashwyn Falkingham, a
23-year-old member of the Jesus Christians -- an Australia-based religious group
dedicated to organ donation as a supreme act of generosity and faith -- spoke
with Canwest News Service this weekend while recovering from surgery at a
transplant centre in Nicosia.

Ms. Sabloff praised her donor and the Jesus Christians in general, who give up
their kidneys "out of spiritual and religious conviction, and just personal
goodwill--because they are saving somebody's life. They are truly saving lives,
and that's more than I can say for our government."

Mr. Falkingham said: "I just think it's really important to get the message out
there that this is something people can do. It's almost like we've become so
afraid that there may be money being exchanged or some coercion, that we've
forgotten that this is something people can do to help someone out, and that
there are many people who would step forward."

After finding each other in 2006 at an Internet site that links kidney patients
with potential donors, Ms. Sabloff and Mr. Falkingham searched for a hospital to
carry out the transplant to extend her life and fulfil his dream of giving the
ultimate gift.

The surgery, unusual because it involved two strangers rather than two relatives
or close friends, had been scheduled for last April at the Toronto General
Hospital. But it was called off at the last minute amid concerns raised by Mr.
Falkingham's mother that the Jesus Christians -- dubbed a "kidney cult" by
critics of their doctrine of self-sacrifice -- might have coerced him into
making the donation.

The cancellation prompted a yearlong hunt by the retired sales executive and her
would-be Good Samaritan for a hospital willing to perform the transplant.

Their quest finally ended at the Paraskevaidion Surgical Transplant Centre in
Cyprus, where chief surgeon George Kyriakides conducted the operation on
Thursday.

"I'm doing great," Ms. Sabloff said on Saturday. "When you have a major
operation, you're in pain -- and I'm in pain. However, our results are
absolutely excellent."

Mr. Falkingham, who had the support of his parents for the operation this time,
said: "It was a really good match -- better than we'd expected. Everything is
working out really well. It's an amazing experience."

The Australian added, with a laugh: "I'm feeling great, though a lot of that has
to do with the painkillers."

Ms. Sabloff said she was still "furious" with Toronto hospital officials and the
Canadian health care system that her transplant had to be performed overseas.

"This should never have happened," she said.

She added that she and Mr. Falkingham are hoping that "we can publicize the fact
that organ donation can save many, many lives --and our government at this point
in time is sitting on its butt and doing nothing" to encourage live-donor
transplants between willing strangers.

"We do not have a national registry -- they've talked about it, and they have
done nothing," she said. "If we had a national registry we wouldn't be literally
throwing organs into the garbage. That is what is truly happening. People die
every single day when we can prevent this."

More than half of the 30 members of the Jesus Christians -- from Britain,
Australia, Kenya and the United States -- have provided a kidney to recipients
around the world, the donations often a source of great ethical agonizing.

After its decision not to go through with the Falkingham-Sabloff transplant last
year, Toronto General Hospital president Dr. Bob Bell told Canwest News Service
that when transplant decision-makers review any proposed surgery, "it is crucial
that we maintain total unanimity" before a donation is approved.

"It's a difficult ethical determination," he said at the time, noting hospital
officials must be convinced "the person providing the tissue or organ is doing
it purely for altruistic reasons -- particularly if they don't know the
recipient."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

