                              260 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             May 17, 2014 Saturday

Safety isn't foolproof in many hospitals: Survey

BYLINE: Sunitha Rao R

SECTION: BANGALORE

LENGTH: 415 words


BANGALORE: Only 32% of hospitals in Bangalore have put in place adequate
patient-safety measures like grab bars in toilets and free exit routes, a recent
survey by Acme Consultancy has revealed.

The study covered 25 large- and medium-size hospitals, both private and
government, and was conducted for three weeks during March and April. It
included both physical audit and patients' feedback.

"It's sad that hospitals aren't conscious about fire safety. The tragedy at
AMRI, Kolkata, stands testimony to this. Ideally, this study should have been
conducted by the government but we as a private player are voluntarily doing
this. The findings are alarming. We would want to take up the survey at the
highest level to ensure patients' safety," said Dr Giridhar Gyani, director
general, Association of Healthcare Providers - India.

The audit also looked at waiting time, nurses' skills, hygiene factors, ethical
issues, doctors' communication skills, parking facilities, availability of all
services under one roof and emergency services.

When it came to patient-friendly measures, only 16% of the hospitals surveyed
had valet parking, while 36% gave appointments with specific timings for OPD
consultations. Only 56% of the patients surveyed seemed satisfied with the
waiting time. Interestingly, the study found that government hospitals are more
ethical compared to the private ones. Government hospitals enjoyed a high level
of trust.

The study also too a closer look at the gap between expectation and reality.
"This gap is zero in government hospitals, implying that they've been able to
live up to their patients' high expectationsmore than private hospitals

. Generally, expectations from government hospitals are minimal and, in fact,
patients are surprised when the standards are good," said BG Menon, managing
director, Acme.

The government hospitals surveyed are Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health,
Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest diseases, National Institute of Mental Health
and Neuro Sciences (Nimhans). "Some corporate hospitals didn't show the
willingness to participate, claiming they had the best of services.The hospitals
which participated were keen to know if they met the national standards.

After three months, we will conduct an indicative survey to know if the
hospitals have worked on the loopholes pointed out," Menon added.

A similar survey is currently underway in Chennai and will be replicated in
Kochi in the next three months.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


