                              261 of 997 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday
                                National Edition

No more live animals at Canadian med schools; Final universities switch to human
simulators

BYLINE: Tom Blackwell, National Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 515  words


Another two Canadian universities have agreed to stop using live animals in
traumamedicine training courses, marking the end of the practice completely in
this country, according to the doctor-led animal-rights group that has lobbied
for the controversial change.

Doctors and other trauma trainees at Quebec's University of Sherbrooke and Sacré
Coeur hospital in Montreal have begun practising on human-like, computerized
simulators instead of pigs or dogs.

It means none of the 22 Canadian universities and hospitals that offer the
Advanced Trauma Life Support program uses animals any longer, said Dr. John
Pippin, a spokesman for the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine in
Washington, D.C. Last year, the use of animals in medical-school training also
came to a close in Canada, he said.

"We're confident that now Canada, bless them, is leading the way," Dr. Pippin
said.

The committee advocates vegetarian or vegan diets, more ethical human research
and an end to the use of animals in medical study and education. Though it has
some ties with the controversial People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals
(PETA), the group tends to couch its arguments in terms of good health and
science, rather than simply what is good for animals.

The changes to the trauma courses have been controversial, though. McMaster
University in Hamilton made the switch last year, complaining that many of the
students felt the simulators were a lesser option, and that the new policy came
only after "threats" from the American organization.

The university's veterinarian also noted that the conditions under which pigs
had been treated - including being anesthetized while trainees operated on them
and killed before regaining consciousness - were far more humane that those of
hogs slaughtered for meat.

The University of Sherbrooke did come under pressure from the committee to
abandon use of animals in training, but ultimately made the decision as part of
a broader move to employing simulators, said Dr. Pierre Cossette, dean of
Sherbrooke's medical school.

"It's the best way, educationally speaking, to do that type of teaching and
learning," he said. "For us, it was a nobrainer . The fact it helped save some
animals was a good thing on top of that."

Not only do the simulators - sophisticated dummies connected to a computer -
mimic human anatomy, but they provide electronic feedback to trainees on the
impact of their work, Dr. Cossette said.

A handful of studies that surveyed small numbers of trainees have suggested that
simulators are at least a good alternative to live animals. A U.S. Air Force
study published this year, though, found a slight advantage for medical trainees
who had learned two emergency procedures on pigs, rather than simulators.

The committee is setting its sights on a goal that is exponentially more
controversial: ending use of animals in medical research entirely. But Dr.
Cossette, the Sherbrooke dean, rejected the idea, saying medical advances

are simply not possible without animals.

"We cannot do magical thinking about this," he said.

tblackwell@ nationalpost. com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 National Post
                              All Rights Reserved


