                              265 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 19, 1987, Tuesday, Final Edition

Are DRGs Harming Medical Ethics?

BYLINE: Physicians Weekly, a Whittle Communications Pub.

SECTION: HEALTH; PAGE Z17; HEALTH POLICY

LENGTH: 619 words


Yes.Cost cutting is needed. But the diagnosis related groups (DRG) system as now
defined has serious negative aspects. These carry ethical implications, and the
danger of ethical compromise certainly exists.

In my department, we work with older patients whose legs are threatened by poor
blood supply and gangrene. We do many complicated bypass operations on them. In
most cases, we save their legs. Their average hospital stay is 19 days. But
these patients fall under the same DRG as those undergoing simple bypass
operations, who are out of the hospital in seven days.

Seven days is what our hospital gets paid for, so it ends up losing money on our
bypass operations. The hospital doesn't want us to compromise our care, but it
can't operate in the red. Sooner or later, we may be told to limit our
procedures and start cutting off more legs.

But even cutting off legs isn't a way to cut health costs. A large percentage of
amputated patients can't be taken care of at home and end up in nursing
facilities. So dollars "saved" by DRG pressures will be spent elsewhere in the
health system.

In the past, there were financial incentives to keep patients in the hospital as
long as possible. With DRGs, there are other financial incentives -- and they
lead to poor care.

Patients are being discharged early, and some have medical problems as a result.

Also, the tendency is to do more operations on patients who need them much less
or not at all. If one operates on patients who don't really need it, they do
well and the doctor and hospital do well. Almost any surgeon can operate on easy
patients. It's the sick ones who are a challenge -- and prohibitively expensive.

Frank J. Veith

Professor of surgery and chief of cadiovascular surgery,

Monefiore Medical Center -- Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York

No.Anytime money changes hands, there's a potential for ethical compromise --
but no more so under the DRG system than under the old one. Most doctors used
good judgment before; most use it now. The charge of physicians' compromising
their ethics would be much greater if there were a change in the way they
themselves get paid.

Under the old cost-inflating system of reimbursement, there were strong
financial incentives to keep patients in the hospital as long as possible. DRGs
are an attempt to correct that, in part by reducing hospital stays. So far,
hospital dollars are being saved.

Despite some publicity to the contrary, there is no firm evidence that DRGs have
lowered the quality of care. As far as we know, hospitals aren't selectively
admitting the easier patients.

There are anecdotes about patients being pushed out of hospitals early -- but
there aren't many such incidents. And wer're testing brochures for patients that
explain their rights under the prospective payment system.

Too, there was a fear that hospitals and doctors might boost admission rates
with unnecessary procedures as a way of getting around the DRGs. That hasn't
happened either.

Doctors feel pressured under DRGs. They don't have as much flexibility as
before. But I don't think that has to compromise their ethics.

For instance, if they're pressured not to perform certain operations or to
discharge patients earlier, they can document what their patients need in the
medical record. If cost-containment pressures do raise ethical questions, there
are countervailing pressures on doctors as well -- the malpractice fear,
patients' rights measures, peer opinion and their own sense of professionalism.

Dr. Steven A. Schroeder

Professor and chief of general internal medicine, University of California at
San Francisco; member of the Prospective Payment Assessment Commission

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: QUESTION, FEATURE

                       Copyright 1987 The Washington Post


