                              259 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              June 6, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

Catholic hospital bars contraception advice

BYLINE: Julie Robotham HEALTH EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 589 words


CANCER doctors are on a collision course with a Catholic health organisation
over new religion-based rules which prohibit them recommending contraception to
patients taking a drug derived from thalidomide, which can cause severe birth
defects. Under a clampdown at Newcastle's Calvary Mater Hospital, doctors
recruiting patients into clinical trials may no longer distribute information
about contraception. Instead they are allowed to offer a "statement of
reproductive risks", which advises participants to avoid pregnancy but gives no
information on how to achieve this.

Michael Seldon, a staff specialist haematologist at the hospital, which operates
as part of NSW Health and is the city's only cancer treatment centre, said he
was considering defying his bosses and providing the information anyway when the
first Newcastle patients suffering myelodysplastic syndrome, multiple myeloma or
chronic lymphocytic leukaemia join national trials of the drug lenalidomide
within weeks. The drug's chemical structure is extremely similar to thalidomide,
and the risk of birth defects such as limb and heart deformities is considered
so serious that its manufacturer, Celgene, advises even men who have had a
vasectomy to use a condom. It insists women have two negative pregnancy tests
before starting treatment, and then use two forms of contraception
simultaneously. Dr Seldon, a practising Catholic, said he wanted to offer the
specific advice. "It puts me in an invidious position [but] ethically I don't
believe I have any option," he said. He saw no religious reason to withhold
information on contraception, which people were free to reject. "When you start
imposing your views on someone it starts to become non-Christian." Stephen
Ackland, an oncologist at the hospital and chairman of the cancer research
program at the Hunter Medical Research Institute, said he was concerned the new
rules could "deny or delay patients' participation in the research". But only
written information was restricted, and doctors could still speak to patients
about contraception. Bogda Koczwara, president of the specialist doctors' group
the Clinical Oncological Society of Australia, said giving advice on avoiding
pregnancy was "a necessary duty of care ... That is what we'd expect from our
members ... If there are clinicians who feel in a quandary here then that is a
concern." But Martin Laverty, chief executive of Catholic Health Australia,
defended the hospital: "Scientists, ethicists, academics should feel very free
to criticise it, but appreciate a Catholic hospital is built on those [ethical]
foundations." The Newcastle situation had been "a legitimate testing of the
boundaries of that ethical decision-making process". Bernadette Tobin, director
of the Plunkett centre for ethics at St Vincent's Hospital, said Catholic
hospitals had "a very long history of looking after the poor and the sick and
the disadvantaged" and society benefited from having "different concepts of what
is ethical in competition with each other". A spokeswoman for the Hunter New
England Local Health Network, which administers the hospital, declined to say
why the Calvary Mater was not obliged to give clinical trial participants the
same information as those treated in other NSW public hospitals. Ingrid Grenell,
a spokeswoman for Little Company of Mary Health Care, which operates the
hospital, said it was "widely known that Calvary Mater Newcastle is a Catholic
hospital and all of its activities are underpinned by Catholic ethos and
principles".

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


