                              262 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Hospital cancels 'kidney cult' transplant

BYLINE: Randy Boswell, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 386  words


Canada's largest organ transplant hospital has cancelled an operation that would
have allowed a young Australian man to demonstrate his Christian faith by
donating one of his kidneys to a desperately ill stranger in Toronto .

The case has been tracked by an Australian film crew because the would-be donor,
22-year-old Ash Falkingham, of Sydney, belongs to the controversial Jesus
Christians, the so-called "kidney cult," whose members believe that giving up an
organ to save someone's life is an act of devotion to God and humankind.

The Toronto General Hospital cancelled the scheduled transplant following
accusations of religious brainwashing, appeals from Falkingham's mother and
stepfather to stop the surgery, and extensive psychiatric assessments of the man
after his arrival in Canada.

The decision has left the Toronto woman, Sandi Sabloff, devastated, she said in
an interview yesterday. "I'm not in good shape."

More than half of the 30 members of the Jesus Christians, from Britain,
Australia, Kenya and the U.S., have donated a kidney, the donations often a
source of great ethical agonizing. The group's Australia-based leader,
60-year-old David McKay, gave one of his kidneys in 2003 at Minnesota's Mayo
Clinic, where a doctor said there was "much teeth gnashing" among hospital
officials before the operation was approved.

In keeping with its policy of confidentiality, the Toronto General Hospital
refused to divulge details about the case. But hospital president Dr. Bob Bell
said yesterday that when transplant decision-makers review any proposed surgery,
"it is crucial that we maintain total unanimity" before a donation is approved.

"It's a difficult ethical determination," he said, noting that hospital
officials must be convinced that "the person providing the tissue or organ is
doing it purely for altruistic reasons."

The story of the planned Toronto kidney transfer was detailed last night on the
Australian Broadcasting Corporation documentary program Australian Story.

"When I tried to donate a kidney in Australia, there was this legal sort of
hurdle that I had to get over, of forming a long-term friendship with my
recipient," Falkingham says in one scene, according to a script provided by the
ABC to CanWest News Service. "And so that's why I am going to Canada, going
overseas to donate."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Ash Falkingham: Parents say he is a victim of religious brainwashing. ;

