                              28 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                 Copyright (c) 1994 Cleveland State University
                           Journal of Law and Health

                                  1994 / 1995

                              9 J.L. & Health 247

LENGTH: 13647 words

ARTICLE: ATTORNEYS ON BIOETHICS COMMITTEES: UNWELCOME MENACE OR VALUABLE ASSET?

NAME: Randall B. Bateman  n1

TEXT:
 [*247]  I. INTRODUCTION

   Fifteen years ago, many considered hospital ethics committees  n2 to be an
outlandish idea.  n3 Today, the majority of hospitals have some type of
committee  [*248]  charged with discussing or resolving ethical dilemmas.  n4
The majority of these committees were established in the early 1980s  n5 as a
response to government intervention in medical decision making.  n6 In their
effort to establish ethics committees, however, some hospitals paid little, if
any, attention to the reason for having a committee and how the committees
should operate.  n7

   The bioethics literature has done a good job of describing the workings of
ethics committees and defining the roles of many of the committees' members.  n8
Most hospital committee members agree that the committee should comprise
doctors, nurses and community representatives. The one area which lacks any
meaningful consensus is the role of attorneys on hospital ethics committees.  n9
Should attorneys be members of bioethics committees? If so, what type of
attorney should be on the committee and what should be the attorney's role?

   The purpose of this paper is to examine the role(s), if any, of the attorney
as a member of bioethics committees, especially hospital ethics committees. In
the process of determining whether an attorney should serve on these committees,
the arguments will contrast the potential role of an attorney with the different
types of attorneys who may be chosen to serve as members of a hospital ethics
committee.  n10 The ultimate conclusion of this paper is that attorneys do have
a role on ethics committees, but that the role depends on the type of attorney,
the individual committee and the way the committee functions.

    [*249]  II. BACKGROUND

   In order to understand the potential roles of an attorney on a bioethics
committee, it is important to consider the history of bioethics committees, the
purpose of the committees and what role attorneys currently have. While every
committee is unique, some generalizations apply to all and are important to
consider.

A. The History of Bioethics Committees

   The ethics committee movement stems from, of all places, a law review
article.  n11 In a short article in the Baylor Law Review, Dr. Karen Teel
suggested that hospitals consider having an advisory body composed of
physicians, social workers, attorneys and theologians.  n12 The resulting
committee could assist doctors and patients by opening dialogue and diffusing
the responsibility for difficult ethical decisions. By spreading responsibility,
the committee would allow doctors to feel more comfortable taking actions
normally avoided due to liability concerns.  n13 Though relying on the opinion
of other physicians could look like "passing the buck," it could also be viewed
as a conscientious attempt by the physician to obtain a second opinion. If the
doctor relied on the opinions of a group of health care workers, it would be
much more difficult to claim that his or her actions were outside the norms of
the medical profession. Because the committee's opinion would aid the doctor in
making the ethically superior decision, instead of the legally superior one, the
end result would ideally be more ethical treatment of the patient.  n14

   Dr. Teel's article soon caught the attention of the New Jersey Supreme Court
as it attempted to decide the case of In re Quinlan.  n15 The court faced the
difficult issue of what should be done with a patient in a "chronic and
persistent vegetative state."  n16 The patient's father sought to be appointed
guardian so he could have his daughter's respirator turned off. The patient's
physicians, however, were opposed to the termination of life support. The court
concluded that the father should be appointed guardian and allowed him to find
other physicians who would agree to follow his instructions.  n17

   The future impact of Quinlan stemmed not only from the holding, but from the
court's fascination with an idea that would have kept the matter out of the
courts to begin with. Relying on Dr. Teel's article, the court found that
decisions  [*250]  such as these could be more appropriately made by ethics
committees.  n18 The court viewed Dr. Teel's suggestion as an answer to two
problems. First, the medical profession needed a method to diffuse
responsibility for tough decisions involving life and death. Second, the judges
needed a method that would help them avoid handling such difficult conflicts in
the future. The court stated:


     The most appealing factor in the technique suggested by Dr. Teel seems
     to us to be the diffusion of professional responsibility for decision,
     comparable in a way to the value of multi-judge courts in finally
     resolving on appeal difficult questions of law. . . .

     We consider that a practice of applying to a court to confirm such
     decisions would generally be inappropriate, not only because that
     would be a gratuitous encroachment upon the medical profession's field
     of competence, but because it would be impossibly cumbersome.  n19


   In the end, the court assigned Mr. Quinlan to be his daughter's guardian. The
court, however, required Mr. Quinlan to consult an ethics committee before
discontinuing his daughter's life support.  n20 Interestingly, the "Ethics
Committee" as described by the court was somewhat different than that described
by Dr. Teel.  n21 Instead of a committee to advise on ethical considerations,
the court seemed to be envisioning something more along the lines of a prognosis
committee.  n22

   The court's references to Dr. Teel's article while describing a prognosis
committee evidences some confusion on the part of the court. It is unclear
whether the court thought that the ethics committee should decide prognoses and
ethical matters, or only prognoses. The court's apparent discomfort with
deciding the issue is likely one of the reasons it felt these issues should be
handled within the medical profession. Regardless of the court's intent or
understanding, its opinion gave judicial recognition to Dr. Teel's idea and set
the foundation for ethics committees in general.

    [*251]  The number of ethics committees grew slowly for the six years
following Quinlan. By 1982 only one percent of hospitals had ethics committees
with the potential to become involved in decision making in individual cases.
n23 In April of that year, another ethical dilemma, more agonizing than Karen
Quinlan's, presented itself. Baby Doe, a Down's syndrome infant with an
esophageal atresia  n24 and tracheoesophageal fistula,  n25 was born in Indiana.
n26 The medical staff was divided over whether surgery was appropriate. Some
believed that the atresia should be repaired immediately; others felt that the
child's quality of life would be poor and the baby should be allowed to die.
n27

   The parents sided with the latter and refused treatment for the child. Those
opposed to the parents' decision took the issue to the Indiana court. As Baby
Doe died of starvation, the Indiana court upheld the right of the parents to
choose nontreatment.  n28 Regardless of whether the court was right or wrong,
the case received primarily negative publicity.  n29 The press portrayed the
incident as one of cruelty to the handicapped.

   More ethics committees were established as a result of the publicity. The
gradual move for ethics committees then received a significant boost in the
spring of 1983 when the President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems
in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research released its report "Deciding
to Forego Life-Sustaining Treatment."  n30 The report recommended that hospitals
create a means for review and consultation on decisions which had life or death
consequences for incompetent patients.  n31

   Later that year, the case of Baby Jane Doe brought the issue of nontreatment
of severely handicapped infants back into the news. The case involved a New York
couple who refused surgery for their daughter who was born with hydrocephaly,
microcephaly and spina bifida.  n32 Several private individuals  [*252]  and the
federal government attempted to force the parents to treat the child.  n33 The
courts, however, held that only the relevant state agency could bring an action
and allowed the parents to refuse treatment.  n34

   Hospitals quickly became aware that difficult ethical questions were not
going away and needed to be addressed. The solution seemed to be the
establishment of ethics committees. By the end of 1983, twenty-six percent of
hospitals had ethics committees.  n35

   In 1984 the Department of Health and Human Services responded to the denial
of treatment for disabled infants by putting forward the "Baby Doe regulations."
n36 The regulations required hospitals to post notice that denial of treatment
based on disability was a violation of federal law.  n37 The regulations also
encouraged each hospital providing newborn care, especially neonatal intensive
care units, to have an "infant care review committee."  n38 The support of such
groups as the American Medical Association, and the American Academy of
Pediatrics  n39 soon followed.  n40 By 1985, sixty percent of hospitals had
ethics committees.  n41

   The medico-legal community was excited by the rapid adoption of ethics
committees. Dr. Samuel Sherman, chairman of the American Medical Association's
Judicial Council, stated "before very long, all hospitals will have ethics
committees."  n42 Dr. Sherman also urged, however, that ethics committees be
allowed to "evolve slowly according to the needs expressed at the local level."
n43

    [*253]  In the hurry to establish hospital ethics committees, several
considerations were overlooked. First, many committees were formed before the
hospitals or even the committee members determined the committees' objectives.
n44 Second, there was, and still is, a lack of understanding about how the
committees should operate.  n45 Third, if the committee is not sure of its
goals, or how it is to function, it is difficult to know who should be on the
committee in the first place. For example, if the committee's goals and
functions are to determine the patient's prognosis, as recommended in In re
Quinlan,  n46 it would be illogical to have a social worker, an attorney or a
member of the dietary staff on the committee.  n47 In comparison, if the
committee is to serve as a multidisciplinary board for addressing ethical
dilemmas,  n48 it would be unwise to have the committee consist solely of
physicians or nurses. Thus, the purpose of the committee should be clear before
its membership is chosen.

   Ironically, Dr. Teel's suggestion had addressed both the purpose and
membership of the committees.  n49 Dr. Teel believed that the primary purpose of
the committee was to review difficult ethical cases. Furthermore, because
ethical viewpoints can differ depending on one's background, Dr. Teel felt the
committee also should be multidisciplinary.  n50 Thus, the committee should
include theologians, social workers and even attorneys.

   The literature that followed the growth of the committees has done a good job
of addressing the first and second problems. While recent literature has
discussed who should be on the committee, there is a clear lack of agreement on
whether attorneys should be included.  n51 If attorneys should not be on ethics
committees, the discussion is moot. If, however, attorneys can be a helpful
addition to the committees, some agreement ought to be reached concerning their
role. In order to look at the potential roles of an attorney on an ethics
committee, we must first consider the purpose of the committee as a whole.
[*254]  Then we must look to the individual benefits and drawbacks that
different types of attorneys have for the committee.

B. The Roles of a Hospital Ethics Committee

   In the literature, a general consensus emerged that hospital ethics
committees serve three major functions.  n52 First, the committee has a policy
development role.  n53 Because the committee deals with ethical problems, it is
a logical starting point for developing policies which deal with troubling
ethical issues. For example, the committee may draft guidelines on what
procedures are to be followed when terminating life support or writing
do-not-resuscitate orders. If physicians have well drafted guidelines to follow,
they may be more likely to withhold life-sustaining treatment in medically
indicated cases than they would be if no guidelines were available.  n54

   A second important function of ethics committees is that of education.  n55
The education the committee sponsors is of two kinds. First, the committee must
educate new members. The exact education needed for an individual is likely to
vary. For example, a new doctor may need to be versed in the methodology that
the committee uses when dealing with ethical issues. The social worker, in
contrast, may need to acquire a basic understanding of medical terms so she will
not feel intimidated or lost when the doctors and nurses begin discussing the
medical issues involved.  n56 Each of the committee members also needs to be
versed on the latest legal developments  n57 and guidelines from various
professional groups, and they should be up to date on bioethics literature.  n58
Continuing education for members is particularly important because the  [*255]
literature about ethics committees is growing at an astounding rate, and new
insights are being continually added.

   The committee also has the important function of educating others in the
hospital. It does little good for an ethics committee to exist if no one else
knows of its existence.  n59 The committee's education of others may occur both
directly and indirectly. The direct education occurs when the committee sponsors
seminars, publishes newsletters and conducts other activities that teach
hospital staff to deliver more ethical medical care. The committee is also
likely to be put in charge of educating other members of the hospital community
about new legislation such as The Patient Self Determination Act  n60 and how it
will affect each of them.

   The indirect educational function is a by-product of membership on the
committee. As influential members of the committee learn more about medical
ethics, that information is likely to be passed on to their colleagues. Whether
it is through consultation or daily conversation, the committee member is likely
to convey either the ethical methodology she is learning or relate examples of
typical conduct that is unethical. As a result, the committee member's
colleagues will hopefully learn more about how to ethically deliver medical
care.

   The ethics committee's educational function can also extend into the
community. By sponsoring programs that let the public know of the committee's
existence, the committee can build ties with the community and help avoid some
ethical dilemmas. For example, if more people thought about advance directives,
fewer ethical problems would arise. Committees could sponsor programs with such
groups as the American Association of Retired Persons to help their members
conform to the local requirements for a living will. The committees could also
petition state legislatures to change laws that hamper the ethical delivery of
medical care.

   The third purpose of ethics committees is case analysis.  n61 While most of
the literature refers to some type of case analysis, there is no uniformity of
what exactly is to be done with respect to individual cases. As Judith Ross
points out, the different words used to describe case analysis often show the
differences in what is happening within the committee.  n62 Case analysis is
often referred to as "case review," "case consultation," "case counseling" or
"case discussion." Each of these, while often used as synonyms, implies a
different approach by the  [*256]  committee. These differences often seem to
reflect the field of expertise of the particular author.  n63 The differences in
what is envisioned by these different activities affect the role of each member
of the committee and who should be on the committee in the first place.

   As each approach to individual cases is discussed, it is important to realize
that different members of the same committee can be operating under differing
approaches as they discuss the same case. The committee itself may also move
from one approach to another within the same case.

   "Case review" tends to be legalistic in nature. When John Robertson and Susan
Wolf discuss case review, they seem to be envisioning a process similar to what
happens when a termination of treatment decision is brought into the judicial
system.  n64 Committees relying on this model are more likely to focus on
procedural concerns and the roles of the committee members.  n65 Such committees
are likely to look at such issues as who may bring a case before the committee,
who attends the review, who acts as the patient's advocate and who votes. The
committee may also look at traditional legal concerns such as whether the
patient was afforded due process.  n66 Committees which use this model are also
more likely to refer to decisions they have made at the same time they claim
that they are not decision-makers.  n67 The end result is that this type of
committee adopts a quasi-judicial approach to resolving ethical issues.

   Case review requires a methodology. There are now many books and other
publications which provide detailed methodologies for committees to follow.  n68
These methodologies usually provide the committee with a routine to follow while
analyzing a case. This insures consistency and helps to give each case a fair
analysis.

    [*257]  Casuistry is one method for case review that has been recently
popularized.  n69 Casuistry is the application of a case system to moral, or in
this case, ethical reasoning. Instead of starting with general principles from
which answers are deduced, casuistry begins with specific cases for which there
is a consensus on the appropriate outcome.  n70 An essential element of a
casuistic approach is to identify cases that are taxonomically similar to the
case under consideration.  n71 The case in issue is then analyzed in light of
those cases to discover what the proper decision in the case ought to be.  n72
For example, if a committee is reviewing a case which involves withdrawing life
support, the committee looks to other cases in which the issue was raised. After
discussing each case, the committee decides which of the other cases is most
like the case at hand and follows the decision from the prior case. To an
extent, every attempt to deal with an ethical dilemma must be somewhat casuistic
in that it is case centered.  n73

   The most common example of casuistry today is the legal system. The casuistic
method is the basis for Anglo-American common law.  n74 As they function today,
American courts are constantly comparing like cases to like cases in order to
reach their rulings. Because a lawyer is schooled in the art of legal analysis,
he or she may assist the committee in developing an ethical analysis that
resembles that of the law. While the particular focus of the committee is not
identical to the law, the methodology is similar and can help the committee
reach ethical decisions.  n75 Because case review tends to be legalistic, it is
the most likely approach to adopt a casuistic methodology.

   A casuistical approach may be particularly beneficial to small hospitals that
cannot establish a full ethics committee. A network could be set up allowing
these institutions access to the cases discussed by other hospitals. Thus, the
doctor or nurse who is facing the dilemma could see how similar cases were
solved at another institution.

   The other approaches to case analysis differ greatly. The "case consultation"
approach as proffered by John LaPuma and Mark Siegler is a good example.  n76
[*258]  LaPuma and Siegler seem to view the committee as a body with a
consultative role; analogous to the specialist called in to consult with a
general practitioner facing a difficult problem. Committees with this view of
case analysis tend to see themselves as experts in ethics.  n77 In their
perception, they are specialists, just like a neurologist or toxicologist, who
have been asked to consult on a difficult case. In this function, these
committees essentially view themselves as a doctor and attempt to behave like
one. They may be concerned over such issues as whether there is a need to see
the patient, interview family members or formally place the recommendation on
the patient's chart.  n78 When following the case consultation approach,
committees are also less likely to ask whether "the committee should make a
recommendation but to whom it should make the recommendation."  n79

   Committees adopting the case consultation approach are likely to fall into
one of two methodologies. Like some specialists, one method is to provide the
doctor with multiple options and the likely outcome of each. Thus the
committee's recommendation may merely serve to clarify what options are
available to the physician and what the likely consequences will be. The other
method is adopting a referral view of consultation. Like other specialists, the
committee may feel that the case is being "turned over" to it and thus, it must
decide what is best for the patient. The person referring the case may even be
able to choose the committee's method. Moreover, the person may request that the
committee only discuss options, or that the committee reach a conclusion.

   A different approach is taken by Bill Winslade. His theory is that committees
should serve the role of case counseling.  n80 Committees adopting this approach
attempt to contour the understanding of the case and advise on that basis. Such
committees tend to focus more on the conversational development of the case with
the expectation that feasible solutions to the problem will become manifest.
n81 Unlike the case review and consultation methods, those using the counseling
idea look less to reaching a recommendation, and more to reshaping the problem
so those facing the ethical dilemma can see appropriate solutions.  n82 The
ultimate assumption in this theory of case analysis seems to be that the cause
of ethical conflicts is miscommunication. Thus, by assisting the involved
parties in coming to a common understanding of the facts, the ethical problem
will be resolved.  n83

   The final method of case analysis is what I refer to as case discussion. This
theory of analysis is closest to that espoused by Corrine Bayley and Joan
[*259]  Gibson.  n84 The role of case discussion is primarily educational. As
cases are discussed, the understanding of the committee members and others
increases. Thus, the more cases that one deals with, the greater one's
understanding. These committees tend to focus less on reaching decisions or
making recommendations and more on the educational benefit that can be derived
from case analysis.

   Though many committees may fit within one of these categories, many do not.
The most common scenario is a committee that operates under two or three of
these approaches. Which approach is used, and what methodology accompanies the
approach, depend in large part on the individual case. Some committees, and even
members, may operate in two or more of the scenarios within the same case
analysis.

   The varying approaches of case analysis are important for our discussion
because the approach used by a committee, or an individual, has a large impact
regarding who should serve on the committee. Additionally, the approach also
affects the individual roles of the committee's members. For example, an
attorney would probably be more comfortable and helpful to a committee that is
performing case review than to one engaged in either case counseling or case
consultation. In a case review paradigm, the attorney is called on to play some
role that is analogous to his or her profession. If the committee is
quasi-judicial, the attorney may serve the role of an advocate or a fact finder.
In comparison, a case counseling scenario may require the attorney to use his or
her sensitivity to ambiguity in a person's language to help the participants
understand each other better.

C. The Current Standing of Attorneys on Bioethics Committees

   Some commentators hold the view that attorneys of any type do not belong on a
hospital ethics committee.  n85 Despite this view, it seems that approximately
half of all ethics committees have an attorney as a member of the committee.
n86 The inclusion of attorneys on ethics committees is relatively consistent
with public sentiment about the issue. Two surveys have found forty-two percent
[*260]  of interviewed patients feel that a lawyer should serve on the hospital
ethics committee.  n87

   Those committees with attorneys are most likely to have the hospital's
attorney.  n88 While having the hospital's attorney seems convenient, it may
limit the effectiveness of both the ethics committee and the attorney. Because
the hospital attorney owes a duty of loyalty to the hospital, the situation may
present a conflict of interest for the attorney also serving on a committee that
may expose the hospital to liability.  n89

   III. TWO CAVEATS FOR ATTORNEYS ON BIOETHICS COMMITTEES

   There are two major problems with attorneys serving as members of bioethics
committees. The first is the tendency to want to control the proceedings.  n90
The second is the unique conflict of interest problems that attorneys face.

A. Attorney Control Thy Tongue

   An attorney may attempt to control things either by being appointed chair of
the committee, or by steering the considerations of the committee toward the
legal issues.  n91 While serious, neither of these problems is fatal. While an
attorney may be an asset to the committee, he or she should not be appointed the
chair of the committee.  n92 Instead, the chair should be someone who is
respected by both doctors and nurses. Some approaches, especially case review,
may work best with two chairs, one a doctor and one a nurse.  n93

    [*261]  The solution to attorneys who try to dominate the discussion is
simple -- leave them off the committee. The literature gives good guidelines on
what type of person should be invited to join the committee.  n94 A person who
tries to dominate the conversation, whether a doctor, nurse or anyone else,
should not serve on the committee. Those people who can be considered inflexible
should also be left off the committee.  n95 The disadvantages of having such a
person on the committee outweigh any benefits the person will bring.  n96

   The other solution is to limit the discussion of any legal concerns to the
end of the discussion. Any member should be able to ask questions or make
comments at any time. The members of the committee, including the attorney,
should also be free to make comments regarding the ethical dilemma. The
attorney, however, should understand that legal comments are only to be made at
the end of the discussion.  n97 A poorly placed legal comment stifles ethical
discussion. A good example is the following conversation from an ethics
committee meeting:

     Doctor 1: I would like to ask [Dr. 2], based on his experience in
     following children like this who have had significant damage and so on
     in the developmental evaluation clinic, how he thinks this child is
     going to fare. That would kind of put in perspective the extent of
     effort that we should put in this child.
     Doctor 2: I would go along with what the neurologist has said. The
     high probability that this child would have significant brain damage
     with neurological impairment like cerebral palsy or possibly seizure
     disorders and other neurological impairments, but I think the other
     compounding factors are all of the other things we haven't discussed.
     Attorney: Excuse me for one moment, I really do need to comment on
     something that [Dr. 1] just said and I know that this is never a
     welcome comment when it comes in these meetings, and I understand your
     feelings in this regard when you look at the quality of life that this
     child would have and that being significant in your view in terms of
     aggressiveness with which we treat the medical problem. I need to
     remind the  [*262]  committee, as we have discussed on many occasions
     in the past, that quality of life is not a permissible consideration
     under the Baby Doe Legislation. We know that there is a legislative
     determination that sets forth the conditions under which it is
     permissible to withhold medically indicated treatment and it is very
     specific in there that quality of life is not one of those
     considerations that we can even discuss at this point. So what I
     generally say at this point is let's look at the medical conditions
     and try not to look at future neurological impairment. If the
     neurological condition is itself one of the life threatening
     conditions we are talking about and that itself requires treatment
     that is different . . . If we are looking only at what the
     neurological outcome is for the child because of a preexisting
     condition and that's quality of life, we can't do it whether we like
     it or not.  n98

The attorney's misplaced comment was remarkably effective in ending that line of
conversation. The two doctors discussing an important concern ceased the
discussion and did not speak for the rest of the meeting. The doctors were
essentially told that their ethical concerns were important, but should not be
discussed in the ethical deliberation. Perhaps the saddest thing is that this
discussion is on tape and is shown to doctors and nurses to teach them how to
serve on their hospital's ethics committee. It is no wonder that doctors are
wary of attorneys on ethics committees (or anywhere else for that matter).

   To avoid problems such as this, the attorney should save any discussion of
pertinent legal issues to later parts of the case.  n99 Some questions may arise
which affect legal concerns as well as ethical ones. For example, the question
of whether the patient knows of the committee's discussion of her case is an
ethical issue as well as a legal one. Such questions are beneficial so long as
they are not an attempt at turning the conversation to other legal concerns
which might interfere with the ethical discussion.

   Such an approach allows the committee to look at all of the ethical
alternatives. Once these have been narrowed, the committee can look at how the
law views each alternative. Then the committee can decide if the preferred
recommendation is clearly legal, clearly illegal or somewhere in between. The
clearly illegal should not be recommended,  n100 leaving the clearly legal and
the questionable recommendations. The committee, depending upon the model under
which it operates, may recommend a course of action or give the people involved
a list of options and their potential outcomes.

    [*263]  If the attorney addresses the legal implications of a case, there is
also a risk that the entire meeting will devolve into a discussion of the law
and not of ethics.  n101 Instead of looking at the ethical issues and how they
may be resolved, the committee may end up discussing the legal issues and how to
deal with them. Such an approach steers the committee away from its intended
purpose and does a disservice to all involved.  n102 Thus, the legal discussion
should come last, after the ethical options have been enunciated.

B. Conflicts of Interest and the Attorney

   Another major consideration in whether an attorney should be a member of an
ethics committee is the potential for conflicts of interest. There are three
different types of attorneys in relationship to an ethics committee. Each of
these presents different advantages and disadvantages to the committee,
depending on the case analysis approach adopted by the committee.

   Due to the nature of legal representation, potential conflicts of interest
are important to the discussion of whether attorneys belong on hospital ethics
committees. Though the medical profession faces conflicts of interest (e.g. best
interest of one's patient versus the best interests of the hospital) the
attorney's interests are fundamentally different. The proper functioning of an
attorney is premised on absolute loyalty to his or her client. Therefore, the
loyalties of each type of attorney must be considered.

   The first type of lawyer is the hospital's attorney. This person usually
works in, and is employed directly by, the hospital (or the organization which
owns the hospital). The popular name for attorneys in this situation is
"in-house" counsel. The attorney in this type of situation is also personally
interested in the welfare of the hospital because it is his or her employer.
Failure to protect the hospital could result in the loss of his or her job.

   The second type of attorney is one retained by the hospital, but not directly
"employed" by the institution. Attorneys in this situation are usually referred
to as outside counsel.  n103 Unlike the employee/employer relationship of the
hospital's lawyer, the outside counsel and the hospital have a relationship more
like the traditional view of an attorney and client. Even though the attorney is
not an employee of the hospital, the attorney may have a duty of loyalty to the
hospital that requires the attorney to act in the hospital's best interests.

   The third type of attorney is comprised of all the attorneys that do not fit
into type one or type two. The field the attorney practices in is irrelevant,
with the possible exception of medical malpractice. These attorneys are all
inherently different in that, unlike attorneys one and two, they owe no duty of
loyalty to the hospital or to its parent corporation. This lack of duty allows
the attorney to focus more on the ethical considerations in the case and less on
the legal  [*264]  liabilities.  n104 Thus, the attorney can be more concerned
about helping the committee reach an ethical decision than about protecting the
hospital from lawsuits.

   Some commentators have argued that the hospital attorney (presumably meaning
attorneys one and two) has no greater duty of loyalty to the hospital than do
the hospital's other employees.  n105 This view, however, is false. Unlike the
doctor who often has a conflict between what is best for the hospital and his or
her duty to the patient, the attorney's duty of loyalty lies solely with the
hospital. If a hospital attorney sits on a committee making decisions that may
not be in the hospital's best interests, the attorney faces a conflict of
interest. Should the attorney assist the committee in reaching a recommendation
that is likely to result in the hospital being sued? If the attorney does, the
duty of loyalty to the hospital has been breached. If the attorney acts in the
best interest of the hospital, he or she may keep the committee from reaching
the most ethical recommendation.

   IV. THE ATTORNEY'S ROLE AND THE COMMITTEE'S PURPOSE

   As previously discussed, there are three major purposes of the hospital
ethics committee. When determining whether an attorney should be included on the
committee, it is important to look at the benefits and liabilities of having an
attorney on the committee in light of each purpose.

A. Policy Development

   One place an attorney may be valuable to a committee is in its policy
development functions.  n106 In several ways, the attorney can add a different
perspective to the development of such policies and may be able to help
implement them after they have been written.

   One benefit of having an attorney on a hospital ethics committee, when
drafting policies, is the role she can play as a "devil's advocate." While this
role would be negative in the other contexts of the committee's purpose, it is
important in policy formation. The attorney is most likely to catch subtle
ambiguities in the wording of a policy. Attorneys have a tendency to critique
policies by posing hypotheticals. This may be useful when one is considering the
desirability of having a policy and how the policy should be worded. Does
[*265]  the policy say what the committee wants it to say? Is the policy clear
in how it applies to different situations? Many policies are drafted with good
intent only to be misunderstood by those who later read them. Attorneys, due to
their legal training, tend to be careful about word choice. Thus, by critiquing
the policy, the attorney may help the policy to more effectively reach its aim.
n107

   The attorney could also help in making sure that policies are formed to
decrease potential liability. While avoidance of liability should not be the
major concern of the ethics committee, some potential legal problems can be
avoided merely by the way a policy is written. The ideal situation is to have a
policy that furthers ethical treatment and decreases the risk of legal action.
Providing clear guidelines on how a policy should be carried out is critical to
those who are supposed to follow it. A good policy will encourage ethical care
and result in more ethical treatment as the medical staff realizes that they are
legally protected.

   Particular knowledge of the hospital attorney may imply that he or she would
be the most helpful type of attorney during policy drafting. The hospital
attorney is probably more familiar with the language that doctors and nurses use
than other attorneys. However, the attorney is also likely to err in favor of
decreasing the hospital's liability over the ethical consideration behind the
policy. Outside counsel may also be prone to err on the side of the hospital's
interests. Therefore, the attorney who is not affiliated with the hospital is
probably the best choice. If help is needed with medical language, the outside
attorney can talk with doctors or even the hospital attorney.

   Another benefit of having a nonhospital attorney is having a second opinion.
For example, if a hospital administration rejects a policy prepared by the
ethics committee on the grounds that it is not within the law, the committee can
turn to its attorney member to research the issue objectively. Sometimes the
attorney will find that the hospital is correct. In other circumstances, the
hospital's view will have been overly conservative or incorrect. In this
situation, the attorney member of the committee can talk with the administration
to explain why the committee feels the policy is within the law, and possibly
negotiate wording that is acceptable to the hospital as well as the hospital's
ethics committee.

B. Education

   An attorney is also a valuable tool in the education of the committee itself
and its goal of educating others. Because most of the members of the committee
are not lawyers, an attorney can help by educating the committee members about
the law.  n108 In a recent article, Alan Meisel described eight legal myths
[*266]  that are common within the medical profession.  n109 These myths are: 1)
anything not specifically permitted by law is illegal; 2) termination of life
support is murder (or suicide); 3) a patient must be terminally ill for life
support to be stopped; 4) it is only permissible to terminate "extraordinary"
treatment; 5) it is permissible to withhold treatment, but not to stop it once
started; 6) the withdrawal of tube feeding is different from terminating other
treatments; 7) a court order must be obtained to terminate life support; and 8)
living wills are illegal.  n110 It seems hard to imagine any eight
misconceptions that could interfere more with the proper working of a hospital
ethics committee than these. A well informed attorney, or one who is willing to
become informed, could be an asset by warning the committee of these myths and
explaining what the law allows.

   An attorney also should help to ensure that doctors and nurses are familiar
with the law in areas related to the termination of treatment. For example, a
survey done two years ago showed that roughly two-thirds of the physicians and
nurses likely to be involved in organ procurement for transplantation could not
properly identify the medical and legal criteria for determining death.  n111 It
is important that those involved in ethically sensitive areas of medicine such
as organ transplantation be up-to-date on the legal as well as medical
definitions relevant to their work.

C. Case Analysis

   In case analysis, the attorney can play many different roles. What those
roles are varies from committee to committee and case to case. An attorney
should be as free as any other member to ask questions  n112 or make comments on
ethics. If an attorney, whether a hospital attorney or not, is giving legal
advice, the attorney should speak last.  n113 When the attorney speaks out on
the legal status of the case, the ethical consideration is chilled.  n114 Rather
than stopping important conversation, the legal implications should be discussed
only after some ethically acceptable alternatives have been found. Then each may
be considered in light of the law.  n115

   The exact role of the attorney will also vary with the type of case analysis
followed by the committee. While an attorney may be of assistance under each
[*267]  methodology, the role in each will likely be different. Thus, each must
be analyzed separately.

   1. Case Review

   Committees that operate under a case review methodology are most suited for
an attorney in his or her traditional role. Because the committee is following a
quasi-judicial methodology, many of the functions of the committee fit well with
someone trained in the law. Thus, the attorney can be a benefit to the committee
in helping them to "think like a lawyer."  n116

   If a committee is going to operate under a quasi-judicial methodology, it is
important for the committee to understand the obligations that follow. One of
the major benefits of having ethics committees is to avoid having to take issues
such as the termination of life support to court. If the committees are to be
viewed as a potential substitute for the courts, the committee must be fair to
all the parties involved.

   In a recent article, Susan Wolf demonstrated that many, if not most,
committees lack any sort of procedural due process to protect the patient's
rights.  n117 If a committee is going to make recommendations  n118 that may
affect a patient's treatment, it is important that the patient has an
opportunity to present his or her concerns to the committee.  n119

   The importance of providing due process protection is heightened by the
increasing legal recognition of ethics committees. Several states now
statutorily recognize ethics committees and some even provide the committees
with immunity.  n120 Thus, it is important that the committee be required to
conduct any case reviews with an emphasis on fairness.

    [*268]  Committees must also protect patients' due process rights if the
committees seek to be an alternative to the courts.  n121 Some commentators have
even suggested that committees should attempt to position themselves in such a
way that they will receive judicial deference.  n122 The approach seems to be
working in that several courts have admitted ethics committees' recommendations
as evidence.  n123 Providing due process is particularly important due to the
reluctance of the courts to interfere with medical decision making.  n124 If
ethics committees are seen as an alternative to the courts, it is vital that
they protect the due process rights of the patient. Otherwise, they will become
viewed as another dialysis committee.  n125 The public may end up viewing
bioethics committees as modern medicine's answer to the star chamber.

   An attorney as a member of the committee can help to assure that due process
rights are assured. Ideally, the attorney can make sure that the patient is
provided with the needed protection without turning the committee into a
courtroom. The protection of due process is one area where an attorney is
justified in addressing a legal issue before the end of a case. The attorney may
ask if the patient has been told about the committee meeting and if the patient
desired to attend. This could even be done before the committee met. The
attorney may discuss with the patient's doctor or nurse what ought to be done to
protect the patient's right to a fair hearing (due process). For example, the
attorney may advise a doctor that the patient be notified of the meeting and
given an invitation to attend. By providing the patient with due process, the
committee reaches a more accurate and therefore more ethical decision.  n126

   The function of case review is one of the most important reasons for having
an attorney that does not represent the hospital. If a case may have a "bad
outcome", the last person who should be on the committee is a hospital attorney.
The best defense to a suit against a hospital ethics committee is that  [*269]
the committee acted in good faith.  n127 It may be much more difficult to make
out such a case if the hospital's attorney was active in promoting the decision.
If it appears that the attorney was supporting a position that was in the
hospital's best interest and not the patient's, it will be much harder to
convince a jury (or even a judge) that the committee was acting in good faith.
Instead, it will look as if the hospital's attorney was encouraging a course of
action that was in the hospital's best interests but detrimental to the patient.

   The ethical guidelines of all attorneys make it difficult for either attorney
one or two to serve as a member of a committee with decision-making authority.
All attorneys are bound by the ethics rules of the state in which they practice.
All of the states look disfavorably on attorneys having conflicts of interest.
Rule 1.7 of the Model Rules of Professional Conduct provides: "A lawyer shall
not represent a client if the representation of that client may be materially
limited by the lawyer's responsibilities to another client or to a third person,
or by the lawyer's own interests . . . ."  n128 Even if the attorney made his or
her role clear, the attorney still has a potential conflict of interest. Despite
the efforts of the attorney, the potential conflicts may occasionally interfere
with the committee's proper functioning.

   While it is true that most ethics committees would not consider the
hospital's attorney to be "representing" them, a potential conflict still exists
and should be avoided. If the hospital attorney explains the law to the
committee, either the committee or the hospital usually suffers. Either the
committee gets a conservative view, to its disadvantage, or the attorney gives
the committee a liberal interpretation of the law to the hospital's
disadvantage. The Comment to Rule 1.7 states:

        Loyalty to a client is also impaired when a lawyer cannot consider,
     recommend or carry out an appropriate course of action for the client
     because of the lawyer's other responsibilities or interests. The
     conflict in effect forecloses alternatives that would otherwise be
     available to the client.  n129


The Comment later states, "if there is a material risk that the dual role will
compromise the lawyer's independence of professional judgment, the lawyer should
not serve [in both capacities]."  n130

   The inherent potential for conflicts of interest for attorneys one and two
creates a problem under the ethics rules. In a case review approach, there are
times when the ethical decisions of the ethics committee are not in harmony, if
not directly opposed to the best interests of the hospital.  n131 What choice is
to  [*270]  be made by the hospital attorney who also serves on the ethics
committee? Does the attorney recommend action that is ethical but may subject
the hospital to potential liability, or recommend against the most ethical
solution in order to protect his or her client? The best solution is to avoid
the problem in the first place. Because of the conflict of interest involved,
attorneys that are also counsel for the hospital should not serve as members of
the hospital ethics committee.  n132

   2. Case Consultation

   A committee that operates under the case consultation model will have a
different role for the attorney. Because the focus is on "consultation" rather
than "review," the members view themselves as experts in some area. With a
bioethics committee, the overall expertise would be one in ethics. If the
committee is multidisciplinary, or has a diversity of members, each member is
likely to be viewed as an expert in some specialized field. The role of the
attorney may be as an expert in the interrelationship between law and ethics.
n133

   The role of the attorney may be further defined by the model of consultation
to which the committee subscribes. If the committee views its role as providing
the doctor with numerous possibilities, a decision tree, then the attorney may
want to discuss the legal ramifications of each potential decision. Thus, the
doctor would be able to weigh the potential course of action against any legal
concerns or liabilities.

   If the committee adopts a consultation in which it takes over the case, the
attorney would be responsible for telling the committee what the best course of
action is from a legal standpoint. While the two roles seem fairly similar,
there is a substantial difference between merely explaining the legal
implications of each option and making a firm recommendation on best legal
alternative.

   The type of consultation may also affect the potential for a conflict of
interest. The hospital's attorney is in less of a conflict if the attorney
merely explains the legal ramifications of each course of action and the doctor
decides. Though the attorney can influence the doctor, the doctor makes the
ultimate decision. If the hospital's attorney makes a firm recommendation to the
committee about what is the legally most advantageous alternative, the potential
conflict with the patient's rights is increased. It may be very easy for the
attorney to advance the option that is the best legally for the hospital, but
not the patient. For these reasons, an attorney without a duty to the hospital
would be preferable. The  [*271]  attorney would be more likely to make legal
recommendations on the basis of the best interest of the patient, since no duty
is owed to the hospital.

   3. Case Counseling

   The case counseling policy would cast the attorney in a role that is less
familiar to many attorneys. The attorney would not be giving advice or even
giving an analysis on the legal implications of a potential course of action.
Instead, the attorney would be helping to focus the participants' understanding
to clarify the issues. The traits of an attorney are both a disadvantage and an
advantage. The disadvantage comes from the traditionally adversarial role of
attorneys in our legal system. It may be difficult for an attorney to step out
of that role and be essentially neutral. Though this would be difficult for
many, it is important for the counseling model to work properly. If participants
feel that the discussion is resulting in a division of ground rather than a
unification, they are likely to withhold both relevant information and their
emotional support. Either of these would result in an outcome that is less than
the ethical ideal.

   The advantage that an attorney has in this model is the issue-based nature of
it. In order for participants to reach a consensus, they must come to an
agreement on what issue is presented. Because attorneys are constantly dealing
with issue clarification, they may be able to help the participants agree on the
issues. Then the participants can find consensus on what needs to be done to
resolve the problem.

   The potential for conflicts of interest are less in case counseling than in
case review or case consultation. Instead of making recommendations or
suggestions, the attorney merely helps the participants reach a common
understanding. The only danger with an attorney that works for the hospital is
that the attorney may manipulate the flow of conversation. Thus, the
participants may reach a common understanding, but in a way that it works to the
hospital's advantage. For example, if a doctor wishes to write a
do-not-resuscitate order and the patient's family opposes the idea, the attorney
may manipulate the family's statements to show the family why the doctor's
decision should be supported. While this sounds bad, many attorneys are
conditioned to rework others' expressions until they meet the attorney's needs.
The attorney may twist what the participants are saying unconsciously.

   While the nonhospital attorney has less motivation for doing so, any attorney
may be guilty of the same thing. Instead of twisting things in favor of the
hospital however, the attorney may twist the conversation in favor of the
committee. For example, the committee may find a case very problematic. To
compensate for this, the attorney may steer the conversation away from the real
issues and toward an "easy answer." While the ethics committee has been let off
the hook, the participants have not come to a full concurrence of belief.

   4. Case Discussion

   Case discussion involves another role change for an attorney. If the goal of
the group is to seek intellectual edification, the attorney, like all the other
disciplines serves the role of adding a different perspective. The attorney, for
example, may explain to the committee how the law in the particular case  [*272]
developed. By providing one more point of view, the attorney has assisted the
committee in expanding its horizons.

   While the committee may benefit from the discussion, the case discussion
model represents the case where the attorney has the least unique role. If no
recommendation is given and no course of action decided upon, the committee is
of little use for the direct resolution of ethical problems. While the educating
of the committee may serve some form of a trickle down effect to more ethical
treatment, the committee is of little direct ethical value. Therefore, while the
committee may have an attorney on the committee, she is at best an indirect
asset to the delivery of ethical care.

   Because no substantive decisions are made, there is little reason for a
hospital attorney to be excluded from a committee that limits itself to case
discussion. The effects of the attorney's statements have little possibility of
directly influencing medical care. The additional medical knowledge of the
attorney may also be of more value to those seeking intellectual stimulation.
For these reasons, any type of attorney that has an interest would be beneficial
to a hospital ethics committee.

   V. CONCLUSION

   Attorneys have a role on hospital ethics committees. What that role is,
however, will differ from committee to committee. There are two major
guidelines. First, do not have the hospital's counsel, whether in-house or
outside, serve as a member of the ethics committee. It creates a potential
conflict of interest and is unfair to both the attorney and the committee.
Second, when the attorney is going to address legal matters in relation to a
present case, it should always be the last thing to be considered. If legal
issues are addressed too early in a meeting it will stifle creativity and turn
the rest of the meeting into a legal discussion instead of an ethical one.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawTreatmentEnd-of-Life DecisionsDo-Not-Resuscitate OrdersHealthcare
LawTreatmentPatient ConsentRight to Refuse TreatmentLegal EthicsGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1  B.I.S. (Chemistry, Zoology and Anthropology), Weber State University, cum
laude, 1988; J.D., University of Utah College of Law, Order of the Coif, 1993.
The author wishes to thank Professor Leslie Francis of the University of Utah
College of Law and Morris Linton of Intermountain Health Care for their comments
and criticism.




n2  Bioethics committees, institutional ethics committees and hospital ethics
committees will be used interchangeably to refer to committees in hospitals and
other institutions, e.g. nursing homes, which respond to ethical dilemmas of
administering health care. Other committees such as institutional review boards
are mentioned separately.




n3  See John D. Golenski et al., HANDBOOK FOR ETHICS COMMITTEES 2 (1991).




n4  See Ethics Committees Double Since '83: Survey, 59 HOSPITALS 60-64 (Nov. 1,
1985) [hereinafter Ethics Committees Double]. Since the publication of the
study, interest in ethics committees has continued to increase. Thus, the
proportion of hospitals with ethics committees today is likely much higher than
the sixty percent cited in the study.




n5  Id. A study conducted in 1982 found that approximately 1 percent of
hospitals had ethics committees. Stuart Youngner et al., A National Survey of
Hospital Ethics Committees, 11 CRITICAL CARE MED. 902 (1983). Another study
found that 26 percent of hospitals had an ethics committee by 1983 and 60
percent had one by 1985. Ethics Committees Double, supra note 4 at 60. Ethics
committees in nursing homes had a similar growth curve in the early 1980s. See
Barbara Brown et al., The Prevalence and Design of Ethics Committees in Nursing
Homes, 35 J. AM. GERIATRICS SOC. 1029 (1987).




n6  See Ethics Committees Double, supra note 4, at 64. Alexandra Gekas, director
of the National Society for Patient Representatives, stated that hospitals
viewed ethics committees as the best response to the restrictive Baby Doe
regulations. By providing some proof that hospitals have internal controls, the
hospitals were able to avoid the hot lines recommended in the initial draft of
the regulations. Id.




n7  See Judith Ross et al., HANDBOOK FOR HOSPITAL ETHICS COMMITTEES 31 (1986).




n8  Id. at 31-63.




n9  David A. Beuhler et al., Hospital Ethics Committees: The Hospital Attorney's
Role, 1 H E C FORUM 183 (1989).




n10  See discussion infra part III. b. Conflicts of Interest and the Attorney.
Attorneys, for the purpose of this paper, are classified by the conflicting
duties the attorney may have to the hospital, or its corporate owner, and the
ethics committee.




n11  See Karen Teel, The Physician's Dilemma: A Doctor's View: What the Law
Should Be, 27 BAYLOR L. REV. 6 (1975).




n12  Id. at 9.




n13  Id.




n14  Id.




n15  355 A.2d 647 (N.J. 1976).




n16  Id. at 655.




n17  Id. at 671.




n18  Id. at 669.




n19  355 A.2d at 669.




n20  Id. at 672.




n21  Id.




n22  Id. The court held that:

        if that consultative body agrees that there is no reasonable
     possibility of Karen's ever emerging from her present comatose
     condition to a cognitive, sapient state, the present life support may
     be withdrawn and said action shall be without any civil or criminal
     liability therefor on the part of any participant, whether guardian,
     physician, hospital or others.

Id. at 672.




n23  Stuart Youngner et al., supra note 5, at 904.




n24  Esophageal atresia is a deformity of the esophagus which prevents
swallowing.




n25  Tracheoesophageal fistula is a hole between the trachea and the esophagus
which should not be there.




n26  See Joseph Pless, The Story of Baby Doe, 309 NEW ENG. J. MED. 664 (1983).




n27  Ross, supra note 7, at 6.




n28  See Steven Smith, Disabled Newborns and the Federal Child Abuse Amendments:
Tenuous Protection, 37 HASTINGS L.J. 765, 789 (1986).




n29  See Ross, supra note 7, at 6.




n30  See PRESIDENT'S COMM'N FOR THE STUDY OF ETHICAL PROBS. IN MED. AND BIOMED.
AND BEHAVIORAL RES., DECIDING TO FOREGO LIFE-SUSTAINING TREATMENT (1983).




n31  Id. at 5.




n32  Alan R. Fleishman & Thomas H. Murray, Ethics Committees for Infants Doe?,
THE HASTINGS CENT. REP., Dec. 1983 at 5. The parents did not refuse all
treatment. Instead, they chose "conservative" treatment such as antibiotics
instead of surgery.




n33  See Smith, supra note 28, at 792.




n34  Id.




n35  Ethics Committees Double, supra note 4, at 60.




n36  45 C.F.R. § 84 (1985).




n37  45 C.F.R. § 84.55(f).




n38  45 C.F.R. § 84.55(a).




n39  The American Academy of Pediatrics actually was behind the ethics committee
option under the Baby Doe regulations. In July of 1983, the Academy submitted a
brief proposal suggesting "infant bioethical review committees" to the
Department of Health and Human Services. See Fleishman & Murray, supra note 32,
at 6-7. In 1984 the Academy published guidelines for the establishment of Infant
Bioethics Committees. The guidelines gave a relatively complete overview of how
the committee should function, what it should do and even who should be on the
committee. The guidelines recommended that the committee have physicians,
nurses, a hospital administrator, a parent of a disabled child, a lawyer and
several members of the community. See Guidelines for Infant Bioethics Committees
, 74 PEDIATRICS 307 (1984).




n40  Ronald Cranford & Edward Doudera, The Emergence of Institutional Ethics
Committees, 12 LAW MED. & HEALTH CARE 13, 14 (Feb. 1984).




n41  Ethics Committees Double, supra note 4.




n42  Cranford & Doudera, supra, note 40, at 14.




n43  Id.




n44  Beuhler, supra note 9.




n45  Judith W. Ross, Why Cases Sometimes Go Wrong, HASTINGS CENT. REP.,
Jan./Feb. 1989 at 22.




n46  See supra note 22 and accompanying text.




n47  The above situation assumes that the medical condition did not relate to a
social or nutrition problem.




n48  While there are differences, most ethics committees are interdisciplinary
and have members from several fields other than medicine. James F. Drane &
Russell B. Roth, Institutional Ethics Committees: What How and Why, HEALTH
PROGRESS, Oct. 1985 at 30, 31.




n49  Dr. Teel's article viewed the committee as serving the purpose of what is
now referred to as case review. The article also suggested that part of the
benefit of the committee comes from the fact that it is multidisciplinary. Thus,
it should include medical staff, attorneys, theologians and social workers. See
Teel, supra note 11.




n50  Id.




n51  Beuhler, supra note 9, at 183.




n52  See Marshall B. Kapp, The Attorney's Role as Institutional Ethics Committee
Member, FLA. B.J., July/August 1987 at 19.




n53  While all of the literature refers to a role in which the committee deals
with policy formulation, there are several different views of exactly what the
committee is to do. See, e.g., American Academy of Pediatrics, supra note 39, at
308 (describing the committee's role of policy development); Kapp, supra note
52, at 20 (discussing the committee's role as policy drafting); Drane & Roth,
supra note 48, at 30 (discussing policy creation by the committee).




n54  See Drane & Roth supra note 48, at 32.




n55  Cynthia Cohen, Birth of a Network, HASTINGS CENT. REP., Feb./March 1988, at
11.




n56  Some committees literally have a doctor interpret for those who do not have
a medical background. After the case has been presented, the doctor puts the
medical terms in "plain English" so everyone can participate.




n57  The majority of the literature seems to hold the view that while the advice
given by ethics committees may exceed legal standards, it should not violate the
relevant laws. See American Medical Association, Judicial Council, Guidelines
for Ethics Committees in Health Care Institutions, 253 JAMA 2698 (1985); Robert
Orr, Should HECs Provide Advice Counter to the Law When They Believe It
Inappropriate? No, 3 H E C FORUM 167 (1991). Therefore, the committee members
should at least be aware of which options are clearly outside the law.




n58  See Consultation Revisited, 18 ETHICAL CURRENTS, Spring 1989 at 3.




n59  Studies have shown that the majority of hospital patients are unaware that
their hospital had an ethics committee. See Stuart Youngner et al., Patient's
Attitudes Toward Hospital Ethics Committees, 12 LAW, MED. & HEALTH CARE 21 (Feb.
1984) (finding that only eight percent of people asked were aware that their
hospital had an ethics committee).




n60  42 U.S.C. § 1395.




n61  The words "case analysis" are used in place of the more common phrase "case
review". As will be shown, references to the activity as case review, case
consultation or other similar names carry certain distinct connotations.




n62  Ross, supra note 45, at 22.




n63  The differing forms of case analysis espoused by various people seem to be
slanted toward a methodology that is used in their profession. Thus, those who
are attorneys are likely to view case analysis with a quasi-judicial tint.
Commentators that come from medical backgrounds tend to view case analysis as
being an extended form of medical consultation. See infra notes 63, 75, 79 and
83 and accompanying text.




n64  Ross, supra note 45, at 22. See also Judith Ross, Ethics Committees: Who
Wrote the Script (Presentation to LDS Bioethics Seminar, Mar. 13, 1992).




n65  Ross, supra, note 45, at 22.




n66  See Susan M. Wolf, Hospital Ethics Committees and The Law: Ethics
Committees and Due Process: Nesting Rights in a Community of Caring, 50 MD. L.
REV. 798 (1991).




n67  Ross, supra note 45, at 22.




n68  See, e.g., Guidelines for Infant Bioethics Committees, 74 PEDIATRICS 307
(1984); Judith Ross et al., HANDBOOK FOR HOSPITAL ETHICS COMMITTEES (1986) and
John D. Golenski et al., HANDBOOK FOR ETHICS COMMITTEES (1991).




n69  For a detailed analysis of casuistry, its development and its application
to bioethical issues, see ALBERT R. JONSEN & STEPHEN TOULMIN, THE ABUSE OF
CASUISTRY: A HISTORY OF MORAL REASONING (1988).




n70  Golenski, supra note 3, at Legal Issues - 3.




n71  Id.




n72  Thomas H. Murray, Medical Ethics, Moral Philosophy and Moral Tradition, 25
SOC. SCI. MED. 637, 639 (1987).




n73  Id. at 640.




n74  Id. at 639.




n75  Id. at 643. "The common law, for instance, shares many concerns with a
society's moral tradition (where they are not one and the same), as do the
traditions governing the actions of the various professions."




n76  See Ross, supra note 64.




n77  Id.




n78  Id.




n79  See Ross, supra note 45, at 22.




n80  Ross, supra note 64.




n81  See Ross, supra note 45, at 22-23.




n82  Id. at 23.




n83  Ross, supra note 64.




n84  Id.




n85  George Annas, Ethics Committees: From Ethical Comfort to Ethical Cover,
HASTINGS CENT. REP. May/June 1991, at 18, 20.




n86  See Andrew L. Merritt, The Tort Liability of Hospital Ethics Committees, 60
S. CAL. L. REV. 1239, 1246 n. 36 (citing a survey finding 62% of ethics
committees with attorneys); Ann Helm & Dennis Mazur, The Role of Attorneys on
Hospital Ethics Committees: Potential Influence on Committee Decisionmaking, 1 H
E C FORUM 195, 197 (1989) (citing a VA study in which 56.5% of VA ethics
committees had legal representation-even though they are immune from suit). See
also Brian Carter, Medical Ethics Committee-A Survey of Army Hospitals, 153 MIL.
MED. 426, 427 (Aug. 1988) (citing three studies which found 41%, 62% and 42% of
ethics committees have attorneys as members).




n87  Id. See also Stuart Youngner et al., Patients' Attitudes Toward Hospital
Ethics Committees, 12 LAW HEALTH & MED. Feb. 1984 at 21, 23.




n88  See Willard Green, The Philadelphia Story, HASTINGS CENT. REP. Sept./Oct.
1989 at 26 (finding that 39 percent of committees had the hospital's attorney as
a member and only 12 percent had outside lawyers).




n89  Golenski supra note 3, at 12. In the discussion on the membership of the
committee, Golenski starts the discussion on attorneys as members by saying,
"Under no circumstances should the hospital counsel sit on the ICE; it's an
absolute conflict of interest, since the hospital counsel can't look after the
hospital's interests while considering ethical questions of patient care."




n90  Kapp, supra note 52, at 21-22.




n91  Id. at 20.




n92  Appointing an attorney as chair of the committee may scare other members.
Medical personnel, especially doctors likely will give less credence to the
committee if they believe that it is being run by an outsider. Furthermore, many
doctors do not like attorneys and may feel less comfortable bringing a case
before the committee. See Golenski, supra note 3, at Getting Started - 3.




n93  Id. at 3-5. The advantages of having a nurse and a doctor as co-chairs are
several. First, nurses are not likely to speak up at ethics committee meetings
if they feel intimidated by doctors. If one of the chairpersons is a nurse with
influence, the other nurses may feel more comfortable with bringing up problems
they see. In contrast, the doctors are not likely to be cooperative if they
think that the ethics committee is stacked against them. If a doctor serves as
one of the chairpersons, the other physicians may be more likely to accept the
role of the committee rather than considering it a doctor review committee.




n94  See generally, Ann Helm & Dennis J. Mazur, The Role of Attorneys on
Hospital Ethics Committees: Potential Influence on Committee Decisionmaking, 1 H
E C FORUM 195 (1989).




n95  See Golenski, supra note 3, at Getting Started 13-14.




n96  The committee may wish to invite someone with a "radical" viewpoint if that
viewpoint is particularly germane to that meeting's discussion. The person
however, should not be a regular member of the committee. Id.




n97  Id. at Methodology-25.




n98  The exact committee in which this happened will not be cited for
confidentiality reasons. The italics represent emphasis made by the attorney.




n99  Golenski, supra note 3, at Methodology-25.




n100  See supra note 57 and accompanying text.




n101  See Kapp, supra note 52, at 22.




n102  Id.




n103  Some people refer to these attorneys as outhouse counsel, a name which may
or may not be deserved.




n104 " Legal liabilities" is used because the attorney still needs to be
concerned with legal matters. The attorney should not be encouraging a committee
to make recommendations that are clearly illegal. The attorney, however, also
should not be overly concerned with the committee taking actions that, while
legal, may result in the hospital being sued.




n105  Bruce White, Point and Counterpoint: Should an Institution's Risk
Manager/Lawyer Serve as HEC Members?, 3 H E C FORUM 87, 88 (1991).




n106  Policy development may vary depending on the committee. Some committees
will actually make policies while other committees may draft policies for review
by the hospital administration.




n107  Hopefully, the attorney will use the opportunity to critique the policy to
make sure the policy is clear. The attorney could have a detrimental effect if
he or she turned the policy into multi-clause legalese as is common in
government regulations.




n108  Kapp, supra note 52, at 21.




n109  Alan Meisel, Legal Myths About Terminating Life Support, 151 ARCH. INTERN.
MED. 1497 (1991).




n110  Id.




n111  Stuart Youngner et al., "Brain Death" and Organ Retrieval, 261 JAMA 2205
(1989).




n112  Questions should not lead the conversation into a legal discussion and
should be nonconfrontational.




n113  See supra note 96 and accompanying text.




n114  See supra note 98 and accompanying text.




n115  Golenski, supra note 3, at Methodology -25.




n116  While if overdone legal analysis could ruin the very reason for the
committee, the members may be able to function better in a case review
methodology if they have some training in legal analysis.




n117  Susan M. Wolf, Hospital Ethics Committees and the Law: Ethics Committees
and Due Process: Nesting Rights in a Community of Caring, 50 MD. L. REV. 798
(1991).




n118  Ms. Wolf's article contends that committees make decisions, not
recommendations. Many ethics committees claim to follow an optional/optional
model as explained by Professor John Robertson. In other words, the committee's
review is optional and any advice it gives is likewise optional. According to
Ms. Wolf, this is a misnomer. The social and professional influence of the
committee make the recommendation more of a decision, even if the committee does
not intend for it to become such. Few doctors will disregard the committee's
recommendations. The committee's recommendation will directly affect the
patient's care. Thus, the committee is ethically obligated to afford the patient
due process protection from the moment it agrees to hear a case. Id. at 809.




n119  Id. at 805-06.




n120  Id. at 800, 807 (citing Md. Health-Gen. Code Ann. §§ 19-370 to-374 (1990 &
Supp. 1990) (requiring hospitals to have ethics committees); Haw. Rev. Stat. §
663-1.7 (Supp. 1990) (offering immunity to ethics committees) and N.Y. Pub.
Health Law § 2972 (McKinney Supp. 1991) (requiring a "dispute mediation
mechanism")).




n121  Ms. Wolf conducts a detailed study of the bioethics literature and finds
that many articles suggest ways that ethics committees can be used to keep these
matters out of the courts. Some have even suggested things that the committee
can do to improve the likelihood of a court granting deference to the
committee's decision. Supra note 117, at 810.




n122  Id. (citing Cranford, Hester & Ashley, Institutional Ethics Committees:
Issues of Confidentiality and Immunity, 12 LAW, MED. & HEALTH CARE 21 (1984)).




n123  Id. at 800-01 n. 16.




n124  See In re Quinlan, 355 A.2d 647, 669 (N.J. 1976).




n125  In 1960, Dr. Belding Scribner of the University of Washington introduced a
shunt that made it possible to use hemodialysis as a treatment for end stage
renal disease. Because of the limited number of dialysis machines, a committee
with varying backgrounds was established to decide who would get dialysis and
who would not. When the story was published in Life magazine, the committee
received intense criticism for deciding who would live and who would die. See
Ross, supra note 7, at 5-6.




n126  See Wolf, supra note 117, at 805, 857-58.




n127  See Drane & Roth, supra note 48, at 32.




n128  MODEL RULES OF PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT Rule 1.7(b) and cmt. (1983).




n129  Id.




n130  Id.




n131  Golenski, supra note 3, at Getting Started - 12. The ethics committee's
decision may not be in the best interest of the hospital from the liability
standpoint. It is arguable that the committees recommendation is ultimately in
the hospital's best interest because it will likely result in more ethical
medical care and may protect the hospital in the long run.




n132  Id.




n133  In a recent conference, Peter Windt asserted that philosophy, law and
ethics are all interconnected. This is especially true in that "all three use
similar vocabulary and make judgements about human behavior." LDS Bioethics
Committee, April 3, 1992.


