                              264 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             July 25, 2017 Tuesday

Paper urges Afghan army, police to launch aggressive attacks against Taliban

LENGTH: 637 words


Text of editorial headlined "Taliban's ethical and political defeat" by Afghan
independent and secular Hasht-e Sobh daily on 24 July

The Taliban entered a local hospital in Taywara District in [western] Ghowr
Province and killed patients and medics and this shows that this group's
political and ethical defeat have reached its peak. This group is ethically and
political defeated each time and has been defeated in national narrative, in the
public opinion and in the collective wisdom. The Taliban group cannot deny their
political and ethical defeat even if they capture more deserts, mountains and
local units. Although they launch extensive propagandistic warfare, they cannot
repair their political and intellectual defeat in minds of the people. The
Taliban's political and ethical defeat in the national narrative and in the
minds of the Afghan people is irreparable. This major defeat cannot turn into
victory through capturing and destruction of local units in remote areas.

The Afghan people have found their way. Ensuring of stability and formation of a
strong democracy committed to law and free determination of the Afghan citizens
are the national aspirations of the Afghan people. The Afghan people want to
address their intellectual, political and cultural differences through a
democracy full of tolerance and want to rebuild their country. They will no
longer submit to the ideology of the Taliban and other terrorist groups. They
know that groups such as the Taliban make their country fall victim to
ideological beliefs and ideology of groups. The Afghan people have the bitter
experience of ideology and dependence on the greedy neighbours and do not want
to repeat it.

In addition to the fact that the Taliban want to make the country fall victim to
ideological beliefs, they are also at the service of foreign intelligence
agency. The foreign intelligence agency has used the Taliban as a tool for its
foreign and security policies and use them as a proxy force. These facts can
further explain the Taliban's torching of the local administration in Taywara
district of Ghowr Province and massacre of the patience and medics of the
hospital there. Anyone who is not ideologically affected does not torch a
hospital and for those who are not ideologically affected, blood of a human
being is more valuable than political and ideological values. Otherwise, those
who love their country and has not been affected by ideology do not get ready to
hire foreigner and destroy their country.

The fact that local administrations are captured and are changing hands in
far-flung areas increase pressure on the security forces but this incident
cannot lead to strategic collapse of the system. The Afghan security forces
defend their country and will not let their country once again turn into
pastures of ideologists and gunmen of the neighbouring countries.

The Defence Ministry should take serious measures to prevent changing hands of
local administrations in remote areas and should review the plan for deployment
of forces and defence. If is very necessary that our security forces should take
aggressive measures with NATO support and they should not give an opportunity
for the Taliban and their affiliated groups to carry out attacks. The security
forces should carry out consistent attacks against those terrorist groups which
move from one place to another and launch attacks so that they cannot make local
units collapse. The Afghan army and police have many resources and they can
create new capacities and act aggressively by benefiting from the opportunity of
NATO's advisory presence. The security forces should completely come out of the
defensive position and in this case, we will not face the repeated phenomenon of
collapse of local administrations.

Source: Hasht-e Sobh, Kabul, in Dari 24 Jul 17

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2017 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


