                              29 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  The Guardian

                             April 1, 2014 Tuesday

Medical trial delays put thousands at risk, say experts

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 637 words


continued from page 1

all. The process is necessarily thorough to protect patients and hospitals from
litigation. Trials can go spectacularly wrong, as happened in 2006 when six
young men were nearly killed by an experimental drug in a trial at Northwick
Park hospital in north London.

The 2002 Sars pandemic killed 774 people and infected more than 8,000. Had the
virus not been contained it could have killed far more. The reason the death
toll was not higher was that patients were most infectious when they were most
sick, so isolating the ill stopped the virus spreading. "There is no doubt we
were very lucky with Sars," said Farrar. "But nobody knows where it has gone and
we don't have a vaccine. If it were to come back tomorrow and I got infected,
the doctor treating me wouldn't have a clue which drug, if any, to give me."

Without hard evidence, the government's preparedness rests on educated guesses.
The Department of Health spent £424m stockpiling Tamiflu (oseltamivir) for a flu
pandemic. But the lack of trials in sick patients means doctors disagree on how
well the drug works.

A 2011 report from the Academy of Medical Sciences (AMS) raised major concerns
about delays to clinical trials. The report quoted Cancer Research UK data that
found the typical time taken to launch a trial and treat the first patient was a
staggering 621 days. The bulk of that time was spent obtaining NHS approval. The
time has come down since, to around 18 months, but has not improved much in the
past year or so.

Sir Michael Rawlins, president of the Royal Society of Medicine, who chaired the
report, said progress was disappointing. "It's going in the right direction, but
it's painfully slow," he said.

The Health Research Authority was set up in response to the AMS report and
charged with streamlining approval times. It has already cut delays that held up
ethical approval. One change was to hold weekly meetings of ethical committees
to consider and approve trials submitted in the days beforehand, and a system
for convening ethical committees virtually when a trial is urgent. One trial to
look at the effect of a vaccine in pandemic influenza received ethical approval
in two days.

But the major delays are not with ethical approval, but sign-off from the NHS
centres that host trials. It is here that the HRA proposals aim to make their
greatest impact. Instead of individual NHS hospitals duplicating each other's
work by independently reviewing, querying and finally approving a trial, the HRA
will act as a central authority, giving a single sign-off for all participating
hospitals.

Relieved of that workload, hospitals can focus on the practicalities, such as
obtaining trial drugs and making sure patients are enrolled. If the health
department agrees to the plans, a simple trial could be approved within 25 days.

"We will give researchers a lot more confidence that the NHS can respond if the
HRA is doing the greater part of the approving," said Janet Wisely, chief
executive of the HRA.

She said that ultimately, they should be able to approve emergency trials within
24 hours. "If you are intending to treat someone in a 24-hour timeframe then
research should match that. It's a challenge, but it's what we should aim for,"
she said.

Farrar wants more trials pre-approved so that doctors can start emergency tests
in patients the moment an outbreak is identified. "We need generic protocols
which have been pre-approved by ethics committees and institutions at a national
level. All the information, from what samples to take to the forms we'd record
patient data on, would be openly available. Then, in an emergency, a group that
has worked on the top three or four interventions can start enrolling patients
within 24 hours," he said. "There are groups trying to address this, but it's
nowhere near there yet."

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


