                              273 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

NATIONAL STEERING COMMITTEE REVIEWS ETHICAL AND LEGAL PERSPECTIVES OF HEALTHCARE
IN INDIA

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: India


India, July 14 -- The inaugural meeting of the National Steering Committee to
Review Ethical and Legal perspectives of Healthcare in India was held recently
in Bangalore. The committee, consisting of all major medical and hospital
societies in the Country - led by the Association of Healthcare Providers India
(AHPI) and the Indian Medical Association (IMA), discussed the present scenario
among the medical fraternity, and has representation from the Association of
National Board Accredited Institutions (ANBAI), Christian Coalition for Health
India (CCHI), Consortium of Accredited Healthcare Organizations (CAHO), Academy
of Hospital Administration (AHA), All India Ophthalmological Society (AIOS),
Association of Otolaryngologists of India (AOI), Association of Physicians India
(API), Association of Surgeons of India (ASI), Medical Officers Association of
ESIC, Federation of Obstetrics and Gynecological Societies of India (FOGSI),
Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP), Indian Orthopedic Association (IOA), Indian
Society of Anesthesiologists (ISA), and Indian Radiological and Imaging
Association (IRIA). All these major societies will liaise with their
subspecialty associations so that the entire medical community will be involved
in this important exercise

It was reiterated that the patient is the focus, and as health professionals all
effort should be made to ensure provision of quality, ethical, easily accessible
and affordable care to all. This would include standardization of care with
minimum levels as appropriate.

Communication to and with patients, and their relative and attendees was one
area, which needed improvement. Unethical practices, like taking and giving of
commissions etc. are not acceptable, and also are cause for increased cost of
healthcare.

Recent awards of huge amounts as compensation for medical negligence have been
making the news. Members noted that these verdicts have resulted in a huge
increase in the number of cases filed against doctors, as well as a significant
increase in the premiums paid to insurance companies. Unfortunately, this
results in more expensive medical care, which is borne by the patient as is
evident from the experience in US and other developed countries. In addition,
hospitals and doctors are now reluctant to take on complicated cases for fear of
medico-legal issues, and many have stopped practice. In India, this only adds to
the already severe shortage of specialists. Again, it is the patient who
suffers, deprived of adequate medical care of an acceptable standard. Another
recognized factor for increased cost in these situations is practice of
defensive medicine, an example of which is getting excessive investigations done
by the clinician for fear of being questioned in the court of law.

Dr. Devi Shetty-a well known name in the healthcare sector, said that 80% of
hospital births in India are in hospitals or nursing homes which have 30 or less
beds.Thesesmallerhealth care facilities in rural and semi-urban areas which
provide care to the majority of patients in our country may have to shut
operations if subjected to frivolous and exorbitant lawsuits.

Dr. Alexander Thomas Executive Director of AHPI mentioned that over the last few
months, IMA and AHPI have set up a working group to tackle the issue. Much work
has already gone into this endeavor by eminent lawyers and medical personnel.

Professor and Advocate Dr.JogaRao andMr. DhyanChinnappa, Senior Advocate also
spoke on the occasion.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Web Newswire. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


