                              267 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                               December 21, 2014

More cases similar to pregnant woman emerge

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 347 words


Doctors in Ireland have dealt with a small number of similar cases to that of
the brain-dead pregnant woman which has revived the abortion debate in Ireland.

The woman who is in her 20s is on life support and around 16 weeks pregnant. She
is reported to be brain dead, which means she is now being mechanically
ventilated.

A similar case arose in 2001, with a brain-dead woman who was kept on a
life-support machine in a regional hospital against her husband's wishes because
she was pregnant.

Michael McDowell, who was attorney general at the time, was drawn into the case
and advised that the hospital should make its own ethical and medical judgments.

The facts of this case as now known would not prohibit the hospital from making
its own ethical judgment and from acting on it even to the point of withdrawing
the life support regime currently in place,   McDowell advised in a letter.

However, according to a report in the Irish Times at the time, constitutional
lawyer Gerard Hogan SC advised that under no circumstances should the ventilator
be switched off in the absence of a court order.

In the end, nature intervened in that particular case and the foetus died. The
case did not go to court.

The Sunday Business Post understands that there have been other similar cases
since where official advice has been sought, but there has been no actual
litigation on the question of a woman being kept alive to allow the foetus to
develop.

The family of the young woman at the centre of the current case want doctors to
accede to their request to switch off the ventilator.

However, doctors are concerned that a decision to end life support would breach
the right to life of her unborn foetus.

The woman's father said it was his hope that the High Court case that is due to
be heard this week would allow the family's wishes to be carried out.

The legal case is expected hinge on the court's interpretation of this phrasing
of a specific clause of the 1983 eighth amendment to the constitution, which
says that the right to life of the unborn should be protected    as far as
practicable  .

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


