                              268 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                            April 28, 2007 Saturday
                                 Travel Edition

Government needs support in its commitment to Medicare

BYLINE: STEPHEN LEEDER

SECTION: FEATURES; Health; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 996  words


SEVERAL recent newspaper articles have drawn attention to the increasing private
financial contribution to health care, and the reciprocal decline in the
proportion of public money so spent. The rise in private hospital care for
elective surgery, supported through publicly subsidised private hospital
insurance, is the most obvious example, but the switch from public to private is
more substantial and widespread than that.

Co-payments -- what we pay in addition to rebates for medical care and drugs --
have been rising faster in Australia in recent years than anywhere else. These
changes, perhaps manifestations of ''policy drift'' rather than anything
intentional, should not go unnoticed and unexamined.

First, the ethical basis for a universally accessible, publicly funded health
care system holds that health care should be available to all who need it,
irrespective of their financial status and place of residence.

This inconvenient truth derives from valuing equity. Change the ethical basis of
health care away from universal access and you change the credibility and
strength of equity in society.

True, we could make private health insurance available to everyone -- as has
been done in Massachusetts and may soon be done in California. That would be
equitable. But it would need to be a vastly superior product to what it is at
present. The difficulty arises when, as has been the case in the US until now,
private insurance depends upon an individual's ability, or his or her employer's
willingness, to pay for it and associated co-payments. Government payment for
all private health insurance costs for those who cannot afford it would make it
a means of universal access to health care.

Second, a move away from universal access to health care is a move towards the
way health care is funded in poor societies. It despises our affluence. Most
health care in less and least developed nations is purchased privately.
Government investment in health care, as a proportion of national budgets, is
lowest in the poorest nations, and highest in the wealthiest for good and
obvious reasons.

Once health care is no longer universally available, and access is determined by
cash in the patient's pocket, population health status declines. Poorer people
do not consult for medical problems early and treatments are deferred because of
cost, both with measurable impact.

We saw that in western Sydney during the demolition of Medibank: complicated
otitis media increased as universal health cover decreased. Poorer people missed
out on care. Scripts (more even than now) were not filled.

The relation of social class to health has many layers -- and by no means all
health inequality is caused by failing to provide universal health care. But
some of it is, especially the component related to care for the sick. Much of
the inequality has to do with the inadequacy of our preventive efforts with
economically less privileged people -- a problem virtually untouched by the
private sector.

Currently we spend only about 2 per cent of the public health budget on
prevention. Its major effect is on those who need it least.

In the US, average life expectancies are lower than those for many countries
that spend half as much on health care. Those countries spread the spend evenly
rather than investing it mainly in the care of the affluent.

Third, there is the economic argument in favour of universal health care.
Politicians and bureaucrats who are tone deaf to all of life's harmony save the
lower frequencies of economic fundamentalism should have impressed upon them the
productivity gains that follow from a universally healthy country. Young adults
dying or being disabled, especially if they are of working age, are not good
looks for the economy.

For infectious diseases, chronic diseases, cancer and mental illness, a huge
package of effective, efficient preventive programs sits on the shelf of
opportunity, and investment in these strategies would be a good use of public
money, which is said to be a major concern of those wanting to return payment
for health care to individuals. Investment in prevention rather than
overindulging highly expensive, often fruitless, technological fixes (many of
which have not been shown to be effective, let alone good value for money) would
require political fortitude. But it could be dressed in the garb of economic
rationality if necessary, especially secondary prevention in the care of people
with serious and continuing illnesses.

Investment in tobacco control strategies actually produces more benefits than it
costs. This has a 14-fold greater yield in terms of death and suffering
prevented than expanding mammographic screening.

Third and closely related to the second point, it is difficult to see how our
public-private health service can optimally manage the transitions that will be
demanded by the rising tide of chronic illness in the community unless attention
is paid to more effective secondary prevention and community care. Fewer than 20
per cent of people needing co-ordinated care in the community at present receive
it.

In response to the growing investment in private health care, Prime Minister
John Howard should be supported in his strong commitment to Medicare, not
because Medicare is perfect but because it is universal in its reach. It can be
revised, improved, changed, even renamed, so long as its universality is
retained. It needs to invest in new models of care, especially for chronic
illness, to establish its competitive value.

Attendees at expensive health industry conferences and prayer breakfasts lament
the fact that Medicare is still here and that the hoped-for bonanza of
privatised health care is yet to materialise. If the Prime Minister comes to
believe that no one cares about his commitment, the outcome is predictable.

Professor Stephen Leeder is director of the the Australian Health Policy
Institute and co-director of the Menzies Centre for Health Policy at the
University of Sydney

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


