                              269 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Contra Costa Times (California)

                              June 4, 2010 Friday

Byron Williams: When hypothetical ethic debate collides with reality

BYLINE: By Byron Williams Contributing columnist

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 762 words


THE CLASSES I enjoyed most during seminary were ethics courses. We would debate
particular questions about morality addressing issues of good and evil; right
and wrong; justice and injustice.

Rarely was a definitive conclusion reached, no one had sole possession of the
truth; and the philosophical question was always hypothetical.

This latter point was particularly noteworthy because it allowed us the luxury
of debating our sense of morality without having to actually make a difficult
decision.

Sister of Mercy Margaret McBride, a Catholic nun and administrator at St.
Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center in Phoenix, was not so fortunate. Unlike
seminary, she was held accountable for her moral position.

Last November, a 27-year-old woman was admitted to St. Joseph's Hospital. She
was 11 weeks pregnant with her fifth child, and she was gravely ill. Doctors
informed her that if she continued with the pregnancy, her risk of mortality was
"close to 100 percent."

The patient was reportedly too ill to be moved to the operating room, let alone
another hospital, agreed to an abortion. Herein lies the moral dilemma: She was
at a Catholic hospital.

According to Catholic teachings, abortion under any circumstances is wrong.
Therefore, the official church position would mandate the correct solution would
be to let mother and child die.

However, the hospital felt the pregnancy could be terminated because of
Directive 47 in the U.S. Catholic Church ethical guidelines for health care
providers, allowing in some cases procedures that could kill the fetus to save
the mother.

Based on this directive, McBride, who was also the diocese liaison, gave her
approval for the procedure. The mother lived, but McBride was excommunicated.

According to the diocese, McBride was excommunicated because she "held a
position of authority at the hospital and was frequently consulted on ethical
matters. She gave her consent that the abortion was a morally good and allowable
act according to church teaching. Furthermore, she admitted this directly to
Bishop (Thomas) Olmsted. Since she gave her consent and encouraged an abortion
she automatically excommunicated herself from the church."

As a non-Catholic seated from my armchair perspective the punishment for McBride
seems excessive. I understand she violated Catholic teachings, but was there
something between doing nothing and excommunication that could have been handed
down instead?

I also understand Catholic teachings view McBride's action as consenting in the
death of an unborn child. Moreover, one cannot do evil to bring about good   the
end cannot justify the means.

But a strict adherence to Catholic teachings, where one allows the mother and
child to die, hardly seems practical, especially when presented with that
scenario in the moment.

Though I risk stating the obvious, there is a moral inconsistency in the
treatment of McBride. If the decision to excommunicate her was based on
violation of strict Catholic teachings, it was far more public and punitive than
anything done to the priests, who were allowed to molest children, in some
cases, for decades.

The misogynistic double standard is painfully glaring.

One individual makes a difficult decision that is far more complex than
searching for the right answer in an ethical handbook and is kicked out of the
church. But those who knowingly abused their authority and trust with the most
vulnerable members of their community in many cases were allowed to continue
their ministry, and none received the punishment handed down to McBride.

The Catholic abuse scandal continues to be a global phenomenon that also
provided a cover-up that went well beyond the local parishes involved.

But moral inconsistency is hardly the exclusive domain of Catholicism, it is
common to all who participate in reality. Moreover, it seems the decision to
excommunicate McBride was correct based on the teachings of the church.

Some would argue McBride was guilty of an infraction equally as abhorrent as the
abusive priest. But doesn't one's heart and intent count for something?

Unfortunately for McBride and her diocese, this was not a hypothetical to be
debated in seminary or a philosophy course. It was rare a moment when one's
beliefs were put to the test in the heat of a crisis.

But like my memorable ethical debates, while there is a truth in this matter to
be realized by each individual, "the" truth, which is so desperately sought,
remains just beyond the reach and comprehension of everyone concerned.

Contact Byron Williams at 510-208-6417 or e-mail him at byron@byronspeaks.com .

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Contra Costa Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


