                              272 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sunday Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           September 15, 1991 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

Breakthrough on postponed pregnancy

BYLINE: Kevin Norbury

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 625 words


RESEARCHERS at the Royal Women's Hospital believe they may have perfected the
freezing of mature human ovum, paving the way for women to postpone having
children until later in life. The technology could extend the natural
child-bearing age of some women by more than 10 years.

An IVF pioneer, Professor Carl Wood, told `The Sunday Age' this week that he had
been approached by businesswomen wanting to defer having children while they
concentrated on their careers. They had asked him about the possibility of
freezing their eggs.

Professor Wood also said that giving professional women the option of putting
off having children until they were ready was "certainly one of the reasons" for
the research.

Until now only embryos have been frozen with success, because they have been
found to be more resilient than the actual egg. But researchers would prefer to
freeze eggs rather than embryos because of the legal and ethical problems
embryos create.

Although there are rare examples of "change-of-life babies" at 50 and beyond,
specialists say 50 would be "the top limit" for any woman wanting a child by egg
implantation, because that seemed to be the natural child-birth limit.

Mr Ian Johnston, an infertility specialist involved in the research, said
scientists at the Royal Women's Hospital had been freezing mature eggs, using
different freezing methods and preparations, for about three years. He said the
latest tests indicated that the eggs were "surviving well".

Researchers are waiting for a reply from the Waller Committee, which is
considering social, ethical and legal issues in infertility research in
Victoria, for permission to take the experiments a step further _ to create a
test-tube embyro and carry out tests on it.

Mr Johnston, chairman of the Royal Women's reproduction and biology unit, said
many researchers had been hesitant about freezing mature eggs (eggs ripe for
fertilisation) because of the damage often caused to the chromosomes in the
freezing and thawing process.

"We have the technique which appears to be able to allow us to freeze and thaw
mature eggs," Mr Johnston said. "The next step is to fertilise the egg ... to
see if penetration by the sperm is a success." Professor Wood said that by
freezing eggs taken from women when they were younger would enable them to give
birth much later without the fear of having a child with genetic abnormalities,
such as Downs syndrome. It would also remove the ethical and legal problems
associated with embryos if the eggs were no longer wanted.

Existing legislation does not allow the collection of eggs from unmarried women,
but Melbourne infertility specialists hope this may be overcome. They believe
that women living in de-facto relationships will be included in suggested
amendments to the Victorian Infertility Act by the advisory committee on
infertility.

An IVF gynaecologist, Dr John McBain, suggested last week that women who faced
becoming sterile by reaching menopause, or as a result of medical treatment, may
soon be able to have eggs stored. But scientists needed to test their embryos
beyond 22 hours to ensure the eggs were not damaged by freezing.

While infertility specialists are excited about the latest breakthrough, Dr
Bernard Clarke, director of the Bioethics Centre at St Vincent's Hospital, said
he had "fundamental reservations" about women freezing eggs to use later.

"The social implications of that procedure are enormous and so are the ethical
implications," he said.

The author of books on the reproductive techniques, Dr Renate Klein, a lecturer
in women's studies at Deakin University, said she was concerned about the
prospect of freezing immature eggs "which opened doors to a whole, really
terrifying field of manufacturing people to measure".

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1991 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


