                              270 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       March 19, 2012 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Novation Named to Ethisphere's 2012 World's Most Ethical Companies List

LENGTH: 574  words


New Delhi, March 19 -- Novation, the nation's leading health care supply
contracting company, announced today that it has been recognized as one of the
2012 World's Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute, the leading
business ethics think-tank.

Out of a record number of nominations for the award, Novation secured a
hard-earned spot on the list by implementing and maintaining ethical business
practices and initiatives that are instrumental to the company's success,
benefit the hospital members they serve and raise the bar for ethical standards
within the industry.

Additionally, in November 2011, Novation earned the coveted Ethics Inside
Certification from the Ethisphere Institute. Novation is one of only twelve
companies that have earned both honors. Ethisphere, the provider of independent
verification of corporate ethics and compliance programs, awards Ethics Inside
Certification exclusively to companies that not only have implemented adequate
standards, systems and programs to reasonably prevent compliance failures and
ethical breakdowns, but that can also demonstrate the existence of a superior
employee and leadership culture that promotes ethical business practices.

"Only twelve companies have earned both the Ethics Inside Certification and the
World's Most Ethical Companies award at the same time. And Novation is the only
company to have both recognitions in the category of healthcare services," said
Alex Brigham, executive director of the Ethisphere Institute. "Novation
recognizes the important role corporate responsibility and a strong ethical
foundation play in improving the bottom line of its customers. As more and more
organizations strive for this honor each year, Novation's inclusion as a World's
Most Ethical Company for 2012 and its Ethics Inside Certification designation
demonstrate its industry-leading commitment to ethics and dedication to
integrity."

"Everyone at Novation is extremely pleased to receive this prestigious honor,"
said Jody Hatcher, President and CEO of Novation. "Being named as one of the
World's Most Ethical Companies goes to the very heart of our mission and values.
The customers we serve are America's academic medical centers and not-for-profit
community hospitals - the ones who produce the next generations of physicians
and provide care for the most vulnerable in our society. It is our
responsibility to apply the highest standards of integrity to every aspect of
our business."

This is the sixth year Ethisphere has published the WME rankings. Ethisphere
reviewed hundreds of companies and evaluated a record number of applications
utilizing its propriety methodology through in-depth research and multi-step
analysis, naming the companies that surpassed their industry peers to this
year's World's Most Ethical Companies list. The 2012 list features companies in
more than three dozen industries, including 40 companies headquartered outside
the United States.

The methodology for the WME ranking includes reviewing codes of ethics,
litigation and regulatory infraction histories; evaluating the investment in
innovation and sustainable business practices; looking at activities designed to
improve corporate citizenship; and studying nominations from senior executives,
industry peers, suppliers and customers.

Read about the methodology and view the complete list of the 2012 World's Most
Ethical Companies at http://www.ethisphere.com/wme.

copyright contify.com

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


