                              274 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Sunday Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            October 30, 2011 Sunday
                        2 - State - Main Country Edition

AROUND YOUR NATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 505  words


In case you missed it . . . the stories that made headlines interstate last week

Heritage nod to the mother ship

Sydney

The wreck of HMS Sirius, mother ship of the First Fleet, has been given National
Heritage Listing. A few weeks after arriving at Botany Bay the Sirius left to
establish settlement at Norfolk Island and was lost on rocks at the island
(pictured) on March 19, 1790.

Million dollars in pocket change

Perth

The world's biggest and heaviest coin has been produced by Perth Mint. The
1012kg, 80cm wide bit of loose change took 18 months to create and has a
denomination of $1 million.

Ethical tags new step in fashion industry

Sydney Shoppers will be able to tell if the clothes they are buying have been
ethically made under a new labelling system launched by Workplace Relations
Minister Chris Evans last week. Ethical Clothing Australia, a federally funded
union and industry body, unveiled tags for garments ethically produced in
Australia. The Textile Clothing and Footwear Union of Australia said the ``meet
your maker'' campaign was about ensuring ethical labour standards were practised
in every step of the clothing supply chain.

Stroke units vital in patient recovery

Sydney

An audit of 188 hospitals across australia found just 58 per cent of the 26,000
stroke patients treated this year were admitted to stroke units despite the
crucial role they could play in saving lives. Even in hospitals with stroke
units, nearly one third of stroke patients were being treated in general wards.
National Stroke Foundation chief executive Dr Erin Lalor estimated 800 people
were either dying or being left disabled because they could not access stroke
units.

City locks down as leaders gather

Perth

The CBD went into lockdown as the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting began
with a lavish opening ceremony that featured bells ringing and orchestral music.
The leaders of more than 50 Commonwealth nations were introduced and treated to
a performance by Aboriginal dancers. The talks centred on human rights,
Commonwealth reform, economic turmoil, climate change and other topics. The
Queen said she was delighted to join the leaders for a meeting she said promised
to inject new vibrancy into the Commonwealth.

App details unsafe and recalled goods

Canberra

A new app launched by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission will
advise shoppers about recalled goods. The Recalls Australia software is designed
to quickly provide details on recalled items and advice on what to do if you
have already bought recalled goods. The app also allows consumers to report
potentially unsafe goods to the commission.

Inquiry into extent of insecure work

Canberra

Former deputy prime minister Brian Howe will head an independent inquiry into
insecure work. The ACTU commissioned the inquiry, saying there had been a
dramatic decline in permanent work and corresponding growth of insecure forms of
employment such as casual, contract work and labour hire. The inquiry will
examine the extent and causes of insecure work and its impact.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


