                              266 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                June 15, 1995, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT Edition

JANE PHILIPPI HANKE, 85; ARTIST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4D

LENGTH: 273 words


Jane Philippi Hanke, a longtime artist in St. Louis, died of complications from
Parkinson's disease Wednesday (June 14, 1995) at Missouri Baptist Hospital in
Town and Country. She was 85 and had lived in Ladue for many years.

Mrs. Hanke's medium primarily was in abstract oil paintings and sculptures. Her
works were exhibited in traveling shows for the Missouri Council of the Arts, at
the St. Louis Art Museum and in a permanent collection in the Springfield Art
Museum in Missouri.

After attending Washington University School of Fine Arts, she began her career
as a fashion artist at the old Stix, Baer and Fuller department stores. She
later worked in similar posts at Famous-Barr and Leppert Roos furriers.

In the 1960s, she painted a mural on the wall at St. Louis Children's Hospital.

For more than 60 years, she was a member of the Ethical Society of St. Louis.
She helped design the interior and the landscaping of the group's building and
served as chairman of its membership committee. She also was a longtime member
of the St. Louis Artists Guild. She retired in the mid-1980s.

A memorial service will be at 10 a.m. Tuesday at the Ethical Society of St.
Louis, 9001 Clayton Road, Ladue. Her body was donated to Washington University
School of Medicine.

Among survivors are her husband of 59 years, Harold C. Hanke; a daughter, Karen
Weeks of Nashville, Tenn.; a son, Lon Hanke of Lincoln, Calif.; three
grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.

Memorial contributions may be made to the Ethical Society of St. Louis,
Washington University School of Fine Arts, or to a charity of the donor's
choice.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: OBITUARY

                  Copyright 1995 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


