                              281 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 15, 2015 Thursday

South Dakota: Avera Executive to Speak at Nursing Symposium

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Pierre: Mount Mary College, The State of South Dakota has issued the following
news release:



 The Mount Marty College Nursing Department welcomes Mary L. Hill BSN, MA, JD,
as the keynote speaker at the 2015 MMC Endowed Chair Nursing Symposium. Hill
will speak on the subject of, &ldquo;The Nurse as Moral Agent:  Ethics in
Nursing Practice and Leadership.&rdquo;





 A 7:45 a.m. morning session and a repeated 1:00 p.m. afternoon session will be
held on Thursday, November 5, at the Avera Sacred Heart Hospital Professional
Office Pavilion in Yankton.



 The purpose of this annual symposium is to identify ethical and moral
ideologies for nurses, nursing students, and nursing faculty and explore
methodologies and ethical principles to facilitate their role as moral agents in
the nursing field.



 Hill, described as a dynamic speaker and facilitator and reverently humorous,
is currently the Vice President of Ethics for Avera Health and is responsible
for the development and implementation of ethics integration throughout Avera
Health. She is an Adjunct Professor with Aquinas Institute of Theology teaching
Health Care Ethics. She is also the Formation Facilitator for the Ascension
Health Management Formation Program and Catholic health care ministries.



 Hill was the Deputy Health Commissioner for the State of Indiana under Governor
Mitch Daniels and the Director of Ethics Integration for St. Vincent Health/Hall
Render Law Firm based in Indianapolis. Hill is a Registered Nurse with
leadership experience in adult and geriatric psychiatry.



 This continuing nursing education workshop is provided by Avera Health.
Participants who attend either the morning or afternoon full workshop and
complete the evaluation will be awarded 3.0 hours of nursing continuing
education.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com



LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


