                              276 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                      July 26, 1993, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Drug that caused birth defects urged for use in AIDS fight

BYLINE: THE INDEPENDENT

SECTION:  Pg. A7

LENGTH: 275 words

DATELINE: London


Thalidomide, the drug responsible for causing severe malformation in thousands
of babies born in the 1950s and 60s, may be given to a group of HIV-positive men
to try to ward off AIDS.

Doctors at St George's Hospital Medical School and the Chelsea and Westminster
Hospital in London have applied for ethical approval to begin the drugs trial
that they expect to start at the end of next month.

Professor Angus Dalgleish, an AIDS researcher at St. George's, said he had been
applying to start a trial of thalidomide as an anti-AIDS drug for "the best part
of a year."

He said 40 patients had volunteered. The drug had been bought from a company in
Brazil and the EC had agreed to fund the study. "We're just waiting for final
ethical approval," he said.

"We're hoping to start as soon as possible, possibly the end of August. I think
it should be okay because we've had our submission before the ethical panel
several times now."

Thalidomide, which was initially sold as a sedative and is now used to treat
leprosy, is believed to "damp down" a part of the immune system that Dalgleish
believes is responsible for helping to bring on AIDS in people infected with
HIV.

Researchers at the Rockefeller University in New York reported earlier this year
that they believed thalidomide could alleviate the symptoms of AIDS and slow or
even halt its progress.

Dalgleish believes that HIV causes the body's immune system to attack its own
cells, similar to other so-called "auto-immune" diseases. However, many other
scientists disagree, which has frustrated Dalgleish's attempts to begin a trial
of thalidomide in the U.K., he said.



LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1993 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


