                              278 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                           August 13, 2014 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Unproven vaccines can be used to fight Ebola

BYLINE: David Lucas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 432 words


THE World Health Organisation says it is ethical to use unproven Ebola drugs and
vaccines in the outbreak in West Africa provided the right conditions are met.

The UN agency issued the statement after holding a teleconference with experts
to discuss the issue.

In the biggest-ever outbreak of Ebola, two Americans have received an
experimental Ebola treatment never tested in humans and two more treatments are
reportedly on their way to treat two Liberia doctors.

The developments have raised ethical questions about whether it is right to use
untested treatments in people suffering from a disease that has no licensed
treatment. WHO said people can ethically receive such treatments but sidestepped
the questions of who should get the limited drugs and how that should be
decided.

WHO says 1,013 people have died so far in the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and
authorities have recorded 1,848 suspected or confirmed cases. The killer virus
was detected in Guinea in March and has since spread to Sierra Leone, Liberia
and possibly Nigeria.

The majority of Ebola victims are Africans, and some nations have protested that
their citizens are not getting access to the experimental drugs.

A Spanish priest, 75-year-old Miguel Parajes, who was reportedly given an
experimental treatment never tested in humans, has died in a Madrid hospital.
The hospital would not confirm that he had been treated with the drug, but his
order and Spain's Health Ministry said earlier that he would be.

"In the particular circumstances of this outbreak and provided certain
conditions are met, the panel reached consensus that it is ethical to offer
unproven interventions with as yet unknown efficacy and adverse effects, as
potential treatment or prevention," the UN said in a statement.

The panel said "more detailed analysis and discussion" are needed to decide how
to achieve fair distribution in communities and among countries, since there is
an extremely limited supply of the experimental drugs and vaccines.

Father Pajares had been helping to treat people with Ebola at the San Jose de
Monrovia Hospital in Liberia when he became ill, and was evacuated to Spain. He
worked for the San Juan de Dios hospital order, a Spainbased Catholic
humanitarian group that runs hospitals around the world.

Meanwhile, Liberian president Ellen Johnson Sirleaf has suspended all travel by
executive branch officials for a month. She also ordered those already abroad to
return home within a week "or be considered as abandoning their jobs".

Most airlines flying in and out of the Liberian capital of Monrovia have
suspended flights.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2014 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


