                              30 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            October 31, 2008 Friday
                                 First Edition

The Alfred tarred by a broad brush;
THE KOSSMAN AFFAIR

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2042 words


RECENT events at the The Alfred Trauma Service, as outlined by the hospital's
review and that of the State Ombudsman, add a sad chapter to the history of this
great hospital. The implications for the patients involved, the staff, their
families and the hospital are not what any of us would see as acceptable or
desirable. The Ombudsman's recommendations will be acted upon. He has, however,
painted the whole hospital as dysfunctional. This is not correct in my view.

The hospital is greater than one individual or any one part of its clinical
activity. While it continues as the major trauma hospital in the state, it also
functions as the provider of world-class treatment to many thousands of
Victorians whose illnesses are not trauma-related.

The Alfred's primary focus is on best patient care, with a culture that supports
its staff to deliver that care. The Ombudsman's criticism of the hospital should
be viewed in the context of his investigation and must not be allowed to
undermine the fine work done by dedicated doctors, nurses and others across a
wide range of medical and surgical specialties at this institution, or diminish
the trust The Alfred is rightly endowed with.

Vincent Cousins, Head ENT-Otoneurology Unit, The Alfred hospital, Associate
Professor, Monash University Department of Surgery

'Harvesting' for cash not confined to hospitals

IT IS interesting how "harvesting" people for cash (The Age, 30/10) is a source
of public outrage when applied to a profession that has self-imposed and
self-regulated ethical standards, yet harvesting the public for cash is the
unashamed purpose of the entire business world. Here, ethical standards are
usually non-existent or mere window-dressing to foster public confidence. Too
often so-called ethical standards equate only to minimum legal requirements.

In a world in which we expect health professions to put a patient's interests
before their own, in the business world it is "let the buyer beware" with no
duty of care offered to the public. Why are we not outraged by this? Why do we
not expect the same high standards of care given to the public by the business
world as health professionals routinely provide?

Instead we have over-servicing, where lay ignorance is routinely abused - the
"legitimate" activity of many businesses resulting in a wide range of social and
health-related public ills, executive salaries determined by the "ethics-free"
free market etc... etc... When will we expect the business world to put the
public interest before its own?

David Champion, Ivanhoe

Over-servicing? Quelle surprise

SURPRISE! Surprise! Over-servicing in the medical profession? Who would have
thunk it? Could the next investigation please be into the dental "profession",
its over-servicing, under-regulation and general exploitation of vulnerable
people?

Joanna Wilson, St Kilda

Kossman's birthplace irrelevant

MOST if not all of The Age articles about Dr Kossmann make sure to mention that
he is "German-born". What is the relevance of where he was born? Did he come
over here as a child, or was he trained as a surgeon in Germany? If he had come
from England, would every article mention that he was English-born ? I think
not. Is The Age suggesting Dr Kossmann's misconduct reflects a lack of integrity
in the German culture or ethnicity?

Ralph Bohmer (German-born and trained), St Kilda

Tread lightly on sacred ground

I WOULD like to compliment Tony Wright for "No monopoly on grief" (Comment &
Debate, 30/10). His beautifully written piece stirred up the emotions and sense
of shame I felt when I visited Gallipoli in 2007.

The first shock came with the realisation that we were in the wrong. We invaded
a country that had done us no harm and contributed to the slaughter of 80,000 of
its citizens who were defending their homeland. My second sense of shame came
when we were welcomed by the Turkish people to their cemeteries and monuments
with grace and friendliness. I was humbled to the point of tears when elderly
folk and children saw my cap and said "Astralie, welcome, welcome".

I know of no other nation that would have so graciously allowed the invading
countries to install monuments to their dead all over Turkish sacred soil.

Wright's article is a timely reminder to Australians planning a trip to that
mass graveyard. It is Turkish soil containing untold numbers of its dead sons,
as well as ours. We have few moral rights there, so treat it with the reverence
and respect it deserves.

Arnold Thomas, Boronia

It's a long life

IT IS TIMELY when many students are about to sit their year 12 exams, and when
some are perhaps becoming overly concerned, to reflect on their actual
importance. The exams are significant, and provide an opportunity for students
to win entry to courses and jobs of their choice. It is important, however, to
recognise that they are but one of many educational opportunities and pathways.
Failure to gain the desired result is not a permanent handicap.

No educational doors are permanently closed. There are a huge range of courses
available, and many ways to enter the courses and jobs of one's choice. Within a
couple of years of sitting year 12 exams, students are eligible for mature age
special entry schemes.

Having taught year 12, marked year 12 exams, sat on VCE examination setting
panels for many years and had three of my children sit VCE, I would urge
students, and parents, to keep the importance of the exams in perspective. The
exams are but one of a whole lifetime of educational opportunities.

Dr Bill Anderson, Surrey Hills

Full fees no loss

BORN into poverty, one of 14 kids and with no hope of finishing school (I
didn't), Gough Whitlam's introduction of a mature entry scheme to universities
allowed me to complete two degrees, a diploma and a PhD. I ended up a professor.

It has taken another Labor Government to rein in the money-making excesses of
university fiefdoms which have seriously impeded the potential of the youth of
this country. Full fees for Australian students (The Age, 30/10) was always a
recipe for preventing the many brilliant poor students making a sizeable
contribution to this country's advancement.

Dr Andrew Retsas, St Helena

Justice delayed

AS AN articled clerk, I had my first encounter with the County Court reserve
list on Monday as I waited keenly for the commencement of a trial. Defence and
prosecution assembled in the court room at 10.30am on Monday. We did not get on.
We returned at 2.15pm only to be told to return the next day. On Tuesday this
process was repeated and on Wednesday we were given a trial date in June 2009.
Our client has been waiting two years for his trial. He now waits another year.
At least he is on bail.

Calls by Director of Public Prosecutions Jeremy Rapke to reduce the legal
backlog (The Age , 28/10) are clearly pertinent for both sides of the bar table.
Does our Government's commitment to a trial without unreasonable delay extend
beyond the Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities to the realities of the
court room?

Jenny Black, Fitzroy

No law against youthful foolishness

MY HEART goes out to all the families affected by the "crammed car crash" (The
Age, 30/10). My heart also goes out to the emergency personnel who had to deal
with the carnage of a totally avoidable event.

With the greatest respect to Susan Watts, whose daughter Jennifer was injured in
the accident, would the banning of car travel with more passengers than
seatbelts have stopped your child from getting in that car? I don't think so.

People still drink and drive, still drive while talking or texting on a mobile
phone and still speed. The fact that these activities are illegal does not stop
them from happening.

Meg Stuart, Benalla

Blind to the signs

THE world is in a financial mess largely because the lotus eaters charged with
regulating US market activity blithely ignored the warning signs. It is
disturbing therefore to hear Andrew Robb and Malcolm Turnbull advocating the
same blind inaction on that other looming economic challenge, climate change. We
have had ample warning that when the climate change downturn inevitably arrives
the impact on Australia will be early and severe. This suggests the Opposition's
fear campaign against an emissions trading scheme is not only irresponsible and
shortsighted, but dangerous to Australia's future economic prosperity.

Alannah McIntosh, Chatswood, NSW

Dodgy defence

MARK Bailey (Letters, 30/10) is spot on about Julie Bishop's alleged plagiarism.
If a student was facing similar allegations before a university misconduct
committee, claiming that the plagiarism was actually committed by the flat mate
they paid to write their essay for them wouldn't really work as a defence.

Paul Norton, Highgate Hill, Qld

Dropping the dead donkey: a fable

YOUNG Charlie bought a donkey from a farmer for $100. The farmer agreed to
deliver the donkey the next day. But the next day he said, "Sorry son, the
donkey died." Charlie replied, "Well, then just give me my money back."

The farmer said, "Can't do that. I went and spent it already." Charlie said,
"OK, then, just bring me the dead donkey." The farmer asked, "What are you going
to do with him?" Charlie said, "I'm going to raffle him off." The farmer said
"You can't raffle off a dead donkey!" Charlie said, "Sure I can, watch me."

A month later, the farmer asked Charlie "What happened with that dead donkey?"
Charlie said "I raffled him off. I sold 500 tickets at two dollars a piece and
made a profit of $998."

"Didn't anyone complain?" the farmer asked. "Just the guy who won," said
Charlie. "So I gave him his two dollars back."

Charles now works as a consultant for Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan and the US
Federal Reserve, the UK, the European Commission and as a special adviser to the
Prime Minister of Australia.

Ronald Kitching, Frenchville, Qld

Time to put rails before roads

STEVE Margetts (Letters, 30/10) repeats the familiar argument that private car
transport and public transport "complement" each other. Unfortunately, it is
nonsense.

Melbourne already has more roads per person than comparable cities around the
world, but it is not getting superior transport outcomes as a result. Meanwhile,
our public transport system is clearly lacking, with large parts of the city
receiving no more than a skeleton service.

There is not one freeway project, built or proposed, that will actually cause
more people to use public transport. Rather, they do the opposite. The two modes
are not complementary: they are in direct competition.

Having built lots of roads but not a single new rail line over the past 70
years, it really does appear that to redress the imbalance we ought to take a
rest from building roads for a while and fix up public transport instead.

Daniel Bowen, president, Public Transport Users Association, Melbourne

I hear hypocrisy

WHY IS it that every time a Howard government ex-minister opens their mouth or
goes into print (like Peter Costello's stunner on how, unlike the Liberals,
Labor has politicised the public service, Comment & Debate, 30/10) what emerges
is mind-boggling hypocrisy? Is this one of the challenging misfortunes of being
born to rule?

Kevin Farrell, Beelbangera, NSW

Value for money

SHAUN Carney (Comment & Debate, 29/10) is right. Of course taxpayers have a
right to know how their education dollar is being spent. But Carney is wrong
when he suggests there is no way of knowing whether independent schools provide
value for every dollar spent on education.

Federal and state governments know because independent schools acquit their
public funding in detail. The Victorian Government knows that it gives $8 to
every state school student for every $1 given to an independent school student.

Parents know because schools tell them exactly how their investment in the
education of their children is used, and they see the results. That's why they
make a financial sacrifice to send their children to independent schools.

Just because Carney feels the need to publicly detail how much he spent on
educating his daughter does not mean everybody else has to tell the world how
much of their hard-earned after-tax dollars they are investing to ensure the
educational future of their children.

Michelle Green, chief executive, Association of Independent Schools of Victoria,
South Yarra

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON BY LEUNIG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


