                              283 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Sunday News (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                              June 22, 2008 Sunday

Recognized For Doing The Right Thing;
Samaritan Counseling Center Presents Its 2008 Ethics In Business Awards. Horst
Group St. Joseph Health Ministries J. Gary Langmuir

BYLINE: Dennis Larison

SECTION: D; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1392  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


Businesses provide more than just products and services for their customers, and
jobs for their workers.

To a great extent, the way they conduct themselves sets the standard for the
community.

Thursday, three local exemplars of that principle were honored at the Lancaster
Country Club with 2008 Ethics in Business Awards. About 150 people attended.

It is the second year that Samaritan Counseling Center has presented the awards.

Basically, healthy businesses create a healthy community, said Anita Hanna, the
center's director of development. Most of the center's clients have jobs, she
said, and Samaritan started the awards because it recognized how much difference
working for good companies made in its clients' mental and physical health.

In tune with that theme, author Tom Morris told stories from his best-selling
book, If Aristotle Ran General Motors, before the awards were announced.

The for-profit award winner was the Horst Group. Also nominated this year were
Lapp Electrical Service Inc. and Rodgers and Associates.

The not-for-profit winner was St. Joseph Health Ministries. Also nominated was
Welsh Mountain Medical & Dental Center.

And the individual winner was J. Gary Langmuir. Also nominated were Chip Cargas,
Roger North and John Pyfer Jr.

A short documentary by Andrea Campbell of Natural Light Films was shown as part
of each award presentation to profile the winner's ethical and business
practices.

At the Horst Group, being ethical isn't just a sometimes thing, said John Rose,
its ethics officer as well as senior vice president and chief financial officer.
It's an all-the-time thing.

Every employee in Horst's three areas of business - Horst Construction, Horst
Property Management and Horst Insurance - is required to take its ethics course,
Rose explained during an interview before the awards ceremony. Horst employs 433
people.

The two things about ethics the company tries to stress the most are the
concepts of being ethical all the time and moral courage, he said.

As an example, Rose recounted an incident about three years ago in which Steve
Smith, Horst's controller, came to him after a sales-tax audit.

The audit had identified nearly $7,000 that Horst owed in sales tax, but in
going over the figures, Smith had discovered an additional $30,000 that had been
missed.

It was a situation in which the company could have paid the lower amount without
risk of consequence.

I looked at him, Rose recalled, and said, Steve, is there a price on ethics?'

Not only did Horst contact the state to explain the error and pay the full
amount, it also presented Smith with a Living Our Values Award at a companywide
gathering.

We wanted to send a message that we practice what we preach, Rose said. When the
company says doing the right things the right way in its vision statement, it's
more than just words.

Thirty thousand dollars additional to us, that's real money, he said.

Some of the comments Rose heard afterward, he said, were along the lines of Wow!
At my old company, that would have cost me my job.

That's where moral courage comes in. Rose said he believes every human being
knows what it means to be ethical. What Horst stresses is the moral courage to
act on that knowledge.

Every once in a while, Rose said, an employee comes to me and says, What's the
right thing to do here?' And I usually just throw it back on them - because they
know.

Nor does Rose think Horst is unique in its emphasis on ethics.

Lots of companies in town are very ethical, he said. To be recognized by an
outside source in a community where there are a lot of ethical companies ...
we're just honored and excited to get this award.

Our staff is very excited [about the award], Jennifer Thompson, president and
executive director of St. Joseph Health Ministries, said Wednesday. The ethical
decisions they make are just as important as the decisions we're making on
finances and governance.

The award, she said, will help increase the public's awareness of this
relatively new organization.

St. Joseph Health Ministries was founded to take over the outreach services of
St. Joseph Hospital when the hospital was sold in 2000 to Health Management
Associates, she said. The hospital was later renamed Lancaster Regional Medical
Center.

Since then, St. Joseph Health Ministries has focused its efforts on children's
dental health.

As an example of its ethical values, St. Joseph was cited for providing fluoride
varnish for its young clients' teeth even though Medicaid was not paying for
that product.

St. Joseph wants to provide the best products and services on the market, even
when the state and Medicaid's timeline doesn't coincide with the needs of
children, Thompson explained.

At the same time, she added, we were in touch with the state and insurance
providers saying, We need to improve this process.'

In addition to such advocacy and clinical services, St. Joseph puts a lot of
effort into educating schoolchildren and their parents about oral health.

People don't understand the connection oral disease has on other health issues,
such as heart disease, diabetes and cancer, Thompson said.

This year, St. Joseph provided services to 8,220 children in all 16 public
school districts in Lancaster County, including clinical care for 315 children,
said Ann Goropoulos, vice president of operations for St. Joseph.

Many of the children require 13 or 14 different dental procedures, Goropoulos
said, adding up to about $500,000 worth of free dental care in the past year.

Those clinical services are projected to increase substantially in the coming
year when St. Joseph adds a second mobile dental clinic.

St. Joseph is in the process of hiring five new people to work on the second
bus, which will increase its staff to 15 people, Thompson said.

The best way to instill a sense of ethics among employees is for the company's
leader to serve as their role model, J. Gary Langmuir said Thursday before the
awards presentation.

Langmuir is the owner, president, chief executive and chairman of Wohlsen
Construction Co., which employs about 250 people in Lancaster and New Castle,
Del.

That starts with Langmuir talking to new employees about the company's values
and its history, from its founding in 1890 by German immigrant Herman Wohlsen
through the generations of Wohlsens who preceded him as owners.

The other thing he does, Langmuir said, is take the time to explain his
decisions to his management team.

It all comes down to doing what he feels is right, Langmuir said. One of the
ways he does that is by putting himself in a client's shoes.

Most of the property owners that Wohlsen works for don't frequently do
construction projects, he explained, and they put a lot of trust in the
company's expertise to help them make the best decisions.

I like to think of their project as if it was my own, he said.

Part of that is giving the client a binder with the detailed information Wohlsen
used in formulating its bid, along with the bid itself.

If a particular feature of a building is costing significantly more than the
building as a whole, I want the owner to make an informed decision about that.
Langmuir said.

In one instance, the design called for windows a quarter-inch wider than the
standard size, he said. Changing the design saved the client several hundred
thousand dollars.

In another instance cited in the award presentation, Wohlsen passed a
significant saving in materials cost onto the client instead of pocketing half
of it as specified in the contract.

Langmuir explained that the saving was the result of a market fluctuation rather
than anything his company was responsible for. He felt the right thing to do was
credit the client with all the saving so some of the features the client had
wanted in the building but couldn't afford could be added back into the project.

In addition to the work he does for Wohlsen, Langmuir was also cited for the
time he spends on community boards.

That includes the James Street Improvement District, Pennsylvania Academy of
Music and Pennsylvania Chamber of Business & Industry, Langmuir said. And he was
the first chairman of St. Joseph Health Ministries' board.

It's interesting, Langmuir said, how many of the nominees for the Ethics in
Business Awards have interlocking connections.

These are folks you tend to recognize [as having] values very similar to your
own, he said. It reaffirms that what I'm doing is right.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Natural Light Films; Winners Of The 2008 Ethics In Business Awards Are
Depicted In These Freeze Frames From The Documentaries That Accompanied The
Presentations. Andrea Campbell
Left: Dentist Denise Alston And Dental Assistant Amy Thomas Provide Care For A
Child For St. Joseph Health Ministries. Below: Workers From Horst Construction,
Part Of The Horst Group, Work On A Project At Garden Spot Village. Below, Left:
J. Gary Langmuir Looks Over A Wohlsen Construction Project At Brethren Village
Retirement Community.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


