                              277 of 997 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                            April 12, 2008 Saturday
                                  West Edition

Betting on miracle: a saviour sibling; Battle to save son's life raises ethical
and moral concerns

BYLINE: Pamela Fayerman, Canwest News Service

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 1112  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


VANCOUVER - Parents Mike and Pam Obadia are opting for desperate -- and
controversial -- measures to boost the survival odds of their son, who has been
in a five-year battle with leukemia.

Eight-year-old Benjamin is receiving chemotherapy treatment at B.C. Children's
Hospital in Vancouver after suffering a relapse of the acute lymphoblastic
leukemia he first got in 2002.

A bone-marrow transplant would improve the odds of finally beating the cancer,
but there are no family matches and an international registry of volunteer
donors has also not turned up any, after nearly two years of searching.

So even though the odds of fertility success are extremely slim because of Ms.
Obadia's age (47), the couple will try to create a "saviour sibling" -- a term
used to describe a test-tube baby created to save an older, sick sibling through
donor stem cells from the newborn's umbilical cord.

But the couple from Port Coquitlam, about 25 kilometres east of Vancouver, have
to go to Chicago for the procedure, which will cost up to $30,000.

Doctors at Children's and Women's Hospital in B.C. are not prepared to aid their
quest because of ethical and moral concerns about creating -- and exploiting --
a life to potentially save another.

The couple have fully weighed all the issues and are still convinced they are
doing what they must as parents who can't bear to lose a child.

"We have to do this to exhaust all the possibilities to help Benjamin," Ms.
Obadia said. "It's not like we are trying to create a designer baby. We want
another child, we will love another child. If we succeed ... [it] may help with
Benjamin's illness."

They haven't said much to Benjamin about their plan. They do not want to talk to
him about subjects like death, since he himself is so upbeat.

"As far as he is concerned, he's a child and only adults die of cancer. I think
it's a good thing that he's so positive," said Ms. Obadia, in an interview
between treatments at the hospital this week where Benjamin is having tests and
high-dose chemotherapy.

He's a boy who loves reading books such as The Spiderwick Chronicles and even
writes his own books, complete with illustrations of dragons and giant bugs.

When he relapsed nearly two years ago, his younger sister, who was then four,
was overcome with sadness and confusion. She asked her parents "why the doctors
gave Benjamin his cancer back."

They told her that the drugs were not strong enough. This time around, Benjamin
is on a regimen of about six drugs, sometimes requiring hospital stays. So far,
Benjamin has endured 295 courses of chemotherapy, 263 needles, 16 blood
transfusions and 13 bone-marrow biopsies. His life and cancer treatment are
documented on a Web site at www.mobadia.ca.

The couple readily admit they are grasping for a miracle.

"Though we've been told our chances are nil and it will cost us $30,000, we will
try anything to save our son," Mr. Obadia said. "We will also try naturally to
have a child and take our chances that it will be a match."

The process begins with conventional in vitro fertilization in which embryos are
created in a laboratory with the mother's eggs and father's sperm. But the next
step is controversial. Doctors at the Reproductive Genetics Institute in Chicago
then screen embryos to look for one that is a tissue match. The matched embryo
would then be implanted into the mother's uterus and when the baby is born,
umbilical cord stem cells would be harvested for transplantation.

Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) has been available for genetic
screening of inherited diseases for about 15 years, but only in recent years has
it been used as well to make saviour babies. The Chicago clinic has done at
least three dozen such tissue-typing cases.

Dr. Paul Rogers, medical director of pediatric oncology at B.C. Children's
Hospital, said the medical centre has never offered the procedure for cancer
patients. B.C. Children's Hospital did, however, use the umbilical-cord blood
from a naturally conceived newborn to transplant into an older sibling, who was
then cured of his life-threatening bone-marrow disease. In that case, the mother
was already pregnant when the older child got sick. In other words, the baby was
not conceived for the purpose of being a saviour child.

Lori d'Agincourt-Canning, a clinical ethicist at B.C. Children's and Women's
Hospitals, said it has not become standard practice because of cost, moral and
ethical issues.

"We understand that parents will seize on anything to help their sick children,
but the [uninsured] costs to them are so high that we don't want to create a
burden on parents who cannot afford this," she said. "There are also ethical
concerns about whether it is right to conceive a child for the sake of another.
What if something goes horribly wrong? What if the sick child gets sick again
after a transplant? Do we presume we have the right to seek yet another donation
from the saviour child if the effects of the first wane?"

Even when bone-marrow or umbilical-cord-blood stem-cell transplants are given to
patients, there is no guarantee of a cure, she said.

But she conceded that the Obadia case should prompt the hospital to conduct a
review on the potential harms, benefits and ethical issues. After that, some
guidelines and policies could be formed.

Ms. Obadia hopes the hospital will, at the very least, tell parents about the
procedures. She is distressed that PGD for tissue typing was not mentioned to
them by oncologists at Children's Hospital two years ago when Benjamin relapsed.
At that time, she might have had slightly better odds of getting pregnant.

Ms. Obadia says the hospital should at least list PGD in a patient information
package. She heard about it from a friend who had read an article about it. Ms.
D'Agincourt-Canning acknowledged the Obadias have raised a legitimate argument
as to whether parents deserve to be supplied with all information about
cutting-edge developments, even if they aren't available here. "This is the
first case of its kind we've been presented with," she said.

Dr. Tim Rowe, head of reproductive endocrinology and infertility at UBC, who is
not involved in the case, said it was "almost certain" that she would not
produce "viable embryos."

"So you have to wonder about the ethics of the Chicago company that is willing
to take that much money from a couple facing almost certain odds of pregnancy
failure," he said.

Echoing the perspective of the hospital's ethicist, he said, "This is the kind
of story that pulls at everyone's heart strings. Yet there are deeper concerns
here, like what if a saviour child does not help save the older sibling's life?
Think about the guilt that child might feel."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Black & White Photo: Stuart Davis, CanWest News Service; Eight-year-old Benjamin
Obadia, who has leukemia, is surrounded by his sister, Stephanie, mother, Pam,
and father, Mike, at their home in Port Coquitlam, B.C. Benjamin's parents want
to create a test-tube baby whose umbilical cord stem cells may save him. ;

