                              288 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                            February 26, 2016 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Religious groups in ethical tug of war; Assisted Dying: Catholic hospitals, care
facilities uneasy with new federal report on proposed legislation

SECTION: NEWS; Lori Culbert, Tiffany Crawford And Rob Shaw; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 462 words


St. Paul's Hospital and nine other Metro Vancouver medical facilities overseen
by the Catholic Church are caught in an ethical tug of war between the religious
objection to assisted suicide and a new federal government report that says
Canadians should have access to medically assisted dying.

Also Thursday, Providence Health Care made public a memo sent to doctors
reminding them that physician-assisted death "contradicts the basic tenets of
Catholic health care - wherein life is held to be sacred from conception to
natural death - and not permitted in Catholic health-care institutions such as
Providence."

The memo set off a firestorm of debate, as the federal report, tabled in
Parliament, said medical assistance in dying should be made available with few
obstacles to Canadians who are suffering from grievous and irremediable medical
conditions that cause enduring suffering.

The Supreme Court of Canada struck down the legal ban on physician-assisted
death last year. The recommendations from this report are to help the government
come up with replacement legislation by June 6. Providence will review
Thursday's parliamentary committee recommendations, work with the provincial
Health Ministry to "gain clarity" on this issue and is waiting for the new
federal legislation, said Shaf Hussain, the health authority's vicepresident of
public affairs.

Quebec last year became the first province to pass a law that requires publicly
funded health-care facilities to provide assisted suicide or provide a referral
to another facility.

B.C. Health Minister Terry Lake said Thursday there should be room for
conscientious objectors, and hinted at a compromise: "We can accommodate both
the patient and providers that find themselves in an ethical, moral, religious
dilemma."

Lake said it's possible to accommodate St. Paul's and Providence not
participating in physician-assisted dying by transferring a patient to another
health facility.

Patients have the right to refuse life-saving care, and it is "ethically and
legally appropriate" for physicians to abide by that, argued medical ethicist
Eike-Henner Kluge of the University of Victoria. But the Quebec law may pose a
challenge, he added, for some Providence leaders and doctors who may balk at
sending patients to a facility that will end their lives.

"Providence would also have to go along with that ... referring to a physician
who is willing to participate in assisted death," Kluge said.

Geoff Plant, former Liberal MLA and now chairman of the Province Health Board,
said in an email that the authority is "reviewing the various parliamentary
committee recommendations and waiting to see what the final legislation is."

DOCTOR-ASSISTED DEATH, Page 22 !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All
rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wayne Leidenfrost, PNG Files; Geoff Plant, former MLA and now chairman
of the Province Health Board, speaks at a news conference in 2015 about the
future of St. Paul's Hospital in Vancouver. Plant said in an email Thursday that
the (health) authority is 'reviewing the various parliamentary committee
recommendations (about assisted dying) and waiting to see what the final
legislation is.';

