                              284 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                           January 19, 2008 Saturday

COMMENTARY: HOSPITAL MERGER WON'T CREATE ACCESS ISSUES

BYLINE: AVELINA BARDWELL AND JAMIE GAGAN

SECTION: EDITORIALS; Pg. A-7

LENGTH: 565 words


As physicians in the specialty areas of hospital care, emergency medicine and
obstetrics/gynecology, we were asked by St. Vincent CEO Alex Valdéz to advise
him and the hospital's board of directors about clinical care and access
questions, given a future relationship with Christus Health, a well-respected
Catholic health care organization headquartered in Texas.

Objectively, the relationship with Christus offers many opportunities -- most
importantly the ability to continue serving all people with compassionate care
regardless of the ability to pay. New dollars for future growth, programs,
education and opportunities to share best practices with a larger system are
important requirements of continued access and quality clinical care.

The main problem to address is how a relationship with Christus Health, a
Catholic health care organization guided by the Ethical and Religious Directives
(ERDs), can be compatible with all services that are, today, provided by St.
Vincent Regional Medical Center.

In accordance with the applicable laws of the state of New Mexico, St. Vincent
will have two entities supporting it, Christus Health and a newly formed
not-for-profit organization named SVH Supportco. With this structure, we are
comfortable that all the services St. Vincent Regional Medical Center provides
today will continue to be available without issue.

In the arrangement, SVH Supportco will be the not-for-profit organization that
will manage and oversee the provision of those services currently provided at
the hospital that are incongruent with the ERDs. This arrangement removes
Christus from involvement in the provision of care not permitted by the Ethical
and Religious Directives, and maintains access for the greater Santa Fe
community to all currently provided services. Key areas we have worked on
include family planning, contraception, sterilization procedures and end-of-life
care. Family planning and contraception will be provided according to state law,
and confidentiality of the patient-physician relationship. Emergency
contraception for victims of rape (which is allowed in Catholic hospitals) will
continue to be administered just as it is today. Any physician may provide any
prescriptions within the privacy and confidentiality of the physician/patient
relationship.

Sterilization procedures still provided in a hospital setting will be managed
and financially accounted for by SVH Supportco.

For end-of-life issues, the physician and family or close loved one (in
accordance with state law in definition) will continue to make decisions about
the transition from medical care to comfort care assuring that our loved ones
die with dignity. This process currently happens at St. Vincent and will
continue.

St. Vincent is negotiating a termination provision in its definitive agreement
with Christus that will allow St. Vincent to terminate the relationship with
Christus if the Ethical and Religious Directives and the method for addressing
such matters becomes problematic in assuring the community access to all
services currently provided by St. Vincent.

These are sensitive topics, yet with open ears, good help and advice, the
hospital is addressing all issues thoroughly so that the needs of the patient
remain the first priority.

Internal medicine Dr. Avelina Bardwell, emergency medicine Dr. Jamie Gagan, and
OB/GYN Dr. Cleve Pardue signed this commentary.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The New Mexican


