                              286 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                              June 8, 2010 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Medical, religious ethics often are a tug-of-war;
The USA's Catholic hospitals forced to grapple with questions as old as the
church itself

BYLINE: Cathy Lynn Grossman

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 6D

LENGTH: 828 words


The case of an abortion at a Catholic hospital in Phoenix prompted an angry
bishop to rebuke the Sister of Mercy who allowed the surgery to save the
mother's life.

But you don't have to be a pregnant woman with a rare heart condition to be
affected by the questions raised at St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center.

You don't even have to be Catholic.

If you are in a Catholic facility (where one-sixth of U.S. hospital beds are
located), the Phoenix case could make you question who has final say in
life-and-death decisions: You, or the local bishop?

What happens if your care choices, or your doctor's, clash with the ethical
dictates Catholic hospitals must heed?

The Catholic bishops' Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care
Services spells out a vision of life and the morality of care from conception to
"natural death."

Catholic teachings are clearly opposed to abortion and artificial contraception;
bishops likewise fought laws in Oregon and Washington state that allow doctors
to write life-ending prescriptions for dying patients.

In the Phoenix case, Bishop Thomas Olmsted said the abortion could never have
been justified, even if the mother would have died without it.

But moral theologians and ethicists say the bishops' directives are far more
nuanced than many people realize.

"It all comes down to how you define 'care' -- the most basic expectation any
patient brings to a hospital. And Catholic hospitals are known for very
competent, very personal care," says Kevin O'Rourke, a priest and professor of
bioethics at the Loyola Medical School in Chicago.

'Principle of double-effect'

In the Phoenix case, physicians concluded that only removing the placenta could
save the woman dying from pulmonary hypertension.

Sister Margaret Mary McBride, whose job was to represent Catholic teachings,
concurred that the lifesaving surgery was morally acceptable.  (She has since
been moved to a different position at the hospital.)

O'Rourke says McBride was relying on the accepted "principle of double-effect,"
in which the intention is not to kill the fetus but is a sad, secondary effect
of an essential treatment. The Diocese of Phoenix's statements show "they are
not well-schooled in bioethics," O'Rourke says.

Neither, of course, are patients and families who may face critical decisions in
Catholic hospital settings.

Bioethicist Nancy Berlinger praises Catholic hospitals' quality and scope of
care, but while they must follow church teachings, "they also have to follow the
rules of medicine. When an individual bishop decides to intervene, it's going to
be complicated, confusing and arbitrary."

"Autonomy is a strong feature of American culture. Allowing people to make
decisions about their own lives is a way that we honor a person. If you are very
sick, we don't like to think your self-determination is also on the line," says
Berlinger of the Hastings Center in Garrison, N.Y.

"The bishop's action was disruptive for the hospital and for current and
potential patients. This patient wanted to live. Your right to consider your own
beliefs doesn't allow you to control another person," Berlinger says.

Interpreting morality

That said, Lisa Cahill, professor of moral theology at Boston College, says
nobody can demand a treatment that might violate the ethical or religious
conscience of the provider. That, too, is immoral, she says; the patient will
have to look elsewhere for care.

The trouble comes when there's no time to move or no willing provider within
hundreds of miles. Then, Cahill says, "it really comes down to an interpretation
of the morality of the treatment or procedure, not only based on medical issues
but the full humanity of those involved."

The issues were in stark  relief during the contested treatment of Terry
Schiavo, the brain-injured woman whose husband and parents battled in the courts
over whether she should continue to be sustained on artificial food and
hydration with no prospect of regaining consciousness. Her husband, who
prevailed, said she no longer had a meaningful life and would have wanted to
die.

U.S. bishops revised their directives to spell out that artificial food and
hydration are "ordinary care" that hospitals and physicians are morally
obligated to provide.

But what if your advance directives say that you don't want to be kept alive by
these means?

Catholic Health Association policies assert that "in the vast majority of cases,
patients' advance directives will be honored."  Artificial food and hydration
would be  "morally optional" when such treatment is "excessively burdensome to
the patient" and when it provides "little or no benefit."

Resources on Catholic ethics in health care

*Bishops' statement on Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care
Services: www.usccb.org/chronological.shtml

*Catholic Health Association statements on ethics: chausa.org

*Background, resources from Phoenix diocese on case at St. Joseph's Hospital:
CatholicSun.org/2010/phxdio-stjoes

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, B/W, Illustration by Alejandro Gonzalez, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Jack Kurtz, Arizona Republic

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


