                              31 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            June 16, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Invoking health providers' conscience can cloud debate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 271 words


USA TODAY's article  "Medical, religious ethics often are a tug of war" pointed
out the many cases where a patient's care choices might come into conflict with
"ethical dictates Catholic hospitals must heed," including policies on abortion,
contraception and end-of-life treatments (Life, June 8).

Professor Lisa Cahill of Boston College was paraphrased in the article as
stating,  "Nobody can demand a treatment that might violate the ethical or
religious conscience of the provider. That, too, is immoral. ... The patient
will have to look elsewhere for care."

What if the provider adheres to a religion or ethical worldview that sees racial
minorities as inferior and not worthy of treatment? Can a black patient still
demand a treatment "that might violate the ethical or religious conscience of" a
racist hospital board? Of course, she can. Would it be immoral of the patient to
demand that a racist health care professional either offer adequate medical care
or  lose his job? Of course it wouldn't.

One needn't go so far as to say that Catholic hospital policies are as evil as
these racist policies would be. But neither do we have to say that racial
discrimination in the  mortgage business is as evil as slavery or Jim Crow in
order to  recognize that it is still wrong and should not be allowed.

We should not be misled by bald invocations of providers' conscience. Many
fateful and unexpected decisions are made at local hospitals, and patients
should not have their care dictated by religious worldviews they may not accept.

Paul Kelleher

Assistant Professor

Medical History and Bioethics

University of Wisconsin-Madison

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER


                      Copyright 2010 Gannett Company, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


