                              290 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  thespec.com

                            November 28, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Ethical crisis looms over flu; Report warns pandemic will create excruciating
choices

BYLINE: The Canadian Press

SECTION: CANADA/WORLD; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 698  words

DATELINE: TORONTO


It's time to engage the public in open and frank debate on the excruciating
choices facing governments and health-care delivery systems in the event of a
flu pandemic, a new report suggests.

The document by the University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics lays out
four key issues the authors think require an ethics-based debate:

* The duty of health-care workers;

* The use of liberty-restricting measures like quarantine;

* The implementation of international travel bans;

* The setting of priorities for rationing scarce medical resources such as
antiviral drugs.

But one of Canada's leading infectious diseases experts warned it is easier to
call for such deliberations than to actually have them.

Planners in the health-care arena shudder at the thought of having to decide
what to do when they've run out of life-saving mechanical ventilators and a
gravely ill 15-year-old comes through the emergency department door, Dr. Allison
McGeer admitted.

Do they take the oldest person on a ventilator in the hospital off it? Do they
call around to other hospitals to see if someone older still can be removed from
a ventilator across town?

"I think, at least among health-care workers, to even have the discussion
somehow creates a sense of playing God," said McGeer, head of infection control
at Toronto's Mount Sinai Hospital.

She's not certain the public wants to contemplate the scenario underlying the
tough choices either, noting a rising chorus of criticism that those warning of
the dangers of a pandemic are being unduly frightening.

"It's hard to have these discussions without being scary."

None of the 100-plus national pandemic plans that have been written to date have
a dedicated section aimed at helping people make ethical decisions should an
influenza pandemic trigger a public health crisis, noted Dr. Peter Singer, one
of the authors of the report.

"That's really sort of ironic because the ethical issues are ... going to be the
glue that holds a society together when it's struggling through a very, very
tough time if the pandemic in fact is severe," said Singer, director of the
bioethics centre.

A senior official said the Public Health Agency of Canada wants to put out parts
of the Canadian pandemic plan for public deliberation, including its policy on
who should get drugs like Tamiflu and under what circumstances.

"We have to further refine that, but then state it in such a way that we can go
out to Canadians and say: 'This is our position. What do you think of it?'" said
Dr. Paul Gully, deputy chief public health officer.

"It is not good enough to have these (ethical) issues in the back of the mind.
One actually has to demonstrate absolutely clearly that one had actually taken
them into account."

The duty of health-care workers to provide care is a key area that needs
clarification, according to the report, which raises a spectre few planners like
to acknowledge but many fear -- the prospect of some health-care workers
refusing to work during a pandemic.

It happened during SARS, said another of the authors, Dr. Ross Upshur. While
many hospital workers performed heroically, some overtly refused to treat SARS
patients or "distanced themselves from engagement."

The report notes that after the devastating Spanish Flu pandemic of 1918-19, the
Canadian Medical Association wrote into its code of ethics that "when pestilence
prevails" doctors have a duty to "face the danger ... even at the jeopardy of
their own lives."

That code has since been rewritten. And there is a general lack of guidance from
the organizations governing the medical professions as to how far the "duty of
care" extends, the report warns.

It calls on these groups to spell out clearly what members' responsibilities
would be in a major infectious disease outbreak. And it calls on governments to
do as much as they can to protect health-care workers and to offer disability
insurance and death benefits for those harmed or killed while working.

"The time to figure out what roles, responsibilities and expectations are going
to be is now," said Upshur. "Not when the emergency rooms are starting to fill
up. Not when we're trying to deal with intense numbers of very sick
individuals."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

