                              289 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           December 20, 2011 Tuesday

Sexual malfunction drug tried out on mentally ill patients in Indore

BYLINE: Ashish Gaur

SECTION: INDORE

LENGTH: 671 words


INDORE: As many as 233 mentally-ill patients were subjected to clinical trials
to check the efficacy of Dapoxetine, a drug to cure premature ejaculation, and
some anti-depressants.

The trials were conducted by Government doctors of the Mental Hospital attached
to the Mahatma Gandhi medical College in Madhya Pradesh but done at private
clinics.

Significantly, all these doctors had taken the approval for the clinical trials
from independent ethics committees attached to private hospitals, bypassing the
Mahatma Gandhi Medical College's own institutional ethics committee.

It was only last month that chief minister Shiraj singh Chauhan answered about
these trails, after a question raised in the Assembly about it had hung fire for
five long months.

The list tabled in Assembly mentioned five doctors of the Mental Hospital to
have been conducting the trails - Dr Ramgulam Rajdan, Dr VS Pal, Dr Ujwal
Sardesai, Dr Abhay Paliwal and Dr Pali Rastogi, all doing it in the private
clinics. As many as 42 mentally-ill patients were subjected to the trial to see
how effective Dapoxetine was, in premature ejaculation.

Crucially, all these Government doctors had taken the approval of only the
independent ethical committees based both in and out of the state. That apart,
the clinics were the trials were conducted have yet to get even the registration
certificate from the district chief medical and health officer.

Dr Sharad Pandit, chief medical and health officer told TOI that his office had
registered a few clinics on the recommendation of the MG Medical College dean.
But some doctors are receiving non-practicing allowance from the government and
so we did not register them" he said.

Two of the doctors involved claimed they did no wrong, "We did the trial in
private clinics, so we took the approval from independent ethics committees," Dr
VS Pal said. Asked why the MG Medical College's own institutional ethics
committee was bypassed, he refused to comment further.

Another, Dr Abhay Paliwal said : "We are allowed to conduct clinical trials at
private clinics. We followed all DCGI and ICMR norms to conduct trials on the
patients," he maintained. According to him, it was not necessary to take the
Medical College's own ethics committee, "as the trials were conducted at private
clinics''

Interestingly, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines say
that independent ethics committees are for those who work in institutes that do
not have their own institutional ethics committees.

Dr Anand Rai, a whistle blower and health activist alleged to TOI that these
doctors took the approval from independent ethics committees to avoid disclosure
of information under RTI. These doctors are employees of the government and
should have taken the mandatory approval from the ethics committee of their
medical college, as the ICMR guidelines say," he stressed.

He also pointed to a more basic question: "How can a mentally-ill patient tell
doctors about the results of a drug, given that they are already disturbed? Did
the doctors take the necessary informed consent of the mentally ailing patients
or their guardians, is a big question" he added.

Doctors who took approval from independent ethics committees

Dr Rajesh Bharani

Dr Rubina Vohra

Dr Atul Shende

Dr Salil Bhargava

Dr Ramgulam Rajdan

Dr V.S Pal

Dr Ujwal Sardesai

Dr Abhay Paliwal

Dr Pali Rastogi

Doctors who conducted trials on mentally-ill patients at private clinics

Names of doctors Number of patients

Dr Ramgulam Rajdan 86

Dr V.S Pal 25

Dr Ujwal Sardesai 42

Dr Abhay Paliwal 60

Dr Pali Rastogi 20

BOX 3

Independent ethics committees that approved the trials on the mentally ailing
patients

Bombay Hospital Ethics Committee, Indore

CHL Apollo Hospital Ethics Committee, Indore

Ethics Committee of Diabetes and Thyroid Hormone Research Institute, Indore

Aditya, Independent Ethical Committee, Ahmedabad

Ethical Committee- Kotbagi Hospital, Pune

Independent Ethical Committee- Dhanshree Hospital, Pune

Siddhant Independent Ethics Committee, Ahmedabad

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


