                              291 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             April 6, 2004 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

Smoking and surgery: an ethical dilemma;
Letters & Opinion - Editorial Opinion

SECTION: NEWS; Leaders; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 500 words


Should surgeons refuse elective surgery to those who inhibit their own recovery?

Imagine if the ambulance service instituted a policy at road accidents of
deciding who they would transport to hospital first based on who was to blame
for the collision. There would, quite properly, be a measure of public outrage.
The suggestion that a wide range of elective surgical procedures should not be
offered to smokers poses a similar moral and ethical conundrum. The suggestion
has been seriously made by a group of doctors at the Concord Repatriation
Hospital in Sydney. Their proposal was published in yesterday's issue of The
Medical Journal of Australia. By their own admission, the authors concede that
such an approach is "controversial and overtly discriminatory". But, they add,
it is also solidly evidence-based. Their argument centres on studies that show
post-operative wound infection rates in smokers after surgery are routinely up
to eight times higher than among non-smokers. In a randomised study of joint
replacement surgery, where smokers quit even a matter of weeks before the
operation, the rate of infection fell from around 27 per cent to zero.
Complications such as infection after surgery delay the discharge of the
patient, inhibit recovery and consume hospital resources in terms of effective
rehabilitation and the increased cost of hospital care.

The extent to which doctors seek, and the wider community endorses, permission
for them to discriminate between patients is a matter ripe for community debate,
according to the MJA paper. Decisions are made every day in hospitals, doctors'
surgeries and on the side of the road at car accidents about who to treat - or
not treat - and in what order. There is nothing new in this approach to
determining treatment priorities. Indeed, medical triage during mass casualty
emergencies and in the busy emergency wards of hospitals is established practice
around the world. But in the context of elective surgery, as Dr Matthew Peters
and his colleagues suggest, what may be seen by the health care community as
discriminating may be regarded by smokers and the wider community as
discrimination. Yet in elective cases where smokers have a time frame that
allows them to quit (or at least attempt to do so) ahead of surgery, not doing
so is the equivalent of a doctor not using antibiotics to combat infection.

Given the demands upon the hospital system, placing smokers at the end of the
surgery queue is a tempting solution because they can take steps to improve
their chances and shorten hospital stays. But before any such approach could
become policy there must be a broad public debate. There must also be a
commitment from doctors and the general community to helping smokers kick the
tobacco habit. More troubling, perhaps, are the boundaries of this debate. What
of drinkers, the obese, the simply unfit or other at-risk patients? Judgements
based on who is more "deserving" of surgery pose ethical dilemmas for the whole
community.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2004 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


