                              287 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday
                                 First Edition

'Dead' patient comes around as organs are about to be removed

BYLINE: John Lichfield in Paris

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 583 words


France may have to reconsider its medical definition of death after a
heart-attack victim came alive in the operating theatre as doctors were about to
remove his organs for transplant.

The patient, whose identity has not been revealed, recovered after a long period
in intensive care and is now able to walk and talk.

The 45-year-old man owes his life to the fact that surgeons authorised to remove
organs for transplant operations were not immediately available. Under
experimental rules adopted in France last year, to make more organ transplants
possible, the man had already reached the point where he could be officially
regarded as dead. Similar rules - allowing the removal of organs when a
patient's heart has stopped and fails to respond to prolonged massage - already
apply in several other European countries, including Britain.

The case occurred at the Pitie-Salpêtriere hospital in Paris in January but was
not revealed at the time. The organisation that runs state-owned hospitals in
the Paris area - Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP) - referred the
case to its ethical committee on transplants. A summary of the committee's
debate, which came to no firm conclusion, has now been published on the AP-HP
website. "This situation [illustrates] the questions that remain in reanimation
... and what criteria can be used to determine that a reanimation has failed,"
says the report.

The ethical questions raised are complex, as the committee acknowledges that
doctors - and the state - have an obligation to the 13,000 people waiting for
transplanted organs in France. Last year 231 of these patients died because
organs did not become available. It was for this reason that France introduced
experimental rules allowing the removal of organs in nine hospitals from
so-called "stopped heart" patients.

The 45-year-old at the centre of the controversy collapsed close to the La
Pitie-Salpêtriere hospital. Efforts were made to revive him at the scene, and
more elaborate procedures continued at the hospital for 90 minutes. As surgeons
were preparing to remove his vital organs, the man began to breathe unaided. His
pupils moved and he showed signs of pain. His heart started to beat again. After
several weeks during which he was gravely ill, the man can now walk and talk. He
has yet to be told that doctors were ready to remove his organs.

Otherdoctors have seen similar incidents, according to the ethics committee
report. "During the meeting, other reanimators ... spoke of situations in which
a person whom everyone was sure had died in fact survived after reanimation
efforts that went on much longer than usual," the report said. "Participants
conceded that these were exceptional cases, but ones that were nevertheless seen
in the course of a career."

Le Monde said doctors had feared the new transplant rules would confront them
with cases of this kind. They believe the existing rules are imprecise and could
undermine public support for the removal of organs for transplant. They are
pushing for the issue to be discussed as part of a consultation next year on a
proposed, new law on medical ethics.

Professor Alain Tenaillon, the organ transplant specialist at the French
government's agency of bio-medicine, told Le Monde: "All the specialist
literature suggests that anyone whose heart has stopped and has been massaged
correctly for more than 30 minutes, is probably brain dead. But we have to
accept that there are exceptions ... There are no absolute rules in this area."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


