                              296 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       March 12, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Henry Schein Recognized by Ethisphere as One of the World's Most Ethical
Companies for Second Year in a Row

LENGTH: 583  words


New Delhi, March 12 -- Henry Schein, Inc. (NASDAQ: HSIC), the world's largest
provider of health care products and services to office-based dental, medical
and animal health practitioners, announced today that it was again named to
Ethisphere Institute's 2013 World's Most Ethical Companies Ranking for exemplary
ethical leadership, worldwide business standards and commitment to corporate
social responsibility.



Honored by Ethisphere in 2012 and 2013, Henry Schein continues to be recognized
for being a health care industry leader in upholding the highest ethical
standards and business practices. This year, Henry Schein was among 138
companies recognized by Ethisphere, a leading international think tank dedicated
to the creation, advancement and sharing of best practices in business ethics,
corporate social responsibility, anti-corruption and sustainability. This is the
seventh year that Ethisphere Institute has published the World's Most Ethical
Companies Ranking.

"Since our founding eighty years ago, a deep commitment to the highest ethical
standards has always been a central part of the character of Henry Schein, and
this commitment forms the very foundation of our business model," said Stanley
M. Bergman, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Henry Schein,
Inc. "We are very proud to again be honored by Ethisphere Institute in
recognition of our success in implementing exceptional worldwide business
standards as well as our enduring dedication to enhancing access to health care
for the underserved through our global corporate social responsibility program,
Henry Schein Cares."

Henry Schein Cares stands on four pillars: engaging Team Schein Members to reach
their potential, ensuring accountability by extending ethical business practices
to all levels within Henry Schein, promoting environmental sustainability, and
expanding access to health care for underserved and at-risk communities around
the world.

The evaluation criteria for the World's Most Ethical Companies Ranking includes
an in-depth assessment of Corporate Citizenship and Responsibility; Ethics and
Compliance Program; Culture of Ethics; Corporate Governance; and Reputation,
Leadership and Innovation. Based on the "Ethics Quotient" score derived from
this evaluation, the top percentile performers in each industry are further
evaluated through a stringent due diligence process.

Selected from thousands of nominated companies, Henry Schein was honored this
week at Ethisphere's Dinner Awards Ceremony at the Grand Hyatt Hotel in New York
City during the 5th annual Global Ethics Summit. For more information on
Ethisphere's World's Most Ethical Companies rankings, please visit
http://ethisphere.com/worlds-most-ethical-companies-rankings.

About Ethisphere Institute

The research-based Ethisphere Institute is a leading international think-tank
dedicated to the creation, advancement and sharing of best practices in business
ethics, corporate social responsibility, anti-corruption and sustainability.
Ethisphere Magazine, which publishes the globally recognized World's Most
Ethical Companies Ranking, is the quarterly publication of the Institute.
Ethisphere provides the only third-party verifications of compliance programs
and ethical cultures that include: Ethics Inside Certification, Compliance
Leader Verification and Anti-Corruption Program Verification. More information
on the Ethisphere Institute, including ranking projects and membership, can be
found at http://www.ethisphere.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


