                              32 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 26, 2004, Thursday

MMR medics challenged over child spinal taps

BYLINE: Mark Henderson, Science Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 1

LENGTH: 817 words


NEW questions about the ethics of the controversial study that linked the MMR
vaccine to autism in children will be raised in Parliament today, The Times has
learnt.

Less than a week after the doctor who pioneered the research was accused of
failing to disclose a £55,000 payment, ministers are to be asked whether he had
received proper ethical approval. The fresh doubts centre on whether the lumbar
punctures to which autistic children were subjected by Andrew Wakefield's team
at the Royal Free Hospital were clinically justified.

While The Lancet, the journal that first published the research, cleared the
researchers of failing to secure the full backing of the hospital's ethics
committee, the Liberal Democrat MP Evan Harris will today question whether it
was right to reach this verdict.

Dr Harris, a doctor and former health spokesman, said documents indicate that
the design of Dr Wakefield's study was altered after it was approved by the
Royal Free's ethics committee. The panel does not appear to have been asked to
revise its decision in light of the changes, which affected which children could
be given lumbar punctures -a procedure performed under sedation in which spinal
fluid is removed with a needle.

Dr Harris has tabled a written question to John Reid, the Health Secretary,
asking whether the Government considers that the study was performed within
ethical guidelines.

"How has he satisfied himself that lumbar punctures carried out on children at
the Royal Free Hospital by the inflammatory bowel disease study group since 1996
have had valid and effective ethical approval from a properly consituted ethical
committee, on the basis of the researchers' relevant interests and the full
clinical context?" he asks.

The new criticisms of Dr Wakefield's work follow The Lancet's announcement last
week that it would not have published the 1998 paper had it known that the lead
author had been paid £55,000 as part of a legal action against the MMR vaccine's
manufacturers. An investigation for The Sunday Times by Brian Deer found that Dr
Wakefield had failed to declare the payment, even though "four or five" of the
twelve children in the study were also involved in the litigation. Richard
Horton, the Editor of The Lancet, said non-disclosure left the original study
"fatally flawed".

Both the journal and the Royal Free rejected Mr Deer's charge that the ethical
background to the study was weak, but documents released yesterday on the
journalist's website have prompted Dr Harris to raise further questions.

His concerns surround the diagnosis of the condition of the children in the
study, which appears to have changed after it was approved by the hospital's
ethics committee. The original protocol suggested that Dr Wakefield's team
intended to investigate children with disintegrative disorder, an extreme,
late-onset form of autism known as DD. Lumbar punctures for such patients as
they would normally be conducted anyway to rule out other potential causes.

When the team's findings were published in The Lancet, however, only one of the
12 children studied had a possible diagnosis of DD. The others had a diagnosis
of either autism, an autistic spectrum disorder or encephalitis from vaccine or
viral damage. None of these conditions would normally require a lumbar puncture
for medical reasons, Dr Harris said, yet the procedure was performed anyway.
"Why, when the scientific rationale changed and it was a different study, do
they not appear to have gone back to the ethics committee?" he said. He urged Mr
Reid to call a public inquiry into the affair.

Independent neurologists said that it was appropriate for scientists to seek
renewed ethical approval when a study's terms were altered, and that the
clinical justification for lumbar punctures was very different for patients with
DD and autism.

"If they included patients who didn't fulfil the original diagnostic criteria
then they should have gone back," Carlos de Sousa of Great Ormond Street
Hospital, said.

A spokesman for Dr Wakefield said that he did not wish to comment. A spokeswoman
for the Royal Free Hospital said his former colleagues were unwilling to add to
statements released last week.

Last Friday, Professor Humphrey Hodgson, Vice-Dean of Royal Free and University
College Medical School, said: "We are entirely satisfied that the investigations
performed on the children reported in the Lancet paper had been subjected to
appropriate and rigorous ethical scrutiny." The Lancet found that the evidence
did not support the allegation that proper ethical approval was not received.
"The evidence we have seen indicates that ethics committee approval was given
for data collection from clinically indicated investigations in the children
with an initially undiagnosed illness and who were described in the 1998 Lancet
paper," it said.


LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited


