                              300 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           December 28, 2013 Saturday

Yet another rabies patient dies at Government Rajaji Hospital

BYLINE: V Devanathan

SECTION: MADURAI

LENGTH: 454 words


MADURAI: A 20-year-old youth from Madurai, infected with rabies virus
transmitted from his pet dog, died in a private cell meant for rabies victims at
Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on Friday. Helpless, his relatives, friends and
doctors at GRH watched the youth die.

Doctors say a rabies patient cannot be saved. Preventive medicine alone is
available and death is sure if infected with rabies virus, they say.

In 2013, eight people admitted to GRH with rabies infection died in the private
cell.

The victim, Ragunath, had completed class 12 and was working as an earthmover
operator. He was bitten by a puppy while he staying at his grandfather's house
in Palamedu a month ago. Ragunath, son of Karuppusamy, a farmer, did not take it
seriously and did not even tell his family members that the puppy had bit him.
Doctors from the GRH said their enquiry revealed that the puppy died recently,
due to rabies. Ragunath developed health complications three days ago and was
admitted in a private medical college hospital in Madurai. He was shifted to GRH
on Friday, when the doctors learnt that he was infected by rabies.

GRH doctors say, on an average, 10 to 12 rabies patients are admitted to the
hospital every year and they all die within 24 hours of admission.

Doctors say people who get bitten by a dog must take vaccination irrespective of
whether the dog was a stray or a pet. If three injections are administered in
the first month, the person will be rabies free. In case of a pet dog, it should
also be vaccinated, they say.

Ironically, when doctors say there is no treatment for rabies victims who have
reached a terminal stage, a professor at Madurai Kamaraj University had claimed
that she has invented a cure. The ethical clearance committee at GRH needs to
clear her medicine.

T Anitha Sironmani, head and chairperson of department of genetic engineering,
MKU, obtained permission from Tamil Nadu government to apply her nanotechnology
medicine on rabies patients a while ago. She was allowed to test the medicine
with the permission of the patient and after clearance from the ethical
clearance committee at GRH. "I approached the ethical clearance committee
several times. They would allow the victims to die but would not let me try out
the medicine. I have tested my technology on a rabies-infected cow and it
worked," Sironmani told TOI.

Dr N Mohan, dean, GRH and Madurai Medical College, said the independent (ethical
clearance) committee consists of two retired professors, senior doctors and a
legal expert with me as coordinator. "There are certain procedures to be
followed. If she fulfils the requirements, she would be allowed to do the
experiment on patients," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


