                              298 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2007 American Society of Law, Medicine &
                                     Ethics
                       Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics

                                  Winter, 2007

                      Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics

                            35 J.L. Med. & Ethics 53

LENGTH: 1083 words

THE PUBLIC'S HEALTH AND THE LAW IN THE 21ST CENTURY: FIFTH ANNUAL PARTNERSHIP
CONFERENCE: CONCURRENT SESSION: A. All-Hazards Emergency Legal Preparedness:
Health Departments, Hospitals, and Pandemic Flu: Overlapping Ethical and Legal
Questions

NAME: Robert Boyle, James Childress, Steven D. Gravely, Lisa Kaplowitz, Alan
Melnick, Mark Rothstein, and Ruth Gaare Bernheim (Moderator)
Edited by Briana Grovhoug Kennedy

TEXT:
 [*53]  Ruth Gaare Bernheim
The purpose of this session is to illuminate the overlapping legal and ethical
questions that hospitals, private providers, and health departments may face in
allocating scarce medical resources (such as hospital ICU beds, ventilators, and
medications) during public health emergencies. Issues include adjusting
standards of care and creating "agents of the state" with legal protections. The
goals of the session are to: (1) Explore the legal and ethical dimensions of
creating a framework and management plan for medical triage in an emergency,
particularly focusing on hospital management decisions and the relationships
between hospitals and health departments in a public health emergency; (2) Use
ethics guides to facilitate analysis and deliberation about the needs,
perspectives and interests of the various stakeholders, such as hospitals,
private physicians practicing in hospitals, the local health department, and the
state health department; and, (3) Explore the role of hospital ethics committees
in hospital organizational planning and in future allocation policies and cases
during a public health emergency.

   Today's session will focus on the "5th week" scenario -- the first wave of a
pandemic. We will focus on questions such as how hospitals should make triage
decisions and the role of the ethics committee in making these decisions. Also,
what is the role of the public health department and what is an acceptable
standard of care? As we know, medicine focuses on individual patient treatment,
informed consent, duty to treat, standard of care, and liability whereas, public
health focuses on population prevention, due process, and disability
discriminatory laws. In medicine you have the Hippocratic Oath. In public health
there is the professional code of public health.

   James Childress
Today I will discuss triage during an influenza pandemic. The language of
distribution includes allocation, selection, gate keeping, priority setting,
rationing, and triage. What is just care? It is formal justice where one treats
similar cases similarly and dissimilar cases dissimilarly? The material
criterion of justice is to identify characteristics that constitute relevant
similarities and differences. A medical triage will sort according to needs and
probable outcomes, given available resources. It is generally designed to do the
greatest good for the greatest number under conditions of scarcity, often in
emergency conditions. Social utility maximizes social welfare while medical
utility maximizes the welfare of persons suffering from or at risk of disease.
Factors of medical utility include medical need, probability of successful
outcome, and amount of resources required. Triage should be based on criteria of
medical utility and narrow social utility.

   Steven D. Gravely
Most healthcare services are delivered through the private sector. Healthcare
providers are held to a standard for the care they provide. They are expected to
discharge care in an appropriate manner. Liability and exposure are top
priorities of most healthcare providers. The standard of care represents the
duty healthcare providers owe to their patients. The issue is that when there
are not enough providers to go around, does the standard of care become
degraded? The standard of care varies from state to state. Sometimes the
presumption is that the standard of care is not situation specific. Given the
standard of care, how do you best position providers to operate at their best?
There should be documentation and a process in place  [*54]  so when a trier of
fact looks at the situation, he/she will be able to determine that providers did
their best, given the standard of care.

   Lisa Kaplowitz
People look to public health as a government link to healthcare. In Virginia,
the state Department of Health is the link between the state emergency response
system and the healthcare system. There is protection for healthcare volunteers
working under the umbrella of the health department. Public health is
responsible for tracking a pandemic, surveillance, investigation, giving
information to the public, infection control, vaccination, and managing the
stockpile. The state health department will advise the governor in the
declaration of an emergency.

   Alan Melnick
Today I will discuss using the principals of the ethical practice of public
health. The code of public health ethics was developed to address
population-based characteristics. The pandemic influenza dilemma is that there
will be decreased resources such as fewer beds, diminished ICUs, and fewer
mechanical ventilators. The public health code can help because decisions based
on epidemiology or legal authority alone do not have the best outcome. The
principals of the code of ethics address the identification of priority groups,
enforcement of priorities, and communication with the public.

   Robert Boyle
My focus is on ethical issues for hospitals and hospital ethics committees.
Staffing issues during a pandemic include not having enough nurses. As many as
30-40% of clinicians will not report to work because of school closure and
exhaustion. There is no agreement on the professional duty to stay and care for
patients. Also, there will be rationing issues such as ICU beds. The normal
ability of the healthcare system will increase to meet surge capacity. Hospitals
should use ventilators that are not state of the art or they should use manual
ventilation by a family member. There will be a need to modify the first-come,
first-served approach to a more utilitarian, a more justice-based system.

   Mark Rothstein
I am concerned with the rationing and staffing of healthcare during a pandemic.
Rationing decisions could involve such factors as the ability to pay, knowledge
(low health literacy may keep people from seeking care), and whether it is
appropriate to use only medical necessity to allocate resources. The utilitarian
view is that using social criteria to allocate resources promotes the greater
good. In practice, it is difficult to use this approach because of the
difficulty of drawing lines. The allocation criteria also may differ based on
the resources involved. Allocation issues with regard to staffing include the
following: regular staffing levels will be inadequate; the need to wear gowns,
gloves, and masks may require shorter shifts; and, cross-training healthcare
workers may help to fill gaps in staffing needs.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawManaged HealthcareGeneral OverviewHealthcare LawTreatmentPatient
ConsentInformed ConsentTortsNegligenceStandards of CareSpecial CareChildren


