                              292 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 30, 2010 Thursday

Marksberry assails Guthrie for gas price remark

BYLINE: Steve Vied, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 761 words


Sept. 30--U.S. 2nd Congressional District candidate Ed Marksberry took aim
Wednesday at his Republican opponent Brett Guthrie for a comment Guthrie made
nearly a month ago.

But Marksberry also turned his attention to the board of directors of Owensboro
Medical Health System, which he called on to adopt a lengthy set of
recommendations for public and nonprofit boards set down by Kentucky Auditor
Crit Luallen.

In a statement delivered at the Daviess County Democratic headquarters
Wednesday, Marksberry criticized Guthrie for a comment the incumbent made about
gas prices. Speaking at a town hall meeting at Western Kentucky
University-Owensboro on Aug. 30, Guthrie was quoted as telling the crowd, "$4
gas two years ago is what wrecked our economy. We were on the bubble then, but
this (gas prices) is what pricked the bubble."

"By not identifying any Republican Bush-era policies that led our nation's
economy into the ditch illustrates the problem," Marksberry said. "Common sense
tells us, you have to be able to identify the problem before you can fix it."

Asked to expand on his statement, Marksberry said everyone took a hit on gas
prices in 2008, but gas prices did not lead to the recession, while lack of
oversight of Wall Street was a culprit.

"When gas prices came back down, the economy did not turn around," he said.

Guthrie campaign manager Scott Jennings offered this response Wednesday: "The
recession was caused by several factors, but anyone who thinks $4 gas was
helpful to Kentucky families isn't living in the same reality as the rest of
us."

The second part of Marksberry's statement was to announce the launch of his
"Citizen's Responsibility Initiative," which he said encourages people to become
involved in the oversight of their community's institutions. It also urges more
transparency and oversight of the board of institutions. As part of the
initiative, Marksberry said his campaign was circulating a petition on its
website calling on the board of OMHS hospital to adopt Luallen's recommended
board guidelines. He challenged Guthrie to sign the petition.

Part of the petition's heading states, "We believe that the board of directors
of OMHS must adopt the recommended practices, such as not allowing staff
relationships to influence board members, to insure the highest ethical
standards."

Luallen produced the 32 recommendation following her office's investigations of
the Lexington Bluegrass Airport, Kentucky League of Cities and Kentucky
Association of Counties, all hit hard by spending problems. One of the
recommendations calls for boards to adopt a code of ethics for board members,
officers and employees related to "business conduct, integrity and ethics," and
specifically calls for statements regarding such things as conflicts of interest
and nepotism."

Marksberry stopped short of identifying who his petition was referring to at
OMHS when it mentioned "not allowing staff relationships to influence board
members." But he said nepotism has happened at high levels at the hospital.

"Nepotism is one of the first things you don't allow," he said. "We won't name
names."

The only obvious relationship between an OMHS board member and a high-level
hospital employee is that of board member Ann Murphy Kincheloe and her son Steve
Johnson, the hospital's executive director for community and governmental
affairs.

OMHS provided the following statement from spokesman Gordon Wilkerson in
response to Marksberry's petition:

"In accordance with the guidance of the Joint Commission for the Accreditation
of Healthcare Organizations, the Commission on Medicare and Medicaid Services,
the Internal Revenue Service and numerous other authoritative sources, the OMHS
board of directors has adopted policies that address conflicts of interest and
ethical behavior. Policies are evaluated on an ongoing basis. Included in
OMHS-approved policies are a comprehensive Conflict of Interest Policy and a
Code of Ethical and Professional Behavior to maintain the highest ethical
standards.

OMHS appreciates the work of Auditor Luallen and will continue to review the
recommendations."

To see more of the Messenger-Inquirer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.messenger-inquirer.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Messenger-Inquirer,
Owensboro, Ky. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail
services@mctinfoservices.com, or call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States,
call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20100930-OW-Marksberry-assails-Guthrie-for-gas-price-remark-0930-20100930

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2010 Messenger-Inquirer


