                              307 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                           February 26, 2011 Saturday
                                  1 - Edition

Townsville Hospital in poor health Hospital troubles persist

BYLINE: Rachel Toune

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 487  words


special report

THE Townsville Hospital is in crisis with 58 complaints to the Ethical Standards
Unit and three senior bureaucrats departing within the space of 12 months.

There were 43 cases of suspected official misconduct investigated and 17
separate ethical issues reported to the ESU, the watchdog for Queensland Health,
leading to two officers being suspended or stood down last financial year. Two
investigations are continuing.

Townsville Health Service District chief executive Mary Bonner leaves the city
on Friday following the recent departures of chief financial officer Wayne
Armistead and deputy executive director of medical services Dr Isaac Seidl.

The revelations follow a complex investigation into the hospital's
cardiothoracic surgery unit, with four heart surgeons and two principal officers
stood down amid accusations of bullying, mismanagement, staff in-fighting and
incompetence.

A source close to the hospital said a culture problem still existed but senior
public servants had been warned not to talk to media or they would face legal
action.

The source, who asked to remain anonymous for fear of retribution, said there
was a general perception Ms Bonner was leaving before ``s**t hits the fan''.

Queensland Health yesterday denied there was a culture problem, saying the three
staff members had left for personal reasons.

Ms Bonner said the number of ESU investigations was not unusual for a hospital
with more than 5200 staff.

``Any suggestion that two ESU investigations between 5200 staff means a systemic
or cultural problem is wrong,'' she said.

``Further, staff turnover in the district is no higher than normal. It is wrong
to suggest there is a staff retention problem at Townsville.''

Ms Bonner said Dr Seidl and Mr Armistead left for personal reasons.

``Dr Seidl followed his wife to a job overseas . . . Mr Armistead moved to a new
position interstate where he and his wife are closer to their adult children and
extended family.''

Ms Bonner yesterday announced Dr Andrew Johnson would act as the chief executive
following her departure and Dr Monica Trujillo would act in Dr Johnson's
position of executive director of medical services.

``Dr Johnson has been our head doctor for more than 10 years and is well
equipped to carry out the role of interim CEO,'' she said.

``Dr Trujillo is a highly skilled medical administrator who is very capable of
stepping into Dr Johnson's role while he is acting CEO.''

Ms Bonner said Dr Seidl's position had been filled on a temporary basis. ``We
anticipate making an announcement about a permanent appointee shortly,'' she
said.

The ESU reports to the Crime and Misconduct Commission with majority of
investigations finalised within 90 days.

There were 577 complaints about suspected official misconduct across public
hospitals in the state in 2009/10 and 286 ethical issues that did not involve
suspected official misconduct.

rachel.toune@townsvillebulletin.com.au

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


