                              301 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Standard (London)

                              May 24, 1993, Monday

Sextuplets issue needs full debate, says health chief

BYLINE: Tim Barlass

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 654 words


THE HOSPITAL where sextuplet mother Jean Gibbins received fertility treatment
today virtually admitted it was out of its depth when it came to selecting
potential patients for treatment.

Grimsby District Hospital said that infertility in women presented 'a complex
mix of clinical and ethical issues'.

And Roy Williams, chairman of Grimsby Health NHS Trust, said the whole issue
should become the subject of national debate.

Hospital managers met today to discuss the controversy fuelled by the births
after it emerged that parents Jean and Jan Vince are unmarried and live
separately.

The Trust's statement adds to the clamour for Health Secretary Virginia
Bottomley to implement new guidelines.

Miss Gibbins, 29, gave birth to the five girls and a boy 11 weeks prematurely in
St James's Hospital, Leeds on Wednesday.

All are said to be making satisfactory progress. It then emerged that Mr Vince,
36, who has a six-year-old son by Miss Gibbins, already has twin daughters and a
son by his ex-wife.

£'

Mr Williams said his health authority had debated the subject and attempts had
been made to 'prioritise' the range of treatments available. But the board had
found it impossible to define 'an exclusive set of precise ethical criteria' to
enable selection to be made.

'

He added: 'The resolution of the ethical standards for selection of women for
these treatments will have to be the subject of wide-ranging public debate.'

The controversy was further fuelled by a claim from the chairman of the
Community Health Council for Grimsby that lack of funding had recently led to
the cancellation of an operation.

John Colebrook said: 'We have a situation where an operation was cancelled only
to discover that money has been wasted on giving expensive fertility treatment
to a woman who already has a child, it does not make sense.'

Leader comment: Page 9

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


