                              309 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

World Health Organisation allow unlicensed Ebola drugs in west Africa

BYLINE: Sarah Boseleytheguardian.com

LENGTH: 570 words

ABSTRACT

Decision made after a Spanish missionary Miguel Pajares died after contracting
the virus in Liberia

FULL TEXT

Experimental, unlicensed drugs and vaccines can ethically be used in the Ebola
outbreak in west Africa, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has said following
a meeting of experts.

The decision was announced shortly after news of the death of a Spanish
missionary, who contracted the disease in Liberia. Miguel Pajares, a 75-year-old
priest, was evacuated to Spain and was due to be given the experimental drug
ZMapp at Madrid's Carlos III hospital. A spokesman could not confirm whether the
treatment had gone ahead or not before Pajares died.

Liberia has become the first African country to announce that it would use the
drug. It plans to give it to two doctors who have tested positive for Ebola.
There had been growing outrage the drug had only been made available to two
Americans and Pajares - all westerners who had been repatriated to their home
countries for treatment. Only limited quantities exist, however. The
California-based manufacturer of ZMapp, Mapp Biopharmaceutical, said it had run
out of treatment after responding to a request from an unidentified west African
country.

There will be pressure on the company to manufacture more, following the WHO
decision that its use, and that of other drugs yet to go through full clinical
and human trials, is ethical in the current outbreak.

The group of 12 international experts convened by the WHO concluded it was
ethical in the situation in west Africa to offer unproven treatments with as yet
unknown efficacy and adverse effects, either as treatment or prevention.

But they made clear high ethical standards must be observed. There must be
complete transparency about the implications of the treatment and patients and
their families must give informed consent - which means they must understand the
risks as well as the possible benefits. There must also be freedom of choice,
confidentiality, respect for the person, preservation of dignity and involvement
of the community, the WHO said in a statement.

"There was unanimous agreement that there is a moral duty to also evaluate these
interventions (for treatment or prevention) in the best possible clinical trials
under the circumstances in order to definitively prove their safety and efficacy
or provide evidence to stop their utilization," the statement went on.

Any experimental drugs will have to be given effectively as part of a clinical
trial, therefore. The group said ethical ways of gathering data from their use
in the difficult setting of an Ebola outbreak needed further discussion. There
also needs to be further consideration of which experimental drugs and vaccines
might be used and a fair way of distributing them given that demand is likely to
outstrip supply.

Pajares was one of three missionaries to test positive for the virus at the San
José de Monrovia hospital in Liberia. All three had been helping to treat people
infected with Ebola as part of their work with the San Juan de Dios hospital
order, a Catholic humanitarian organisation that runs hospitals around the
world. The two other missionaries, from Ghana and the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, who were not evacuated, have also died in recent days from the virus.

Pajares arrived in Spain with Juliana Bohi, a nun born in Equatorial Guinea who
holds Spanish nationality, who tested negative for the virus.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies
                              All Rights Reserved
                  Registered in England and Wales. No. 908396
   Registered office: PO Box 68164, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1P 2AP


