                              306 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                            December 27, 2013 Friday

Dec, 29 Readers' letters: Washington Hospital creates new form of fundraising

BYLINE: From Mercury News readers

SECTION: LETTERS; News; Opinion

LENGTH: 488 words


Fundraisers using names may be suspect

You've got to credit Washington Hospital with creating a new definition for
"contributions laundering" ("Hospital CEO reimbursed for 'gifts' to charity,"
Page A1, Dec. 26). I understand the practice of using "names" to prime
contribution pumps and have in the past contributed to organizations using this
technique. However, the practice of reimbursing those "names" for their presumed
contributions borders on fraud. It may not be entirely illegal, but it sure
looks like a mutation of "bait and switch." So, contributors beware. Perhaps we
should all refuse to contribute to any fundraiser using "jump-start" names,
unless that organization certifies in writing, that contributions from those
names are not being refunded. And, if you see Nancy Farber's name on the list --
keep your wallet in your pocket.

Marialis Seehorn

Sunnyvale

Kindness not a winning business model in U.S.

Edith Drewek (Letters, Dec. 25) writes that "competence, ethical judgment,
respect for privacy, kindness and a willingness to put individuals' real needs
before profit and pride" is badly needed. Sadly, that's not a winning business
model in the United States. Those values and America have morphed into a lazy,
dumbed-down, me-first tech-dependent state where big business and government are
virtually in lock step and place no value whatsoever on personal privacy,
ethical behavior or the hard work and needs of the common man.

John Blasik

San Jose

State of Silicon Valley better as city-state

Since investor Tim Draper has decided to open the door to the crazy idea of
splitting California, I'd like to take his thinking a step further: Let's
transform his proposed state of Silicon Valley into a full blown city-state, our
region from San Francisco to Monterey as an independent nation  much like
Singapore and Vatican City. Not only could we pass "remarkable legislation" and
make our own decisions, but we would send no tax dollars to either Sacramento or
Washington, D.C. The independent, wealthy city-state of Silicon Valley -- where
do I sign up?

Anthony Dominguez

San Jose

Lick Observatory deserves support

I read with dismay that shortsighted University of California budget cutbacks
threaten the existence of the Lick Observatory as a laboratory for teaching and
research. We should be proud that right here, adjacent to the Silicon Valley
centers of innovation, dedicated scientists have used the instruments and
facilities at Lick to collect important data yielding deep insights into the
structure of our universe. If we as a nation can spend $20 billion lighting up
small screens with video games, we should certainly be able to afford the couple
of million dollars needed to support the observatory. Please contact the
University of California and urge them to fully fund Lick Observatory and
continue California's pioneering efforts in exploring the outer edges of the
known universe.

Ed Taub

Mountain View

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


