                              305 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 30, 1989 Thursday

Liver transplant from mother poses ethics question

BYLINE: PAUL TAYLOR; GAM

LENGTH: 556 words


BY  PAUL TAYLOR
 The Globe and Mail
    The first North American liver transplant from a living donor has
raised an ethical issue: In a bid to save another life, the healthy donor
put herself at risk.

In experimental surgery this week in Chicago, 29-year-old Teresa Smith
gave part of her liver to her 21-month-old daughter, Alyssa.

Until now, surgeons have relied almost exclusively on livers removed
from cadavers. Only a few transplants of liver tissue from living donors
have been attempted, in Brazil, Australia and Japan.

"By cutting into the donor we offend the primary rule of medicine:
above all do no harm," said Dr. Calvin Stiller, chief of the multi-organ
transplant service at University Hospital in London, Ont.

The transplant team at the University of Chicago Medical Centre decided
to start relying on family donors because some children are dying as they
wait for organs to become available.

"Based on an assessment of the benefits and risks, we felt it was
ethical to proceed with a series of transplants," said Dr. Peter Singer,
who acted as an adviser to the transplant team while he was a member of
the Centre for Clinical Medical Ethics at the University of Chicago. He
recently became a member of the Centre for Bioethics at the University of
Toronto.

Dr. Singer said all ethical issues were carefully analyzed before the
operation. The conclusions of that review were published in August in the
New England Journal of Medicine.

Other hospitals are closely watching the progress of the mother and
child.

"We can not underplay the risks to the donor," said London's Dr.
Stiller.

In fact, during the 12-hour operation Monday, a complication cost Mrs.
Smith her spleen. The surgeons accidentally nicked it and it had to be
removed.

Although Mrs. Smith can live without a spleen, the mishap demonstrated
that the operation is by no means risk-free.

The Chicago team readily acknowledged that things can go awry. Dr.
Singer said the team estimated the risk that the mother would die at less
than 1 per cent and the risk of other complications slightly higher than 1
per cent.

Dr. Singer said he believes the risks can be justified. "There is a
reasonably high chance of the child dying if it (the transplant) is not
done - and a low chance of harm to the donor," he said, adding that 30 per
cent of children needing new livers die before one becomes available.

Benjamin Friedman, a professor of philosophy at the Centre for Medical
Ethics and the Law at McGill University in Montreal, also thinks that the
risk is justifiable.

"If a mother feels her sacrifice is well worthwhile, then that's all
that needs to be said," Prof. Friedman said.

Prof. Friedman pointed out that doctors have been removing other
organs, mainly kidneys, from living donors for some time. Kidneys come in
pairs and a person can live with just one.

He said that people can survive with only part of the liver, which has
eight segments, each with its own independent supply of blood.
Furthermore, a liver lobe can be cut off and grow back.

Even so, Dr. Stiller said, the risk to the donor is greater in a liver
transplant than in a kidney transplant.

"They are removing a part of a single, vital organ," he said.

Dr. Stiller said he believes the answer to a shortage of livers for
transplant lies not in putting the living at risk but in better efforts to
persuade people to donate organs when they die.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1989 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


