                              303 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

Health bodies review ethical and legal perspectives of healthcare

BYLINE: Sumitra Deb Roy

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 422 words


MUMBAI:The National Steering Committee to review ethical and legal perspectives
of healthcare in India recently held its first meeting in Bangalore. The
committee, consisting of all major medical and hospital associations, reiterated
that as health professionals all effort should be made to ensure provision of
quality, ethical, easily accessible and affordable health care to all.

Led by the Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI) and the Indian
Medical Association (IMA), the committee said that healthcare professionals
should ensure patients get standardized care. The members also discussed how
communicating with patients and their kin was one area that needed major
improvement. The members discussed how accepting and offering commissions was an
outright unethical practice and indirectly responsible for the increased cost of
healthcare.

The body has representation from the Association of National Board Accredited
Institutions (ANBAI), Academy of Hospital Administration (AHA), Association of
Physicians India (API), Association of Surgeons of India (ASI), Federation of
Obstetrics and Gynecological Societies of India (FOGSI), Indian Academy of
Pediatrics (IAP), Indian Orthopedic Association (IOA), Indian Radiological and
Imaging Association (IRIA), among other bodies.

In the meeting, an increase in litigations against doctors was extensively
discussed. Members noted that these verdicts have led to a significant increase
in the premiums paid to insurance companies. They also felt it was responsible
for doctors shying away from treating complicated cases.

One solution discussed by the committee was that it may be desirable to place a
cap on the amount that can be awarded in cases of medical negligence, as
practiced in countries such as the US. "Capping could be a reasonable and
balanced solution. Current compensations awarded for negligence is
unsustainable," said Dr Marthandam Pillai, president, IMA.

Renowned cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty said that 80% of hospital births in
India are in hospitals or nursing homes which have 30 or less beds. "These
smaller health care facilities in rural and semi-urban areas may have to shut
operations if subjected to frivolous and exorbitant lawsuits," he said. Dr
Alexander Thomas, executive director of AHPI mentioned that over the last few
months, IMA and AHPI have set up a working group to tackle the issue. Other
suggestions were to set up arbitration centers in hospitals, appointing an
Ombudsman in each state, etc.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


