                              302 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            July 14, 1999, Wednesday

Ethical problems over heart drug trial

BYLINE: By Medical Writer BARRY HAILSTONE

LENGTH: 275 words


TWO major public hospitals may be facing an ethical problem over the

trial of a drug that is a substitute for open heart surgery in elderly

patients.

The Queen Elizabeth and Royal Adelaide hospitals are part of a

12-month international study of perhexiline, a drug which treats

narrowing of the aortic valve, the main valve that regulates heart

blood flow.

The director of the QEH cardiology department, Professor John

Horowitz, said it was a frequent cause of cardiac disability and

death, particularly in the elderly.

He said valve replacement was a $20,000 plus open-heart operation that

usually could not be done safely in aged patients, most of whom had

other conditions.

Patients found to be unsuitable for surgery generally survived less

than two years.

Professor Horowitz is directing the international study in eight

hospitals in New Zealand, Sweden and the UK. There are plans to

recruit about 50 patients to test the drug's effectiveness.

"Preliminary trials show that perhexiline is dramatically effective

as an alternative to high risk surgery," Professor Horowitz said.

"Because of this there might be an ethical problem in giving some

sufferers a placebo just so the effectiveness can be scientifically

proven."

He said it was also likely the drug prevented valves from worsening

over a period of years.

An international committee was currently discussing whether the trial

may have to be stopped early so all participants could receive the

drug.

The study followed observations at the QEH by Dr Steve Unger that the

drug improved symptoms in patients suffering from inoperable aortic

problems.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1999 Nationwide News Pty Limited


