                              310 of 997 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                            All but Toronto Edition

Patients increasingly at odds with physicians: Bioethics report

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 919  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA - Canada's health care system is increasingly gripped by ''ethical
challenges'' created by clashes between patients, their families and the medical
professionals treating them, a major new report says.

Such disagreements over treatments are most common in a hospital's
intensive-care unit, but they occur virtually everywhere in the system -- from
palliative care to mental health, and even in a family physician's office.

''It's floating under the surface like a shark,'' said Dr. Peter Singer,
director of the University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics, and one of
the report's co-authors.

''These conflicts can be as serious as an emotionally charged fight over a
decision to withdraw aggressive treatment from a terminally ill patient in the
intensive care unit, or as mundane as a family physician refusing to acquiesce
to a patient's request for antibiotics for a viral infection."

The centre's report was published yesterday in the British journal BMC Medical
Ethics.

It says the ''end-of-life critical-care cases'' tend to be the most emotionally
charged and intractable, and often follow a pattern: A patient, perhaps with
cancer, is in the late stages of terminal illness and is hooked up to a
breathing ventilator in the ICU. The family is demanding ''everything'' be done
to maintain the patient's life, while the health professionals feel such
''aggressive interventions would amount to torture.''

''Emotions run high, conflict ensues, and communication inevitably breaks
down,'' the report says.

The health workers cannot understand the families' position and label them
''irrational'' or ''unreasonable,'' it says, while the families view the medical
staff as ''insensitive'' and ''disrespectful.''

''Sometimes families will go so far as to accuse the health care team of wanting
to withdraw treatment to save money or to give the resources to another
patient.''

The authors of the report surveyed 12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto
hospitals to rank the ''Top 10'' ethical challenges facing the health system.

The results -- which cast an ethical lens on everything from waiting times to
medical errors -- provide a perceptive look at the complexities of health care.

Along with No.1, the patient-doctor conflicts, other issues cited include
waiting lists, access to care, a shortage of family doctors, and medical errors.

Dr. Singer said in an interview he hopes the report draws more public attention
to the issue -- particularly disagreements over patient care.

According to the report, very few members of the public are aware of the extent
to which there are conflicts between patients or their families and health care
professionals.

The report proposes several solutions, including educating health care
professionals so they have the mediation skills needed in such cases, and
creating policies for health care facilities to provide guidance.

ETHICAL ISSUES:

The University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics has prepared a ''top 10''
ethical issues faced by the Canadian public and health-care professionals today.
Clashes between patients or their families and medical professionals rank at the
top of the list. The other ethical challenges, ranked by priority, are:

- 2. Waiting lists: The report observes that the wait lists that now plague the
system create ethical questions because, in some cases, the lengthy waits can
harm patients' health, impede their ability to return to work and contribute to
''psychological distress.''

- 3. Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill: The system
has traditionally marginalized these groups in regards to their priority for
treatment -- a discriminatory practice which must be openly acknowledged and
ended.

- 4. Shortage of family physicians: The shortage has become a ''significant
problem'' for the Canadian medicare system, especially since it is based on the
premise that patients deserve ''universal and reasonable access'' to medical
services.

- 5. Medical error: The issue has become more prominent in recent years, with
experts saying the system must contend with mistakes ranging from incorrect drug
prescriptions to performing surgery on the wrong patient. Ethical considerations
include ''under what circumstances, and how medical errors should be disclosed
to patients and/or families.''

- 6. Palliative treatment for the terminally ill: Among the ethical issues that
doctors grapple with is appropriate pain medication (they want to reduce or
eliminate pain through drug therapy but fear that overdoing the dose could
hasten the death of a patient).

- 7. Informed consent: Patients are supposed to provide their ''informed
consent'' to a treatment before it is done, but many do not -- or cannot -- read
the forms they're asked to sign.

- 8. Research: Issues include balancing the need for ''fair compensation'' to
participants in medical research without the payments becoming a ''coercive
influence.''

- 9. Substitute decision-making: When a patient is incapable of making a
decision about his treatment, professionals will turn to a substitute, many of
whom find the responsibility onerous. As well, there is a legal hierarchy that
sometimes places the most intimate relationships (such as a spouse) near the
bottom of the list to qualify as the substitute.

- 10. Surgical innovation and new technologies: Doctors are faced with the
question: Should innovative surgical techniques be considered research and be
required to go through ethics approval before being used on patients?

Source: CanWest News Service

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White
Photo: A stethoscope.

