                              308 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           October 26, 2006 Thursday
                                 Fourth Edition

Full face transplant surgery approved

BYLINE: Patricia Reaney in London

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; International News; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 308 words


BRITISH surgeons have been given ethical permission to perform the world's first
full face transplants, a spokesman for the Royal Free Hospital in London has
said.

The face transplantation team, headed by Peter Butler, will be examining
potential recipients and will draw up a shortlist of patients in the coming
months.

"We have been given permission to go ahead with a series of four transplants," a
hospital spokesman, Neil Huband, said.

Last year surgeons in France performed the world's first partial face transplant
in a 15-hour operation on Isabelle Dinoire, who received a new nose, lips and
chin after being mauled by her dog.

The pioneering surgery - by Professor Bernard Devauchelle and his team at the
Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Amiens in northern France - sparked an ethical
debate and raised questions about the psychological impact of the surgery on
both the recipient and the donor's family.

The research ethics committee of the Royal Free Hospital in London gave the
go-ahead to Dr Butler and his team after they provided information and
clarification on several points.

At the end of last year, the team received permission from the committee to
recruit and evaluate potential patients for the transplants.

"The people we have already seen will be examined in detail and others will also
be examined. Within the next year or so we will draw up a shortlist," Mr Huband
said.

Although the microsurgery techniques needed for a full transplant are well
established, little is known about the psychological impact and long-term risk
of the drugs the patient will need to take to avoid rejection of the face.

More than 400,000 people in Britain have a facial disfigurement and 250,000
people are severely disfigured, according to the Face Trust, a charity set up to
fund research for surgical reconstruction and facial transplantation.

Reuters

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


