                              314 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             April 23, 1993 Friday
                                  Late Edition

Facing a policy gap on life-and-death issues

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 347 words


from Dr Helga Kuhse, director, Centre for Human Bioethics, Monash University The
Opposition health spokesman, Mr Tom Roper, regards a recently developed
not-for-resuscitation proposal by a Victorian psychiatric hospital as dangerous
(`The Age', 16/4).

The draft policy, developed by Lakeside Hospital in Ballarat, suggests that
"elderly mentally, and often physically frail patients" would not routinely be
resuscitated. Such a policy might well be morally dubious and Mr Roper is right
to bring it to public attention.

It is, however, easy to blame a country hospital for its failure to develop an
adequate policy in an area frought with ethical and legal problems. In 1987, at
the conclusion of the Inquiry into Options for Dying with Dignity, the social
development committee recommended "that the Health Department as a matter of
urgency ... review current practices in the area", so that commonly accepted
standards and practices could be developed and observed.

Current practices have not been reviewed and there are, as yet, no commonly
accepted standards. This means that individual health-care professionals and
hospitals are forced to make difficult life-and- death decisions without public
guidance and without scrutiny.

Having recognised the need for a policy, some hospitals have attempted to
develop not-forresuscitation guidelines on their own; others have found the task
too daunting. Other hospitals yet continue to be guided by the mistaken belief
that there is no need for a policy, given that not-forresuscitation orders are
but value-free "medical" judgments.

Not-for-resuscitation orders are not value-free medical judgments. The Lakeside
Hospital case demonstrates that they involve difficult ethical and legal issues.
It also demonstrates that the Health Department of Victoria has been very remiss
in not implementing the 1987 recommendation of the social development committee.

These difficult life-and-death issues will not go away. On the contrary, they
will face us more frequently, and more starkly, as our ability to prolong life
increases.

Helga Kuhse, Clayton.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1993 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


