                              318 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                           October 15, 2003 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Ministry urges hospital staff to get flu shots

BYLINE: CanWest News Service

SECTION: PROVINCE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 287  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


VANCOUVER -- Public health officials are telling health care workers they have
an "ethical responsibility" to get an influenza vaccination.

Only about 30 per cent of hospital staff in B.C. are vaccinated, Patricia Daly,
Vancouver coastal medical health officer, said Tuesday.

The vaccination rate for B.C. health care workers overall is only 56 per cent.

"It really is an ethical obligation" that health care workers owe to their
patients, Daly told a press conference to publicize the Nov. 1 availability of
this season's flu shots.

"We remain disappointed with our coverage rate of only about 30 per cent in
acute-care facilities."

Health Planning Minister Sindi Hawkins said the overall health staff vaccination
rate should be 80 per cent.

Health Services Minister Colin Hansen said the province would appeal to workers
to do the right thing before looking at what the can be required to do by law.

B.C. Nurses' union president Debra McPherson said, "we encourage our members to
get a flu shot."

Almost 200,000 work days are lost each year in B.C. to the flu, said provincial
health officer Dr. Perry Kendall. Along with related pneumonias, the flu kills
1,400 annually, and up to 2,500 in a bad season.

B.C. has increased its purchase of vaccine this year by 100,000 to 900,000
doses.

The vaccine, which has an effectiveness range in healthy people of from 70 to 90
per cent, covers the same strains as 2002: Panama, New Caledonia and Hong Kong.
Health officials said a new shot is needed every year.

The shots are available free to anyone over 65, health care workers, adults and
children with a chronic illness, informal caregivers for those at high risk,
home care workers, paramedics, police and firefighters.

(Vancouver Province)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

