                              316 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 30, 2011 Saturday

Clinic's practices contradict doctrine

BYLINE: David Yonke and Julie M. McKinnon, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1481 words


July 30--LIMA, Ohio -- Despite church teaching that condemns all forms of
artificial contraception, officials at a Catholic hospital in Lima have
acknowledged that tubal ligation surgeries are performed at a nearby medical
facility the hospital partially owns.

St. Rita's Medical Center holds a 51 percent stake in the West Central Ohio
Surgery & Endoscopy Center, an ambulatory surgery center near the hospital that
performs tubal ligations, commonly referred to as having one's "tubes tied," as
well as other same-day surgical procedures, documents show.

The nonprofit hospital earned $995,343 in revenue from the ambulatory surgery
center in 2009, according to the latest annual forms St. Rita's filed with the
Internal Revenue Service.

But that amount does not include any revenue from tubal ligations because those
funds are donated directly to a local charity before the hospital's share is
received, according to Jim Reber, chief executive of St. Rita's Health Partners,
which includes the medical center.

The arrangement with the hospital to donate tubal ligation revenue to charity
was established when the for-profit surgery center opened as a joint venture
with doctors, Mr. Reber said. He declined to name the charity but said it is not
related to the Catholic Church.

Although St. Rita's owns a majority share of the ambulatory surgery center,
which was incorporated in 1998, it is not the general or managing partner,
according to the annual IRS form, called a 990.

The ambulatory center is not a Catholic organization and cannot qualify for
Catholic status because it is a joint venture with physician investors, hospital
officials said.

The Catholic Church has been consistent in condemning all forms of contraception
except natural birth control methods.

Pope Paul VI, in his 1968 encyclical Humanae Vitae (Latin for "Of Human Life"),
delineated the church teaching on regulating birth control.

After condemning abortion under any circumstance, the pontiff stated that direct
sterilization, which includes tubal ligation and vasectomies, is also immoral.

"Equally to be condemned, as the magisterium [teaching authority] of the Church
has affirmed on many occasions, is direct sterilization, whether of the man or
of the woman, whether permanent or temporary," Pope Paul VI wrote.

The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, in its 43-page publication, Ethical and
Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care Services, or ERDs, also forbids
direct sterilization in any Catholic health-care institution.

The Toledo diocese, which includes Lima, said in a statement this week that
"Bishop [Leonard] Blair is satisfied that Catholic health care in the Diocese of
Toledo complies with the ERDs. From time to time questions arise, especially
given the complex relationships that can exist between a Catholic hospital and
clinics or medical facilities in which the hospital has some role or ownership."

It said Bishop Blair "is aware of a situation involving St. Rita's Medical
Center in Lima and a surgery center at which certain medical procedures are
performed contrary to the ERDs."

The diocese said St. Rita's entered into the relationship "in the belief that
they were sufficiently separated from moral cooperation in these procedures.
However, this is becoming a moot point, inasmuch as St. Rita's is in the process
of evaluating alternative ownership models for the surgery center in light of
today's market conditions."

Mr. Reber said ownership of the clinic is being reviewed because government
reimbursement rates for outpatient surgeries have declined, making the business
model less financially viable. He said the review is unrelated to tubal ligation
surgeries.

"We're working with the board and with investors to look at our other options,"
Mr. Reber said.

According to the bishops' ethical directives, a bishop "ensures the moral and
religious identity of the health- care ministry in whatever setting it is
carried out in the diocese."

The Rev. Tadeusz Pacholczyk, director of education for the National Catholic
Bioethics Center in Philadelphia, said that while he could not comment on the
specifics of the St. Rita situation, the ERDs emphasize that "Catholic
health-care organizations are not permitted to engage in immediate material
cooperation in actions that are intrinsically immoral, such as abortion,
euthanasia, assisted suicide, and direct sterilization."

He explained that "material cooperation occurs when the cooperator does not
share the intentions of the principal agent but participates in circumstances
that are essential to the commission of an act. ... Immediate material
cooperation in intrinsically evil actions is morally illicit."

Father Pacholczyk said, again speaking on general principles and not about St.
Rita's specifically, that donating funds generated by an immoral act to charity
"would not lessen the evil being done, nor the immorality of the cooperation in
that evil.

"The only effect such donations might have would be to 'cover some tracks' and
perhaps mislead those who learned about the donations into thinking that the
evil actions were somehow not as bad as they actually were," he said.

John Brehany, executive director and ethicist for the Catholic Medical
Association, based in Bala Cynwyd, Pa., said the CMA could not offer a complete
ethical analysis on the St. Rita case without all the details, but that "this
much is clear: Unethical cooperation in evil [that is, in something like direct
sterilization which the Catholic Church teaches is a serious sin] is wrong in
principle. It is even worse to profit from cooperation in evil, but eschewing
the profit does not excuse, or make restitution for, the unethical action."

Several U.S. bishops have exerted their authority over Catholic hospitals for
what they considered violations of the church's ethical and religious
directives.

In December, for example, Bishop Thomas Olmsted of Phoenix stripped St. Joseph's
Hospital of its Catholic affiliation because of a surgery performed at the
facility in 2009.

The bishop said the procedure, which ended a pregnancy to save a woman's life,
was an abortion and violated the USCCB's ethical and religious directives.

As a result of the bishop's decision, St. Joseph's no longer can call itself a
Catholic hospital.

In February, 2010, Bishop Robert Vasa of the Baker, Ore., diocese ended the
church's sponsorship of St. Charles Medical Center in Bend, Ore., because tubal
ligation surgeries were performed in the hospital.

"As a bishop, I am responsible for attesting to the full Catholicity of the
hospitals in my diocese, a responsibility which I take very seriously, and I
have reached the conclusion that I can no longer attest to the Catholicity of
St. Charles," Bishop Vasa wrote in the diocese's newspaper.

"It would be misleading for me to allow St. Charles Bend to be acknowledged as
Catholic in name while I am certain that some important tenets of the ethical
and religious directives are no longer being observed," Bishop Vasa said in a
joint statement released by the diocese and hospital officials.

As a result, Mass no longer can be celebrated in the hospital's chapel and all
Catholic items have been removed and returned to the church.

Earlier this month, Bishop Blair cited Catholic teaching on bioethics in issuing
a statement directing all parishes and schools in the Toledo diocese to not
raise money or donate funds to the Susan G. Komen Foundation. The bishop said
the national anti-cancer charity has not excluded the possibility of someday
funding embryonic stem cell research, which Catholic teaching deems "not morally
acceptable."

The diocese later said in a statement that individual Catholics in the 19-county
diocese may contribute to the Komen Foundation.

St. Rita's traces its roots to 1918, when the Sisters of Mercy opened the
unfinished hospital to care for victims of the influenza epidemic that year. Now
the medical center's campus stretches along six blocks with covered walkways,
water fountains, gardens, and a track for running and walking.

Like Toledo-based Mercy, St. Rita's is part of Catholic Health Partners of
Cincinnati, Ohio's largest health system with hospitals, nursing homes, and
other operations in three states. Five Catholic organizations co-sponsor
Catholic Health Partners, including the two Sisters of Mercy communities,
Sisters of the Humility of Mary, and Franciscan Sisters of the Poor.

No tubal ligation surgeries are performed at any Mercy hospitals or
joint-venture facilities, a spokesman said.

Contact David Yonke at: dyonke@theblade.com or 419-724-6154.

To see more of The Blade, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.toledoblade.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110730-TO-Clinic-s-practices-contradict-doctrine-0730-20110730

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2011 The Blade


