                              34 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            December 17, 2012 Monday

Pakistan: Traditional healthcare ethics committees termed reactive

LENGTH: 497 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Dec. 17 -- Karachi Traditional ethics committees in health care
organisations are reactive and addressing only the most visible ethical
concerns. This was pointed out at a symposium organised by the Aga Khan
University Hospital on Saturday. "They are unable to highlight deeper
organisational factors that influence how a health care organisation functions
and instead focusing on issues related primarily to clinical ethics.
Additionally, ethics committees are not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively." It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond
the scope of conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to
clinical service, research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs.

Common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated and
enforced in every function of the institute

Dr Robyna Khan Assistant Professor AKU

Therefore, common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set,
communicated and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr
Robyna Khan, Assistant Professor, AKU. She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital
Ethics Committee Symposium held at the Aga Khan University. In her keynote
address, Dr Melissa M Bottrell of the National Centre for Ethics in Health Care
in the United States identified the major limitations of traditional ethics
committee models and offered an integrated ethics model as a paradigm shift that
remedies most of these defects. "By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical
concern in health care, integrated ethics empowers organisations to do the right
things because it is the right thing to do," she said. Professor Murad Khan,
Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU, described various components of
organisational ethics, saying, "As part of an organisational approach to ethics,
committees should address matters such as conflict of interest issues, resource
allocation, appointments and promotions as well as support other ethical
activities in their institution." The symposium provided an opportunity to
review challenges, examine ethical issues in organisations, and identify the
role of leaders, faculty, administration and staff in formulating and
implementing solutions. Summarising the discussion, Professor Camer Vellani
reviewed the impact of organisational culture, leadership, and ethics committees
as drivers of success in an integrated ethics approach. Other speakers at the
symposium included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO Indus Hospital; Ameena Saiyid,
Managing Director Oxford University Press; Professor Arif Zaman, former dean,
Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS); and Dr Nida Bashir, Consultant
Surgeon, Patel Hospital Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right
Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


