                              312 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                             June 26, 2008 Thursday
                                   e1 Edition

SECTION: BUSINESS REPORT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 961 words


Apparently, the journal reports, in the US one may now consult an ethics
consultant in some hospitals when important and grave decisions are to be made.

Say your father is lying gravely ill in a private hospital, he is 88 years old
and is quite likely to die as various bits and pieces inside him are collapsing.
You are not sure whether aggressive treatment is necessary or even advisable.
Not being a doctor, you are not really sure what type of treatment he is getting
anyway, what care he should be getting and whether turning a procedure down is
in fact a decision to let him die rather than using life-support.

Come to think of it, you are not even sure if he is in the right facility.

These issues are fraught at the best of times and make up a good deal of the
subject matter of the discipline of bioethics.

Of course, these are hardly the only questions one will face, whether one is a
doctor, nurse, hospital manager or relative of a patient. There are clinical
decisions to be made as well as legal decisions. One may not just "turn off"
equipment here, as it may constitute murder!

Other legal issues are perhaps more acute in the US than in South Africa, such
as whether one will be sued if the advice turns out to be less than optimal or
the treatment recommended by a physician does not coincide with the opinion
given by the ethics consultant. If the physician is doing something blatantly
unethical - like not getting the required consent from the patient when he or
she is able - there are remedies both here and in the US.

Lawsuits seldom succeed here as ethics is often a foreign concept in private
health care and, as ever, doctors cover each other and refuse to testify against
one another.

The first giggle erupted as I thought how this might apply at a local hospital.

Funny bone?

If a victim of the recent xenophobic attacks had appeared at a trauma centre or
casualty department of a public hospital, how likely is it that the admissions
clerk would first have asked some interesting questions, such as "What is the
Zulu word for 'elbow'?", or "Where is your smallpox vaccination scar?" If the
answer gave an indication of "foreignness", what are the chances that the victim
would then have been refused treatment?

Or take someone who, having failed to get help at a clinic, has gone to a
private general practitioner, had tests done and been counselled. He then
presents at Johannesburg hospital with a medical certificate saying he is HIV
positive and that his immune status requires him to start antiretroviral
treatment at once - just as the national health plan allows for.

But the unwilling and rude "nurse" tells him to go to a clinic first, which is
neither necessary nor legal, and is certainly not ethical given the person's
parlous state. Fortunately, a more senior nurse catches the junior at it and
gives her hell.

I was still giggling when I thought of the rationing decisions taken in public
health facilities. I wondered which ethicists may have been consulted when each
decision was made and whether anybody could produce an ethical rationale for
most of these.

Consider the decision that if resources for a liver transplant are scarce, and
you are older than 65, then you will not qualify - with a few exceptions, that
is.

It has to be said here, though, that my own class in bioethics and health law at
Wits medical school is in fact full of public health employees, who probably
constitute the largest group of students on the course.

A second article that caused a giggle when it caught my eye would have had
Discovery Holdings chief executive Adrian Gore tripping on a stone on his
morning jog.

Laughable ratings

In the US there are several states, as well as organisations, that will rate
hospitals and treatment so that a patient will be able to determine, with useful
information, which hospital might produce best results.

The most recent organisation to do this is the Consumers Union, which publishes
Consumer Reports. It has an online service with simple and very useful
information, starting with demystifying concepts such as "conservative" and
"aggressive" treatment, which only doctors understand.

Another such organisation is Leapfrog, whose customers tend to be corporates.
Its comparisons look at several markers, including cost, quality of care and
outcomes.

Several years ago, Discovery Health Medical Scheme tried out a simple version of
the same concept and those ethical good folk - the doctors and private hospitals
- closed it down, claiming with serious faces that the methodology was rotten.

The next eruption of giggles was at the notion that the medical scheme may have
heard of the word "ethics" when deciding about treating patients in those
hospitals.

Producing even more laughter was the notion that schemes would queue to employ
ethics consultants, or that consultancy firms with health care divisions would
be aggressively looking for bioethicists to ensure that advice given is not only
financially sound, but ethical as well.

However, the giggles subsided and transformed when I thought of the fact that we
have 5 million or so people with HIV/Aids who will need to be treated by people
who cannot spell the word "ethics" in any language, let alone use the concept.

I remembered, too, that my collection of Human Rights Watch publications about
this country includes one written 10 years ago, entitled Prohibited Persons. The
report is devoted to South African maltreatment of migrants and xenophobia,
which at the time was not taken seriously and now manifests at public hospitals.

The item that finally wiped any trace of a smile off my face was the thought of
the unethical treatment of an 88-year-old who died in a private hospital that
had a bad rating in the Discovery comparisons.

That man was my father.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                 Copyright 2008 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


