                              315 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            October 24, 2006 Tuesday

Tallaght hospital not getting what it deserves

SECTION: OPINION; Opinion; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1117 words


What motivates those in officialdom who seek to deny the ethical freedom of
choice and services promised for Tallaght hospital, asks Gordon Linney

'I want to make a very clear statement." So said Dr John Neill, the Church of
Ireland Archbishop of Dublin, in his address to the Diocesan Synod last week.

He was speaking about the situation at Tallaght hospital, of which he is
president, expressing the opinion that a very serious question mark hangs over
the future of a meaningful Church of Ireland involvement there. It is unusual
for a Church of Ireland bishop to be so direct, but his remarks were solidly
supported by a resolution passed later by the 300-member synod.

He emphasised that the issue at Tallaght was not "a Protestant hospital for
Protestant people [ or] jobs for Protestant doctors or Protestant nurses",
something that would be quite unacceptable to most Church of Ireland people. It
was about issues of much greater significance, where solemn agreements given by
the Government and approved by the Oireachtas in 1996 are being ignored or
frustrated.

Tallaght hospital evolved out of the general reorganisation of hospital
services. In that process, several hospitals closely associated with the
Protestant community were closed. However, after detailed negotiations it was
agreed that three historic Dublin hospitals - the Adelaide, Meath and National
Children's Hospital - would jointly move to Tallaght under an amended Adelaide
Hospital Charter.

The charter, approved by the Oireachtas in 1996, states that, while the hospital
should be "a focus for Protestant participation in the health services", it will
have "a multidenominational and pluralist character". In other words, while
there is a recognised Protestant presence, it exists only in the context of a
greater scheme. No reasonable person could challenge such a provision, given the
contribution of that community to medicine in the past and the fact that there
are currently sensitive ethical issues in healthcare, with more to come.

The acceptance by the Government of certain public and private denominational
hospitals is a fact and they are respected as major contributors to the health
service. But there is a need for balance and Tallaght is intended to contribute
to that balance.

In the Adelaide charter, there is an obligation "to promote and secure the
availability, as a matter between the patient and his or her doctor, of such
medical and surgical procedures as may lawfully be provided within the State".
The term, "as a matter between the patient and his or her doctor", is important
as it protects the confidentiality of the doctor-patient relationship. There is
no question of the imposition of an external denominational code of ethics. The
same may apply in other hospitals by custom, but in Tallaght it is legal and
binding. In this regard Tallaght does not claim to be better than any other
hospital, but it is different.

This is not about minority rights, religious or otherwise, but rather the right
of every citizen to be treated in accordance with his or her own conscience in
so far as that is consistent with the law.

The importance of this was shown when it was recently reported that the
treatment of women with a life-threatening disease was interrupted in one of our
major Dublin hospitals on the grounds that it breached the ethical code of that
hospital. There is simply no way of knowing if this is happening elsewhere in
the health service, and while that ought to be a cause for concern it does not
seem to bother those who would discredit our position.

The hospital charter envisaged that Tallaght would be a major voluntary
university teaching hospital, including children's medicine. The archbishop has
expressed concern that it is being downgraded, and that is demonstrable.

When planned in the 1980s, it was intended to have 830 beds, including a 50-bed
maternity unit, which was dropped before it opened. When it did open in June
1998 it had just over 500 beds, of which only 385 were available for acute adult
services for a population the same as Limerick. According to the report of the
project director of the planning board, this reduction in beds "sowed the seeds
for many of the difficulties which continue to this day".

A significant expansion of services which was promised never materialised. No
new tertiary service has been provided at Tallaght comparable to those which
have been given to each of the other four university teaching hospitals in
Dublin. In recent bids for radiation oncology and the new paediatric hospital,
Tallaght was unsuccessful and the reason given was the lack of tertiary
services. The fact is that Tallaght has been denied the capacity or the funding
to develop such services; indeed, some services have been removed.

These and other matters combine to diminish the hospital's potential as a
leading teaching hospital and vindicate the archbishop's straight-talking. The
last straw is the decision to remove the National Children's Hospital - not by
any means the first attempt to close it down over a number of years.

This will affect Tallaght in a serious way. Other hospitals may have lost an
opportunity for future development; Tallaght and its people will lose a
well-established, quality service. Perhaps nothing reveals the mind of
officialdom better than the fact that the hospital has never been officially
opened.

In June, Dr Neill together with the Archbishop of Armagh, Dr Robin Eames, the
Moderator of the Presbyterian Church, Dr David Clarke, and the Rev Desmond Bain,
former president of the Methodist Church, met the Taoiseach, who said he
regarded the honouring of the hospital charter by the Government as a matter of
the highest importance.

While that statement is appreciated and accepted in good faith, it will be
meaningless if those who are charged with implementing Government policy choose
to ignore it as heretofore.

There are signs that this is happening already.

It is difficult to understand what motivates those who seem determined to ensure
that the people of Tallaght and its environs cannot have the hospital they were
promised and deserve, and that citizens generally cannot be guaranteed the
ethical freedom and choice within the law which they deserve.

Whatever the motivation, the effect is disastrous for Tallaght hospital, its
excellent staff and the people they serve, who must feel utterly betrayed and
discouraged by what is going on. It is time for serious engagement and dialogue
in the context of stated Government policy to sort out the issues and secure an
agreed future.

Gordon Linney, formerly archdeacon of Dublin, is a member of the Tallaght
hospital board but is writing here in a strictly personal capacity

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


