                              317 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                 February 13, 1992, Thursday, WEST END EDITION

Medicine's dilemmas; St. Mary's doctor helps colleagues wrestle with new
questions of ethics

BYLINE: ANDY RIGA; GAZETTE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. G1/BREAK

LENGTH: 632 words


At St. Mary's Hospital, Franiois Primeau is part psychiatrist and part
philosopher.

As a staff psychiatrist, he treats patients two-thirds of his time.

The rest of his day is spent as director of the hospital's clinical ethics
service, where he acts as a consultant, helping fellow doctors and other staff
with ethical dilemmas.

"We're dealing with human beings here," said Primeau, 32. "I think a
philosophical look at our patients helps us set a more firm foundation for the
respect for the dignity of the person.

"Human beings are more than just a pair of legs and a head."

The medical quandaries faced by society were brought to the forefront late last
year by the case of Nancy B., a 25-year-old woman in Quebec City who asked that
her life support system be turned off.

But most of the ethical questions Primeau faces are not headline- grabbers.

"It's not necessarily 'plug or unplug' - there are other, finer issues," Primeau
said in an interview this week.

Most of the cases have to do with what type of treatment to deliver.

"Usually, the cases are more in the gray zone - for example an elderly person
who has had a severe stroke and is paralyzed and unable to speak. If the patient
has already had three bouts of pneumonia, how should we properly treat a future
(recurrence) of pneumonia?"

Should the patient be given antibiotics intravenously? Should a feeding tube be
used?

If his services are requested, Primeau assembles a team to look at the ethical
questions and meets with the doctors, the family and the patient before coming
up with a recommendation.

"Some would say if you use a feeding tube, you might prolong the life of the
patient much longer. We have to look at the burdens and the benefits of those
kinds of decisions.

"The question is how to intelligently use the technology to help the patient."

The clinical ethics service, set up last August by Primeau, uses the expertise
of 12 experts from the hospital.

It looks at the medical status of the patient, the likelihood of recuperation
and the prognosis. Aside from the clinical facts, it considers the
psychological, social and financial implications for the patient and his family.

It also meets with the patient, his family and the doctors involved.

Primeau said the patient's spiritual well-being is taken into account when
considering the type of care needed.

"We look at the patient as a whole - physical, psychological and symbolic, and
the symbolic includes the spiritual."

The team looks at the quality of patients' life, but Primeau said it is more
concerned with focusing on respecting the dignity of the patient.

"We have seen an unspoken push - especially in the U.S., where there is a push
for euthanasia - that when people are unproductive, we should not care too much
for them."

For Primeau, the economics of keeping someone alive should not be an overriding
consideration.

In addition to bedside consultations, Primeau's service also holds workshops to
help St. Mary's staff.

Four discussion sessions for staff - on issues such as living wills, organ
transplants and geriatric care - have been organized leading up to an
international conference on Ethical Challenges for the 21st Century in May.

There were no courses on ethics when Primeau was a medical student at Universite
de Montreal in the early 1980s.

He attributes his holistic approach to ethics - holistic means dealing with
wholes instead of individual parts - to his studies in Europe. There, he said,
doctors are "keenly aware of the importance of patient-physician interaction."

"In North America, we equate law with ethics," Primeau said.

"But these two things are not on the same level: law is on the level of
obligation, but ethics is on the level of virtue."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1992 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


