                              325 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            April 13, 1989 Thursday

Videotaping of patients in trauma unit raises difficult   ethical, legal
questions

BYLINE: DOROTHY LIPOVENKO; GAM

LENGTH: 986 words


BY  DOROTHY LIPOVENKO
 The Globe and Mail
   A patient with a stab wound admitted to the trauma room at Toronto
General Hospital gazed into the wall-mounted camera overhead and said,
"Hey, I'm on TV," before losing consciousness.

The anecdote, recalled by Dr. Murray Girotti, director of the
hospital's trauma unit, conveys the most reaction a patient has ever shown
to the video recorder that films resuscitation efforts by the trauma team.

Toronto General is one of several hospitals in Canada that have
recently begun videotaping - without patient consent - what goes on in
trauma rooms.

The cassettes are erased after being reviewed by members of the trauma
team - including nurses, surgeons, residents and interns - as examples of
a resuscitation effort that went well or one that needs improvement.

Hospitals say they are turning to the ethically and legally
questionable practice of videotaping as a teaching tool that will
ultimately improve patient care. Tapes provide an undisputed account of
events - how long before an intravenous tube was put in, how slickly a
chest tube insertion was performed - that is more reliable than the
recollections of staff.

Toronto General Hospital and Sunnybrook Medical Centre in Toronto have
been videotaping in their trauma units since 1987.

Montreal General Hospital plans to start doing so within a year and
Victoria Hospital in London, Ont., will soon start filming. Other
hospitals are considering similar taping of trauma teams.

Hospitals that film resuscitations say they do not get consent for
taping because the patient is unconscious, time is of the essence, and the
action is shot in such a way that the patient is not readily recognizable.
But the tapes do show date and time, so patients probably could be
identitied.

Ground rules change when videotapes are recorded by other medical
departments.

Toronto's Clarke Institute of Psychiatry, for instance, has a store of
taped psychotherapy sessions involving patients who consented, available
for research.

Many hospital family practice units record doctor-patient interviews to
teach history-taking skills and to assess how well doctors relate to
patients.

Although they are limited to educational purposes, the legal status of
videotapes is murky and their use raises ethical and legal questions for
which hospitals admit they don't have all the answers.

Some of these difficulties include:
 . Confidentiality: Can or should patients be taped without consent,
particularly when it is not necessary to their treatment?
 . Ownership: To whom do the tapes belong? What happens if a patient or
family wants material produced for a lawsuit?
 . Evidence: While not considered part of a patient's medical record,
videotapes are defined as documents under the rules of civil procedure.
This means their existence must be disclosed to all parties in a lawsuit.
Whether they must be produced is unclear.
 . Erasure: Should hospitals destroy material that may later be needed at
an inquest or other legal inquiry?

"It's not black and white; it's a difficult issue that has no definite
answers," said Ken Evans, lawyer for the Canadian Medical Protective
Association, the insurer for more than 50,000 physicians.

Mr. Evans said consent is not necessary if the patient cannot be
identified and if the cassette is shown only to staff involved in the
patient's treatment for teaching purposes.

Routine erasing of tapes, he added, is not as clear-cut an issue.

"If you recorded something germane to a subsequent inquest or inquiry,
I'd be concerned you might be destroying that evidence," Mr. Evans said,
especially if the tape shows errors or complications in treatment. "If
something strange happened and you can anticipate medical (or) legal
problems, I'd have reservations about its destruction."

Paul Tushinski, a lawyer whom Toronto General consulted on the issue
but who no longer acts for the hospital, agreed that the status of such
tapes is unclear.

"It remains to be legally challenged," he said. "If someone wanted to
sue and a piece of evidence is destroyed, I don't know what you would do."

Although hospitals have canvassed legal experts before permitting
videotaping, they have taken different approaches to the practice.

At Sunnybrook, tapes are routinely erased within 24 hours, while
Toronto General waits as long as two months before doing so.

Dr. Girotti, who piloted the taping proposal at TGH, said taping is "a
very good" teaching tool that gives more than medical lessons.

"It makes better doctors out of these people," he said, recalling how
one resident changed his style when he saw how his behavior in the trauma
room was inhibiting other team members.

Dr. Girotti, 41, said only one member of the trauma team has objected
and will not permit the recorder to be switched on when he is on duty.

Dr. Girotti said he does not seek patient consent for tapings when the
purpose is viewing by staff affiliated with the emergency department. If
anyone outside the hospital wants to see a taped resuscitation, he seeks
permissiom from the patient or next-of-kin. That consent has never been
denied.

Dr. Abbyann Lynch, a consultant to several hospital ethics committees,
suggests there are unresolved ethical issues involved with taping. She
disputes the assertion that patient consent is not required if the tape is
shown only to hospital staff.

Dr. Lynch agreed that such tapes are an "excellent teaching device,"
but said she is concerned that a patient's privacy is eroded. She also
stressed the importance of respect for the patient's dignity.

At least one hospital that has installed a video recorder is reluctant
to use it until ethical considerations have been resolved.

At Victoria Hospital in London, Dr. Jon Dreyer, director of emergency
medicine, has set up a working group to develop policy suggestions on
control of tapes and access to them. The hospital plans to review a tape
within 48 hours of the recording and erase it unless "it shows some
particular educational point," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1989 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


