                              326 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           February 28, 2000, Monday

HOSPITAL TRUST CASH IS INVESTED IN ARMS FIRMS

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 438 words


Charitable donations to Midland hospital trusts are being invested in companies
that make missiles and fighter planes.

Three NHS trusts have shares in weapons companies supplying arms to oppressive
regimes. Shadow Health Minister Mrs Caroline Spelman (Con Meriden) said the
links could deter people donating money and is planning to highlight the issue
in the House of Commons today.

The three trusts are Birmingham City Hospital NHS Trust, Royal Shrewsbury
Hospitals NHS Trust and Shropshire Community Health Service NHS Trust.

They have shares in BAeSystems, which manufactures Hawk fighter planes, and
Marconi, which has sold missiles to Indonesia.

The links to the arms trade were condemned by Mrs Spelman, who is calling for
trusts to be more open about how they invest donations. She said: "Private
donors will be shocked when they find out what is going on. People may have very
strong feelings about links with the arms trade.

"Bequests are made in good faith and we need to respect the wishes of people
supporting the NHS. Donors must be made aware of the investment policies of
individual trusts. Some may have more ethical policies than others. But it is
very worrying because it could put people off donating money and that would only
harm the NHS in the long term."

City Hospital NHS Trust has shares in Marconi valued at pounds 99,180, Royal
Shrewsbury Hospital NHS Trust has shares in BAeSystems worth pounds 14,292, and
Shropshire Community Health Service NHS Trust also has investments in BAeSystems
valued at pounds 4,764.

Ms Judy Tompkins, finance director of Shropshire Community Health Service NHS
Trust, said she had not been aware of the link between BAeSystems and the arms
trade and her trust would now consider "disinvesting".

"Our policy on ethical investments states we won't invest in alcohol or tobacco
companies," she said.

Mr Peter Jones, finance director of Royal Shrewsbury Hospitals NHS Trust, said:
"We will review our processes now it has been brought to our attention."

But Mr Paul Assinder, finance director at City Hospital, in Dudley Road,
Birmingham, described the link as "tenuous".

"We are indeed the custodians of charitable legacies and donations which are
invested so we can accumulate funds to further invest in new clinical
developments.

"We have to attract an appropriate return on that investment and encourage the
investment of charitable funds.

"The link to the arms trade is a tenuous one when you consider our shares are in
a broad-based company. We have no plans to disinvest or consult our board of
trustees," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


