                              319 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 27, 2007 Thursday

Local nurses gather for specialized training

BYLINE: Matt Kasper, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 589 words


Sep. 27--Nurses who wants to keep their licenses know they are required to
attend 24 hours of education sessions every two years.

But if industry trends are any indication, recruiting and education will loom
even larger for the future of nursing.

Reports on staffing shortages have spread like kudzu. The federal Health
Resources and Services Administration has predicted the nation will be short
683,700 nurses by 2015.

Alabama might be particularly vulnerable because of shortages in nursing
education. An April report published by the Southern Regional Education Board
noted at least 2,005 nursing positions will be vacant by 2012.

On Wednesday, Stringfellow Memorial Hospital hosted its first annual nursing
education roundup at the Anniston City Meeting Center. The session offered six
training hours for nurses as well as a chance to shape the future of the
profession and further education, according to Hank O'Steen, human resources
director at the hospital.

"We just wanted to make (the program) relevant to what nurses are experiencing
in the field," he said of the hospital's inaugural education session, which
included an estimated 300 participants. "This is our first go at it."

The program included a series of speakers and topics, including interpreting
electrocardiogram readings and studying the legal and ethical issues in nursing.
The session was designed to reflect the diversity of career options for nurses,
said Stringfellow Chief Operating Executive Linda Burdette.

"It's an education for our nurses and nurses in the community," she said,
explaining that Stringfellow will continue to work on problems associated with
nursing shortages.

The combination of a lack of educators and more specialized positions in nursing
are factors contributing to the scarcity, said Maggie Choate, the chief nursing
officer at Stringfellow.

Raul Magadia, an infectious-disease specialist, said the goal of his talk was to
stress the importance of hand washing and the over-prescription of antibiotics.

He said some bacteria, known as MRSA, are increasing so that incidences of MRSA
infections in 2004 accounted for 63 percent of total staph infections compared
to 22 percent in 1995, according to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.

For her segment on the legal and ethical issues in nursing, Katie Drake-Speer, a
nurse consultant for the Alabama Board of Nursing, said learning the legal
responsibilities of care is important for ethical treatment.

"We can't ever forget that everything we do is based on ethical principles," she
said.

"Look at the administrative code and know the standards of practice."

Larry Bridges, a retired Anniston nurse who said he was attending to maintain
his license for possible future practice, said the training on MRSA and reading
EKGs were the highlights of the morning session.

"I do very little antibiotics at all," he said, referring to Magadia's talk.

Tim Crook, a registered nurse in the cardiac lab at Stringfellow, said: "This
was a chance to reflect on things we already know."

About Matt Kasper

Matthew Kasper covers Jacksonville, Piedmont, Ohatchee and Alexandria for The
Star.

To see more of The Anniston Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.annistonstar.com/. Copyright (c) 2007, The Anniston Star, Ala.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070927-AO-Local-nurses-gather-for-specialized-training-0927

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                                 Copyright 2007


