                              321 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      North Shore News (British Columbia)

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Consider consent issues at the doctor's clinic

BYLINE: Davidicus Wong, Special To North Shore News

SECTION: LIVE; Davidicus Wong; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 840  words


The last time you saw your doctor, you probably didn't realize that you gave
your consent.

What is consent, and why is it so important to the ethical practice of medicine?

Consent refers to a patient granting a physician permission to treat them. At
the heart of this process are two key ethical principles: autonomy and
disclosure. Respecting autonomy means giving the uncoerced patient freedom to
choose or refuse treatment. Providing appropriate disclosure means giving the
patient enough information to make that choice.

How much information is enough? In Canada, we use the "reasonable person"
standard. The physician is obligated to provide the nature and degree of
information that a reasonable person in the patient's situation would want.

The key elements of disclosure are a description of the treatment (for example,
medication, operation or other procedure), its benefits and risks, the risks of
no treatment or delayed treatment, and the risks and benefits of alternative
treatments.

During this discussion, the patient needs the opportunity to have his or her
questions answered. When asking the patient to make a choice, the physician must
be certain that the patient is mentally and emotionally capable of making a
decision to consent to or refuse a treatment. In addition, the patient should
not be pressured or coerced by other people to make a particular choice.

In practice, consent is often implied. When a man makes an appointment and
attends my office, I fairly assume that he gives consent to be treated unless,
of course, his mother brought him in kicking and screaming.

If a more intrusive exam, such as a rectal, pelvic or breast exam, is necessary
in the course of treatment, I would ask permission. The patient has the right to
decline any portion of the examination just as a capable individual has the
right to refuse medication or surgery against medical advice.

For example, if I prescribe a medication, I have an obligation to explain the
intended benefits of taking it as well as common side effects and any serious
risks. If there are appropriate alternatives to this course of treatment, I
would explain the benefits and risks of these as well. When I order blood tests,
I detail what I am testing for and give the patient an opportunity to refuse any
one of them. To test for any condition, such as HIV, without informed consent is
considered battery.

The same ethical principles apply in all of health care. The current nature of
hospital practice, however, can put them on a back burner. Many health-care
providers assume that signing a general consent form at the beginning of
hospital treatment removes the need to provide appropriate disclosure and to
allow freedom of choice. Medications are often given to the patient with no
explanation of possible side effects or alternative treatments. Blood samples
are drawn without explanation of what is being tested.

One of the mega-goals of my hospital's ethical resources committee is to
transform the way in which ethics is applied in daily inpatient care. This has
become more crucial, as fewer family physicians are in hospital and therefore
less available to provide the standard of disclosure and consent they provide in
their offices. Physicians must adhere to these strict codes of conduct because
of the nature of our work, dealing with the intimate details of our patients'
lives with interventions of life and death import.

Imagine if everyone had to provide informed consent in all the other areas of
life. Would the waiter offering you a caesar salad inform you of the risk of
atherosclerosis from its high fat content, the chance of salmonella from the raw
eggs, or the possible exposure to hepatitis A from the jaundiced chef?

The operating rooms in the Fraser Health Authority have recently instituted the
surgical pause before commencing each operation. This allows everyone in the
room to confirm who the patient is and the planned procedure (for example,
arthroscopy of the right knee and not removal of the left testicle).

Consider this passionate pause between two fictional consenting adults:

Jack: I need to clarify a few things before we become more intimate, Jill. Are
you of legal age and not encumbered by illness, infatuation or duress?

Jill: I think I'm a little less infatuated than a moment ago.

Jack: Becoming more intimate with me may expose you to as yet undiagnosed
infectious diseases which I may have contracted from my previous partners.
Although I'm not having a herpes outbreak at this moment, there is some risk of
asymptomatic viral shedding and therefore transmission to you. If you are not
taking any oral contraception but are currently ovulating, there is a 20 per
cent risk of unplanned pregnancy. Barrier contraception will reduce this risk
but not completely.

Jill: Thanks for sharing this information, Jack. I think this is the beginning
of a long platonic friendship.

Perhaps a little more informed consent may be good for the rest of the world.

Dr. Davidicus Wong is chair of Burnaby Hospital's ethical resources committee.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

