                              327 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2002 American Society of Law, Medicine &
                                     Ethics
                       Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics

                                   Fall, 2002

                           30 J.L. Med. & Ethics 452

LENGTH: 2028 words

REGULAR FEATURE: Currents in Contemporary Ethics: Reforming Medical Ethics
Education

NAME: Serge A. Martinez

BIO: About this Column

Mark A. Rothstein serves as the section editor for "Currents in Contemporary
Ethics." Professor Rothstein is the Herbert F. Boehl Chair of Law and Medicine
and the Director of the Institute for Bioethics, Health Policy and Law at the
University of Louisville School of Medicine in Kentucky.

TEXT:
 [*452]  Biomedical advances of the past 20 years have stimulated a renewed
interest in medical ethics. Transplantation of multiple human organs,
implantation of artificial devices, advances in genetics, and stem cell research
are a few of the medical procedures and discoveries that have awakened in both
professionals and the public an awareness that medical discoveries often raise
important ethical and societal issues. Today, members of the medical profession
face issues that did not seem so pressing to their predecessors, and physician
conduct in response to many of these issues involves decision-making based on
ethical principles. Issues of informed consent, gifts from pharmaceutical
companies, and patient rights to privacy were not of great concern to most
physicians a generation ago. However, these and other topics that involve a
physician's ethical conduct have become increasingly pertinent to the practice
of medicine.

   A renewed emphasis on ethics has been voiced by leaders in the field of
medicine. During his presidential address to the American College of Surgeons in
October 2001, R. Scott Jones stated, "to function effectively in the health care
system ... to navigate in a trillion dollar industry, we need a compass: medical
ethics." n1 And in discussing ethical questions regarding research involving
human subjects, Eve E. Slater wrote in a recent New England Journal of Medicine
article, "The subjects who volunteer for clinical trials are the true heroes of
modern clinical research. It is the responsibility of our medical profession to
serve these persons to the best of our ability. Without their trust, the
advancement of both clinical and medical practice will falter." n2



   n1 M.D. Dent, "Licensed to Heal," Bulletin of the American College of
Surgeons, 87, no. 8 (2002): 8-12.


   n2 E.E. Slater, "IRB Reform," N. Engl. J. Med., 346 (2002): 1402-04.

   What is left unsaid in both of these statements is that the medical
profession has a present need for reform in the way medical ethics is taught and
supported by the medical profession. How medical educators and professional
organizations influence all physicians to make ethical conduct a central focus
has not been well addressed. Nevertheless, it is evident that physician conduct
is being scrutinized, and it will benefit the medical profession as a whole to
embrace new approaches to medical ethics education and ethics in the practice of
medicine.

   Historically, the medical profession has been conscious of the need for an
ethical approach to the delivery of medical care, but it has not approached the
subject uniformly. The American Medical Association (AMA) was organized in 1847
in response to a growing concern among physicians over the lack of medical
professional standards; that same year the AMA developed a Code of Medical
Practice. The first ethical challenge to the members of the AMA came within
months of completion of the Code when the AMA was confronted with an important
medical advancement--the use of anesthetic agents in surgery. The concern
expressed by the AMA was, "do the risks and evils attendant upon the use of
anesthetic agents in surgery, counterbalance the advantages afforded by
exemption from pain?" n3 The balancing of risks and benefits is still an issue
of concern for medical practitioners. Today, the Code of Medical Practice is
known as the Principles of Medical Ethics, n4 and has been revised numerous
times. n5 As currently described in the Principles, a physician shall be
dedicated, honest, respectful of the law, respectful of the rights of patients
and colleagues, engaged in continuous study, responsible in contributing to an
improved community, and free to choose whom to serve. n6 These attributes are
honorable, but the shall is not enforceable by any ruling body within the AMA.
Consequently, there is no sense of urgency on the part of physicians to conform
to what the AMA considers to be ethical conduct.



   n3 A.R. Jonsen, A Brief History of Medical Ethics (New York: Oxford
University Press, 2000): at 69.


   n4 B.A. Brody et al., Medical Ethics: Analysis of the Issues Raised by the
Codes, Opinions, and Statements (Washington, D.C., The Bureau of National
Affairs, Inc., 2001): at 9.


   n5 A.R. Jonsen, A Brief History of Medical Ethics (New York: Oxford
University Press, 2002): at 117.


   n6 B.A. Brody et al., Medical Ethics: Codes, Opinions, and Statements
(Washington, D.C., The Bureau of National Affairs, Inc., 2000): at 7.

   During the 155 years since the establishment of the AMA, medical and surgical
specialty organizations, such as the American Academy of Ophthalmology,  [*453]
the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, and the American Academy of
Pediatrics have developed their own codes of conduct, that while similar in
content, are not correlated into one standard for all physicians.

   American hospitals, by direction, have likewise established medical ethics
committees, usually comprised of members of the medical staff, nursing staff,
hospital administrators, social workers, clergy, and sometimes hospital
attorneys. Some hospitals issue statements of ethical duties of healthcare
providers, but it is unclear how binding the decisions made by hospital ethics
committees are on the physicians of record.

   Although all of these codes and statements espouse a general concern for
patient welfare, the codes typically focus on the special issues related to the
practice of the particular specialty or the particular needs of a hospital. For
example, the Society of Critical Care Medicine concerns itself with futile and
inadvisable treatments, n7 the triage of critically ill patients, n8 and the
continuation and withdrawal of intensive care. n9 All of these concerns are
serious and legitimate, but would probably be of only secondary concern to
members of the American College of Radiology.



   n7 M. Davis et al., "Consensus Statement of the Society of Critical Care
Medicine's Ethics Committee Regarding Futile and Other Possibly Inadvisable
Treatments," Critical Care Medicine, 25, no. 5, (1997): 887-91.


   n8 B. Chernow et al., "Consensus Statement on the Triage of Critically Ill
Patients," JAMA, 271, no. 15 (1994): 1200-03.


   n9 R.C. Bone et al., "Ethical and Moral Guidelines for the Initiation,
Continuation, and Withdrawal of Intensive Care," Chest, 97, no. 4 (1990):
949-58.

   What is glaringly lacking in the medical profession is a structured, basic,
uniform approach to the subject of ethics that is understood and appreciated by
all physicians. A review of the formal study of ethics in medical schools in the
United States discloses a sincere but poorly coordinated approach to what should
be recognized as one of the most important subjects taught to all medical
students. A few medical schools do teach a structured, required course in
medical ethics. At Baylor College of Medicine's Center for Medical Ethics and
Health Policy, ethics is taught during the first year of medical education and
covers informed consent, consent for students' involvement in patient care, care
of critically ill patients, patient care costs and limited access, and managed
care as a response to problems in American health care. After the first year,
students may then enter a medical ethics track, take advanced electives in
medical ethics and, if successful in the electives, receive a certificate of
completion. Several other medical schools have similar courses, offering
combinations of medicine, ethics, and law. However, many medical schools offer
only minimal exposure to medical ethics, their courses often consisting of a few
weeks discussing a myriad of topics only of interest to the teacher. And when
offered, most courses in ethics are taught only during the first year when the
medical students are immersed in basic science courses and have no clinical
experience to which the instruction of medical ethics can relate.

   Ethical values and legal principles are usually closely related, but ethical
obligations typically exceed legal duties. n10 However, if medical education is
contrasted to legal education, it can be seen that a more concerted effort is
made during law school to instill a code of ethics in the students. Students in
all law schools are required to pass a structured course in professional
responsibility. In addition, before an applicant can be admitted to most state
bars, he or she must pass the Multistate Professional Responsibility Examination
that has been adopted by all jurisdictions except Maryland, Washington,
Wisconsin, and Puerto Rico. n11



   n10 Brody et al, supra note 4, at 8.


   n11 The Multistate Professional Responsibility Examination is administered by
the American College Testing Service under the direction of the National
Conference of Bar Examiners.

   American medical schools have no comparable requirements, nor do specialty
boards require a minimum knowledge of medical ethics. As such, when it comes to
ethics, the medical system is reactive and crisis-driven. Frequently, when
medical students are asked how and when they learn medical ethics, they cannot
remember exactly what they were taught nor can they express any rules of ethical
conduct. Residents usually say they learn medical ethics from watching faculty
physicians interact with patients, but many faculty physicians do not place a
high priority on ethics education. One colleague recently told me that "ethics
is no more and no less than what one believes is honorable."

   Medical ethics is more than subjective views of honorable conduct. Medical
ethics is a system of conduct that incorporates moral, legal, economic, and
charitable considerations. In law, these considerations combine into codes that,
at the state level, are legally binding on licensed attorneys. n12 In medicine,
there are no binding regulations. Physicians are left to determine for
themselves what conduct is appropriate, with only vague guidance from the
profession and no structured educational grounding. Ethical lapses are usually
overlooked by colleagues and, when reported, rarely result in sanctioning by
state licensure boards.



   n12 T.D. Morgan and R.D. Rotunda, Professional Responsibility Problems and
Materials (New York: The Foundation Press, Inc., 1995): at 13.

   Patients expect physicians to be ethical. If this expectation is realistic,
then it is reasonable to expect the conduct of physicians to be grounded in
ethical principles learned and understood during medical school and refined
during a lifetime of medical practice. It is my impression that the number of
physicians who disregard any exhortations to act in an ethical manner is quite
small given the large number of practicing physicians. However, one unethical
care provider alone strains the faith patients have in the medical profession.

   The cost of reforming medical ethics education is not great. The cost of not
making an effort to reform is. Educational resources are available in all
medical centers, mostly untapped, and most educators recognize the need for
formal ethics courses. A concerted effort to improve education in medical ethics
will benefit the medical profession and the patients served thereby. Similar
efforts are needed in the area of continuing medical education.

   There is some difference of opinion regarding the timing and methodology for
training. Medical outcome studies are in progress to determine during what year
of medical school medical ethics instruction should be offered. My opinion is
that medical ethics education should be taught with increasing sophistication
during all 4 years of medical school and reinforced  [*454]  during residency
training. Regardless of the specifics, every student in every medical school
should be exposed to the same core set of ethical principles. The role of ethics
in medical education also would be significantly enhanced if the National Board
of Medical Examiners and specialty accreditation boards would require candidates
to pass a separate section on ethics before they could become board certified or
even allowed to practice.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
GovernmentsState & Territorial GovernmentsLicensesHealthcare LawBusiness
Administration & OrganizationAccreditationHealthcare LawTreatmentBlood & Organ
DonationsGeneral Overview


