                              322 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              March 3, 2006 Friday

Call for law to compel doctors report concerns about colleagues

BYLINE: Martin Wall

SECTION: IRELAND; Other Stories; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 496 words


The president of the Medical Council has called on the Government to introduce
legislation to make doctors legally obliged to report colleagues about whom they
have concerns.

Dr John Hillery said he was concerned that doctors were not adhering to ethical
guidelines obliging them to make known unusual behaviour of medical colleagues.

Speaking at the Church of Ireland Lenten lecture series in Rathfarnham last
night, Dr Hillery said he shared the disbelief that the practices of
obstetrician Dr Michael Neary could continue under the eyes of other doctors
without any of them questioning what was happening or trying to stop it.

"There are issues of an ethical nature as regards our responsibilities to
patients and our duties to the profession that need to be addressed immediately
and with maximum honesty and force. Otherwise the trust that is the cornerstone
of therapy and the patient relationship may vanish. That will be a disaster for
the profession but also a damaging event for the public interest at large."

Dr Hillery said the council's guidelines set out two ethical imperatives for
doctors: that doctors must maintain their competence and that if there is a
concern about a colleague's competence, the council must be notified.

"I remain concerned that doctors still may not be addressing this issue
thoroughly enough. Recent evidence in fitness to practise inquiries and
anecdotal narrative suggests to me that despite the stated ethical
responsibility, unusual behaviour in a colleague, though always a cause for
concern, may still be responded to with uncertainty and procrastination by
doctors."

He said the medical profession had to press for a "new beginning" in its
self-regulation.

"This must include a hierarchy of interventions to ensure that all practising
doctors are competent and manifesting that competence to peers and non-doctors
through critical review.

"Most importantly, however, I think that the time has come for the statute
governing doctors to make it obligatory to communicate to the Medical Council
any concerns about a colleague so that robust and fair assessment procedures can
be brought into play," Dr Hillery added.

Meanwhile a retired public sector computer specialist has maintained that a
system scrapped by the government in the 1980s had the potential to identify
anomalies in hospital services such as the high number of Caesarean
hysterectomies carried out by Dr Neary at the obstetric unit at Our Lady of
Lourdes's Hospital in Drogheda.

In a letter to The Irish Times, Derek Lambert said the Central Data Processing
Service had worked on the development of a computer system for the Medico-Social
Research Board which would maintain a database of records for everyone admitted
to hospital, noting details of the consultant concerned, the diagnoses made and
the treatments - including operations administered.

However, Mr Lambert said the Medico-Social Research Board was abolished in 1987
by the then minister for health, Barry Desmond.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


