                              35 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                            June 29, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

When doctors and patients disagree: Conflicts between doctors and patients over
treatment can be extremely stressful -- for patients and health-care workers
alike

BYLINE: Karen Palmer, Toronto Star

SECTION: BODZ & HEALTH; Pg. A16

LENGTH: 770  words

DATELINE: TORONTO


TORONTO - When Kerry Bowman's pager goes off, it usually means there's a fight
brewing somewhere in Mount Sinai Hospital, often between doctors and patients or
their families.

In a place where decisions can mean life or death, and beliefs fuelled by
religion, culture or social values bubble just below the surface, Bowman, the
hospital's clinical ethicist, usually arrives just as emotions are about to boil
over.

"We simply try and avoid power struggles and try and negotiate," said Bowman, a
former social worker who does most of his work with families deciding how to
treat a patient barely hanging onto life in the intensive-care unit.

The issue took centre stage last spring as family members quarrelled over the
last days of Terry Schiavo, a brain-damaged Florida woman who was the focus of a
legal battle over how she should be allowed to die.

But medical ethicists who try to mediate disagreements between doctors and their
patients say the conflict quietly plays out regularly in hospitals.

In fact, the division between doctors and patients was recently rated in a
survey by the University of Toronto's Joint Centre for Bioethics as the top
ethical quandary facing patients today.

"It plays itself out in a number of different ways, largely around end-of-life
care, or complex decisions that have high stakes associated with them," said
Susan MacRae, a nurse and one of the survey's authors.

"The fallout of these disagreements, I think, is soul-destroying in that it has
an impact on the moral stress of the health-care professionals, who are really
left with some very profoundly distressing feelings when they see health-care
treatments that they don't agree with or believe are torturous to the patient,"
she said. "On the other hand, you have families or patients who can be ripped
apart by a high-stress situation like this."

Twelve full-time ethicists at Toronto-area hospitals were asked by the Joint
Centre for Bioethics to rank the top 10 ethical challenges that Canadians may
face in health care.

Bowman said he deals with all sorts of disagreements, from when to terminate a
high-risk pregnancy and when fertility treatments should be cut off, to when
patients should be sent home from hospital or to a nursing home.

Jonathan Breslin, a philosopher who also worked on the survey, said the centre
is hoping that by publishing the top 10 list, hospitals and policy-makers will
take on the issue with public awareness campaigns, and involve patients and
health-care workers in setting national guidelines on how to deal with some of
the thornier ethical issues in medicine.

Doctors aren't trained in conflict resolution, said Peter Singer, the centre's
director. The issue deserves at least as much attention as wait times and doctor
shortages, he said.

Bowman said many patients and their families worry about not getting enough
treatment. With so much focus on health-care spending, cuts and hospital
budgets, it's easy for families to believe that hospitals are shoving patients
out the door before they feel they're ready.

The moral questions arising from waiting for care and accessing health resources
for seniors, the chronically ill and the mentally ill rated No. 2 and 3,
respectively, on the Top 10 list.

Beth Johnson, who heads the patient advocate program at Sunnybrook and Women's
Health Sciences Centre, said her team regularly deals with all 10 issues. She
said problems can arise when patients do Internet research on their symptoms and
then decide how they should be treated.

"There has definitely been a very significant shift in patient knowledge and a
sense of entitlement," Johnson said.

"A lot of energy and a lot of time go into trying to understand what the ... end
goal really is (for patients and families) and how we can make the system work
for them. But there will always be cases where the system can't meet their
needs.

"The message that we don't want out there is that we don't care."

ETHICAL QUANDARIES

The top 10 ethical dilemmas facing patients today, as determined by medical
ethicists:

- Conflicts pitting doctors against patients/families over treatment decisions.

- Setting priorities related to medical waiting lists.

- Access to needed health-care resources for the growing numbers of aged,
chronically ill or mentally ill.

- Shortage of family physicians/primary-care teams.

- Medical error.

- Palliative treatment for the terminally ill.

- Achieving informed consent.

- Issues relating to research.

- Substitute decision-making (i.e. families making decisions for incapacitated
patients).

- Surgical innovations and new technologies.

Source: University of Toronto Joint Centre for Bioethics.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: The Canadian Press, file; A survey found that disagreement with doctors
over treatment is the top ethical dilemma facing patients today.

