                              323 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            January 31, 2011 Monday
                                 First Edition

Patient consent in spectator surgery not the only consideration

BYLINE: SIMON CHAPMAN

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Opinion; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 823 words


The debate occurring over Dr Charlie Teo's "spectator surgery" was precipitated
by a report of an article I wrote for the British Medical Journal. In the
article I never used his name, being concerned to discuss the principles
involved rather than the individual. Its title "Should the spectacle of surgery
be sold to the highest bidder?" invited debate which is now occurring both
inside and outside medicine.

There are important reasons why other surgeons don't offer the same
opportunities to the paying public. Many, I am certain, are equally concerned to
donate to good causes, support cancer research, demystify surgery and urge
people to get treatment. Remarks by the Royal Australian College of Surgeons,
the Australian Medical Association and a leading bioethicist suggest that I am
not Robinson Crusoe. So is Teo the only surgeon marching in step here? The
ethical argument he advances is that the patients involved consent to being
observed by paying strangers. They are approached by his staff, not him. Some
refuse, so he believes there could be no coercion. But judgments about the
adequacy of the cardinal ethical principle of informed consent in medicine and
research are never left to individual practitioners or researchers. They are
referred to human research ethics and professional standards committees who set
rules designed to preserve patient interests. As his own hospital has reported
that it does not endorse paying spectators, is it therefore sensible to defer to
his judgment here? There are many examples where societies deem there to be
wider considerations involved than simply consenting and that a person's
agreement that something can be done to them is not all that matters. Here,
Teo's patients are under the care of a man whose skills they may sometimes
believe represent their last hope. This is likely to produce a highly loaded
decision-making context. Patients would instantly understand that this was
something that he wanted. Few would want to incur the slightest risk of
displeasing him. A very large body of research on the process of consent makes
it clear that patients have feelings of obligation towards doctors: "He's asking
for my co-operation. If I refuse, he may be disappointed. I'd better agree." Teo
says no one criticises reality medical programs like RPA where millions of
viewers follow the treatment of real patients. In fact there are many parallel
problems and some differences. It would be unimaginable if RPA patients being
filmed were unable to withdraw their consent at any time before broadcast.
Patients or families may decide they no longer wished to share developments: to
have millions witness their grief and anxiety, for example. But the "live"
viewing of an operation by strangers cannot be erased. There is no cooling-off
period between the operation and the "viewing": it has already happened.
Equally, it would be unimaginable if the RPA film crew were not bound by
journalistic ethics to respect the privacy of patients and families. All
hospital staff encounter public figures, neighbours, colleagues, friends and
acquaintances as patients. The same possibility arises for film crews and paying
spectators. If hospital staff or medical students were to gossip about patients
to others outside the hospital, major consequences would follow. No such
sanctions are available for members of the public. My good friend Andrew Penman,
from the Cancer Council, defended his charity's acceptance of surgery-viewing
auction money on the grounds that patient participation was not "materially
different" from things like inviting patients to join a research trial. I
disagree. Research trials involve health professionals being bound by
enforceable ethical protocols. Researchers are frequently removed from the
provision of health care to the patient to minimise confounding of effects
caused by patients wanting to please their doctors. I know of people who have
lost their jobs by breaching the ethical requirements. Important questions
remain about Teo's spectator surgery. Does he impose restrictions on who can bid
to watch him? Does he run security or character checks on those who win? Most
importantly, if his hospital does not endorse the practice, how has it been
allowed to happen? In the early days of surgery, operating "theatres" were
packed with spectators. A historian of medicine records that: "Patients put up
with the audience to their distress because they received medical treatment from
some of the best surgeons in the land." When I grew up in Bathurst in the 1950s,
freak show tents appeared at the local show each year where people with
malformations were displayed for paying customers. Those displayed presumably
"consented" to appearing. Thankfully, society has moved on by recognising that
consent alone is sometimes not in a person's or society's best interests. Simon
Chapman is a professor of public health at the University of Sydney.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


