                              320 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Siasat Daily (India)

                            August 12, 2014 Tuesday

It's ethical to try untested Ebola medicines: UN

LENGTH: 336 words

DATELINE: Hyderabad


Hyderabad, Aug. 12 -- The World Health Organisation today declared that it's
ethical to use unproven Ebola drugs and vaccines in the outbreak in West Africa
provided the right conditions are met.

The statement from the UN health agency came amid a worldwide debate over the
medical ethnics surrounding the Ebola outbreak, which it has called an
international health emergency.

However, the agency sidestepped the key questions of who should get the limited
drugs and how that should be decided. The statement came after the agency held a
teleconference with experts yesterday to discuss the issue.

WHO says 1,013 people have died so far in the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and
authorities have recorded 1,848 suspected or confirmed cases. The killer virus
was detected in Guinea in March and has since spread to Sierra Leone, Liberia
and possibly Nigeria.

Two Americans and reportedly a Spanish priest have gotten an experimental Ebola
treatment never tested in humans and two more Ebola treatments were said to be
on their way to treat two doctors in Liberia. The vast majority of Ebola victims
are Africans, and some nations have protested that their citizens are not
getting access to the experimental drugs.

The Spanish missionary priest, 75-year-old Miguel Parajes, died today in a
Madrid hospital, the hospital and his order said. The hospital would not confirm
that he had been treated with the drug, but his order and Spain's Health
Ministry said earlier that he would be.

WHO decided it is ethical to use experimental treatments and vaccines in an
ongoing outbreak. There is no evidence yet that these experimental drugs can
actually help fight Ebola and it is possible they could be harmful. Still, this
outbreak has had about a 50 per cent death rate, according to the UN, adding
urgency to the search for a treatment.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Siasat Daily. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Siasat.com
                              All Rights Reserved


