                              330 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Professor: Doctors adrift without ethical consensus

                                  May 1, 1995

Dominic Nathan


SINGAPORE'S medical profession is beginning to drift without an ethical
consensus, cautioned the president of the Singapore Medical Council (SMC),
Professor N. Balachandran, yesterday.

In a frank and critical assessment, the Emeritus Consultant with Singapore
General Hospital's orthopaedic surgery department, reminded doctors of their
responsibility to be caring physicians and good teachers. The council is
concerned about doctors, especially specialists, publicising their services by
giving public talks and providing telephone numbers and even hotlines.

"The SMC strongly disapproves of such behaviour as these advertisements can
mislead the public and discredit the profession," he said. It has revised its
Ethical Code and included guidelines on advertising. Details will issued soon,
he said.

Prof Balachandran spoke at the Marina Mandarin hotel yesterday, at the close of
the hospital's three-day Sixth Annual Scientific Meeting.  The Straits Times
obtained his paper, "Not Pride of Knowledge but Humility of Wisdom," which also
marks the closing of a chapter in the 66-year-old professor's medical career.

He retires this year as a full-time senior consultant after 39 years, but will
still be associated with SGH as Emeritus Consultant.

Prof Balachandran spoke of the profession's ethical and social responsibilities
as well as the importance of continuing medical education.

Doctors are leaving for more lucrative private practice, morale is low among
senior staff in restructured hospitals and it is difficult to find doctors
willing to make sacrifices to hold positions in administration, research and
teaching, he said.

"We have to address these problems soon as they concern the very fabric of
medicine. It is the fundamentals of our moral commitment that is going to
determine the future of our profession and the trust of our patients," he said.

To ensure a high standard of medical ethics, he called on hospitals to ensure
that doctors maintain adequate medical records and hospitals to have Quality
Assurance Committees to audit these records.

He said: "Proper medical records, particularly operation notes and the daily
management of patients are crucial and there should be no attempt on the part of
doctors to alter case records."

Delays in instituting proper monitoring procedures, and prescribing treatment
over the telephone without first seeing the patient may result in serious
mishaps and give cause for complaint, he said.

Restructuring hospitals, he said, has made them more efficient but could have
created a conflict of interest between the SGH, National University Hospital and
the National University of Singapore. Separating the university departments from
SGH and putting greater emphasis on money has affected training of doctors
because consultants and department heads lacked time to listen or to teach.

"As doctors, we are teachers and this hospital does not need entrepreneurs. Our
departments have now become too big and there are often too many meetings to
allow time for consultants to provide for adequate supervision and teaching and
maintenance of proper standards of medical care."

Prof Balachandran also told the audience of more than 400 guests, mainly SGH
doctors, to find the time to serve on social organisations to deal with problems
of drug abuse, alcoholism and delinquency.

Some concerns

Professor Balachandran spoke his mind on several issues:

* Managed health care: It is here to stay but he does not think a managed
health-care system can control cost. "It may bring about changes in our care of
patients and we should not do anything that will jeopardise the health and
welfare of our patients..."

* Doctors leaving restructured hospitals for private practice: They are not
leaving purely for more money. The volume of work and pressure was greater in
the restructured hospitals and this has lowered the morale of many senior
hospital staff.

SGH could pay better salaries and give bonuses twice a year.

* Sub-specialisation: This results in many specialists minding one patient but
who will comment only on their specific areas. "Is there really a doctor in the
house!" he said.


SECTION: Home; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 960 words

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: "We have to address these problems soon as they concern the very fabric
of medicine.  "It is the fundamentals of our moral commitment that is going to
determine the future of our profession and the trust of our patients.'
-Professor N. Balachandran.

                 Copyright 1995 The Straits Times Press Limited


