                              331 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 23, 2004, Sunday

Scottish hospitals turn to US-style ethics advisers

BYLINE: Camillo Fracassini

SECTION: Home news; Scotland News 13

LENGTH: 582 words


HOSPITALS in Scotland are to have ethics committees to adjudicate on life and
death decisions currently left to doctors.

The advisory groups -comprising clinicians, nurses and patients' representatives
-will give advice on issues such as whether to keep terminally ill babies alive
or give scarce transplant organs to young patients rather than the elderly.

The first committees will be launched by NHS Highland later this year.

Members will be trained in ethics and medical law. If the scheme is a success
others will follow in hospitals across the country.

The project is being overseen by Sheila McLean, professor of medical law and
ethics at Glasgow University.

Almost all hospitals in America have ethics committees, often with specialist
consultants on 24-hour standby to give prompt advice to medical staff and
patients' relatives.

"At the end of the trial period we will present a report to the Scottish
executive. Our conclusions will inform any decisions about whether these
committees should be set up routinely in hospitals," said McLean, who has
advised the government on animal to human organ transplants and legislation
preventing organs being removed from dead patients without relatives' consent.

McLean added that she was regularly approached by doctors seeking ethical and
legal advice because they were unable to get guidance at their hospital. She was
contacted recently by a doctor who wanted to know if a pregnant teenager with a
drinking problem could be kept in hospital against her will for the sake of her
health and that of her unborn baby.

"These are the questions that could be answered by ethics committees," she said.

"They might also be used to decide whether handicapped newborn babies should be
resuscitated if they get something else wrong with them. They might also look at
'do not resuscitate' orders as well as monitoring consent issues."

Brian Devlin, who is in charge of the project at NHS Highland, said: "Clinicians
are confronted with moral dilemmas every day. This group will help by providing
them with an ethical understanding."

Dr Ellen Fox, the director of the Washington-based National Centre for Ethics in
Health Care, said there had been a dramatic expansion in the number of ethics
committees in America following a series of court cases brought by patients'
relatives and doctors following disagreements over treatment.

"Typically the committees look at issues relating to end of life care,
life-sustaining treatment decisions, informed consent, refusal of recommended
treatment and who should speak for patients who can't make their own healthcare
decisions," said Fox.

"The committees include physicians, nurses, social workers, chaplains, lay
people and sometimes attorneys.

"It is important that people are able to voice any ethical concerns and have
them addressed. The committees make sure there is a formalised process for
discussing these concerns.

"It helps with decision-making. Even if it doesn't change the ultimate outcome,
the fact that these difficult issues are being discussed in a public forum
instead of behind closed doors is very important."

Malcolm Chisholm, the health minister, said: "We are committed to developing
much more active patient and public involvement in decision-making at every
level. This can be particularly useful in supporting healthcare professionals
who face difficult ethical and legal decisions on an increasingly regular
basis."


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited


