                              328 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              May 10, 2016 Tuesday

Catholic ethos a 'red herring' for maternity hospital, says doctor;
Religious ethics contention is 'a bit rich' when 'they're putting in coils',
says Keane

BYLINE: Paul Cullen

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 617 words


Doctors at St Vincent's hospital are free to carry out sterilisation procedures
that are considered to be contrary to its Catholic ethos, according to the
hospital. Claims that the proposed move of the National Maternity Hospital (NMH)
to the St Vincent's campus would lead to ethical issues over services for
pregnant women are a "red herring" and a "sideshow", clinical director Prof
Michael Keane told The Irish Times.

In relation to vasectomies, Prof Keane said doctors at St Vincent's "haven't
been told they can't do them" and the reason the procedure is not performed in
the hospital is because it is a minor treatment normally performed in GP
surgeries.

He admitted some staff may "assume" they should not be performing sterilisation
procedures but described this as "a historical thing". St Vincent's is fully
owned by the Religious Sisters of Charity.

Catholic

Dr Peter Boylan, chairman of the Institute of Obstetricians and a former master
of the NMH, has claimed St Vincent's could prevent a relocated maternity
hospital from providing IVF, sterilisation and other services because of its
Catholic ethos, unless his hospital retains control over maternity services. The
NMH has said Dr Boylan does not speak on its behalf and has not commented
publicly on alleged ethical issues.

A row over governance structures has delayed the lodging of a planning
application for the EUR 150 million project to build a new maternity hospital at
St Vincent's. The NMH wishes to retain a separate board and an
obstetrician/master as chief executive. St Vincent's wants both hospitals run by
the same board, on which the NMH would have two seats.

Vasectomies and tubal ligations are performed at St Vincent's on occasion, in
circumstances where procedures are indicated for medical reasons, such as
cancer, but they are not carried out electively for people who want to
permanently prevent pregnancy.

Claiming the hospital's position had been misrepresented, Prof Keane said St
Vincent's staff last year fitted 70 Mirena coils, a long-term contraceptive
device. "To contend religious ethics are hanging over their heads when they're
putting in coils is a bit rich," he said.

The NMH will be given more detailed assurances on ethical issues if required in
advance of any move, he said. "Whatever they are providing at the moment, they
can continue to do, be it IVF or sterilisation."

St Vincent's chairman Jimmy Menton was yesterday due to meet former High Court
president Mr Justice Nicholas Kearns, who is expected to be elected chairman of
the NMH this month, to see if a basis can be established to resume talks.

Discussions

Mr Menton yesterday wrote to Minister for Health Simon Harris signalling his
willingness to resume "meaningful" discussions and the NMH has also indicated
its willingness to meet.

Mr Menton denied that St Vincent's had agreed at the time the project was
announced in 2013 that Holles Street could maintain separate governance
structures.

"It was always going to be a single-governance structure," he said. "We never
saw this as simply a land donation."

He said the NMH's name, brand and fundraising operations could remain. It could
also continue to operate its own board after the transfer, though its functions
would be limited to managing the Holles Street asset and to nominating two
members to the St Vincent's board.

The Mater hospital, which is owned by the Sisters of Mercy, said it does not
carry out vasectomies or tubal ligations. In contrast, both procedures are
available at many HSE-run hospitals, including Cavan, Wexford, Mullingar and
Tullamore. Connolly and Loughlinstown hospitals perform vasectomies only, while
the Coombe women's hospital carries out tubal ligation.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


