                              332 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Care disputes top ethics issue in health system: Health workers clash with
families, patients over treatment choices

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 772  words


Canada's health care system is increasingly gripped by "ethical challenges"
stemming from clashes involving patients, or their families, who disagree with
the treatment being ordered by medical professions, says a major new report.

The report, published yesterday in the British journal BMC Medical Ethics, is an
unprecedented analysis of the "top 10" ethical issues faced by the Canadian
public and health-care professionals today.

It found the No. 1 ethical problem is the growing occurrence of conflict over
how a patient should be treated -- whether it involves something as simple as
prescribing an antibiotic, or as serious as providing life-sustaining treatment
to a dying patient.

The report says while such disagreements are most common in a hospital's
intensive care unit, they occur virtually everywhere in the system, including
palliative care, rehabilitation, mental health, surgery and a family doctor's
office.

The report was prepared by experts at the University of Toronto's Joint Centre
for Bioethics, a medical ethics think-tank.

The authors of the report surveyed 12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto
hospitals to rank the most important ethical challenges facing the health
system.

The results -- which focus on everything from wait times to medical errors --
provide a perceptive look at the complexities of health care.

Dr. Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics and one of the report's
co-authors, said he hopes the report draws more public attention to the issue --
particularly disagreements over patient care.

"It's floating under the surface like a shark," said Dr. Singer.

The report says the "end-of-life critical care cases" tend to be the most
emotionally charged and intractable: A patient, perhaps with cancer, is in the
late stages of terminal illness and is hooked up to a breathing ventilator in
the ICU. The family is demanding that "everything" be done to maintain the
patient's life, while the health professionals feel such "aggressive
interventions would amount to torture."

"Emotions run high, conflict ensues, and communication inevitably breaks down."

The health workers can't understand the families' position and label them
"irrational" or "unreasonable," says the report, while the families view the
medical staff as "insensitive" and "disrespectful."

The report proposes several solutions, including: educating health care
professionals so they have the mediation skills needed in such cases; creating
policies for health care facilities to provide guidance.

The other ethical challenges, ranked by priority, are:

2. Waiting lists: The report observes that wait lists, which now plague the
system, create ethical questions because, in some cases, the lengthy waits can
harm patients' health, impede their ability to return to work and contribute to
"psychological distress."

3. Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill: The system
has traditionally marginalized these groups in regards to their priority for
treatment -- a discriminatory practice that must be openly acknowledged and
ended.

4. Shortage of family physicians: The shortage has become a "significant
problem" for the medicare system, especially since it is based on the premise
that patients deserve "universal and reasonable access" to medical services.

5. Medical error: The issue has become more prominent in recent years, with
experts saying the system must contend with mistakes ranging from incorrect drug
prescriptions to performing surgery on the wrong patient.

6. Palliative treatment for the terminally ill: Among the ethical issues that
doctors grapple with is appropriate pain medication (they want to reduce or
eliminate pain through drug therapy, but fear that overdoing the dose could
hasten the death of a patient).

7. Informed consent: Patients are supposed to provide their "informed consent"
to a treatment before it is done, but many do not -- or cannot -- read the forms
they're asked to sign.

8. Research: Issues include balancing the need for "fair compensation" to
participants in medical research without the payments becoming a "coercive
influence."

9. Substitute decision-making: When a patient is incapable of making a decision
about his treatment, professionals will turn to a substitute, many of whom find
the responsibility onerous. Also, there is sometimes a legal hierarchy that
places the most intimate relationship (such as a spouse) near the bottom of the
list to qualify as the substitute.

10. Surgical innovation and new technologies: Should innovative surgical
techniques be considered research and be required to go through ethics approval
before being used on patients?

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

