                              333 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                              July 31, 2016 Sunday

Sion Hospital: Parents, doctors, ethical panel to decide conjoined twin's fate

BYLINE: tabassum barnagarwala

LENGTH: 482  words

DATELINE: Mumbai


Parents, doctors and members of Sion Hospital's ethical committee will be
holding a meeting this coming week to decide on the fate of the conjoined twins
born in the hospital on Thursday.

The conjoined twins have a partially common thorax, common heart, abdomen,
stomach and pelvis. Between them, the babies also share two legs and three
hands.

"We will have to present our investigations to the ethical committee and take
the parents' consent for the surgery. There are several more tests in line,"
said Dr Paras Kothari, head of paediatric surgery at Sion hospital.

There are nerological complications in the case, with latest tests showing one
boy's brain controlling the left limbs and the other boy's brain controlling the
right limbs.

Even if the babies are separated, each will have only one lower limb controlled
by their brain.

The newborn twin's father, Irshad Khan, is a cobbler at Dadar station. He
migrated to the city from a village in

Uttar Pradesh ten years ago. A surgery to separate conjoined twins can start
from Rs 25 lakh, with medical costs and correction surgeries requiring more
funds. The hospital is now going to pool in surgery costs from 'Poor Box Fund'.

While incidence of conjoined twins is one in two to five lakhs, the case of the
two boys is rarer still. Termed as

dicephalic paraphagus, babies with separate faces are joined sideways in this
case found in only 15 per cent of all conjoined twins.

"Of those, 40-60 per cent are still born. Rarely 5 to 25 per cent survive.
Survival rates are low after surgery," said Dr Suleman Merchant, dean at Sion
hospital.

The babies have, so far, miraculously survived for 72 hours without a ventilator
support. Only one baby has lungs

and doctors suspect the second baby's windpipe is partially connected with his
twin's. The main worrying factor for a whole team of specialists, however, is
the heart's functions. It is currently pumping blood for the two babies, despite
having the capacity to filter blood for one. "The heart rate is within normal
range, for now," Kothari said.

&lt;strong>Watch Video: What's making news &lt;/strong>
(http://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLrDg7LoYgk9wv_QK-mHWFxTf8Y52LVsNB)

The twin's 26-year-old mother, Shahin Khan, who underwent her first sonography
in the 32nd week of pregnancy is

currently admitted in Sion hospital. "She is stable," confirmed Dr YS Nandanwar,
head of gynaecology.

The babies are set to undergo an angiography to analyse the heart functions,
along with detailed MRI to understand

the lungs and breathing functions. In 2013, conjoined twins Riddhi and Siddhi
Pawar were born with a fused urinary

bladder and vagina. According to doctors, what made their separation surgery
easy were two functioning hearts.

For the twins at Sion hospital, a team of neonatologists, paediatric surgeons,
paediatric cardiac surgeons and

anaesthetists has been formed to investigate the case further.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


