                              334 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                  1 - Edition

Police in sedative inquiry

BYLINE: Nathan Paull

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 348  words


A MAN was fighting for his life last night in The Townsville Hospital after
being sedated while being restrained by police.

The 27-year-old Mundingburra man was last night in a critical condition in the
Intensive Care Unit (ICU) following the incident on Tuesday afternoon.

The man stopped breathing and had to be revived by hospital staff after he
became aggressive, police said.

It is still not known why the man's heart stopped but it is believed he could
have had a reaction to the sedative or his heart rate peaked during the
altercation with four police officers.

Queensland Police Union general president Ian Leavers flew to Townsville
yesterday to support the officers involved in the incident. They will now be
investigated by the Ethical Standards Command.

Mr Leavers said the man, who had mental health problems, willingly went to the
hospital but became aggressive and police had to be called.

``Police assisted hospital staff in restraining this person and as soon as it
was realised he wasn't breathing, immediate first aid was rendered by the
medical staff and police assisted in every possible way they could,'' Mr Leavers
said yesterday.

``It is a tragic thing that has happened, but I call on everyone to be calm.
There will be a full and thorough investigation. The police are being
interviewed as we speak and obviously the investigation will continue after
that.''

Mr Leavers said police did not actually administer the sedative, but an
investigation was necessary given police were involved and the incident occurred
while the man was in care.

``In relation to specifics, I can't go into that but police did not (administer
sedatives),'' he said.

``That is not the role of a police officer.

``There needs to be a thorough investigation and we're happy for the Ethical
Standards Command to conduct that investigation.''

Mr Leavers said the investigation would take ``some time'', given the police and
hospital staff had to be interviewed and a report compiled.

Queensland Health refused to comment on the incident yesterday, but confirmed
the man was in a critical condition in ICU.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


