                              343 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                      June 13, 1988, Monday, City Edition

Right to die: no easy answers on moral or legal grounds

BYLINE: THOMAS B. HARRISON

SECTION: FLORIDIAN; Pg. 2D

LENGTH: 1177 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG



ST. PETERSBURG - Is there a right to die?

     Participants in a two-day conference asked hard questions about    that
emotional issue. Almost no one is exempt from the emotion    surrounding the
debate, which invariably divides families, doctors,    lawyers, judges,
ethicists and clergy.

     A few representatives of those groups gathered over the weekend in    the
first conference in a program entitled "Living with Dying: Coping    with
Death." Participants explored medical, moral, ethical,    philosophical,
religious and legal questions regarding the right to die    by the refusal of
life-sustaining medical technology.

     One of the intriguing ideas that emerged at the conference, held at    the
St. Petersburg campus of the University of South Florida, is that    moral and
ethical questions are often confused with legal rights and    scientific
judgments.

     The conference was sponsored by the International Institute for the
Study of Death, and was funded in part by the Florida Endowment for the
Humanities. Co-sponsors include the University of South Florida,    Hospice Care
Inc., and Mental Health Services of South Pinellas Inc.       The legal view was
the province of Arthur S. Berger, author,    attorney and director of the
International Institute for the Study of    Death. Berger offered some sobering
statistics: More than 2-million    people die every year in this country, of
whom 70 percent die in    hospitals. It is reasonable to assume that many of
those hospital-bound    patients are kept alive by artificial means. Many of
those patients    cannot speak for themselves. Among the questions yet to be
decided: Who    will speak for them? Are their rights absolute? Do they have the
right    to say no to expensive medical treatment?

         Berger said that more than 80 percent of Americans who    responded to
polls on the right-to-die issue said they support the    right to die for
terminally ill patients. Although there is nothing in    federal law or the U.S.
Constitution that gives a patient the right to    refuse medical treatment,
there is ample precedent in the body of    common law, Berger said.

     Every patient has "the right to be left alone, the right of bodily
integrity," he said, and a physician who denies that basic right ought    to be
liable for malpractice, according to Berger.

      Implicit in Berger's comments, and the comments of other    participants,
was the conflict that inevitably arises between the    moralist - often a family
member who desires mercy for a loved one -    and the physician bound by
Hippocratic ideals. Ideally, both parties    wish to act in the patient's best
interest. The irony, as several    speakers implied, is that the wishes of the
decision-makers usually    supersede the right of the patient, who only desires
freedom from    anguish.

     Berger said that the right of a terminally ill patient to deny    treatment
that he or she knows is futile and degrading ought to be    paramount. Death
might be a blessing to the patient, and to a family    that is being drained,
emotionally and financially.

     Helene A. Lutz, a Ph.D. candidate and Bioethics Fellow at    Washington
Hospital Center, told the sparse gathering that she fears    the right-to-die
question, like the abortion issue, will result in a    "moral impasse."

     "My concern is about moral discourse - specifically that    discussion
about the right to die will become ... a battle of rights    vs. rights. The
danger is that moral discussion and decision making are    often subsumed into
conflicts of unresolvable oppositions."

 Helene A. Lutz, a Ph.D. candidate and Bioethics Fellow at Washington
Hospital Center

   Lutz advocated an approach that arises from personal experience and    not
abstract notions or legal arguments over who has the right to die.

     She cited a recent case of an infant girl, confined to a Tampa    hospital,
as an instance in which personal involvement transformed    someone high in the
decision-making process.

     The infant was born in 1987 with severe brain, lung, kidney, spinal    and
intestinal damage. She also was deaf and blind, and required a    respirator to
breathe.

        The girl's parents requested that life-support systems be    terminated,
but hospital authorities refused to do so without a court    order. Finally, the
judge assigned to the case visited the child's    bedside and ruled for the
parents.

     The infant died within minutes after her life-support systems were
terminated.

     Clearly, the Tampa case showed what happens when ethical matters    are
turned into legal problems, Lutz said. It also raised questions:    Who should
receive treatment, and who should not? Who decides when    treatment ought to be
stopped? Who speaks for those who cannot speak    for themselves?

     "These are all ethical questions, not scientific judgments," Lutz    said.

     "They concern values and assumptions about the meaning of life and
death. As value judgments, they are moral choices and should be treated    as
such. Judicial scrutiny should be the last resort for deciding    ethical
matters, not the first resort."

     The courts are deciding cases that would have been unthinkable 15    or 20
years ago, she said. Some families have sued doctors and    b b hospitals for
"overtreating" patients, a fairly recent phenomenon    caused by advanced
medical technology that sustains life artificially.

     Lutz cited the President's Commission for the Study of Ethical    Problems
in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research, which    supports the idea
that there should be "a greater justification for    withholding treatment than
for withdrawing it."

         The termination of life support is not wrongful killing, Lutz    said.
Death in such circumstances is caused by the illness that    necessitated the
life-support apparatus, not the act of withdrawing    treatment.

      Legally, the commission stated, there is "nothing in law ...    (that)
makes stopping treatment a more serious legal issue than not    starting it. In
fact, not starting treatment that might be in a    patient's best interest is
more likely to be held a civil or criminal    wrong than stopping the same
treatment when it has proved unavailing."

      However, health care authorities don't see it that way. In today's
litigious society, there is an "unwarranted fear of unjustified    lawsuits or
prosecution," Lutz said. The tragedy is that "frequently,    patients pay the
price of this fear."



LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, RICARDO FERRO; Arthur S. Berger, Adil al Aseer
and Tyson Anderson look over the program of the right-to-die conference

                            Times Publishing Company


