                              338 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 14, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NEW JERSEY OPINION;
A 'BILL OF RIGHTS' FOR THE R.N.

BYLINE: By JOANN I. MILLER; Joann I. Miller, a Registered Nurse, lives in Toms
River.

SECTION: Section 11NJ; Page 22, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 679 words


DOES a nurse, as a human being and a professional, have the legal right to
refuse to participate in the prescribed delivery of health care in a particular
case because the procedure to be used, or the nature of the problem, is in
direct opposition to the nurse's own moral, ethical, religious, philosophical or
medical beliefs?

''Yes,'' says the Code for Nurses of the American Nurses Association. The code,
which was adopted in 1950, reaffirmed and then amplified in 1976, emphatically
states:

''The nurse provides services with respect for human dignity and the uniqueness
of the client, unrestricted by considerations of social or economic status,
personal attributes or the nature of health problems.

''The nurse's concern for human dignity and the provision of quality nursing
care is not limited by personal attitudes or beliefs. If personally opposed to
the delivery of care in a particular case because of the nature of the health
problem or the procedures to be used, the nurse is justified in refusing to
participate.

''Such refusal should be made known in advance and in time for other appropriate
arrangements to be made for the client's nursing care.

''If the nurse must knowingly enter such a case under emergency circumstances or
enters unknowingly, the obligation to provide the best possible care is
observed. The nurse withdraws from this type of situation only when assured that
alternative sources of nursing care are available to the client.''

''Yes,'' declared the International Military Tribunal at the Nuremberg war-crime
trials when it rejected the contention of a number of defendants that they were
not legally responsible for their acts because they performed the acts under the
orders of superior authority.

The tribunal held that this defense had never been accepted in either
international or domestic law, and judged that ''the true test . . . is not the
existence of the order, but whether moral choice [in executing it] was in fact
possible.''

''No,'' ruled the New Jersey Appellate Division last Feb. 14, when it held that
the Code for Nurses defines ''a standard of conduct beneficial only to the
individual nurse and not to the public at large . . . and does not constitute a
legally accepted public policy.''

The ruling supported a hospital's right to dismiss any nurse who exercised the
Code for Nurses because of strong personal and ethical convictions.

In addition, the Appellate Division judges said that because a nurse was an
''at-will'' employee - that is, not under contract to the hospital - she could
be dismissed ''without cause.''

The legality of the nurses' code as an issue began in August 1982. Corrine
Warthen, a nurse employed by Community Memorial Hospital in Toms River, was
dismissed for refusing to administer prescribed care to a terminally ill patient
because she believed she was participating in treatment that was hastening the
patient's death.

Mrs. Warthen, an employee of Community Memorial for 12 years, complied with the
Code for Nurses by asking her superiors to remove her from the case. Although
the request was granted, Mrs. Warthen subsequently was reassigned to the case
despite her objections, even though there were other nurses available to deliver
the prescribed care.

When Mrs. Warthen further refused to provide the prescribed care, she was
dismissed.

Ethical and legal dimensions are present in all professional codes of ethics.
Legal dimensions insure the ''minimum'' standard established; however, ethical
dimensions promote the ideal standard for the profession.

Mrs. Warthen's lawyer, John R. Ford of Red Bank, has filed an appeal with the
State Supreme Court. He believes that the Code for Nurses, or any professional
code of ethics, should be regarded as public policy and, as such, should have
the protection of the courts.

If the Appellate Court's decision is permitted to stand, perhaps we Americans
will owe those war criminals, who were not permitted the defense of ''superior
authority,'' an apology.

Joann I. Miller, a Registered Nurse, lives in Toms River.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


