                              341 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 11, 2005

Doctors need a check-up on ethics

BYLINE: BETH PEARSON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 839 words


MEDICAL ethics means different things to different people. To newspapers, it
means the big issues: abortion, euthanasia or genetically-modified babies.

To pro-life organisations, it's a handy euphemism for "abortion is evil". To
doctors, it's about basic conduct as much as trying to resolve difficult issues
surrounding a patient's treatment.

To me, at this precise moment, it's about the fact that I'm not going to walk
three minutes from my desk to give blood to the van outside the office because
I've decided I'm too busy writing this. Suffice to say, it's a broad field.

For Dame Janet Smith, speaking at a conference organised by General Medical
Council, it's so fundamental to the practice of medicine that students should
not qualify as doctors if they haven't sufficient knowledge of ethical conduct.
Dame Janet, author of the Shipman report, called for medical students to receive
greater education about medical ethics because "ethics and attitudes are
fundamental and have to be planted right at the beginning". So fundamental that
she believes students should be "tested with the potential of failure".

The idea that medical students shouldn't qualify as doctors if they don't show
sound knowledge of ethics isn't a great one. Of course, teaching time allocated
to ethics ought to be increased and all budding doctors should be familiarwith
Beauchamp and Childress's four pillars of bioethics (which, formulated as they
are, specifically to apply to doctor-patient relations, don't mention anything
about a moral obligation to give blood), but people with doctorates in the
subject who have gone to work in hospitals have had to go right back to basics
because the hospital is a unique ethical context. It is highly pragmatic,
unpredictable and personal, given the involvement of patients and their
relatives. As such, it isn't best suited to the application of armchair ethics.

Yet Dame Janet's concern and rather severe remedy is understandable if we
consider the consequences of poor conduct and the wide-reaching impact of
decisions about bioethics. Late last month, paediatrician Dr Camille De San
Lazaro admitted she "overstated and exaggerated" medical reports that suggested
two nursery nurses had sexually abused children in their care.

Earlier this year, a report by the Commons select committee on science and
technology courted controversy over its recommendations that parents should be
able to select the gender of their baby.

In this way, medical ethics traverses the particular and universal; more than
often it conflates the two. For this reason, it appears that incorporating
ethics into the very fabric of medical practice will require a range of
responses and not a quick-fix. Here are a couple.

A clear way to nurture ethically-aware doctors, in hospitals at least, is to
create an environment in which ethics are fundamental. For medical students,
this might mean dripfeeding, as it were, bioethical knowledge and practice
throughout medical training and beyond, rather than lumping it all in an
open-and-shut examination. This kind of nurturing would encourage ethical
consideration to become habitual; something that is done rather than just
learned.

We also ought to follow the lead of North America in employing clinical
ethicists who can be consulted if a doctor, nurse, patient or the patient's
relatives need assistance in making a decision about treatment. Clinical
ethicists are well-versed in both clinical practice and ethical matters and,
vitally, operate oncall, which makes them accessible and integrated within the
hospital system (though some have argued that their rapid response leads to
nothing more than simplistic "beeper bioethics") . In the UKwe do, of course,
have ethics committees to which pressing cases can be referred, but the
advantage of clinical ethicists is that they workwith doctors and patients on a
case-by-case basis, thereby demonstrating ethics in action. There can be little
better education than witnessing this first-hand.

Certainly, these are ideals.

Dame Janet acknowledged that the possibility of adding extra ethics to an
already packed medical curriculum would be greeted with hostility, as "you
already have to put a quart into a pint pot". But as she also remarked, it is a
question of priority. It ought to be: bioethics is not only about maintaining
reputations and avoiding the courts. At a time when issues of medical ethics are
top of the agendas of newspapers, politicians and churches, the medical
profession has been all but silent. The consequence of this is dogmatism;
scientifically illiterate religious campaigns have developed an apparently
legitimate claim on issues of life and death, while people at the frontline of
bioethics have been under-represented (not least with the Royal College of
Nursing maintaining its neutral stance on euthanasia against many of its
member's wishes).

The medical profession must, then, show it has something coherent to say about
medical ethics. This necessitates that it becomes ingrained in theory and
practice.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: GHERLD


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved


