                              345 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                            December 3, 2013 Tuesday

ACLU sues US bishops over Catholic hospital ethics

SECTION: NEWS; World

LENGTH: 643 words


The American Civil Liberties Union filed a sweeping federal lawsuit against the
U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops over its ethical guidelines for Roman
Catholic hospitals, arguing the directives were to blame for negligent care of a
pregnant woman who went into early labor and whose baby died within hours.

The ACLU alleges the bishops were negligent because their religious directives
prevented Tamesha Means from being told that continuing her pregnancy posed
grave risks to her health and her child was not likely to survive. She was
treated at Mercy Health Muskegon, a Catholic hospital in Michigan.

"It's not just about one woman," said Kary Moss, executive director of the
Michigan ACLU. "It's about a nationwide policy created by nonmedical
professionals putting patients in harms' way."

The lawsuit comes amid a wave of mergers between Catholic and secular hospital
systems throughout the United States, raising questions about how much religious
identity the hospitals will retain and whether they will provide medical
services that conflict with church teaching. Advocates for abortion rights and
others fear the mergers will limit access to a full range of medical care for
women. About 13 percent of U.S. hospitals are Catholic.

Sister Mary Ann Walsh, a spokeswoman for the bishops' conference in Washington,
said it hadn't been officially notified of the lawsuit and couldn't comment
until it received the complaint. Neither Mercy Health Muskegon nor its corporate
parent, Trinity Health, would comment Monday. Earlier this year, Trinity Health
and Catholic Health East completed a merger, combining more than 80 nonprofit
hospitals across about 21 states.

According to the lawsuit, filed Friday in U.S. District Court in Michigan, Means
was 18 weeks pregnant in 2010 when her water broke and she went to the nearest
hospital in Muskegon. The ACLU said that over several emergency visits, Means
was never told that "the safest treatment option was to induce labor and
terminate the pregnancy" because the hospital was following the conference's
ethical directives. She eventually delivered the baby, which died after less
than three hours. The ACLU says the pathology report found that Means had
infections that can result in infertility and other damage.

Under the conference's "Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health
Care Services," abortion is barred, along with other procedures that go against
Catholic doctrine, such as specific infertility treatments or sterilization.
However, each bishop has the authority to interpret the directives within his
diocese and it is common to find some variation in how the guidelines are
applied among dioceses or according to individual cases.

For example, the directives allow for treatments to cure a grave illness in a
pregnant woman even if they result in the death of the child. That issue drew
national attention in 2010 with the case of a nun and administrator at a Phoenix
hospital who, in her role on the hospital ethics committee, approved an abortion
to save the life of a pregnant woman. Phoenix Bishop Thomas Olmsted said the
decision meant automatic excommunication for the nun and the hospital could no
longer identify itself as Catholic.

Robin Fretwell Wilson, a University of Illinois professor who specializes in
family and health law, said a negligence claim would hinge in part on whether
the ACLU can establish that the conference has some direct control in this case
or in hospitals in general. The bishops have moral authority over local Catholic
hospitals but are not involved in the day-to-day business of administration.

"It's so many layers removed," Fretwell Wilson said, that she has "a difficult
time buying" that the bishops' conference is legally responsible in this case.

____

Associated Press writer John Flesher contributed to this story from Traverse
City, Michigan.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


