                              340 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                               September 10, 2002

Hospital disposes of PCs the ethical way

BYLINE: By Joe Harkin

LENGTH: 401 words


LONDONDERRY'S main hospital has thanked two firms for the sensitive way in which
its old IT equipment was disposed of after new systems were introduced to meet
modern demands.

Altnagelvin Hospital has adopted an innovative approach to disposing of old
computer systems, and two schools were among those to reap the benefits.

When the hospital decided to update its PCs administrators had to find a
suitable means of dealing with the existing machines.

It was critical that sensitive information stored on the computers would not be
lost when their use was discontinued.

The hospital also wanted to be sure the equipment was disposed of in an ethical
manner.

BIC Systems, the IT supplier to Altnagelvin Hospital, contracted the disposal
work to Asset Management Ireland, a Belfast-based company specialising in the
management of redundant IT equipment.

Philip McMichael, of Asset Management, said: "When BIC Systems came to us they
had a number of requirements for a wide range of computer equipment.

"Our first priority was to record all the equipment we received and then carry
out our fully-guaranteed data removal on all the computers."

Through this the hospital was able to meet its responsibilities under the Data
Protection Act.

It also wanted to offer some of the equipment back to employees of Altnagelvin
Hospitals Trust.

So, once the PCs had been wiped, Asset Management Ireland was able to
reconfigure the equipment and supply the computers to trust employees for home
use.

As part of BIC Systems' regular charity work with local organisations, an
arrangement was made for 25 of the PCs from Altnagelvin Hospital to be set up
for use in two Belfast schools, helping to extend the use of computers in local
education.

Due to the relentless updating of equipment some of the PCs were no longer of
any use.

A spokesman for Asset Management Ireland said the equipment was recycled in
accordance with the new European legislation on electrical and electronic waste.

The company was able to recover enough from the value in the equipment to cover
the costs of the service, therefore keeping Altnagelvin's ethical disposal
policy intact, at no extra cost to the taxpayer.

Karen Phelan, acting IT manager at Altnagelvin, co-ordinated the project. She
said the protection of confidentiality was of the utmost importance for the
hospital.


LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.


