                              342 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           October 15, 1986 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

WHO SAYS INVESTORS DON'T CARE WHERE THEIR MONEY IS INVESTED?;
HOTLINE

BYLINE: Anne Lampe

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 689 words


THE Friends Provident Ethical Managed Fund, launched a month ago, has attracted
more than $800,000 without any formal advertising.

While this is dwarfed by the $1 million or $2 million a month that some of the
leveraged currency dealers were attracting at the height of their operations a
few months ago, it is more than any one of them would be attracting now.

Of course, there is no similarity between the ethical fund and the operations of
some of the leveraged currency operators. The comparison simply demonstrates
that some investment products will attract public money even without the benefit
of advertising.

The ethical fund selects companies not involved in arms, alcohol, tobacco,
gambling, and excludes those which trade with South Africa or Namibia, and those
which trade in uranium.

The fund is about to begin distributing brochures, but Herman Heywood, Friends'
Provident's financial services manager, says he is delighted with the result and
believes the Friends' trusts will be the forerunner of several others.

Cancer coverage

A NEW health insurance policy specifically designed to cover the many special
costs associated with cancer patients has been launched by the US-based American
Family Assurance.

The latest statistics on the incidence of cancer show that one in four can
expect to suffer from the disease some time in their lives, and three out of
four families will be touched by it in some way.

And since the treatment of the disease - radiotherapy or chemotherapy plus the
hospitalisation that usually results - tends to be centralised in major capital
cities, out-of-town patients often face big travel and accommodation expenses.

Such expenses could include hotel accommodation or a short term rental while
out-patient treatment is given, or for accompanying relatives while the patient
is hospitalised, as well as cab and other fares to and from hospital for patient
or visitor.

Certainly the medical and hospital costs are mostly covered by a combination of
Medicare and private health fund insurance (where the patient chooses his or her
own doctor). But these do not cover incidental travelling and accommodation
costs.

The policies offered by American Family Assurance, a wholly owned subsidiary of
the American Family Life group of Columbus, Georgia, provide for lump sum
payments on initial diagnosis of internal cancer, as well as hospitalisation and
specified convalescence benefits.

The insurance scheme, which excludes the common superficial skin
cancers(although it pays out for melanomas), offers three plans - a basic plan,
super plan and deluxe plan.

The basic plan provides for an initial lump sum benefit of $800 on diagnosis,
plus a progressive benefit of $20 per month after the first 60 days, with a
maximum payment of $1,200. In addition, where the patient is hospitalised there
is an $80 per day benefit for accommodation of relatives and a $40 per day
convalescence benefit.

The cost of the plan varies according to age and whether it is a single or a
family plan.

The basic plan for 18 to 39 year olds carries an annual premium of $62.50 per
individual (or $118.75 per family) and rises to $125 per year between the ages
of 40 to 54 ($250 per family) and to $218.75 for those 55-64 years of age($375
per family). Insurance is not available for those over 64, or those who have had
cancer diagnosed before applying for the cover.

The super plan provides for double the basic plan benefits and the deluxe plan
triples the basic plan benefits. The costs double and triple accordingly

The company says these benefits are payable in addition to other cash payments
and monies received from other sources, such as other income replacement or
sickness insurance or workers' compensation.

The general manager of the American Family Assurance, David Jones, says: "The
policies are intended to minimise the financial impact cancer has on the family
and to allow victims to concentrate on getting well."

He adds that the company is not using fear tactics but sees the plan as a
positive approach to relieving a major debilitating impact of the disease -the
financial effects on cancer sufferers and their families.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1986 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


