                              344 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              July 31, 2016 Sunday

Conjoined twins put Sion hosp docs in ethical dilemma

BYLINE: Somita Pal and Santosh Andhale P_somita

LENGTH: 758  words


Days after a set of conjoined twins was born at the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal
General Sion Hospital, doctors are now facing the ethical dilemma of saving only
one of them. The rare twins have two heads but share a heart.

While the mother - 26-year-old Mumtaz Bano (name changed) - recuperates in the
hospital's gynaecology ward, paediatric surgeons at the hospital are busy
assessing the twins' diagnostic reports to come to a decision. "2D echo, MRI and
CT scan of the heart have been done. We also did MRI fibre tractography, which
will give a clear picture of the spinal tracks arriving from the brain," said Dr
Paras Kothari, head of the paediatric surgery department.

Dr Kothari and his team are currently scanning medical literature and calling
experts to draw opinions while waiting for all the diagnostic test reports.

"Medical literature shows that only two such conjoined twins with single heart
have survived across the world. But only one of the babies can be saved. It will
be a surgical challenge," said Paras.

Babies are in a stable condition in the neonatal intensive care unit. Their
father, a cobbler by profession, is yet to be briefed about their medical
condition. "We first want to be sure with all the diagnostic tests before
briefing them," said Paras.

A doctor from the paediatric surgery department, who didn't wish to be named,
said the hospital's ethics committee has refused to give its opinion in the
matter, stating that it didn't come under their jurisdiction. "Both babies are
stable and have survived for four days, but its an ethical dilemma. Letting them
grow without a surgery will lead to social stigma for both the twins and their
parents. We will have to take a legal opinion," said the doctor.

Another doctor from the department where the 2D echo test was done said the
twins have one-and-a-half hearts. "One heart is normal. The other is not
developed and has two chambers," said the doctor.

The babies were born by caesarean section at the hospital at 9.25am on Wednesday
with the birth weight of 3.6kg. They share a heart but have two stomachs, two
spinal cords, and a spinal column till the sacrum. The sacrum is not well
developed. They have two lungs, two kidneys, three hands, two legs and a single
pelvis between them. The condition is known as single-hearted thoraco
paraphagus.

"We have started feeding the babies via ryles tube. They are passing stool and
urine normally but we cannot say who is passing the stool and urine, as they
have common genitalia," said Dr Kothari.

Dean Dr Suleman Merchant said the hospital will provide all facilities to the
twins free of cost.

"These conjoined twins have a very complex internal architecture. Externally,
they have two separate heads and necks, but a partially common thorax; and are
completely fused below the umbilicus level. 3D rotational CT angiography,
multiplanar re- constructions and other complex CT techniques have been utilised
to diagnose the architecture of the babies. MRI fibre tracto-graphy will be
utilised to establish the communication between the brains and other parts of
the nervous system, including nerve supply to limbs. After all investigations
are complete, the next course of action will be decided upon," said Dr Merchant.

Amit Kharkanis, a lawyer who handles medico-legal cases, said, "There is no
ethical dilemma in such cases as doctors have to decide which baby has a higher
survival rate. After the investigations, they have to take the parents'
consent."

tale of two lives

Conjoined twins is a rare sporadic event, with a prevalence of 1 in
200,000-5,00,000 births. The mortality rate remains quite high.

There are nearly a dozen different types of conjoined twins. The twins born at
the Sion hospital are called cervico paraphagus.

Female conjoined twins are three times more likely to be born alive than male
conjoined twins.

Most conjoined twins are separated weeks or months after they are born, to give
them a chance to grow and become strong enough to survive surgery and to let
doctors study their anatomy.

Conjoined twins are genetically identical and are therefore always the same sex.
They share the same amniotic cavity and placenta and develop from the same
fertilised egg.

BJ Wadia hospital currently houses a pair of former conjoined twins, born to a
couple from Panvel on May 6, 2013. The girls were attached by their hip at a 90
degree angle, because of which it was impossible for them to walk. They were
separated on January 17, 2014, and have since been recuperating in a special
room at the hospital's paediatric ward.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


