                              348 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                December 1, 2005

Dog attack victim gets world's first face transplant: Woman patient receives
graft from deceased donor: French surgeons perform procedure over two days

BYLINE: Jon Henley and Sarah Boseley

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 937 words


Surgeons in France have performed the world's first face transplant, on a
38-year-old woman whose nose and lips had been torn off by a dog. The complex,
high-risk operation, which involved grafting on a triangle of facial material
from a deceased donor, was carried out over Sunday and Monday at the University
hospital in Amiens, the hospital said in a statement yesterday.

It said the team of doctors for "the first partial face transplant" was led by
Professor Jean-Michel Dubernard, who performed the world's first hand transplant
at Lyon's Edouard Herriot hospital in 1998, and Professor Bernard Devauchelle,
head of maxillo-facial surgery at the Amiens hospital in northern France.

The French team took the surgical world by surprise. Many had expected the first
face transplant to take place in the United States, after an announcement in the
summer that Cleveland clinic in Ohio had finally got ethical approval and was
about to start interviewing prospective patients.

But yesterday, Michael Earley, consultant plastic surgeon and a member of the
Royal College of Surgeons' working party on facial transplantation, said that it
was an operation waiting to happen.

"It could have been done anywhere where there are trained microsurgeons and
plastic surgeons - China, Australia or other countries - from a technical point
of view. What has been holding it back are ethical issues."

A team at the Royal Free hospital in London, under Professor Peter Butler, has
done extensive work modelling what a transplanted face would look like - neither
like donor nor recipient - and carrying out psychological studies.

But, said Mr Earley, the ethical climate in the UK was not right. "I think there
would be a number of objections to it from experts in ethics and psychologists
and the general public," he said.

There were long-term risks of rejection, which would leave the patient worse off
than before. They would also have to take immuno-suppressant drugs for life.

These risks had to be balanced against the benefit the patient would receive.
Inevitably, patients hoped for a better result than they might get.

Nobody yet knew whether a transplanted face would look more natural than
reconstructive plastic surgery. The mobility of the new face would be in
question.

"Your brain moves your face in a particular way. It would still try to move the
transplanted face in the same way," said Mr Earley.

"A better looking face would be the object, but it seems likely that the face
would still not move in the normal way."

Neither French surgeon was available for comment yesterday. But Prof Dubernard
told Le Point magazine that he would give a full account of the groundbreaking
operation "with the whole team, and with the patient's agreement, when the time
is right to do so."

Le Point said relatives had given permission for the mouth-nose triangle of
skin, subcutaneous tissue, facial muscles and veins to be removed from the donor
on Sunday morning at a hospital in nearby Lille, shortly after she was declared
brain dead.

The operation then had to take place within 24 hours.

The unidentified recipient, who was savaged by a dog last May, had been awaiting
a suitable donor since August, when French health authorities finally allowed
her name to be added to a list of patients for reconstructive surgery.

She has now reportedly been transferred to another nearby hospital for further
intensive treatment, including immuno-suppressant and anti-rejection drugs that
she will have to continue taking for life and that carry considerable long-term
health risks.

Authorities in France hesitated before giving the go-ahead because of the
"unusually high medical and psychological risks" associated with the operation,
Le Point said, citing the dangers of short and long-term rejection of the
transplant, and also the potential "ethical and psychological" complications of
living with somebody else's face.

UK experts welcomed news of the partial face transplant with some ambivalence.
"All medical advances are to be celebrated, but this operation throws up many
moral and ethical issues," said Iain Hutchison, consultant facial surgeon at
Barts in London and chief executive of Saving Faces, the facial surgery research
foundation.

"This was a 'quality of life' operation rather than a life-saving operationand
has many implications for the recipient and donor's families."

guardian.co.uk/science >

What happens afterwards

Will a person who has a face transplant look like themselves, or like the donor?

Somewhere in between. Such a person will have the donor's skin colour and tone
and texture, but their new face will mould to the person's underlying bone
structure. Nobody is quite sure, though, whether the transplant will respond in
a natural way to the patient's smile and other facial expressions.

Is it a complex operation?

Not especially, as transplants go. The skin, fat, blood and connective tissues
are removed from the donor and laid over the recipient's bone and muscle. The
blood vessels are then connected. One surgeon said that it was no more complex
than sewing back a finger.

What are the long-term problems?

Formidable. To prevent their new face being rejected, a person would have to
take drugs to suppress their immune system for life. These drugs are powerful
and reduce the natural ability to fight infections. In addition, there may be
psychological problems. However much a person hates their damaged face, it may
be very hard to adjust to looking at what was once the face of a stranger in the
mirror.


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited


