                              351 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                              June 5, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

'Kidney cult' offer declined by hospital

BYLINE: Randy Boswell, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 357  words


Canada's largest organ transplant hospital has cancelled an operation that would
have allowed a young Australian man to demonstrate his deep Christian faith by
donating one of his kidneys to a desperately ill stranger in Toronto.

The case has been closely tracked by an Australian film crew because the
would-be donor, 22-year-old Ash Falkingham, of Sydney, belongs to the
controversial Jesus Christians, the so-called "kidney cult," whose members
believe that giving up an organ to save someone's life is an exemplary act of
devotion to God and humankind.

The Toronto General Hospital cancelled the scheduled transplant following
accusations of religious brainwashing, appeals from Falkingham's mother and
stepfather to stop the surgery, and extensive psychiatric assessments of the man
after his arrival in Canada.

The decision has left the ailing Toronto woman, Sandi Sabloff, "kind of
devastated," she said in an interview Monday. "I'm not in good shape," she said.
She is now consulting a lawyer "to see what my next step is going to be," and
expects "to start looking for another donor."

More than half of the 30 members of the Jesus Christians -- from Britain,
Australia, Kenya and the United States -- have provided a kidney to recipients
around the world, the donations often a source of great ethical agonizing. The
group's Australia-based leader, 60-year-old David McKay, gave one of his kidneys
in 2003 at Minnesota's Mayo Clinic, where a transplant doctor has said there was
"much teeth gnashing" among hospital officials before the operation was
approved.

In keeping with its policy of "absolute confidentiality," the Toronto General
Hospital refused to divulge details about the Falkingham-Sabloff case. But
hospital president Dr. Bob Bell said Monday that when transplant decision-makers
review any proposed surgery, "it is crucial that we maintain total unanimity"
before a donation is approved.

"It's a difficult ethical determination," he said, noting that hospital
officials must be convinced that "the person providing the tissue or organ is
doing it purely for altruistic reasons -- particularly if they don't know the
recipient."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Courtesy, Australian Broadcasting Corporation; Ash Falkingham of
Australia is willing to donate one of his kidneys as a gesture of his Christian
faith to a stranger in Toronto. ;

