                              346 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                          September 14, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Humboldt case highlights folly of two-tier care

BYLINE: The StarPhoenix

SECTION: FORUM; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 655  words


For a government that has warned the country about the dangers of a two-tiered
health system, the situation in Humboldt since July should serve as a wake-up
call.

As reprehensible as it may be that some people would be denied medical care
because they lack the fi nancial resources to pay for the service, it's even
worse when that denial is based on religious beliefs.

In this case, women are being denied a service because members of the hospital
board believe that the Catholic Church -- not the women involved -- should
determine what medical procedures will be provided.

The Saskatchewan Catholic Health Association owns seven hospitals in
Saskatchewan, including the St. Elizabeth in Humboldt and St. Paul's in
Saskatoon.

Although the majority of the capital and operating funds to run these facilities
come from government coffers, they are allowed to offer a separate tier of
services based on an ambiguous set of ethical guidelines that "presents a moral
vision refl ecting Roman Catholic teaching on health ethics as it applies to the
complex ethical issues of contemporary society." According to Jerome Strasser,
chair of the board of governors that runs St. Elizabeth's, sterilization is not
an option when it comes to those complex ethical issues.

The board's orders not to perform tubal ligations at St. Elizabeth strike to the
very heart of the government's insistence on a medicare system that upholds the
fi ve principles of public health -- public administration, comprehensiveness,
universality, portability and accessibility.

For years the provincial government has been raising the spectre of what will
become of the public health-care system in Saskatchewan should private,
for-profi t hospitals be allowed to establish a beachhead here.

The situation in Humboldt drives home the point. Although St.

Elizabeth is primarily funded from the public purse, its board is determining
what sort of services patients can receive. The decision isn't based on medical
evidence or the wishes of the patients or doctors, but on the religious
convictions of board members.

This is not the fi rst Saskatchewan hospital to allow non-medical offi cials to
determine what sort of treatment patients can receive. In Saskatoon, for
example, the health region had to juggle services in order to allow St. Paul's
to discriminate.

This position is immoral, but because there are two other hospitals in
Saskatoon, it at least doesn't deprive patients (in most cases women) from being
able to determine, with the help of their doctors, what to do with their body.

It does bring into question, however, how a publicly funded facility is allowed
to violate basic tenets of the Charter of Rights that include the right of
individuals to determine their own religious beliefs.

The situation in Humboldt is much more grave, however. By denying local women
the right to tubal ligations, the hospital is forcing them to travel to
Saskatoon for the procedure.

And because a clinic in Humboldt performs vasectomies on men, the board's
decision not only discriminates against people of different faiths, but specifi
cally targets the reproductive rights of women.

One can't fault either Strasser or the hospital for the situation, however. The
fault lies with a provincial government that continues to ignore the two-tiered
system it has allowed to exist in the province.

If Catholics are allowed to establish a publicly funded but privately operated
hospital in order to proselytize to their patients, then certainly other groups
should be allowed the same freedom -- even if the hospital is used for the
purpose of allowing health professionals to make a profi t.

And if the latter is unacceptable, certainly the time has come to review the
agreements that allow affi liate hospitals and convert all of Saskatchewan's
facilities to be publicly owned and operated, and universally accessible for a
comprehensive list of services, regardless of religious beliefs.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

