                              349 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             July 14, 1984 Saturday

WHO WILL LIVE?   WHO WILL DIE?

BYLINE: JOHN HASLETT CUFF; GAM

LENGTH: 3091 words


BY  JOHN HASLETT CUFF
    It is ironic that we must unlearn the ethics our parents and society
 have strived so hard to teach us. We have been taught that the truth is
 paramount, yet during our medical training we learn to lie. We lie about
 who we are, pretending to be real doctors, we lie to patients about
 decisions made by attending staff and, at times, their competence, and
 eventually we learn to lie to patients about their diagnoses and prognoses
 . . . Furtiveness, resulting in outright deceit, is taught to us early and
 is reinforced by our mentors. - Ora Platiel, M.D., Canadian Medical
 Association Journal, January 15, 1983
  A
  An emergency room doctor is suddenly faced with two patients, both
 equally in need of immediate medical attention. One of them is a young
 lawyer (and a family man); the other is a retired laborer, an indigent
 with a serious drinking problem. Assuming the doctor can only treat one of
 them, which patient does he choose?

An even more common ethical dilemma occurs frequently in the field of
 organ transplantation. There are always far more needy patients than
 available donors. On what basis does the medical team decide who is to
 receive the life-saving kidney, or heart, or pair of lungs? Far more
 mundane ethical decisions, reflecting what is professionally right and
 wrong are made by doctors and nurses every single working day.

Yet it is only recently that ethics courses have become mandatory at
 some medical schools. Enlightened medical professionals are beginning to
 recognize the need for ethics committees in hospitals to establish some
 sort of moral and practical guidelines for staff members. The range of
 dilemmas they face are growing in number and complexity.

The advent of new life-sustaining technologies, advances in surgical
 transplants, accelerating medical costs, the growth of patient advocacy,
 the legal ramifications of the Charter of Rights and the developing
 professional independence of nurses have all contributed to the current
 prominence of ethical problems. But the crux of the dilemma for medical
 professionals is the tension between adhering to their training, which
 insists they do everything in their power to keep patients alive, while
 remaining cognizant of the cost to the patient in terms of pain and
 suffering, and sensitive to already strained medical resources. Some
 experts feel society cannot afford to keep everyone alive that technology
 enables it to.

Although it's clear that ethics, committees are both desirable and
 inevitable, there is a great deal of uncertainty about how they should be
 constituted and what functions they should perform.

One of the more developed ethics committees in Metro operates under the
 auspices of the Sisters of St. Joseph who administer St. Michael's
 Hospital, St. Joseph's Health Centre and Providence Villa and Hospital. In
 fact, each institution has its own committee but they share some
 resources, including ethicist George Webster.

Working from a small nonsdescript office in St. Michael's, Mr. Webster,
 31, is a sort of philosophical Palladin ("Have ethics will travel") on
 call to the three sister hospitals. He has master's degrees in political
 philosophy and divinity and while completing his studies he worked summers
 as a chaplain at a hospital in Kingston, Ont. Two of the three hospitals
 where he now works had ethics committees before he approached them and
 offered his services as a "resource person in ethics."
    "My basic job," he explains, "is to work in an advisory, consultative
 way. I'm not coming in as a policing person or to make decisions in
 critical life-and-death issues, but as someone who can offer a way of
 thinking about some of the kinds of dilemmas they find themselves in."
    Each of the hospitals has an interdisciplinary ethics committee
 representing physicians, hospital administration, nursing staff, social
 work, chaplaincy, and a moral theologian. They meet monthly, but on a day-
 to-day basis Mr. Webster may be called in to meet with any number of sub-
 committees or groups of physicians.
    "We are not prognosis committees, we don't make decisions about life or
 death. I don't think it's desirable to have committees working in that
 way. The physician-patient relationship is critical, clearly characterized
 by certain responsibilities and obligations. To change that would be a
 real problem, it would erode the kind of trust we would expect to be built
 up in that relationship," Mr. Webster says.

Yet that sacrosanct relationship, in which the physician is
 unquestionably dominant, is the core of many of the eithical issues being
 raised. It is being challenged by patient advocacy groups and even some
 dissident doctors who are concerned about the ethics of their profession.
 "You get the feeling you've forfeited all your rights, even as a human
 being, when you go into a hospital," says Anne Coy, who is president and
 co-founder of the Patients' Rights Association.

Mrs. Coy became a patient advocate when her husband died after hospital
 treatment. While being treated for bursitis, he developed a gastric ulcer
 from which he died, she says.

Mrs. Coy is careful to explain that she is not out for revenge, she
 simply wants to establish greater accountability on the part of doctors
 and provide some form of redress for patients. She feels that ethics
 committees, if they have community representation are an improvement over
 present complaint procedures.
    "I was intimidated about going to the College (of Physicians and
 Surgeons of Ontario), and the insulting reception I got angered me. I
 thought I was just doing my duty as a citizen in asking them to monitor
 the use of this drug," Mrs. Coy recalls. "They have an impenetrable armor
 at the College, they don't believe that among 13,000 physicians anyone
 could be substandard."
    The college is the regulatory body governing physicians. When
 contacted, a spokesman said: "The college has no position on ethics
 committees. They come under the public hospitals act and are not within
 our jurisdiction."
    Dr. Cynthia Carver (author of Patient Beware) believes ethics
 committees should be "pro-active" and provide some form of ombudsman for
 patients. "The person who is most in the dark is the patient," she says.
 "Patients are not always fully aware of the consequences of operative
 forms and procedures. They have a right to know who is responsible for
 their care, who has the scalpel in hand. All these kinds of issues are
 ethical and patients need a route of access, someone to turn to."
    But there is a great deal of resistance within the profession to the
 idea of ethics committees. One doctor who wishes to remain anonymous,
 noted: "Doctors have their vested interest, they're leery of outside
 control. You're not one of the boys if you talk too much about ethics,
 especially in some of the community hospitals."
    Humber Memorial Hospital is one community facility that does have an ad
 hoc ethics committee, but it was formed to deal only with one specific
 issue - resuscitation. "It's probably the commonest problem people have to
 face in hospitals," says Dr. Derek Davidson who is chairman of the
 committee and chief of medicine at the hospital. "When do you resuscitate
 a patient who is dying? When do you not? There's a lot of uncertainty and
 conflicting advice about how to deal with the question. Lawyers tell us
 that everyone must be resuscitated, generally speaking."
    "And because the process is a form of assault, it's not easy to
 resuscitate when you recognize that it won't accomplish anything. People
 who aren't familiar with the procedure think of resuscitation as something
 they see on television - it isn't. It's much like taking a dead body,
 throwing it on the floor, hitting it with a baseball bat and putting an
 airhose down his throat while you electrocute him at the same time," Dr.
 Davidson explains. "Yet there is a common perception that this is
 something we should do; we mustn't stop and must never let go."
    The committee was formed about a year ago to try and provide some
 guidance on this issue. "We attempted to create a policy whereby people
 ahead of time might be identified as people who should not be
 resuscitated. But who decides this? Can the doctor alone decide this?
 Should the doctor and patient or doctor and family decide together? It's
 really the only major ethical problem we have to deal with and I guess
 there's really no answer, no clear cut guidelines," Dr. Davidson said.

Another issue that hospitals have to face and make an ethical decison
 on is force feeding, where the patient is no longer able to eat or drink
 normally and may not even be competent to help with the decision. This is
 common in long term, chronic care facilities, such as Providence Villa
 hospital where ethicist George Webster has had to confront this issue more
 than once.

The question "is whether one is prolonging living or prolonging dying.
 There's a fair consensus among ethicists that the whole question of
 artificial feeding is very difficult given that the provision of food is
 one of the most basic kinds of things we do for a patient. I think it may
 not be obligatory morally for an individual to be force-fed by tube
 against his will, or in a situation where one would simply be prolonging
 an inevitable and imminent death. I don't think that's desirable at all. I
 think we can do as much violence to the notion of sanctity of life by
 needlessly prolonging someone in their dying."
    Both Dr. Davidson and Mr. Webster are in agreement that the role of
 ethics committees should be restricted, functioning primarily as a forum
 for discussion of issues and as an educational tool. "I find it difficult
 to conceive of an ethics committee creating rules that people must be
 bound to follow," Dr. Davidson says. "Committees can't decide about
 individual patients and that's the difficulty. Ethical decisions are
 always about individual patients, but it's hard to get a committee to make
 decisions. The problems are becoming bigger and bigger and we don't have
 any answers for them. But it will always come back to the individual case
 and the decision will always finally rest on the people involved."
    Another doctor, who wishes to remain anonymous, says the decision to
 stop treatment is often reached informally. "I've pulled the plug on
 patients, usually in consultation with other doctors. We'd been dealing
 with the relatives for some time and you're aware when families don't give
 a damn or don't want the patient to suffer any more, we take that into
 consideration. It's a kind of informal ceremony, we just looked at each
 other and we didn't know who'd do it, but someone did. Someone cut down
 the I.V. to below minimum, the patient got pneumonia and died."
    Such informality has no place in the area of hospital research,
 however. In teaching hospitals such as Toronto General and the Hospital
 for Sick Children there are ethics committees who make decisions case by
 case on every single application for research.

The Human Subjects Review Committee at the Hospital for Sick Children
 is chaired by Dr. Doug Biggar and has been in existence since 1977. In
 many ways it might serve as a model for how ethics committee can function.
 It is composed of a variety of experts from different disciplines within
 the hospital but also includes law professor Bernard Dickens and a lay
 person, Mary Pat Armstrong. Its mandate is to review all applications for
 studies dealing with children, which may include: trials of drugs which
 are projected to be better than ones already in use; psychological
 evaluations and tests; comparison of surgical procedures; feeding
 techniques for newborns and a whole range of scientific investigations.

Dr. Biggar emphasizes that there are several major concerns that must
 be reviewed before an application for research is accepted. Besides
 rigorously evaluating the studies on a purely scientific level, the
 committee must "make sure that the work being done doesn't interfere with
 the care of the patients, the benefits are real and it doesn't interfere
 with the parents' relationship with the child," he says. "We feel it's
 important also that the parents really understand what's being attempted.
 No matter how trivial the study, parents have a right to know and a right
 to say no."
    Mary Pat Armstrong was invited to join the committee as a community
 representative and she has had first-hand experience with the problems of
 being the parent of a very sick child. "Parents have a very strong right
 to speak up. If they want to be with their child or want to be part of the
 treatment, generally speaking they have a right to. The parent knows the
 patient best and there are times when the clinical progress is best
 observed through the subtleties of their behavior, not everything is black
 and white in medicine. You can't always get the full story from a
 temperature or blood pressure," Mrs. Armstrong says.
    "I'm the first occasion in which a parent has been on the committee. I
 feel my role is really important and it's just now being recognized that
 parents and family are an important part of the team."
    One of the most difficult ethical problems in the area of research and
 treatment of patients is consent. Bernard Dickens, a professor of law at
 the University of Toronto and an expert in the area of medical ethics
 explains: "There is apprehension about what one can do regarding
 incompetent patients, who can't give their consent for research that would
 not benefit them in any way, but may benefit future sufferers of a
 condition that they have. We're very reluctant to offer these patients to
 research. But investigators of Alzheimer's disease, for example, are
 agonized that they are dealing with a very disabling disease that will,
 with an aging population, affect more and more people. And they can only
 do the research on people that have the condition. But these people can't
 give consent, they're not competent. How then do you do the research?"
    Mr. Dickens agrees that ethics committees have an increasingly
 important role to play. "They widen the range of references that
 physicians turn to in facing challenges from the broader community.
 Doctors will have to have recourse to different decision-making processes.
 It may also mean that under a new system of more structured decision
 making, in which reasons have to be given and justified, doctors will have
 more confidence in the decisions that they make, than they enjoy now," he
 says.

Accompanying the higher awareness of patients' rights and ethics is a
 greater tendency to lawsuits and both doctors and nurses are aware of
 their vulnerability. "The right to life, liberty and security (in Canada's
 charter), clearly affect health. The right not to be deprived of life
 means that medical decisions cannot be arbitrary, they've got to be open
 to explanation and challenge. Increasingly one finds that patients use
 litigation to reinforce their wishes and seek compensation when their
 wishes are disregarded by perfectly conscientious, perfectly ethical
 doctors," says professor Dickens.

But nurses are in a similar dilemma, caught between patients and
 doctors. Historically, they have been perceived as "handmaidens" to
 physicians, but in recent times they have been establishing their
 professional independence and a corollary to that is greater
 accountability, brought to light most dramatically in the Grange
 Commission's investigation of deaths at the Hospital for Sick Children.
 The Canadian Nurses' Association is currently drawing up a revised code of
 ethics for ratification in l985 and nursing staff is almost always
 represented on ethics committees.
    "Nurses have to make value judgments, whether to act or not act, all
 the time," says Jeanette Rodger, executive director of the CNA. "Nurses
 are there 365 days of the year and they are in contact with the over-all
 life of the patient. In nursing we care for the patient from the bio-
 psycho-social perspective, not only the physiological aspects."
    Not only does a nurse have personal and professional ethics to consider
 in treating a patient but he or she must also be acutely aware of the
 consequences. It is not simply enough to follow the doctors' orders. A
 nurse in Alberta lost her licence for doing just that. She was ordered to
 give a seriously handicapped child a dose of medication she felt was
 lethal so she questioned the order and the doctor revised it. It was still
 a dangerous dosage and the child died. Subsequently, both the nurse and
 the doctor lost their licences after a review of the case.
    "There is a growing perception of the separate professionalism of
 nurses," says professor Dickens. "Also nurses have to act as advocates for
 their patients, against the doctors. Nurses are having to get insurance
 protection (against malpractice), but the problem with that is if they're
 insured, they're worth suing. And what we're finding is that a number of
 doctors who are sued are saying they weren't at fault, the nurse was. So
 the nurses are being fired at, not just by the patients, but by the
 doctors. But it goes with being a professional."
    Adds Jeanette Rodger:"Nurses are very sensitized to the legal
 consequences of everything they do, it only takes a case or two for
 everybody to get nervous."
    According to the Law Reform Commission in a 1982 report: ". . . (a)
 good proportion of the medical profession and of hospital personnel are in
 the unfortunate position of not knowing the precise content of their legal
 duties, and of being entirely dependent in this respect on the Crown's
 discretion not to initiate legal proceediings."
    Considering the extensive number and variety of medical, legal and
 ethical dilemmas present and imminent, it seems surprising that so few
 hospitals have formal ethics committees. However all hospitals do maintain
 committees of some kind. North York General is a good example, with some
 16 different groups. "There's a feeling here that ethical issues can be
 dealt with by existing committees. Ethical issues are often in specific
 areas where committee members have expertise," a spokesman says.

But even medical professionals who are sceptical about the efficacy of
 ethics groups recognize that they are inevitable, and given the immensity
 of some of the dilemmas their role can only expand. But "committees will
 only evolve into decision making bodies with the agreement of the doctors
 they affect. It may be that de facto, they will become influential in the
 decisions that they make but they will have to be very careful," warns
 professor Dickens.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1984 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


