                              347 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Herald (Harare)

                               November 26, 2015

Role of Internet in Healthcare

LENGTH: 1007 words


You wake up feeling a slight tickle in your throat. You try and shake it off and
drink lots of water. After a few hours, it's still there. Instead of calling
your mom or making an appointment with the doctor, you head to the Internet.
Today, anyone with a computer and a connection can get online and find a variety
of results, ranging from simple sore throat to the more serious, like bronchitis
and asthma.

The information technology revolution is being described as the most important
development in the history of humankind since the industrial revolution.
Characterised as "The Third Wave" by Alvin Toffler, in his book of the same
title.

The computer, invented initially to process information, slowly grew into a
storehouse of information. This network further acquired the capability of
distributing electronically processed information to all and sundry, overcoming
every conceivable form of barriers, including geographical and political. Today,
it is a global collaborative medium and a rich resource of information of all
kinds -- science, technology, research, education, and commerce.

With continuing advances in information and communication technology, the
applications of computers in medicine have increased rapidly, and have the
potential to revolutionise healthcare. By re-architecturing the workplace around
computer-based technology, doctors, researchers, and other healthcare providers
are creating a new vision of work and organisation

Doctors and hospitals are on the social media bandwagon

A Pricewaterhouse Cooper conducted survey asked over a thousand patients and
over a hundred healthcare executives what they thought of the way many
healthcare companies are utilising social media and the Web, results show the
most trusted resources online are those posted by doctors (60 percent), followed
by nurses (56 percent), and hospitals (55 percent).

Social media is becoming more and more utilised by hospitals and medical
professionals as a means to convey general health information, sometimes even
personalised help. Amanda Mauck, Interactive Marketing Specialist for Le Bonheur
Children's Hospital, thinks engaging with patients via social media is a great
way to empathise with those who need comfort, not just provide relevant health
news.

"When a family posts a comment about a medical issue, we like to encourage the
family to email our general account. We do this for a couple of reasons: One, to
protect that patient's privacy, and two, it is easier to put the family in touch
with the right person on our team for help," Mauck explains.

The challenges to Internet

healthcare

Of course there's a downside to doctors becoming too available online. The
Internet is almost always the opposite of private -- sensitive subjects like
physical and mental ailments can easily be revealed by the person suffering from
them or the doctor treating them through a tweet or a comment. Social
relationships between doctor and patient can also be easily muddled; many health
institutions discourage staff from "friending" patients on Facebook and other
social media platforms at the risk of jeopardizing treatment as well as
reputations.

The Wall Street Journal mentions a survey published in the Journal of General
Internal Medicine back in 2011 that revealed 35 percent of respondents who are
practicing physicians have received friend requests from patients on their
personal social network accounts, and 58 percent of them always reject them.

Key issues include defining the essence of the patient-provider relationship,
establishing guidelines and training for practicing online medicine and therapy,
setting standards for ethical online research, determining guidelines for
providing quality healthcare information and ethical conduct for medical and
health websites.

This ethical responsibility to patients is often in direct conflict with the
business model of generating profits. Healthcare professionals involved in
Medical Internet Ethics need to define the scope of competent medical and
healthcare on the Internet. The emerging ethical issues facing medicine on the
Internet, the current state of medical ethics on the Internet and questions for
future directions of study in this evolving field are reviewed in this paper.

ZOL Zimbabwe is proud to be the official internet service provider for ICASA
2015 along with Liquid Telecoms Zimbabwe. This is the 18th ICASA conference and
is the biggest AIDS conference in Africa with over ten thousand local, regional
and international delegates. The conference theme "AIDS in Post 2015 Era:
Linking Leadership, Science & Human Rights" engages the whole continent and all
stakeholders in the post MDG framework, where sustainability of the response in
reaching 90, 90, 90 of UNAIDS will not be possible if Human Rights are not key
priority for a new vision of leadership in the context of strengthening the
application of science based evidence.

The 18th ICASA is an opportunity to renew this global commitment by drawing the
world's attention to the fact that the legacy is now under threat as a result of
the global economic downturn. This year's ICASA is an opportunity for the
international community, and all Africans, to join efforts in committing to
achieving an AIDS-free Africa. Given the urgency of the issue we are
anticipating 7 000 -- 10 000 of the world's leading scientists, policy makers,
activists, PLHIV, government leaders -- as well as a number of heads of state
and civil society representatives -- will be joining the debate on how to
achieve this vision.

The conference will be chaired by Dr Ihab Abdel Rhaman Ahmed, an epidemiologist
and president of the Society for AIDS in Africa (SAA). It will be co-chaired by
Drs Pagwesese, David Parirenyatwa, Health and Child care Minister representing
the Government of Zimbabwe.

The conference will be an excellent opportunity to promote inter-sectoral
achievements in the AIDS response and to strengthen the partnership among
governments, civil society, and development partners.

ZOL On! You deserve to live like this.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


