                              37 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

Response to ethical challenges in healthcare bodies sought

SECTION: Vol. XXIII No. 299

LENGTH: 427  words


Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, pointed out at a symposium
organized by the Aga Khan University Hospital on Saturday.

They were unable to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence how a
health care organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily
to clinical ethics.

Additionally, ethics committees was not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.

It was pointed out that addressing these issues often falls beyond the scope of
conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to clinical service,
research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs.

Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated
and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr. Robyna Khan,
Assistant Professor, AKU.

She was speaking as Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics Committee Symposium held at Aga
Khan University.

In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Center for
Ethics in Health Care in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects.

"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
Integrated Ethics empowers organisations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do", she said.

Professor Murad Khan, Chair, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described various
components of organisational ethics.

"As part of an organisational approach to ethics, committees should address
matters such as conflict of interest issues, resource allocation, appointments
and promotions as well as support other ethical activities in their
institution."

The Symposium provided an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical
issues in organisations, and identify the role of leaders, faculty,
administration and staff in formulating and implementing solutions. Summarising
the discussions Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of organisational
culture, leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success in an
integrated ethics approach.

Other notable speakers at the Symposium included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus
Hospital, Ameena Saiyid, Managing Director, Oxford University Press, Professor
Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr
Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon, Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


