                              352 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           August 13, 2014 Wednesday

WHO backs use of untested drugs for virus

BYLINE: Nick Cumming-Bruce, Alan Cowell

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 451 words


The World Health Organisation yesterday endorsed the use of untested drugs to
combat the Ebola virus, just hours after a Spanish priest who had been supplied
with experimental medication became the first European to die in the world's
worst known outbreak of the disease.

No proven cure or vaccine exists for the Ebola virus, which the WHO says has
killed 1,013 people in four west African countries: Guinea, Liberia, Nigeria and
Sierra Leone. About half of the people infected in the outbreak, first reported
in March, have died. Last week, the WHO declared the outbreak a global health
emergency. The Spanish priest, Miguel Pajares (75), worked in a hospital in
Liberia and was the first European to return home after being infected with
Ebola.

Citing medical confidentiality rules, hospital officials in Madrid declined to
say whether the priest had been treated with the experimental drug, ZMapp, made
in the United States, but the Spanish health ministry said it had obtained it
for him.

Ethical questions The provision of ZMapp, a previously untested drug in
extremely limited supply, to foreign aid workers evacuated from west Africa has
raised broad ethical questions about the disparities in treatment between white
outsiders and the Africans who form the overwhelming majority of the victims.

Two US aid workers, Dr Kent Brantly and Nancy Writebol, who were evacuated to
Emory University Hospital in Atlanta, received the drug as well, prompting
questions from some African officials about why their nations had not received
it.

Yesterday the government of Liberia announced it would receive ZMapp after a
request to the United States by its president, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. It said
the drug would be used to treat two doctors battling for their lives against the
Ebola virus.

Supply 'exhausted' That would be the first known use of the drug to treat
Africans, but it also might be the last for a little while. The manufacturer,
Mapp Biopharmaceutical, said it had complied with a request received over the
weekend from a west African nation, though it noted in a statement that the
available supply of the drug was now "exhausted".

In Geneva, the WHO convened an ethics panel on Monday to debate the broader use
of untested drugs. In a statement on its website yesterday, it said that given
"the particular circumstances of this outbreak," the panel had reached a
consensus that "it is ethical to offer unproven interventions with as
yet-unknown efficacy and adverse effects, as potential treatment or prevention".

The panel said the use of untested drugs should be guided by ethical criteria,
informed consent of the patient, freedom of choice and patient confidentiality.

- (New York Times service)

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


