                              360 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Times of India (Electronic Edition)

                             June 15, 2017 Thursday
                                 Mumbai Edition

Hosp won't pull down hoarding on 'docs' cut'

SECTION: TIMES CITY

LENGTH: 362 words


A city hospital has refused to remove a hoarding it put up about cut practice
despite the Indian Medical Association's (IMA) displeasure.

The IMA had written to the hospital, asking it to remove the hoarding near the
airport that said, 'Honest Opinion. No Commission to Doctor'. Dr Ramakant Panda,
vice chairman of the Asian Heart Hospital that put up the hoarding, said he had
received calls from IMA members as well in this regard. \x93But we also got
positive feedback from many young doctors who are unable to set up their own
practice because of cut practice,\x93 he said.

On Tuesday , the heart institute wrote to the Maharashtra Medical Council with
38 doctors signing the letter.

Dr Jayesh Lele of the state IMA said his association is against cut practice but
the hoarding is nothing but an advertisement. \x93The ethical ru

les of advertising should be applied here. How can an ad blame others and
suggest that it is the only hospital being ethical?'' asked Dr Lele.

He said the national IMA as well as several other medical associations will take
up the issue further.

Meanwhile, Dr Sanjay Nagral, transplant surgeon and editorial board member of
the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, said cut practice is medicine's worst kept
secret. \x93Cut practice is widely prevalent. It is a public-interest issue
because it affects the cost of care; doctors and hospitals factor in the
commission while making a patient's bill. Moreover, it also affects the quality
of care. It isn't the best specialist who is recom

mended to you, but the one who pays the biggest commission,\x93 he said.

He said cut practice has become a bigger problem than before. \x93It is not only
widely prevalent, it has changed from being a payment from one doctor to another
doctor to assume an industrial proportion. Now, hospitals are doing it,'' said
Dr Nagral. \x93Cut practice has now become the centre of healthcare.\x93

The Asian Heart Institute's letter to the Maharashtra Medical Council said,
\x93We appeal to you to aggressively peruse and eliminate this unethical
practice. All doctors should unite to curb this menace and will be happy to
extend our full support to MMC in this endeavour.\x93

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


