                              362 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            October 25, 1988 Tuesday

The cost of health

BYLINE: John O'Brien-Bell; GAM

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: Ottawa ONT


Re Doctors Debate Intensive Care Of Tiniest Infants (Oct. 17):
   The Canadian Medical Association's 1984 Task Force on the Allocation Of
Health-Care Resources studied the economic costs and benefits from birth
to expected death in two groups of premature infants: those between 500
and 999 grams and those between 1,000 grams and 1,495 grams. The results
showed the survival rates in life years per live birth had been
substantially increased with the introduction of neonatal intensive-care
units.

However, these survival rates have been obtained at a considerable
increase in the costs of both hospital treatment and subsequent health
care. The cost from birth to hospital discharge of survivors was $102,500
for the 500-to-999-gram group and $59,500 for the 1,000-to-1,499-gram
group (in 1978 Canadian dollars). These costs were offset by future
earning ability in the 1,000-to-1,499-gram group, but in the 500-to-999-
gram group, health costs clearly outweighed future earning ability.

The task force pointed out "one of the moral issues facing society
today when it approaches the problem of trying to attach an economic value
to the use of a new technology."

With the introduction of cost-containment policies by provincial
governments, Canadians are seeing increasing rationing of their health
services and doctors are finding themselves with increasingly frequent
ethical dilemmas. The recent Ethics Conference on Infants at McGill
University focused attention dramatically on the ethical pressures that
politicians and bureaucrats are placing on health professionals. To meet
budgetary restraints, doctors are expected to make the decision on which
patient may or may not receive rationed services. Politicians avoid
responsibility by glibly maintaining that as they provide the hospital
with a budget, it is not their responsibility to decide how the hospital
spends the money.

While it is important to use health-care dollars in the most efficient
way, economic effectiveness should not be the basis for acceptance of new
technology. As the CMA task force said: "The job of medicine and society
at large is to protect life and ease pain and suffering, and not to
quantify."

What is distressing about the reports from the McGill conference is
that ministers of health are making economies and care is no longer the
bottom line in the delivery of services. Hamilton neonatologist Dr. John
Watts is right in believing that it is not appropriate to deny medical
treatment to an entire class of patients for economic reasons. Doctors
should continue to provide what Mr. Justice Emmett Hall enunciated as the
basic premise of medicare, namely the delivery of the highest possible
standard of care to Canadians. If unable to do so, doctors should see that
the public clearly understands that it is government, not health
professionals, who are responsible for the rationing of health care.
  John O'Brien-Bell
 President
 Canadian Medical Association
  Ottawa

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1988 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


