                              355 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2014 American Society of Law, Medicine &
                                     Ethics
                       Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics

                                  Spring, 2014

                      Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics

                            42 J.L. Med. & Ethics 88

LENGTH: 3756 words

INDEPENDENT ARTICLE: The "Permanent" Patient Problem

NAME: Courtenay R. Bruce and Mary A. Majumder

BIO: Courtenay R. Bruce, J.D., M.A., received her doctorate of jurisprudence
from University of Houston Law Center (Houston, Texas) and a Master's in
Bioethics from Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. Mary A.
Majumder, J.D., Ph.D., received her doctorate of jurisprudence from Yale Law
School in New Haven, Connecticut and her doctorate in religious studies from
Rice University in Houston, Texas. Both authors are Assistant Professors of
Medicine and Medical Ethics at the Center for Medical Ethics & Health Policy at
Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, Texas and Clinical Ethicists for Houston
Methodist Hospital System in Houston, Texas.

HIGHLIGHT: Patients who enter the health care system for acute care may become
"permanent" patients of the hospital when a lack of resources precludes
discharge to the next level of post-acute care. Legal, professional, and ethical
norms prohibit physician and acute care hospital "dumping" of these patients.
However, limitless use of hospital resources for indefinite stays is untenable.
In the absence of hospital policy addressing this specific issue, the
availability of financial support will be determined by health care
professionals' willingness to advocate for the patient and negotiate with
hospital administrators and the ability and willingness of administrators to
authorize the use of hospital resources. We propose five mid-level ethical
principles to guide advocacy and administrative decision-making about provision
of financial support for post-acute care for those patients who cannot afford
it. We use two actual, de-identified cases to illustrate how these principles
can be used to make reasoned, consistent decisions about the provision of
post-acute financial support.

TEXT:
 [*88]  Introduction
Patients who enter the health care system for acute care may become "permanent"
patients of the hospital when a lack of resources precludes discharge to the
next level of post-acute care.  n1 The care of these patients contributes to the
rising costs of health care and will remain largely unaffected by the Affordable
Care Act.  n2 For example, some resources may be available for treatment of
undocumented persons, but Medicaid enrollment is unavailable for this
population.  n3 Even where patients have access to Medicaid, it takes up to
three months between applying for and actually receiving Medicaid benefits.
During that time, patients may be ready for hospital discharge. However,
post-acute care facilities have no financial incentive or legal obligation to
accept patients with no insurance or only pending Medicaid coverage.  n4

   Legal and ethical norms prohibit physician and hospital "dumping" of these
patients. For example, the Medicare and Medicaid Conditions of Participation
require hospitals to engage in appropriate discharge planning and transfer
patients with continuing care needs only to "appropriate" facilities.  n5
However, limitless use of hospital resources for indefinite stays is
increasingly untenable.  n6 Care coordination, a national priority, "requires
that each patient's needs for care are matched with the appropriate level of
service," implying that post-acute care should be provided in a post-acute
setting.  n7 Unfortunately, there has been no parallel commitment of federal and
state resources to ensure that care transitions take place in a timely manner.
n8 Aside from legally requiring health care professionals to include patients in
discharge discussions and provide them safe discharges to "appropriate"
post-acute care facilities, the parameters of additional legal obligations
remain unclear.  n9

   Apart from legal requirements, acute care hospitals have a number of
ethically significant reasons for considering payment for care beyond the acute
care setting, at least in some cases. First, most hospitals, especially those
that are non-profit, affirm a commitment to community health.  n10 Thus, they
are not exclusively concerned with acute care services. Further, it may be more
costly to the hospital to keep patients on the floor than to pay for their care
in another setting.  n11 Finally, financial support for post-acute needs may be
necessary for the hospital care to be efficacious.  n12 Yet, in our experience
(confirmed by a review of hospital charitable care policies available online),
payment for post-acute care is generally not addressed in hospital financial
assistance policies.

   In the absence of hospital policy addressing this issue, the availability of
financial support will be determined by health care professionals' willingness
to advocate for the patient and negotiate with hospital administrators and the
ability and willingness of administrators to authorize the use of hospital
resources. Thus, the permanent patient problem creates ethical challenges for
health care professionals and hospital administrators as they attempt to
reconcile competing obligations. Respect for patient autonomy may support
continued inpatient hospitalization  [*89]  if that is what the patient desires.
n13 On the other hand, health care professionals and hospital administrators
have a responsibility to be good stewards of health care resources.  n14 Health
care professionals may believe that keeping patients in the hospital when acute
care is no longer medically necessary violates their professional integrity.
Hospital administrators have a legitimate self-interest in a sustainable
business model.  n15 Finally, patients may not benefit, and in fact may
experience harm, from a prolonged hospital stay (e.g., risks of nosocomial
infection), but that must be weighed against the potential harm that would occur
if they are discharged and unable to secure appropriate follow-up care.  n16

   Currently, guidance does not exist for health care professionals and hospital
administrators to make well-reasoned and consistent decisions about advocacy and
payment for post-acute services.  n17 We propose five mid-level ethical
principles to guide health care professional advocacy and administrative
decision-making about provision of financial support for post-acute care for
those patients who cannot afford it. We use two actual, de-identified cases, the
case of Ms. A and Mr. B, to illustrate how these principles can be used to make
reasoned, consistent decisions about the provision of post-acute financial
support. No principle has priority, and the failure to satisfy any one principle
significantly weakens the case for advocacy and provision of support.

Clinical Cases
CASE A: While visiting the United States, 37-year-old Ms. A is admitted to the
hospital with complications related to acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) and
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Standard therapy includes 8-12
months of outpatient all-trans-Retinoic acid (ATRA) therapy supplemented with
arsenic trioxide and anti-HTV medications. With continuation of these therapies,
she has an 80% chance of complete remission. Without them, she is expected to
die soon after discharge. None of the alternative, less expensive treatment
regimens for Ms. As APL can deliver a comparable benefit. Ms. A is able and
willing to pay for housing, travel, daily expenses, and some outpatient expenses
in line with her income. She cannot pay for the medications.

CASE B: 52-year-old Mr. B works part-time at a local discount store. After
suffering a debilitating stroke, he is ready to leave the hospital for a local
skilled nursing facility (SNF). It should be possible to eventually transition
him to home, but he is never expected to recover the ability to live
independently. As a part-time worker, he has no health insurance. As a single
adult without dependent children, he does not qualify for Medicaid in his state
of residence. Given his present incapacity, two sisters in another part of the
state have become his surrogate decisionmakers. They insist that their other
obligations prevent them from helping with Mr. B's care, financially and
non-financially. At the same time, they refuse to consent to discharge to a
community SNF that has a contract to provide reduced cost services because they
want the patient discharged to an SNF near to them.

Ethical Principles
The Goals of Care Principle
Health care professionals and hospitals should support only post-acute care that
is evidence-based, necessary to improve, maintain, or minimize deterioration in
the patient's health, and contributes to progress toward reasonable, achievable
goals of care established during the hospitalization.  n18 As noted above,
financial support for post-acute needs may be necessary for care already
provided to be efficacious, and this principle follows from stewardship
obligations on the part of physician and hospital.  n19 Patient autonomy enters
the picture in the reference to established goals of care, since these would
have been determined with patient or surrogate participation.  n20

   Ms. As prognosis with and without treatment make this a particularly
compelling case for advocacy and payment, although this principle would also
support advocacy and payment for necessary and appropriate treatment or services
for patients with a poor prognosis (e.g., hospice). Unlike Ms. A, Mr. B is very
unlikely to recover to his baseline. Nonetheless, the post-acute care in a SNF
is necessary and appropriate and would  [*90]  serve to maintain his health,
thereby satisfying this principle.

The Continuity of Care Principle
The requested support should relate to the same condition(s) and/or specific
diagnoses for which the patient is being treated at the hospital. It is neither
fair nor feasible for physicians and hospitals to take on open-ended obligations
as de facto health insurers to current patients, given that such a practice
could reasonably be expected to erode their ability to fulfill their core
responsibilities to others.  n21 Such an open-ended commitment would privilege
current patients over future patients in a manner that is at odds with fairness
and good stewardship, quickly depleting the hospital's resources.  n22

   Although Ms. A's APL was the primary reason for her admission, her HIV
infection was also treated in the hospital. Treatments for both conditions are
properly considered for further support. In Mr. B's case, SNF care is clearly
related to the condition (stroke) that resulted in his admission. Thus, this
principle is satisfied in both cases. Were Ms. A to develop another condition
post-discharge, for example, glaucoma, the relationship would arguably be too
attenuated (even assuming the HIV infection led to greater susceptibility) for
this principle to be satisfied. Likewise, in the case of Mr. B, the scope (and
limits) of the hospital's financial commitment would need to be clarified in
advance of transfer.

The Shared Responsibility Principle
The patient and/or family members should avoid excessive or inappropriate
demands, agree to continue a diligent search for alternative funding, and make
reasonable contributions to further care. Patients and their proxies may not be
able to significantly offset costs, nor should this be an expectation; rather,
this principle underscores the expectation of patients' and/ or family members'
good faith willingness and responsibility to contribute in ways that they are
able. The idea that patients or their proxies have some responsibilities as well
as entitlements is widely recognized.  n23 The judicious use of the finite
resources available for health care is not an obligation exclusive to
physicians, other health care professionals, and health care institutions.  n24
The preferences of patients or family members do not merit unlimited obligations
to expend organizational resources.

   This principle is clearly satisfied in Ms. A's case. The picture in Mr. B's
case is less clear. Where a patient is able but unwilling to cooperate in the
search for alternative funding or make reasonable contributions to further care,
the ethical justification for health care professional advocacy and hospital
support beyond what is legally required is greatly weakened. As consideration of
contribution moves outward to extended family (as in the case of Mr. B),
responsibility is more limited, although the principle still has some force
(e.g., creating an expectation that family members will complete paperwork
necessary to establish eligibility for disability-related benefits).  n25

The Bridging Principle
The highest priority should be given to support that will serve as a bridge to
other resources. The ethical justification for this principle is similar to the
justification for the continuity of care principle: physicians and hospitals
cannot and should not take on open-ended obligations as de facto health insurers
to current patients.  n26

   In the case of Ms. A, the hospital social worker learned of a clinic in the
patient's home country that could provide anti-HIV drugs and final treatments
for her APL. It is unclear how long Mr. B will need to stay in the SNF and
whether home care will become an option, given the present position of family
members. Further, the fact that Mr. B is ready to leave the hospital before his
eligibility for various disability-related benefits has been clearly
established.

The Cost-Effectiveness Principle
The care for which support is requested should be cost-effective. This principle
is unique in that it involves choosing among different service options and
necessitates a particularized assessment of the wisest use of resources.  n27
Further, assuming the different service options are comparable, the services for
which support is requested should be the least costly to the hospital over the
long run (determined in good faith by hospital administrators), factoring in
supplemental support.

   In Ms. A's case, it is important that none of the alternatives to ATRA-based
therapy can deliver a comparable benefit. In addition, as noted, diligent
efforts led to discovery of other resources for part of Ms. A's care, and the
provision of care on an outpatient basis was much less costly to the hospital
(and much more desirable to the patient) than continued hospitalization. The
availability of other resources in Mr. B's was still in question, and satisfying
the surrogates' demands would increase the hospital's costs in ways not
necessary to meet Mr. B's transitional needs.  n28 Frustration with the family
should not prevent the hospital from exploring the possibility of reaching a
similar financial arrangement with a SNF closer to the family. However, assuming
that no such deal is possible, this principle provides the hospital with reasons
for limiting  [*91]  its offer of financial support to the lowest-cost
appropriate facility, i.e., the local SNF with which it has a contractual
arrangement.

Implementation
We acknowledge that in complex cases such as Mr. B's, professional judgment and
collaboration will be required in ways that may extend beyond the guidance
provided here. We contend that even in these cases, application of the
principles does yield some guidance and structures conversation and
information-gathering efforts, leading to greater consistency in decisions about
advocacy and payment for post-acute services than currently exists.

   In Ms. A's case, all the principles are satisfied, and there is a strong
justification for the health care professionals involved in her care to advocate
for hospital payment for the first few months of outpatient care treatment for
Ms. A, until she is well enough to return to her home country and transition to
care at the clinic there. Likewise, there is a strong justification for hospital
administrators to use resources available for charitable care for this purpose.
In Mr. B's case, the challenge is the absence of good options given the frayed
social safety net. However, the legal and ethical consensus does rule out
discharge to home or a shelter. Further, we can say that absent a more receptive
stance on the part of family members or new information that changes the
picture, health care professionals are not obligated to advocate for
satisfaction of the family members' desires, and the hospital is justified in
limiting its support to the lowest-cost safe discharge plan.

   Proposed federal regulations would require tax-exempt hospitals to develop
written policies concerning financial assistance.  n29 Our framework offers a
starting point for policies that address the possibility of post-acute financial
support. We advocate incorporating principles such as those we propose in a
participatory review process that includes a mechanism for appeal, ideally
involving a patient advocate. Fundamentally, the permanent patient problem with
its associated costs is a societal issue calling for a societal response. We
believe that the problems created by social barriers to discharge should
ultimately be addressed at the federal and state levels, through adoption of
public policies that support appropriate and timely care transitions for all
patients, but there is currently little evidence of movement in this direction.

   In the meantime, we offer physicians and hospital administration one approach
for achieving greater transparency and consistency in decision-making. Further,
we hope that attention to this issue and implementation of policies based on
ethical, clinical, and economic best-practice models will challenge policy
makers to respond in ways that support the mission and legitimate self-interest
of acute care hospitals.

Acknowledgements
Baylor College of Medicine Center for Medical Ethics & Health Policy and Houston
Methodist Hospital Biomedical Ethics Program consists of the following members:
J. Richard Cheney, J.D., Courtenay R. Bruce, J.D., Mary A. Majumder, J.D.,
Ph.D., Adam Pena, M.A., Stacy Pell, M.Div., Charles Millikan, D. Min., Nathan
Allen, M.D., and Harvey Gordon, M.D.

   The authors would like to thank Katelyn Cardenas, L.C.S.W., Baruch Brody,
Ph.D., Amy L. McGuire, J.D., Ph.D., Laurence B. McCullough, Ph.D., and J.
Richard Cheney, J.D., for their thoughtful review and suggestions for the
manuscript. The authors would also like to thank members of the bioethics
committee at Houston Methodist Hospital for participating in the discussion and
development of these proposed principles. Any errors in the manuscript or the
framework presented are our own.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawInsuranceReimbursementGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare
LawSocial SecurityMedicaidProvidersTypesHospitalsPublic Health & Welfare
LawSocial SecurityMedicareProvidersTypesHospitals

FOOTNOTES:





n1  S. Roberts, "Nowhere to Go, Patients Linger in Hospitals, at a High Cost,"
New York Times, January 3, 2012, at A18.





n2  K. D. Vickery, K. Sauser, and M. M. Davis, "Policy Responses to Demand for
Health Care Access: from the Individual to the Population," JAMA 30.9, no. 7
(2013): 665-666. See also R. Kocher, E. Z. Emanuel, and N. A. DeParle, "The
Affordable Care Act and the Future of Clinical Medicine: The Opportunities and
Challenges," Annals of Internal Medicine 153, no. 8 (2010): 536-539. Over half
the states are not moving forward with Medicaid expansion at this time. Kaiser
Family Foundation, "Status of State Action on the Medicaid Expansion Decision,
as of September 30, 2013," available at
<http://kfF.org/health-reform/state-indicator/state-activity-around-expand-ing-m
edicaid-under-the-affordable-care-act> (last visited February 11, 2014).





n3  Some have argued that medical repatriation may be acceptable ethically as
well as legally, but only if the patient gives full and informed consent. M. G.
Kuczewski, "Who Is My Neighbor? A Communitarian Analysis of Access to Health
Care for Immigrants," Theoretical Medicine and Bioethics 32, no. 4 (2011):
327-36. See also K. Parsi and N. Hossa, "Complex Discharges and Undocumented
Patients: Growing Ethical Concerns," Journal of Clinical Ethics 23, no. 4
(2012): 299-330; V. Agra-harkar, "Deporting The Sick: Regulating International
Patient Dumping by U.S. Hospitals," Columbia Human Rights Law Review 41 (2010):
569-600.





n4  K. Snow, J. Klein, and D. Stephens, "Health Care Laws Leave Hospitals
Overwhelmed by 'Permanent Patients,'" Rock Center, April 24, 2012, available at
<http://rockcenter.nbcnews.com/_news/2012/04/24/H371569-health-care-laws-leave-
hospitals-overwhelmed-by-permanent-patients?lite> (last visited February 11,
2014).





n5  Condition of Participation: Discharge Planning, in Hospital Conditions of
Participation: Quality Assessment & Performance Improvement Final Rule (68 F.R.
3435); published January 24, 2003, effective March 25, 2004, as amended at 69
F.R. 49268, August 11, 2004; 42 C.F.R. § 482.43 (2011); Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, "Revisions to State Operations Manual (SOM), Hospital
Appendix'A -Interpretive Guidelines for 42 C.F.R. 482.43, Discharge Planning,"
available at
<http://www.cms.gov/Medicare/Provider-Enrollment-and-Certification/SurveyCertifi
cationGenInfo/Downloads/Survey-and-Cert-Letter-13-32.pdf> (last visited February
11, 2014). See also V. Agraharkar, "Deporting The Sick: Regulating International
Patient Dumping by U.S. Hospitals," Columbia Human Rights Law Review 41 (2010):
569-600; J. J. Sangerman and J. T Levy, "The Attorney's Role in the Hospital
Discharge Planning Process for the Elderly," New York State Bar Association
Journal 65, no. 22 (1993); Montejo v. Martin Memorial Medical Center, 874 So.2d
654,657 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 2004); R. Winton and C. M. DiMassa, "L.A. Files
Patient 'Dumping' Charges," Los Angeles Times, November 16, 2006, available at
<http://articles.latimes.com/2006/nov/16/local/me-dumping 16> (last visited
February 11, 2014); A. J. Chipli, "Breathing Life into Discharge Planning,"
Elder Law Journal 13, no. 1 (2005): 1-37; O. Cotera-Perez-Perez, "Discharge
Planning in Acute Care and Long-term Facilities," Journal of Legal Medicine 26,
no. 1 (2005): 85-95.





n6  Wycoff Heights Medical Center v. Louis Rodriguez, 741 N.Y.S.2d 400 (NY. Sup.
Ct. 2002).





n7  National Priorities Partnership, "Input to the Secretary of Health and Human
Services on priorities for the National Quality Strategy," September 1, 2011,
available at
<http://www.qualityforum.org/Setting_Priorities/NPP/Input_into_the_National_Qual
ity_Strategy.aspx> (last visited February 11, 2014).





n8  R. N. Swidler, T Seastrum, and W. Shelton, "Difficult Hospital Inpatient
Discharge Decisions: Ethical, Legal, and Clinical Practice Issues," American
Journal of Bioethics 7, no. 3 (2007): 23-28.





n9  See supra note 8. See also Agraharkar, supra note 3.





n10  American Hospital Association (AHA), "AHA Policies and Guidelines on
Billing, Collections, Tax-Exempt Status, and Community Health," April 29, 2006,
available at
<http://www.aha.org/content/00-10/07nov-billingpolicyguidelines.pdf> (last
visited February 11, 2014).





n11  See, e.g., Swidler et al., supra note 8; see also Snow et al., supra note
4.





n12  See, e.g., Parsi and Hossa, supra note 3; see also Snow et al., supra note
4.





n13  See, e.g., Cotera-Perez-Perez, supra note 5; see also Chipli, supra note 5.





n14  ABIM Foundation, "Medical Professionalism in the New Millennium: A
Physician Charter," February 5, 2002, available at
<http://www.abimfoundation.org/Resource-Center/Bibliog-raphy/-/media/Files/Physi
cian%20Charter.ashx> (last visited February 14, 2014); see also American Medical
Association Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs (CEJA), "Physician
Stewardship of Health Care Resources," 2012, available at
<https://www.ama-assn.org/resources/doc/ethics/ceja-lal2. pdf> (last visited
February 11, 2014).





n15  C. Fasser, A. McGuire, K. Erdman, D. Nadaldo, S. Scott, and V. Waters, "The
Ethics Workup: A Case-Based Approach to Ethical Decision-Making Instruction,"
Journal of Physician Assistant Education 18, no. 1 (2007): 34-41; see also
Center for Medical Ethics and Health Policy, "Ethics Work-Up," September 1,
2011, available at <http://www.bcm.edu/ethics/?pmid=21192> Oast visited February
11, 2014).





n16  See Swidler et al., supra note 8; Parsi and Hossa, supra note 3. See also
T. M. Pope, R. M. Arnold, and A. E. Barnato, "Caring for the Seriously Ill: Cost
and Public Policy," Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics 39, no. 2 (2011): 111-113.





n17  See, e.g., Parsi and Hossa, supra note 3; see, e.g., Snow et al., supra
note 4; see also Winton and DiMassa, supra note 5.





n18  See, e.g., H. Schmidt, "Just Health Responsibility," Journal of Medical
Ethics 35, no. 1 (2009): 21-26; see also Good Stewardship Working Group, "The
'Top 5' Lists in Primary Care: Meeting the Responsibility of Professionalism,"
Archives of Internal Medicine 171, no. 15 (2011): 1385-1390.





n19  Id. (Good Stewardship Working Group).





n20  See, e.g., Cotera-Perez-Perez, supra note 5; see, e.g., Chipli, supra note
5; see also Fasser et al., supra note 15.





n21  See Good Stewardship Working Group, supra note 18; see also Schmidt, supra
note 18.





n22  Id.





n23  American Medical Association, "Code of Medical Ethics. Opinion 10.02 (5),
Patient Responsibilities," June 1, 2001, available at
<https://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/physician-resources/
medical-ethics/code-medical-ethics/opinionl002.page?> (last visited February 11,
2014); see R. Hamowy, "Medical Responsibility," Journal of Law, Medicine &
Ethics 40, no. 3 (2012): 532-545; N. Kontos, J. Querques, O. Freudenreich,
"Fighting the Good Fight: Responsibility and Rationale in the Confrontation of
Patients," Mayo Clinic Proceedings 87, no. 1 (2012): 63-66. See also Schmidt,
supra note 18.





n24  See supra note 23.





n25  See supra note 18.





n26  See Good Stewardship Working Group, supra note 18.





n27  Id.





n28  See, e.g., Cotera-Perez-Perez, supra note 5; see, e.g., Chipli, supra note
5. See also Fasser et al., supra note 15 and supra note 18.





n29  Proposed Rule, 77 Fed. Reg. 38148 (to be codified at 26 C.F.R. § 1.501(r)),
June 22, 2012, available at
<http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2012-08-10/pdf/FR-2012-08-10.pdf> (last visited
February 11, 2014).


