                              357 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Herald (Ireland)

                              July 18, 2008 Friday

Umbilical cord stem cell ban may be lifted

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 476 words


OFFICIAL policy banning the retrieval of cord blood stem cells at Dublin's three
main maternity hospitals could be set to come to an end under new Department of
Health plans.

Since August 2005, official policy at the Rotunda, the Coombe and the National
Maternity Hospital has meant that requests from new mothers for medics to
retrieve stem cells from the umbilical cord have fallen on deaf ears.

But after confirmation from the Department of Health that it has met with
international experts over the possibility of creating a public cord blood stem
cell bank for medicaland research purposes, the official policy ban may now be
overruled.

Since the cord blood stem cell retrieval technology became a reality, a
wide-ranging international debate hasraged over the use of stemcells obtained in
this way.

Those in favour of the medical technique say that cord blood stem cells
significantly improve the chances of using the stem cells in question to help
treat future medical conditions in the newbornbaby or their relatives.

ETHICAL

But opponents have countered by pointing to ethical concerns over the use of
cord blood stem cells and have added that there is not yet enough long-term
research to support the claims made about the technique.

As a result of the increased profile of the cord blood stem cell retrieval --
which has been used in over 10,000 births, mainly in the US -- a risingnumber of
Irish mothers have asked for the procedure when giving birth.

Until recently, they have been told the matter was against hospital policy at
Dublin's three maternity hospitals, with a formal policy clarification signed by
the Masters of the Rotunda, the Coombe, and theNational Maternity Hospital in
August 2005 noting: "There is insufficient scientific researchto support the
procedure of taking cord blood for stem cell retrieval. The three maternity
hospitals do not support requests to take core blood for stem cell retrieval."

However, speaking to the Herald today, the head of the Irish Patients
Association Stephen McMahon said that the Department of Health is now
considering plans to potentially bring the policy to an end.

The Department of Health has confirmed that after consulting international
experts on the matter it is now considering establishing a public bank for the
storage of cord blood stem cells for medicinal and research purposes.

It is continuing to hold meetings with "relevant" interest groups on the matter.

Last week the Department, the HSE, the Irish Blood Transfusion Service and the
Irish Medicines Board metwith international expert Professor Colin McGuckin of
the Institute of HumanGenetics at the UK's Newcastle University to hear the
benefits of freezing cord blood cellsfor future use.

The international expert saidthat the only major hurdle to the plans was the
current financial restrictions in the health service.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


