                              354 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             October 1, 1984 Monday

Staff expert may be a first   MDs, nurses to get ethics advice

BYLINE: DOROTHY LIPOVENKO; GAM

LENGTH: 760 words

DATELINE: Montreal PQ


By  DOROTHY LIPOVENKO
                           Globe and Mail Reporter
  MONTREAL
  WHETHER TO KEEP a patient going to the last possible minute of life is
 one of the many ethical dilemmas facing physicians, nurses and families of
 patients every day. How and by whom these decisions are made depends on
 the particular hospital, but at least one Canadian hospital has taken the
 lead in hiring an "ethicist" to help resolve ethical problems in medical
 treatment.

Dawson Schultz is not a household name in Canada but he will become a
 familiar face to medical staff and patients at the Montreal Children's
 Hospital, as they wrestle with life and death decisions, many made
 possible because of advances in drugs and medical technology.

The hospital's initiative is a first in Canada, according to David Roy,
 director of the Centre for Bioethics in Montreal, who pitched the idea of
 the centre joining with the hospital in the hiring of a staff ethicist.
 Each pays half of the ethicist's salary.

In his white hospital coat, Dr. Schultz can easily pass for a physician
 (which he is not; he earned his doctorate in philosophy) but his presence
 is every bit as valuable.

For 2 1/2 days each week, Dr. Schultz will organize ethics rounds for
 nurses and physicians to review troubling cases and when invited to do so,
 advise families faced, say, with the prospect of withdrawing or
 withholding treatment from a deformed newborn.

He is not expected to deal with routine cases but with the ethical
 problems that arise in neonatal intensive care, cancer drug research and
 organ transplants.

The hospital's executive director, Dr. J. S. Charters, cautions that
 Dr. Schultz's role will be advisory and is not meant to impose answers on
 the staff or patients.
    "We're not doing this because of a crisis," Dr. Charters said in an
 interview. "It's not that ethics is suddenly new but the new medications
 and technology that help patients have created their own set of problems."
    Asked whether a chaplain assigned to a hospital could not serve in the
 same capacity as an ethicist, Dr. Charters replied: "I don't think ethics
 and religion are the same. The rigidity of one doctrine can't help people
 deal with some of the questions. I think it will be a comfort to many
 parents to know the hospital has such a person with whom they can
 consult."
    The hospital intends to let families know about the new service through
 a pamphlet it circulates to newly admitted patients.

A native of Tennessee, with four years of clinical experience as an
 ethicist at Vanderbilt University's medical centre in Nashville, Dr.
 Schultz, 44, took up his new post earlier this month.
    "I don't see myself taking one side or another (in a case) but as an
 interpreter of opposing points of view. You negotiate and help people
 explore all the sides of an issue, such as the possible risks of a certain
 treatment," he said in an interview.

His hiring is the first step in a plan by the Centre for Bioethics to
 train and place ethicists in Canadian hospitals, as is being done in the
 United States.

A consultant on medical ethics to various hospitals, Dr. Roy said the
 idea of placing ethicists - "someone with medical and philosophical
 competence" - in hospitals "has been with me for a long time."
    To that end, he is setting up a bilingual training program for
 ethicists that will begin in September, 1985. It will start with three
 candidates and eventually enroll between 15 and 20 people, Dr. Roy said.

He believes "it is inevitable" that ethicists will be called upon by
 hospitals to shape policy in cases, say, where many patients are competing
 for scarce medical resources, such as an organ transplant or a particular
 piece of equipment.

LETTER TO EDITOR Hospital ethicists

The article Staff Expert May Be A First: MDs, Nurses To Get Ethics Advice  (Oct.
1) reports that Montreal Children's Hospital is the first hospital  in Canada to
hire a staff ethicist.

In fact, the three Toronto hospitals owned and operated by the Sisters
 of St. Joseph, Toronto (St. Joseph's Health Centre, St. Michael's Hospital
 and Providence Villa and Hospital), have had ethicist George Webster on
 staff since June 1, 1982. This was highlighted in a full-page article on
 health care ethics in The Globe and Mail on July 14.

We are proud of the lead we have taken in the field of health- care
 ethics on behalf of Toronto patients; we welcome Montreal's entry to this
 important field some 35 months later.

L. J. Sullivan
  Chairman, Ethics Committee
  St. Joseph's Health Centre
   Toronto
 (Letter to Editor. Nov. 20, 1984.  P6)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1984 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


