                              361 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    April 29, 1995, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

The pursuit of rules to live - and die - by

BYLINE: VANSUN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A26

LENGTH: 725 words


The domino theory, long discredited in international geo-politics, is cropping
up more and more in the fields of privacy and ethics. In the privacy area, each
perceived encroachment on personal privacy is portrayed as a crucial step, the
toppling domino that may set in motion events that will undermine personal
security forever, allowing government or big business or anyone with power or
money to learn our every secret.

On the ethical side, the fear is that the government, or any institution, will
begin making ethical decisions -- life and death decisions -- on behalf of its
citizens, leading inexorably to abuse and ruin.

These concerns are both legitimate and naive. It certainly pays to be vigilant
on privacy issues and to be skeptical when the government promises that a new
incursion into private affairs will go no further. Remember that when the
federal government introduced social insurance numbers they were to be used only
by taxation authorities; now they are listed on almost every financial or
personal document you are asked to fill out. That said, there is no evidence
that this ubiquitousness has turned Canada into a police state.

Ethical issues are more difficult. The federal Senate is currently grappling
with the topic of euthanasia, a report on which is due next month. And the
federal justice department seems paralysed by the recommendations of the Royal
Commission on Reproductive Technology. People are justifiably nervous at the
notion of government making rulings on when life begins or when it can end --
after all, if you stand by while the government endorses euthanasia for the old
and infirm, how long before the definition extends to you or someone you love?

Consider, in this context, the case of Terry Urquhart, a 17-year-old Calgary
youth who has Down's syndrome. Mr. Urquhart has landed uncomfortably in the
middle of an ethical battle because he is claiming his place on the waiting list
for a lung transplant -- a position he was originally denied because he did not
meet the local hospital's policy that transplant recipients must be of
"satisfactory intelligence."

The very term is offensive -- "satisfactory" how, and to whom? And it calls
forth that domino theory: if you let hospital officials give or withhold
services on the basis of their patients' intelligence, how long will it be
before they are giving or withholding on the basis of earning power or sex or
ethnicity? If you push over that first domino, how many more will fall?

The problem is that someone is already making these decisions. The mere
existence of waiting lists means that medical officials are already having to
choose between patients. The question is whether they are making the right
choices for the right reasons.

If the decision were left strictly to doctors, they might be tempted to choose
only the healthiest, fittest, youngest patients who had the best chance of
success. On a crass level, those successes would reflect well on the doctors
themselves and would help them lobby for funding for their very expensive
specialties. Hospital administrators, also jockeying for money and prestige,
might favor patients who could garner the most public sympathy -- photogenic
children, for instance, while politicians might be inclined to give advantage to
their constituents or to people with power and influence.

In any of these cases and whatever method is used to assess priorities, someone
would be denied -- someone will be denied. Providing a service on a
first-come-first-serve basis might hinder the chances of someone whose case is
more urgent. And even assessing urgency becomes subjective.

There is no choice but to play God. Resources are finite and limited. Rather
than decry the insinuation of government into these ethical decisions, we must
insist that government be involved, that such horribly difficult decisions be
made by informed people acting on guidelines that apply to everyone, and that
the guidelines themselves be crafted through thorough public debate.

In the end, hospital officials might still have to tell Terry Urquhart that he
cannot have a lung transplant because his life expectancy is too short, perhaps
even because he does not have "satisfactory intelligence." But everyone should
know the rules, and as many people as possible should endorse them.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1995 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


