                              356 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Sunday Independent

                               September 27, 2015
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

State should help fund IVF, says Rhona Mahony

BYLINE: NIAMH HORAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 484 words


THE master of the National Maternity Hospital, Dr Rhona Mahony, has called on
the Government to look at funding fertility treatment for Irish women who cannot
conceive naturally.

She also described how as a result of the high cost of fertility treatments, a
growing number of Irish couples are seeking unethical treatments abroad, leaving
Irish hospitals to "pick up the pieces".

Speaking to the Sunday Independent, Dr Mahony said there was a strong argument
for supporting women in an "important primal desire".

"I think there is an argument for funding some fertility treatments because it
is very expensive and it is a very important primal desire for women to have a
baby and for couples to have a baby. It is just so heartbreaking when couples
come to the stage where it is really very unlikely that they can have children
naturally. But where there is an opportunity with treatment - and particularly
younger couples - where there is a very specific problem, I do think there is an
argument for funding some, not all, fertility treatment."

Speaking at the inaugural Tiffany Ireland Funds luncheon for women in business
and philanthropy, Dr Mahony acknowledged the struggle for funding within the
health service, but added that it was equally important to recognise the
heartbreak involved for men and women facing infertility problems.

"The State is struggling to fund basic care and we have limited resources. But,
like everything, if you have not had that experience then perhaps you
underestimate the pain that comes with not being able to have a baby."

She also highlighted the fact that couples were being forced to seek out
unethical treatments abroad because of the high cost and difficulty in accessing
fertility treatments here.

"Ethics is very important and, more so, we are seeing women travel outside of
Ireland for all sorts of treatments and that worries me because it is not
absolutely ethical, it is in a commercial domain and then we are left, as a
hospital, to pick up the pieces.

"It can be cheaper internationally, there can be more choice given
internationally, it can be more relaxed in the approach, whereas here I think
many of the fertility units are very ethical and they will not enter into
treatment where they feel there is not a realistic outcome of pregnancy. Whereas
if you travel outside of Ireland you will find that not all clinics are as
ethical and that is a problem, and so you can have people who have many
underlying complications becoming pregnant and there's multiple pregnancy and
that gives risk," she added.

"When you see women who have underlying disease who then become pregnant you see
there is a risk to them and they may not have thought this through - and you owe
a reasonable responsibility of care for anyone who walks in the door. What we
are trying to do is keep women safe and it cannot be the case of reproduction at
any cost. There has to be a balance."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PICKING UP THE PIECES: Holles Street master Dr Rhona Mahony says the
high cost of IVF is forcing women to avail of unethical treatments abroad.
Photo: David Conachy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SDI


             Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


