                              363 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Fresno Bee (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune News Service

                            August 12, 2006 Saturday

Vuich award surprises ex-nurse

BYLINE: Susie Pakoua Vang, The Fresno Bee, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 541 words


Aug. 12--VISALIA -- Margaret Foley, a retired registered nurse and longtime
member of the board of directors at Kaweah Delta Hospital, thought she was
attending a monthly meeting Friday with hospital officials.

But there was no meeting -- just a big surprise.

Foley, 83, walked into the small room filled with a fellow board member, some
hospital staff and cameras clicking away.

"What's going on?" she asked.

Foley was floored when Tulare County Superior Court Judge Valeriano Saucedo told
her she was chosen to receive the ninth annual Rose Ann Vuich Ethical Leadership
Award. Vuich, a native of Dinuba, was the first woman elected as a state senator
in 1976.

"Oh, what an honor," Foley mustered. "I can't believe it."

Vuich is a great lady, Foley said.

"Well, you are, too," chimed Saucedo, who also received the award in 1999. The
award is given annually to someone who has demonstrated exemplary ethical
behavior, integrity and the ability to build consensus and serve public
interest.

The luncheon to honor Foley will be Oct. 12 at the Radisson Hotel in Fresno.
Sunny McPeak will also receive the Excellence in Public Service Award presented
by the Fresno Business Council.

The Rose Ann Vuich Ethical Leadership Award is sponsored by the Kenneth L. Maddy
Institute of Public Affairs, The Fresno Business Council and The Fresno Bee.

Friday's announcement will be another addition to Foley's long resume of
accomplishments and good deeds.

Foley co-founded the Good News Clinic, a Catholic social services clinic in
Visalia that provides free health-care services to the poor.

Foley, who is vice president for the hospital's board of directors, was first
elected to the board 16 years ago.

She has served on several committees, which vary from the senior task force to
child and adolescent mental health.

"Margaret Foley has a wonderful moral compass," said Lindsay Mann, chief
executive officer at Kaweah Delta District Hospital.

He said Foley is constantly questioning what is right for patients, staff and
the community.

Earlier this year, Mann said a group representing about 280 active medical staff
created the Margaret Foley Humanitarian Service Award.

Foley is also a dedicated member of the local St. Paul's Episcopal Church.

"If there's a pancake breakfast, we're all buying tickets," Mann said.

Carl Anderson, fellow board member, joined in on Friday's surprise.

"She and I are on opposite ends of the political spectrum," Anderson said, "but
our friendship and ability to work together transcends that difference."

Foley, who wore a yellow Lance Armstrong bracelet on her right hand, listened
quietly as her colleagues praised her work.

Becoming a registered nurse was something she simply wanted to do when she was
5, she said.

She broke her leg and was at the hospital when she saw a nurse wearing a cute
hat and carrying a set of twins.

"I'm just grateful," Foley said.

The reporter can be reached at svang@fresnobee.com or (559) 622-2409.

Advertisements

Copyright (c) 2006, The Fresno Bee, Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune
Business News. For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call
800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The
Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20060812-FR-0812-Vuich-award-surprises-ex-nurse

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FR


                         Copyright 2006 The Fresno Bee


