                              359 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 4, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HOSPITAL PANELS CONSIDER KEY ETHICS ISSUES

BYLINE: By ANDREW H. MALCOLM

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1751 words


Quietly and without fanfare, hundreds of American hospitals are organizing
internal ethics committees that are coming to play crucial roles in life-
and-death decisions for thousands of patients.

The committees, typically composed of doctors, nurses, administrators, clergy
and social workers, play a number of roles. In many cases these groups are
drafting policy guidelines for such vital decisions as who is connected to
life-saving dialysis machines, when a critically ill patient will not be
resuscitated by machine, when treatment may be withheld from premature infants
and how hospital patients may ask to die.

In many hospitals these committees have already participated in decisions to
maintain treatment of some seriously ill patients despite their wishes, while
letting other patients die at their request.

Such decisions, involving medicine, morality and often intense emotion, are a
growing issue nationwide as medical advances give doctors and patients choices
they did not have just a few years ago. But patients and their families are
often unaware of the existence of ethics committees that can help them in making
a choice.



Opposed by Some Doctors

In many places formation of such committees, whose members are appointed by
hospital administrators or who sometimes simply volunteer out of personal
interest, is opposed by doctors who see them as second-guessers impinging on
physicians' decision-making prerogatives.

The President's Commission for the Study of Ethical Problems in Medicine
estimated that in 1982 less than 1 percent of the nation's 6,915 hospitals had
such groups. Current figures are not available, but Dr. Ronald E. Cranford, one
of the movement's most active leaders, estimates that in just two years the
number has probably mushroomed to nearly 10 percent.

''We are just in the movement's infancy,'' said Dr. Cranford, who practices at
Hennepin County Medical Center in Minneapolis, ''but its strength and direction
are clear.''

Already, for example, 39 of 44 Roman Catholic hospitals in California have
established such committees, and Dr. Cranford said three-quarters of the
hospitals in Minneapolis and St. Paul had set up ethics committees in the past
couple of years.

Governor Cuomo of New York announced last month that he was establishing a
special group to recommend policies on the sort of ethical issues the hospital
committees face.

''Sure, there are many more ethics committees,'' said Mary Babich, a spokesman
for the American Hospital Association. ''The hospitals' awareness of the need
for such committees and the public's awareness of the issue are greater today
even than yesterday. We didn't have a baboon heart in a baby last week. This
week we do. We didn't used to have artificial hearts, and we couldn't keep tiny
premature babies alive. Now we can. But should we?

''With all these new technologies,'' she continued, ''it seems the ethical and
philosophical considerations haven't kept up. And the committees help work this
out.''

Dr. Cranford and others estimate that within five years, virtually every
American hospital will have an ethics committee of some sort. Supporters applaud
this broad grass-roots growth since they feel it precludes eventual government
involvement. But it also means there are no uniform standards for committee
membership or for the policy guidelines and decisions.

Goals of Ethics Committees

The evolving corps of ethics committees seems to focus on a few major goals.
Nearly all stress education, discussing moral and ethical issues with doctors,
nurses, technicians and administrators. In many cases the committees develop
hospital policies and guidelines for modern medical care. And some of the
committees serve in a consulting role, acting as an influential adviser to
doctors and troubled patients or families.

The bioethics committee at St. Joseph Hospital in Orange, Calif., one of the
first in the country, began in 1979 as a discussion group of interested
individuals and grew into a 24-member body (6 doctors, 6 nurses and 12
administrators, technicians and social workers) that drafts hospital ethics
guidelines and dispatches members to meet with doctors and individual patients.

Earlier this year, for example, committee members met at length with a family
and its 62-year-old patriarch, a paralyzed stroke victim connected to a
respirator. The patient wanted the breathing machine turned off. His family did
not.

''Basically, we told him he would die without the respirator,'' said one
committee member, ''and we told them he had no reasonable hope of recovery. Then
we left them to talk. An hour later the family agreed and left. The man said, 'I
still don't want to live like this anymore.' We waited a few more hours to be
sure. We gave him a sedative for comfort and disconnected the machine. He died a
few minutes later.''

Committee members at the southern California hospital do not make the decisions,
but they help those most closely involved make them in an ethical context. In
another case, involving an elderly patient whose body was kept alive only by
machines, the family disagreed with the doctor and wanted treatment
discontinued.

Working With Family and Doctor

Committee members met with them twice in three weeks, supporting the doctor's
desire to try different treatments. But after a month with no change in the
patient's condition, the family and the physician, with the committee's help,
agreed that further treatment was futile.

Dr. Kirk Keegan, a member of the committee, conceded that most colleagues viewed
such panels as a threat, despite their endorsement by medical associations.
''The committee helps me consider all aspects of treatment,'' said Dr. Keegan,
who has taken cases of his own to the committee. ''There's a lot more to
medicine now than just medicine.''

The group at St. Joseph and its close involvement with individual cases are not
representative of all ethics committees: Some never get beyond monthly
lunch-hour ethical debates. Sister Corrine Bayley, a vice president of St.
Joseph Hospital who helped found the program there, is now assembling an
educational curriculum for other hospitals to use in setting up similar
committees.

Just as the roles of such committees vary, so do the attitudes toward them on
the part of the medical establishment. On the same day that spokesmen for one
California hospital were willing to discuss committee cases, an anxious Chicago
doctor, saying he faced dismissal, called to retract a statement from a recent
interview. The retracted statement said, ''Our hospital is considering an ethics
committee.''

''You must understand,'' he observed, ''this is an extremely sensitive issue.''

The emotional debate surrounding these committees is a reflection of the tension
surrounding the wide variety of new ethical and moral issues brought on by
recent medical advances.

''Until the 1950's,'' Dr. Cranford said, ''90 percent of doctors would never
tell their patients when they had cancer. What was the point? Most medical
decisions then were factual ones. Is he going to die? Yes. Can we do anything
about it? No. We didn't have machines to confront us with value decisions. Now
we can keep many terminally ill people alive indefinitely, or restart them. But
should we? Where does the quality of life come in to determine the length of
life?''

'A Lot More Choices'

Ethics committees are designed to help forge answers to such wide-ranging
questions. ''The more choices you have,'' said Sister Corrine, ''the more
troubles you have. And we have a lot more choices now.''

Leonard H. Glantz of Boston University's Schools of Public Health and Medicine
sounds a note of caution.

''People are hot about ethics committees right now,'' he said, ''but we must be
very careful. We don't want just another layer of bureaucratic decision- making
to bog down our health care system more. We don't want house committees of
doctors passing review on their friends' decisions with no possibility of
judicial review. And in our society committees are often used just to diffuse
responsibility on a sensitive issue.''

Still, Mr. Glantz believes that a well- balanced ethics committee of doctors,
nurses and laymen can help combat what he calls the 2-Year-Old's Hammer
Syndrome.

''Did you ever notice,'' asks Mr. Glantz, ''when you give a 2-year-old a hammer,
suddenly everything within reach needs hammering? Now we've given our doctors
all this marvelous medical technology and suddenly every machine has to be used
in every case. Ethics committees can help teach that sometimes less treatment is
better treatment.''

Committee supporters also see them as helpful forums, improving communications
between patients, their families and hospital personnel. They depict a growing
impersonalization in American health care where a neighborhood family doctor no
longer plays the central role of yesteryear. Now, because families move often
and because medicine is increasingly specialized, patients and their doctors are
less familiar, perhaps less trusting of each other, especially in a litigious
society.

Avoiding Legal Problems

''We learn quickly,'' one doctor said in a recent interview, ''that few doctors
get in trouble for doing too much for a patient. You don't want a reputation as
a plug-puller.''

Dr. Cranford sees the committees as helpful in heading off the kind of bitter
legal confrontation that has erupted in Los Angeles between William Bartling, an
elderly man with five usually fatal diseases who says he wants to die, and the
Glendale Adventist Medical Center, which refuses to turn off his respirator.
Glendale has no ethics committee, according to a hospital lawyer.

''In Minneapolis,'' said Dr. Cranford, ''our committees had maybe 10 cases like
Bartling and not one went to court.'' He said that last month hospitals in the
Twin Cities formed area ethics committees ''to avoid reinventing the ethics
wheel at every hospital.''

Members of ethics committees said numerous bureaucratic, political and legal
problems remain; committee records on death deliberations, for instance, might
someday be subpoenaed by a court to prove conspiracy.

But many, including Dr. Cranford, believe that ethics committees offer the best
start yet to build the necessary new social consensus in a complex age. ''If our
society can't agree yet on when life begins,'' he said, ''how can we expect to
agree yet on when life ends?''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Dr. Ronald Cranford (page 30)

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


