                              371 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            April 20, 1985 Saturday

DOCTORS' DILEMMAS

BYLINE: IAN BROWN; GAM

LENGTH: 3206 words


BY  IAN BROWN
 GOING OVER it in his mind, Dr. Calvin Stiller figures there is a fair
 hour, maybe two, between the "take" - which is happening this very moment
 in Rochester, N.Y., where his colleague, Dr. Neil McKenzie, is cutting a
 heart from a donor's chest - and the moment Dr. McKenzie will show Dr.

Stiller the heart in a slush-cooled plastic bag at the University Hospital  in
London, Ont. Ethics, bio-ethics, are momentarily irrelevant. All that  matters
is the heart in the bag that Dr. Stiller likes to call the "picnic  basket."
A little joke. Dr. Stiller, the head of the multi-organ transplant unit  at
University Hospital, is the ultimate in surgical cool, the unflappable
physician. Here it is, 9 o'clock in the evening, two short hours before  the
final transplant, which Dr. McKenzie will perform while Dr. Stiller  supervises
- and what is Dr. Stiller doing? Reviewing pre-op procedure?  Wringing his
hands? Dr. Stiller is chatting with his wife at home, three  minutes from the
hospital, "trying to repair the relationships you stress  when you're away from
home," and drawling his way through a conversation  on the telephone. "There's
an ebb and flow with respect to when you feel  obsessed and overwhelmed with the
ethical concerns," he says. And this  isn't one of them.

But when the moment comes to install the new heart in the patient's
 slack body, Drs. Stiller and McKenzie will feel only the rush, the mental
 knifepoint that accompanies a rescue operation in which someone's life is
 at stake. They will watch the yellow- brown knot of cold muscle throb into
 a pinked-up, vitally beating new heart that will grant new life - a whole
 new life - to a man who hours before had been on death's doorstep. It will
 be a personal high, no doubt about it, "heroic medicine" at its best.
 Ethics? In the sharp, instinctive, rational cool of the moment, the ethics
 of the situation will be simple: a man's life is at stake, and will be
 saved with another man's heart.
  BUT NO: the ethics of a heart transplant are more complicated than that.
 Or so says David Roy. Dr. Roy is the director of the Centre for Bio-Ethics
 at the Clinical Research Institute of Montreal, and one of the better-
 known practitioners of the art of bio-ethics - a hybrid of medicine and
 philosophy that promises or threatens, depending on your point of view, to
 transform medicine, health care and society's definition of human life and
 death.

It's a little hard to hear Dr. Roy at the moment, because he's trying,
 as best he can, to catch his terrified breath in the back of a taxi
 travelling 89 miles an hour along the shoulder of the TransCanada Highway.
 The taxi driver is trying to get him to the airport to catch one of a life
 full of planes.

Imagine you're a doctor, a specialist on the intensive-care ward of a
 major hospital. One of your patients, a man in his sixties, has been on a
 respirator for a month. You suspect he will never live without one. You
 need the bed. What do you do?
    Across the aisle is another patient on a ventilator. To live without
 it, he requires a tracheotomy, a surgical operation that will leave him
 with an open hole in his throat and a voice like an electric shaver.
 Unfortunately, he's also semi-comatose and can't supply the informed
 consent you require to perform the operation. His family, who could supply
 consent, are horrifed at the thought of the disfiguring operation. Again,
 you need the bed. What do you do?
    On another floor of the hospital, a 65- year-old man with advanced
 Alzheimer's disease, an incurable debilitative scourge that brings on
 premature senility, has contracted pneumonia. Sixty years ago, when it was
 a sure killer, pneumonia was known as "the old man's friend." The man has
 the mental capacity of a 2-year-old, and no relatives, so you, the doctor,
 are empowered under most Canadian codes of medical ethics to decide
 whether he lives or dies. He seems to need you. You, of course, need the
 bed. Should you give the man antibiotics to clear up his pneumonia,
 leaving him to the ravages of Alzheimer's? Or do you quietly let him stop
 breathing?
    Nor do the dilemmas always turn on life and death. A lesbian has
 approached you as a candidate for in vitro fertilization - to have a child
 that will be created in a test tube with "the products of human
 conception," as they say in the genetics ward, and transplanted to her
 womb - a practice now seven years old. A week ago, you approved a single,
 unmarried but heterosexual woman as a candidate for the same procedure. Do
 lesbians make good mothers? Let's say she also has a criminal record, and
 was once an alcoholic. She wants a child, and an answer. What is it?
    Another pregnant woman has learned, through the miracle of ultrasound,
 that her baby is a girl. She wants a boy. (They almost all want boys.) She
 wants to abort. The law says it's okay. She needs your approval.

And of course there are transplant decisions. A kidney transplant costs
 $22,000 (including $5,000 a year for drugs), versus $38,000 a year for
 daily turns on a dialysis machine. (New hearts go for $41,000; livers can
 run as high as $57,000.) You could run a hospital bed for a year for the
 cost of a kidney transplant to one overweight, 50- year-old smoker who
 will probably contract diabetes. Still, kidney availability runs 40 per
 cent below demand. Will you approve kidney transplants? Who gets the few
 you have? And kidneys have been standard procedure since l959. What are
 you going to do about mechanical hearts?
    These are the dilemmas upon which doctors are increasingly turning to
 bio- ethicists like Dr. Roy for advice. The "Dr." at the front end of his
 name denotes not a medical degree, but a couple of doctorates in
 philosophy and Catholic theology. (Dr. Roy is an ordained Catholic priest,
 a fact he tends to keep under his cassock.) "There has been an
 increasingly societal focus on the ethical dilemmas that arise in
 hospitals that specialize in advanced high- technology medicine," he says.
 Scientists and doctors have "got to feel at home with the ethical and
 moral considerations of their work."
    Bio-ethicists are trying to help them do so - and with impressive, or
 at least challenging, results. Until recently, doctors treated the ailing
 until treatment stopped having any effect. Everyone - doctors and medical
 codes alike - erred on the side of life.

But health care cost $30-billion last year, slightly less than 5 per
 cent of the total value of goods and services produced in Canada. As
 doctors perform ever more amazing and expensive operations, deficits and
 an aging bulge of baby boomers make the operations, not to mention
 ordinary hospital care, less and less accessible to greater and greater
 numbers of people. "The product of modern high-technology medicine has
 been ambiguous," says Arthur Schafer, director of the Centre for
 Professional and Applied Ethics at the University of Manitoba.

The resulting dilemmas go to the heart of society's reason for being.
 "If one is going to put any additional money into health care," says Dr.
 Derek Gellman, a former kidney specialist who is now a vice- president of
 Vancouver General Hospital, "by implication you're going to put fewer
 resources somewhere else. So, to that extent, you're asking the question,
 'What is the value of human life?' "
    How, as a society, do we decide which human lives we can and cannot
 afford?
  ENTER the bio-ethicists. Many of them, such as Prof. Benjamin Freedman,
 an associate of the Westminster Institute at the University of Western
 Ontario, discovered bio- ethics as a result of "a shift within philosophy
 to be relevant." Very few courses were offered anywhere.

That has changed quickly. The "discipline of bio-ethics" is only 15
 years old, and dates from the founding of the Hastings Centre, a think-
 tank in New York that serves a magnet for respectable medical ethicists.
 But bio-ethicists have already cut what may be the first genuine inroads
 on the social and economic authority of the medical profession in the 100
 years since doctors began their rise to power as the Svengali-Saviors of
 modern man.

Today, courses in bio-ethics are a staple of undergraduate medical
 training and graduate philosophy courses. Professional ethics consultants
 and ethics committees (and subcommittees for each specialty) have sprung
 up at St. Michael's Hospital in Toronto, Montreal Children's Hospital,
 Calgary's Foothills Hospital and McMaster University Medical Centre in
 Hamilton, to name but a few of the more established and prominent centres.

Their concerns are myriad: the use of human subjects in
 experimentation; resuscitation of the terminally ill; sterilization of the
 mentally retarded; a patient's right to refuse medical treatment; care for
 defective newborns; genetics; tube feeding of the elderly; the criteria
 for brain death, and the criteria for admittance into intensive care.

Between meetings, the discipline's leaders proselytize. Dr. Roy - who
 is, or at least tends not to deny that he is, the father of bio-ethicism
 in Canada - is in Toronto this particular Monday to be chairman of
 meetings about a new bio-ethical journal. Tomorrow he is off to Paris to
 represent the Canadian Government at a bio-ethical conference. He is
 planning a reproductive workshop to discuss, among other topics, the
 thorny ethical issues surrounding genetic experimentation (which some bio-
 ethicists consider the field's most pressing problem), has done work for
 the Law Reform Commission on the definition of death and is organizing a
 national ethics consulting service. He's a busy man.

And, like most bio-ethicists, an ambitious one. He hopes bio-ethicists
 will one day be essential members of medical teams that reach "pre-legal"
 (or extra- legal) consensus on practical ethical issues like euthanasia
 and abortion. "I guess I want to be one of the best generalists in the
 last part of the twentieth century," Dr. Roy says, sucking in his breath
 as the cabbie swerves and accelerates around a truck. "Theology's mine,
 genetics is mine . . ." The list goes on and on. Like doctors, bio-
 ethicists don't lack for self-respect. The gods they honor, however, are
 quite different.

What bio-ethicists do is talk. "What we don't do is go in with
 answers," says John Thomas, a professor of philosophy at McMaster and the
 author of two basic texts in bio-ethics. (And, incidentally, the father of
 SCTV comedian Dave Thomas and singer Ian Thomas.) "We try and ask
 questions." According to Prof. Thomas, who serves on McMaster's clinical
 ethics committee, an array of professionals - philosophers, lawyers,
 nurses, administrators and doctors - listen to cases that present sticky
 ethical problems, whereupon the philosophers lay out the ethical
 alternatives.

Perhaps a doctor cannot bring himself to tell a patient the truth about
 his cancer. "We may not have to mention (Immanuel) Kant's name," says
 Prof. Thomas, "but one of the alternatives there is based on Kant's second
 formulation of the categorical imperative: never treat humanity, whether
 in yourself or in another, merely as a means, but as an end."
    Or say a young accident victim with a hopeful prognosis in the
 intensive-care ward needs the respirator of an unconscious, terminally ill
 patient with no family. Welcome to John Stuart Mill's utilitarian belief
 in the greatest good for the greatest number. These intellectual models
 allow doctors to consider ethical alternatives.

That may sound like an intellectual rubber stamp, but the McMaster
 committee has already issued strong ethical guidelines on morally touchy
 grounds. It has, for instance, laid out the "protocol" to be followed when
 the decision is made not to resuscitate a terminally ill patient. It has
 decreed that a married woman who wants a tubal ligation (that is, to be
 sterilized) need not have the consent of her husband. It has laid down
 guidelines on who should and should not be admitted to crowded intensive-
 care wards. (Social status, long the determinant for many questions of
 medical priority from getting a private room to getting a new kidney, has
 been rejected in favor of need and the principle of first come, first
 served.)
    Bio-ethicists have made a name for themselves by resisting medical
 tradition and supporting a patient's right to his own treatment.
 Ironically, however, the bio- ethical community has also played into the
 hands of the health-care establishment, in its willingness to sacrifice
 individual care - what the ethicists call micro-ethics - to the needs of
 the health-care system as a whole, otherwise known as macro-ethics. The
 ethical difference between saving a marginal life and the cost of keeping
 that person alive is surprisingly sharp.

Within the past year, for instance, the Canadian Medical Association,
 the Canadian Nursing Association and the Canadian Hospital Association
 have all endorsed, for the first time in the history of modern medicine,
 protocols under which terminally ill patients can be left unresuscitated -
 left, in other words, to die. Even the Catholic Church, whose faith abhors
 both abortion and euthanasia, has within the past year endorsed a policy
 of "allowing death."
    "So (the ethical problem is) seeking to walk a middle ground between a
 certain vitalism that says life at any cost and a view that says we can
 care for someone  as they are dying," says George Webster, who runs
 respected ethics programs at three Catholic hospitals in Toronto. "Care
 for another can never mean, in my view, taking their life. It can mean
 caring for them when they're dying."
    There are also a couple of fights brewing on the bio-ethical horizon.
 While doctors tend, as a generalization, to put their faith in what
 medical technology can do, regardless of the "life" it leaves a patient,
 bio- ethicists concentrate on the human quality of a patient's life,
 sometimes dismissing medicine's technical capabilities.

In the past, whenever a Jehovah's Witness refused to accept a blood
 transfusion, doctors insisted he or she have the transfusion anyway. These
 days, under the influence of the ethicists, who argue that forced
 treatments work against the dignity and autonomy of the patient, doctors
 turn to alternative treatments, such as artificial blood products.

There may be a fight over jurisdiction, too. Both McMaster and
 Foothills Hospital in Calgary last year appointed special ethics
 subcommittees to counsel physicians on specific patients - something that
 had never been done before. Bernard Dickens, a lawyer who teaches on the
 faculties of both medicine and law at the University of Toronto, and who
 is legal consultant to the ethics committee of the Canadian Medical
 Association, points out that this is an interesting idea, but that doctors
 - who Mr. Dickens considers to have inherited the status of secular
 priests - won't long put up with interfering ethicists. "You wouldn't want
 to have your appendix out based on a vote of 27 to 3 with 28 abstentions,"
 he says. "But it can happen if ethics committees start making decisions."
  TRANSPLANTS are another contentious issue. Dr. Arthur Parsons, head of
 the ethics committee of the CMA, is definitely down on them. "Is it
 morally more correct to keep one person alive," he asks rhetorically,
 adding that the subject is often overweight and smokes, "at a cost of
 $100,000, or is it better to take that $100,000 and spend it on educating
 teenagers not to smoke? . . . If you save someone from dying of heart
 disease, you're saving him to die of something else."
    Unassailable logic, of course. But it offends surgeons - and lends
 credence to murmured theories that bio-ethicists are power-hungry
 intellectuals with hidden (i.e. Catholic, or sometimes pro-abortion)
 agendas. Dr. Stiller, a heart surgeon who lives in the vanguard   of high-
 tech medicine, welcomes bio-ethicists, and laments the distance medicine
 has travelled from the days of simple family practice, when a doctor saw
 his patients as whole, to today's super-specialized treatments. The
 Hippocratic oath, which insisted doctors respect the whole patient, "is
 irrelevant to the way medicine is currently practiced."
    As a result, Dr. Stiller claims, "we need to re-establish the role
 again in medicine of the bio-ethicist. Not as an isolated philosopher, but
 as a member of the health-care team."
    "I have one concern," says Dr. John Wilson, a former chief of
 cardiology at St. Michael's Hospital who sits on the board of the Cardinal
 Carter Centre for Bio-Ethics. A doctor for nearly 40 years, Dr. Wilson is
 a member of the old guard - one who believes, for instance, that Karen Ann
 Quinlan "is very much alive," despite the fact that she recently passed
 the 10th anniversary of the onset of her coma. "I have a concern that
 there's going to be an attitude developing that if the quality of life is
 not so good, then why prolong things? I'm just concerned that we will give
 up this responsibility we have to treat the patient as well as we can . .
 . The more we're going to set up committees to discuss the quality of
 life, (the more we have to ask) who's going to determine the quality of
 life? I guess I worry the committees will allow the doctor not to try as
 hard. Committees can't treat a patient. The doctor has to."
  PRIOR TO the 1800s, doctors did the bidding of their patients. "They were
 seen as little more than ambitious barbers," says Mr. Dickens. (Barbers,
 in fact, were more responsible for caring for the wounded than doctors
 because they had the closest thing to sterile conditions. Hence the red
 and white barber's pole, denoting red blood and white bandages.)
    The history of health care ever since, however, particularly in North
 America, is the history of the reversal of that relationship. Doctors no
 longer serve their clients, the way lawyers do. Instead, patients do the
 bidding of the doctor.

Bio-ethicists see themselves as the antidote to this master-slave
 relationship. "Dehumanization takes place when fragmentation dominates,"
 Dr. Roy intones, "when you're looking at the patient from a very
 particular (i.e. specialized) point of view." The taxi accelerates. "A
 scientist should not think that it is a betrayal of science to be a
 renaissance thinker . . . The rapid rise in super-specialized scientific
 developments demands a new kind of rethinking of the way we educate the
 public about these matters." He adds: "What we're trying to do in many
 instances is turn ethics back to the doctors. Back to the scientists."
    And back, it would seem, to philosophers and theologians as well.

Finally, after some very close calls, the taxi driver has arrived at the
 airport. Planes are taking off into the sky. Dr. Roy is alive; his dreams
 for a renaissance society with a communal sense of what is and what is not
 ethical (medically or otherwise) are intact. "We really do not have a
 sense of transnational solidarity," he says as the taxi slides up the
 airport ramp. Once we do, he adds with a hint of satisfaction, society may
 find it can't justify expensive, high-tech, high-glory operations for
 single souls while health care in Africa - for instance - is literally
 medieval. "It makes me think of the Ultimate, you know?" Dr. Roy says, as
 the cab pulls to a stop. What on earth, you wonder, might that be?

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1985 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


