                              368 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Daily Camera (Boulder, Colorado)

                             August 4, 2008 Monday
                                 First Edition

SECTION: A:EDITORIAL; Pg. 07

LENGTH: 1013 words


Exempla Medical

Sale is an issue

of ethics

W e are long-time Colorado residents who chose to live here partly because of
the high quality of institutions such as Exempla Lutheran Medical Center. Now,
we are deeply troubled to learn of its proposed sale to the Sisters of Charity
of Leavenworth Health System (SCLHS). If this sale is consummated, the full
range of technical skills and techniques practiced by Lutheran's medical staff
for more than a century will be subverted to the doctrines of the Catholic
Church. Not only is that important technical issue at stake but there is an
ethical/legal issue as well. Here, briefly is that issue.

When Exempla was formed, its sponsors, SCLHS and Community First Foundation
promised that Lutheran would remain a non-sectarian hospital. In fact, Exempla
has paid each sponsor $200,000 a year to preserve the non-sectarian heritage of
Lutheran Medical Center. The proposed sale of Lutheran to SCLHS patently
violates this obligation.

Saint Anthony Hospital's move to Lakewood has been initiated. If the sale of
Lutheran is allowed to proceed, both hospitals in Jefferson County will be
limited by the ethical and religious values of the Catholic Church at the
expense of full, non-sectarian services preferred by most residents of the city,
county and region.

Readers of this letter who wish to keep Lutheran Hospital non-sectarian should
express their concerns to Mr. Ken Eggeman, President and CEO, Community First
Foundation. His e-mail address is keggeman@communityfirstfoundation.org and his
mailing address is Community First Foundation, 6870 W. 52nd Ave., Suite 103,
Arvada, CO, 80002, (phone 303-431-1453).

There isn't much time left. Lutheran's future will be decided through binding
arbitration and that process may begin as early as mid-August.

HUGH AND BECKY HUDSON

Lakewood

Goat farm

Help keep

farm afloat

S ave the goats! How can we let the Haystack Mountain Goat Farm go? You can't
re-establish a healthy herd of goats (100-plus) in a blink of an eye.

Sure we like their goat cheese but the real attraction is visiting the goat farm
with children and seeing hundreds of baby goats each spring, observing the staff
taking such good care of every goat and, of course, naming each one. Baby goats
were even brought by staff to Boulder's Farmer's

Market for crowds of children to see and pet and appreciate.

Boulder County needs this homestead farm and goat herd. Find a way, Boulder
County, to keep this herd. The goats need this quality of care and our children
need the goats.

JUNE CRENSHAW

Boulder

Capitalism

U.S. industries

in trouble

W ith President Bush signing the Mortgage Relief Bill, this puts $400 million in
the hands of the bankers and mortgage loan companies. These are the very same
people who originated the sub-prime mortgages which would have gone out of
business if someone didn't bail them out. This bill gives the business world
another venue for doing business, i.e., starting new businesses with the
guarantee that the government will save them if they get in trouble.

Ah, socialism, how wonderful it is. And to think that if Mr. Obama becomes our
next president, we'll surely get universal health care for all, which includes
the 21 million illegal immigrants that are now in this country.

If that happens, we can expect more large U.S. industries to go offshore. In
automobile manufacturing, I expect to see Chrysler to go first. When
Anheuser-Busch sold out to foreign interests, it was rumored that they didn't
want to see their business "nationalized" by the Federal government. Other
industries think similarly.

And don't forget NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement). This will give the
drug cartels and more illegal immigrants free access to all that is good in the
United States. Capitalism is an endangered species in this country.

JACK GARBER

Boulder

Black bears

Stop reporting

bear sightings

I have lived in the city of Boulder for 26 years and in Lafayette for the past
two years. Until four years ago, Boulder Open Space and our neighborhoods used
to be safe for our black bears. Then in 2004, the Division of Wildlife, along
with the help of our open space rangers, killed the first bear at Chautauqua for
no reason. Then the next year (2005) a mother bear did some damage to a
Chautauqua cottage and they killed her and took her two cubs who knows where
(bear hunting season lasts till November)?

Last year a bear was killed for showing up at Flatirons Gold Course. On
Wednesday, July 23, the Division killed another female bear in south Boulder
because she was sitting in a

tree. The Division was quoted in the Camera "if they didn't kill her Wednesday
they would have killed her tomorrow or next week."

How very sad that it is now open hunting season in the city and county of
Boulder of not just our bears, but prairie dogs, mountain lions and sharp
shooters killing deer on Rabbit Mountain Open Space. All of this done with the
blessing of our city and county officials.

I would like to encourage Boulder citizens to think twice, then not call the
authorities when they see a bear in their neighborhoods. The consequences of
this call will be deadly for the bear. The city and county of Boulder has lost
its morality on wildlife issues and needs new leadership immediately! The
Division of Wildlife needs to be told "no" you may not kill all our bears! Last
year the division killed 12 bears in Aspen and people there are organizing to
try to stop the slaughter from continuing.

RENEE ST. AUBIN

Lafayette

Mortgage collapse

CEO salaries

should be returned

I n calendar year 2007, the CEO's of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac received bonuses
of approximately $14.4 million each. Only in America could this positive
stewardship and solid management be rewarded so handsomely. However, aren't
these the same two lending institutions that in 2008 came to the federal coffers
to be rescued from potential collapse? In view of this change in events (in just
one year!) it seems only prudent that these two executives should consider
returning a significant portion of that largesse from 2007. Yeah...When pigs
fly.

RC LLOYD

Longmont

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2008 Daily Camera and Boulder Publishing, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


