                              372 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                      July 8, 2001 Sunday Michigan Edition

Developers of new heart device try to avoid mistakes of past

BYLINE: By GUY GUGLIOTTA; The Washington Post

SECTION: NATION; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 749 words


He lies in a Louisville, Ky., hospital bed, a middle-aged man about whom almost
nothing personal is known except the most intimate details of his health. He was
-- and perhaps still is -- about to die.

Last Monday, surgeons at Jewish Hospital removed his diseased heart and replaced
it with a man-made pump constructed of hard plastic and titanium. It was the
first fully implantable artificial heart ever put inside a human being.

"He has shown improvement every day," surgeon Robert Dowling said Friday. "He's
interacting with doctors and nurses through his gestures, and the device is
functioning flawlessly."

Although the man's long-term prospects remain far from clear, his doctors have
been surprised by his early progress and have even speculated that he may
eventually be able to leave the hospital and return to some semblance of a
normal life.

In the meantime, however, medicine's latest attempt to tackle one of the most
difficult technological challenges ever attempted is remarkable for yet another
reason -- its absence of controversy.

Experimental treatments involving the desperately ill often pose many complex
ethical questions, particularly when the object of the treatment is to cheat
death in spectacular fashion.

The first artificial heart implants in the 1980s proved so controversial and
fraught with ethical pitfalls that the field was all but abandoned for 15 years.
Many observers speculated those problems -- coupled with advances in treating
heart disease, improvements in the outcomes of transplants, and the development
of highly effective partial heart pumps -- might preclude any future attempts to
develop a full artificial heart.

While some of those questions and potential ethical traps remain, even some of
the harshest critics of earlier efforts acknowledge that so far, Abiomed Inc.,
the Danvers, Mass., company that developed the AbioCor device, appears to have
learned well from the mistakes of the past.

"One of the ethical issues that I would have flagged would have been hubris, and
they are not guilty," said University of Pennsylvania medical sociologist Renee
Fox, an expert on the ethics of organ replacement and transplantation. "They are
not only prudent, but very candid."

Abiomed waited until new technology enabled its AbioCor heart to be fully
enclosed inside the patient's chest, lessening the chance of infection and
eliminating the need to be tethered to a power source through an open wound.

The company wrote a 13-page consent agreement, spelling out 14 separate
potentially fatal risks associated with the implant, everything from liver
failure to tissue damage caused by an overheated device.

It set up an Independent Patient Advocacy Council to provide each patient with a
knowledgeable mentor and funded the council with an irrevocable blind trust,
leaving the four initial members to add additional advocates as they saw fit.

No council member, surgeon or anyone else connected with the clinical aspects of
the experiment is allowed to hold stock in Abiomed. No one from Abiomed is
allowed to meddle with the council. No one in the media was allowed to know the
name of any council member except chairwoman Elizabeth Haavik Morreim of the
University of Tennessee's College of Medicine.

Abiomed briefed reporters on the company and the device in April and discussed
the Louisville surgery at a July 4 news conference. But it refused to divulge
the patient's name or discuss his background except as it related to his medical
condition.

And to further dampen publicity it has cautioned repeatedly that no matter how
well the patient's recovery has appeared to be going, the man was so sick --
with diabetes, kidney failure, hypertension and overall weakness -- that he
could die at any time.

Abiomed Vice President Ed Berger said the company extensively studied the 1980s
cases of Barney Clark and William Schroeder, who received Jarvik 7 artificial
hearts powered through wires and tubes inserted through incisions in the skin
and connected to a noisy, bedside console the size of a refrigerator.

The public's initial euphoria gave way to distress as the two patients
contracted infections and illness before dying. Many wondered whether the
implant had simply prolonged the men's suffering.

"The extension of life without improving the quality of life is an empty goal,"
Berger said. "Abiomed took a very, very long time to wait for big technological
developments and then apply them to the device."


LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 2001 South Bend Tribune Corporation


