                              366 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             August 1, 1997 Friday
                                  Late Edition

AMA vows to continue campaign

BYLINE: Louise Dodson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 297 words


The Australian Medical Association yesterday vowed to continue its campaign
against health funds striking deals with private hospitals.

However, the health funds see such agreements as vital to securing their future
and arresting the plunging rate of fund membership, which has fallen from 44.6
per cent of the population in March 1990 to 32.5 per cent in March 1997.

The brawl between the doctors and the private insurance industry over this issue
is heating up, with the AMA's Victorian president, Dr Gerald Segal, yesterday
predicting that contracts "will kill private health insurance".

National Mutual Health Insurance is leading the charge in making agreements
between doctors and health funds to cap costs.

It expects to finalise negotiations on a series of agreements this month.

Dr Segal said the AMA was "entirely opposed" to the strategy.

The AMA would "continue to inform the public in Australia, who will make their
choice between a good ethical patient¿doctor relationship and rationing by an
economist bureaucrat", Dr Segal saidyesterday.

However, the managing director of NMHI, Mr Garry Richardson, yesterday described
the AMA's comments as "a diversionary tactic".

He denied any intention to interfere in the patient¿doctor relationship,
arguing NMHI was "trying to drive out waste in the private hospital system".

NMHI's research had shown that the two major problems identified by members with
regard to insurance was the cost of premiums and out-of-pocket expenses, he
said.

Both of these could be contained if costs were capped in agreements between the
health fund and doctors, Mr Richardson said.

He challenged the AMA executive to "get off its soap box", to accept the need
for change and to present a vision on how to preserve the patient-doctor ethical
relationship.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illus: Health funds are seeking agreements with individual hospitals.
Picture: MICHELE MOSSOP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 1997 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


