                              365 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             March 12, 2006 Sunday

Utah health board deems PolyHeme study safe;
Blood substitute trials: So far, none of the 36 doses reserved for Utah has been
used on patients

BYLINE: Jason Bergreen , The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: UTAH;  Pg. B6

LENGTH: 497 words


The Utah Department of Health decided Friday that a clinical study involving the
transfusion of an experimental blood substitute in trauma patients is safe and
ethical, despite mixed conclusions by two local hospitals participating in the
trial.

The department could have restricted participating emergency first-responders
from injecting patients with PolyHeme, but instead voted 6-to-1 to defer to
University Hospital's decision to proceed with the study.

Board member Laurie Baksh abstained, saying she wanted to hear more from LDS
Hospital, which has postponed its study citing scientific and ethical
considerations.

Testing was placed on hold late last month at both hospitals after the Wall
Street Journal reported the maker of PolyHeme, Northfield Laboratories, tried to
hide crucial details about a 2000 blood-substitute study. The Journal reported
that 10 heart surgery patients in that experiment had experienced heart attacks,
while other patients given actual blood did not.

The Department of Health board contends that details from the 2000 study were
disclosed to the hospitals. Stephen Morris, University Hospital's trauma
director and principal investigator for the trial, said he received the
information before the current study began.

The board also agreed that the study's consent form adequately informed
potential patients about the study's enrollment procedure and outlined who could
participate in the study.

But concerns were raised about how first-responders would determine whether an
unconscious female trauma patient were pregnant. Children, "obviously pregnant"
women, patients with severe head injuries, those who have known objections to
blood transfusions and those who have special bracelets indicating they don't
want to participate are exempt from the study.

LDS Hospital representative Matt Rydman said his hospital review board opted out
of the study Thursday because it wants more information about the results of the
2000 study. He said the board didn't think the public was sufficiently informed
about the heart attack victims in the 2000 study. The board also requested that
information pertaining to the possibility of fluid overload in the body when
PolyHeme is introduced be stated clearly on the consent form.

Morris said University Hospital restarted its study March 3 after receiving
assurances from Northfield and an independent committee that the current study
did not pose cardiovascular or other adverse risks that would jeopardize the
safety of the trial.

Emergency medical service agencies from Salt Lake and West Valley cities, Sandy
and Summit County are participating in the study, though PolyHeme has not yet
been given to any patients from Utah.

PolyHeme is a blood substitute, compatible with all blood types, that can be
given to trauma victims immediately. Thirty-one trauma centers in 18 states are
enrolled in the study. Of the 720 patients expected to participate, as many as
36 will be from Utah.

jbergreen@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


