                              367 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday
                        1 - First with the news Edition

Staff face discipline - Action on hospital funds furore

BYLINE: Patrick Lion

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 330  words


TWO unidentified Queensland Health staff face disciplinary action following a
financial probe into the Royal Children's Hospital.

Two staff subject to the long-running investigation have been served with
show-cause notices asking them to explain why action should not be taken against
them.

Queensland Health director-general Mick Reid would not reveal their identities,
insisting both public servants had to be shown natural justice and be allowed to
respond within 14 days.

The move comes after The Courier-Mail revealed that a Queensland Health ethical
standards probe was investigating allegations including:

* RCH boss Doug Brown and former finance manager Alan Fletcher, now the chief
financial officer for the Queensland Children's Hospital, processed an $8000
no-interest loan of taxpayer funds to a senior colleague for overseas travel.

* Mr Brown approved $6500 worth of luxury beauty treatments for 65 nurses as
part of an alleged payoff following a dispute sparked when new staff scored free
parking.

* Junior staff paid for wedding and baby gifts such as cookware for colleagues
out of hospital funds.

Mr Reid said he was now acting on recommendations relating to ``a number of
matters'' after the CMC completed a review of the Queensland Health ethical
standards probe.

``I have issued show-cause notices to two Queensland Health staff that were
subject to the investigation,'' Mr Reid said in a statement. ``As is standard
procedure and in accordance with natural justice, the officers have been given
14 days to respond.''

It is not known whether Mr Brown and Mr Fletcher are the subjects of this
action.

The moves came as Health Minister Paul Lucas criticised his department's
handling of the affair, saying the two-year investigation had taken too long.

``It has taken longer than I thought it should have,'' Mr Lucas said.

The Opposition has called for a broader inquiry into all public hospitals, with
leader John-Paul Langbroek saying the allegations raised serious questions.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


