                              364 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Kamloops Daily News (British Columbia)

                            February 21, 2000 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Lives in the Balance: Committee weighs ethical dilemmas that confront people in
health-care system

BYLINE: Marnie Douglas, The Daily News

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 613  words


There's no arguing that the miracle of life is just that -- a marvel like no
other.

But newborns are also prone to health problems -- genetic and inherited
diseases, childbirth complications and premature births are all possibilities
that no new parents want to contemplate.

So just how far should doctors go to keep a baby who weighs no more than 900
grams alive? It costs more than $800 a day to keep an infant alive in a
neo-natal intensive care unit, and that's without the host of possible problems,
including respiratory or heart complications, that afflict preemies.

Since a fetus can now theoretically survive outside a mother's body at only 23
weeks -- a full-term baby is born at about 40 weeks -- a child born prematurely
could spend months in a hospital.

Tight health-care dollars are demanding doctors and nurses, as well as parents,
make some tough choices. Those choices are often ones that will also fall on the
Thompson Health Region ethics committee .

Dr. Jane McGillivray is a family physician in Kamloops and co-chairwoman of the
committee.

She admits the issue of morals and values in medicine is a tough one --
dwindling health dollars are forcing families and doctors to make tough judgment
calls.

``We are a resource for families or physicians to approach who cannot make some
of those tough decisions. Sometimes they just need a sober second thought,
someone who is not directly involved in the situation,'' she said.

The committee was formed about eight years ago and has grown from a small, local
group to a regional committee. Included on the committee are doctors, nurses, a
lawyer, an ethicist and administrative staff from RIH.

Its primary mandate is to consider and debate a variety of ethical issues and
develop recommendations where appropriate. Any recommendations are non-binding,
said Dr. David Poulin, medical services director of the Thompson Health Region.

``Doctors and patients want to know that what they are doing is legal and
ethical. It's never a black and white situation. It's always grey and that's why
it's an ethical dilemma,'' he added.

RIH is one B.C. hospital that participates in drug trials and, as a result,
there is the issue of patient research. Poulin said an ethical review is usually
completed to ensure that patients are fully informed and aware of the
consequences or possible side effects.

``We need to ensure that they are making an informed choice. It could be a
high-risk procedure or there could be significant consequences,'' he added.

Another scenario is the conflict between a patient and a family -- the family
wants one option while the patient wants something else or is not able to make
the decision. And much like the outset of life, there can be difficult decisions
to make near the end of a person's life.

McGillivray said a common area of discussion is the level of intervention in
long-term care.

``What's considered comforting care and going too far? What's reasonable in
palliative care? Is it appropriate to resuscitate a patient under any
condition?''

Often there are requests for treatment, perhaps from family members, that offer
little return to the patient but at a huge expense to the health-care system
overall. To house a patient in intensive care can cost upwards of $1,500 a day
alone.

``That's when the ethics of resource allocation come into it,'' she added.

Dr. Patricia Baird is an expert in ethics and health policy at UBC. She agrees
that cuts to health-care budgets mean there are fewer and fewer resources.

``If there are only a certain number of intensive-care beds available, who goes
in and who goes out? If there were enough resources and money wasn't an issue,
there wouldn't be a squeeze.''

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Jason Payne, The Daily News; Dr. Jane McGillivray, left, and nurse Karen
Irving stand beside an incubator in the neo-natal intensive care unit at RIH. A
``resusci-baby,'' a model baby used for training purposes, is in the incubator.
;

