                              369 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                               September 24, 1999

Doctors wary of professor's breakthrough

BYLINE: By KITTY HOLLAND

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 296 words


While the Infertility Support Groups welcomed news of Prof Gosden's breakthrough
on the transplantation of ovarian tissue, Irish doctors were more cautious.

Dr John E. Drumm, a consultant in obstetrics and gynaecology at the Coombe
Women's Hospital, Dublin, saw the procedure as "fraught with ethical problems".
He said he had not read the research paper, but noted that Prof Gosden's patient
had her own ovaries frozen ahead of the procedure. This meant her case was
relatively free of ethical problems.

However, in other cases one woman's ovaries would have to be transplanted into
another. This, he said, could be interpreted to mean that the second woman was
having someone else's baby.

"What would happen if you were to have an ovary transplant from another woman
who had herself a son, and you had a daughter. You could have a case where 20
years down the line a brother and sister are falling in love," he said.

Dr Roger Derham, a specialist in the menopause at Galvia Private Hospital,
Renmore, Co Galway, predicted practical problems rather than ethical ones.

"Traditionally we are told that ovaries do not freeze well in that there is
often genetic damage," he said. "We see that when we freeze ovaries of people
who are about to undergo chemotherapy (which can damage ovaries)."

He saw "the usual problems with any type of tissue graft" in that grafted
ovarian tissue may be rejected by the second woman's body.

Also, he said, if cancer were to develop in grafted ovarian tissue, it would
develop far more aggressively than a cancer developing in a woman's own ovaries.

A spokeswoman for the Infertility Support Group said she did not think it would
ever be allowed in Ireland, but welcomed anything that would help infertile
couples hoping to have a baby.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 1999 The Irish Times


