                              377 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            June 13, 2007 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Comatose patients used for research

BYLINE: Mark Metherell

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 356 words


A RESEARCH trial of a resuscitation technique on comatose heart attack victims
has triggered an intense behind-the-scenes ethics debate.

The ethical quandary centred on whether bereaved families should be told if
their relative had been a guinea pig in what some doctors believed was
"suboptimal" treatment.

The research initially triggered strong opposition by one hospital's ethics
committee, over what it said was the state unjustifiably overriding individual
rights to give or withhold consent. It was also concerned at the risk of giving
"suboptimal treatment" to an acutely ill patient.

The trial involving paramedics and three big hospitals in an unidentified
Australian city was designed to test Norwegian research findings. These
suggested that a change to the standard Australian emergency treatment of
cardiac arrest would greatly lower death rates.

The opposing committee relented and the research went ahead, but the hospitals
agreed not to tell bereaved families their relatives had been the subject of a
randomised trial. Survivors were informed.

An account of the debate is given in a report by the Australian Health Ethics
Committee on 10 case studies of ethical problems that have confronted doctors
and researchers.

Norwegian research had shown that a change to emergency treatment outside
hospital for certain heart attack patients improved survival rates by 50 per
cent. The technique involved three minutes of cardiopulmonary resuscitation
(mouth-to-mouth and chest compression) before electric shock treatment.

Standard Australian treatment at the time was to begin with the electric shock
treatment. New guidelines require one shock, then two minutes of CPR. The health
ethics committee report says that only 5 per cent of people who had heart
attacks elsewhere than in hospital survived under the old standard treatment.

A panel that reviewed the case study was told by a lay member that a bereaved
family "would be more distressed than informed" by being told their relative had
been part of a research trial.

"I feel the distress would far outweigh any good that could be obtained from
getting consent," a panellist said.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2007 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


