                              376 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                            June 21, 1990, Thursday

Drug tests on humans first

BYLINE: Pearce Wright

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 623 words


Volunteers are to be used as guinea pigs for drug research at a new London
medical unit, Pearce Wright reports

A unique medical research centre for making the first trials of a drug on
healthy human volunteers, and for clinical trials of new treatments on patients,
was opened at King's College Hospital medical school, London, yesterday. The
unit, of 12 beds in three wards, each equipped with the latest
microprocessor-controlled electronic monitoring and scanning instruments, has
cost Pounds 1 million. The building is shared between the department of medicine
of King's College Hospital and the Wellcome Foundation drug company, which paid
for the building.

Two issues provide a common bond between them. One is covered by the phrase
''drugs are not safe'', which Alan McGregor, professor of endocrinology, says he
impresses on his students. Professor McGregor describes the other as ''the
ethical dilemmas applicable equally to the use of well people to test new drugs
and to the management of patients prepared to take part in trials of new
therapies''.

Only a handful of the thousands of new substances produced in every leading drug
company's research laboratories reaches the first stage of human trials. Dr John
Posner, the Wellcome scientist directing the research of putting new products
into man for the first time, says an initial study is usually conducted with
beweeen six and 12 volunteers. Data assessment can take a year or more.

Healthy human ''guinea pig'' studies of a new drug are the first mandatory
trials of any potential new medicine before a pharmaceutical company applies for
a licence for the drug's use from the government's committee on the safety of
medicines.

Under the Medicines Act no regulations to protect volunteers cover these trials.
The experimenters are expected to abide by a code proposed by the Royal College
of Physicians in 1986 and get the agreement of the particular drug company's
ethical committee, which should include independent medical advisers.

At the King's clinical investigation unit, all trials must also satisfy the
hospital's ethical committee. Wellcome recruits well volunteers only from its
employees for trials at a centre attached to one of its research laboratories or
in hospital by arrangement with one of London's big teaching hospitals.

Dr Posner says there is a strong case for studies of certain types of
pharmacologically active substances, particularly those designed for
cardiovascular, respiratory and anti-allergic effects, to be conducted in
hospital, where a variety of expertise is at hand, especially in emergency and
intensive care.

Any trials involving patients must be made with their informed consent and
signed agreement and understanding, according to Professor McGregor. ''Above
all,'' he says, ''they must be told they have an absolute right to refuse and
their decision in no way jeopardises the future management of their illness.''

He separates the ethical issues for trials with patients into three categories:
treatments for which satisfactory therapies exist, unsatisfactory treatments and
conditions for which there are no treatments.

He adds: ''It is ethically difficult to justify stopping an effective therapy
for patients in the first group just to try something new. A better case could
be made more easily for trials with the other two groups.''

Dr Posner says the purpose of healthy volunteer trials is to establish precisely
how a drug is absorbed, distributed and broken down and the resulting
by-products excreted, and what possible side-effects occur. From these findings,
his group recommends abandoning the drug or showing the safe concentration that
can be allowed in the blood stream without side-effects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1990 Times Newspapers Limited


