                              380 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            August 14, 2008 Thursday

When a patient is dying

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 430 words


A NEW guide to help healthcare professionals respond to the difficult issues
associated with the impending death of a patient should be welcomed by the
personnel it targets. It is the latest step in an Irish Hospice Foundation
initiative to bring hospice principles into acute and community hospitals and to
ensure, among other things, that no one dies alone and in pain. The Hospice
friendly Hospitals (HfH) programme has been introduced in 42 settings and has
brought many changes in the way issues of death, dying and bereavement are
treated.

Hospitals have altered their mortuaries to ensure they facilitate modern design
needs. They have made them sensitive to different cultures and religions.
Privacy and single rooms for dying people are increasingly being sought. Medical
staff are being trained how to communicate on end-of-life matters. Relatives are
more likely to receive their loved one s belongings in a specially designed
handover bag. And it is more often accepted that integrated care should extend
to the whole family, even after their relative has died.

Importantly, too, the HfH programme is developing ethical framework principles
on end-of-life issues. These should champion the rights of patients to
participate in decisions affecting them and, above all, should assist medical
and related professionals in meeting increasing ethical challenges. At the same
time, the HfH is constructing an audit and evaluation system on end-of-life care
which is being piloted in a number of hospitals. Pertinent questions are being
asked at ward, staff and relatives  level to ensure there is sufficient data for
hospitals to develop their end-of-life services.

The new HfH guide When a Patient is Dying (available at
www.hospicefriendlyhospitals.net) highlights the natural instinct to want to do
something  when someone is dying as well as the uncertainty that can follow over
what that  something  should be. We often flounder in response: we feel
uncomfortable at being reminded of our own mortality or of a recent bereavement.

The process of dying is intense, emotive and personal. Yet most of us would
prefer not to think about it. But there must be an understanding of what is
happening and of how pending death is diagnosed and managed. Medical and related
carers must respond professionally to difficult questions from patients and
families. They need to understand issues involved in death certification,
transport of the body and the handover of patients  belongings. Vitally too,
they must consider the spiritual needs of patients which often go beyond
religion.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


