                              375 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                              May 17, 2011 Tuesday

Aborted fetuses the likely source of stem cells;
Hospitals often sell fetal tissue to labs for research or treatment, without the
mother's knowledge

BYLINE: Fiona Tam in Beijing fiona.tam@scmp.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 04

LENGTH: 747 words


Research projects using embryonic and fetal stem cells are ethically
controversial in the West and have generated plenty of  public debate, but in
China there is little discussion and public opinion seems to be largely
positive.

The country's particular situations, however, further complicates the picture.
Most mainland stem-cell researchers will not say publicly where the fetal tissue
they used for study or treatment comes from. A close reading of mainland
journals however, show that many cells used for the research are coming from
induced abortions. The cells harvested from fetuses range in age from five weeks
to six months.

The mainland's draconian population "one child" policy has ensured, although
unintentionally, that the supply would be limitless.

Many Chinese mothers-to-be are forced to terminate their pregnancies, regardless
of the stage at which they are, under  this policy. Authorities exert pressure
to abort by imposing heavy fines on would-be parents, dismissing them from jobs,
and refusing residency permits and social protections such as education and
medical services for the children.

After the abortion, the hospital often  sells the fetal tissue to other
hospitals or laboratories for stem-cell research or treatment, without the
mother's knowledge.

"Generally, surgeons in the mainland are very likely to use aborted fetuses in
medical experiments and treatments without informing the mother-to-be," Liu
said, "while many mothers-to-be are also not aware of their rights on aborted
fetuses, and some surgeons may take advantage of this."

An Yimeng,  director of the stem-cell transplant department at Beijing's General
Hospital of the Chinese People's Armed Police Forces, told People's Daily that
mainland hospitals had been using fetal brains to treat patients since the
1980s, and a huge number of patients received similar treatments during the past
three decades.

An's hospital alone has treated nearly 4,000 patients with its neural stem cells
since 2003, including foreign patients from 20 countries.

In Shenzhen, a public hospital obstetrician said  that in most cases, a
mother-to-be will leave the aborted fetus or stillbirth baby to the hospital as
medical residue. The fetuses will be sold. And so will the placentas, to
pharmaceutical factories or individuals who believe them rich in nutrients and
suitable to eat.

The country's lax system of ethical and regulatory oversight and respect to
privacy enable doctors to remove  fetal cells and tissues without informing the
mothers.

Ding Yu,  who specialises in women's rights and is a researcher from the School
of Sociology and Anthropology at Sun Yat-Sen University, said: "Very few Chinese
have ethical concern over abortion after three decades of the 'one-child policy'
and forced abortions. Most of them take abortion as common phenomena and never
link this with human rights or a fetus' right to life."

On the mainland, fetal stem cells and tissue from abortion clinics have become a
steady source for mainland hospitals in treating patients for various diseases
as early as 2000, as well as stem-cell laboratories for research.

Mainland media revealed that a Liaoning woman who chose a sex- selective
abortion in Xian in June last year  discovered that her six-month-old fetus was
sold to a local medical company called Shaanxi Alerfu Activ Tissue Engineering
Co, which focuses on producing artificial skin and cornea. Three maternity
assistants who sold the fetus soon after the abortion were fired by the hospital
after a police investigation.

There are growing concerns on the mainland, though. Liu Hongbo,  a noted
newspaper columnist based in Wuhan, said an unborn child arguably had as much
right to live as the terminally ill child who used its cells. But Chinese
legislators only regard babies, not fetuses, as human.

"Chinese authorities believe fetuses are just a possibility of life, and
abortion is legal and well accepted by the public," Liu said.

But neurologist Ben Barres,  chair of the neurobiology department at Stanford
University School of Medicine, said he saw nothing wrong with using cells or
tissue from a fetus that was being discarded in any case.

"Personally," Barres said, "I don't think there is an ethical problem with using
tissue from aborted fetuses [tissue that would otherwise be thrown in the
garbage] to help patients."

1,116

The number of stem-cell papers published in international peer-reviewed journals
in 2008 from China, ranking it fifth in the world

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


