                              374 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      December 9, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

CHA: Catholic Health Association Responds to New York Times Editorial

LENGTH: 401  words


New Delhi, Dec. 9 -- The New York Times editorial published on Dec. 8 ("When
Bishops Direct Medical Care") was misleading and in error. It is especially
regrettable that such a respected publication would rush to judgment without
validating the facts.



Catholic hospitals in the United States have a stellar history of caring for
mothers and infants. Hundreds of thousands of patients have received
extraordinary care - both in the joy of welcoming an infant or in the pain of
losing one.

In many communities in our country, the Catholic hospital's maternity service is
the designated center for high-risk pregnancies. It is inaccurate and
irresponsible to assert that these wonderful community services are unsafe for
mothers in an obstetrical emergency, simply because a Catholic hospital adheres
to the Ethical and Religious Directives. This can be frightening to families and
is grossly disrespectful to the thousands of physicians, midwives and nurses who
are so devoted to their patients and to the care they deliver.

The inaccuracy of this assertion is easily proven. We are fortunate in this
country to have several independent organizations with oversight responsibility
for all hospitals. Nationally, for most hospitals it is the Joint Commission
(JCAHO) and, in each state, there is a licensing agency. Both organizations have
robust standards and inspections. They would not accredit or license a hospital
that is unsafe for mothers or infants under any circumstance.

Add to that the commitment of health professionals caring for these mothers.
They accept many personal disruptions in their schedules to be there for mothers
and infants 24/7. They would not tolerate working in a clinical setting that is
detrimental to their patients.

Premature rupture of membranes is one of the most stressful obstetrical events.
In this situation, the infant is almost always much desired; parents want and
need to know that every option for saving their baby was exhausted. This is not
a simple clinical situation that you "take care of" and then move on. Anyone who
has ever cared for these parents knows that this will always be the child they
lost.

There is nothing in the Ethical and Religious Directives that prevents the
provision of quality clinical care for mothers and infants in obstetrical
emergencies. Their experience in hundreds of Catholic hospitals over centuries
is outstanding testimony to that.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


