                              379 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2005 American Society of Law, Medicine &
                                     Ethics
                       Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics

                                   Fall, 2005

                           33 J.L. Med. & Ethics 603

LENGTH: 4223 words

COLUMN: The Ethical Health Lawyer: The Ethics of Lawyer-Ethicists

NAME: Amy L. McGuire, Mary A. Majumder, and J. Richard Cheney

BIO: Amy McGuire, J.D., is an Assistant Professor of Medicine in The Center for
Medical Ethics and Health Policy at Baylor College of Medicine and serves on
three local ethics committees. Mary Majumder, J.D., is an Assistant Professor of
Medicine in the Center for Medical Ethics and Health Policy at Baylor College of
Medicine, and serves as a member of Methodist Hospital's ethics committee and
ethics consultation service. J. Richard Cheney, J.D., is Vice President of Legal
Services for The Methodist Hospital, serves on the hospital's institutional
ethics committee and as a member of its ethics consultation team.

HIGHLIGHT: About this Column

The Ethical Health Lawyer is edited by Joan H. Krause and Richard S. Saver. Joan
H. Krause is Associate Professor of Law at the University of Houston Law Center
and Co-Director of the University of Houston Health Law & Policy Institute.
Richard S. Saver is Assistant Professor of Law at the University of Houston
Health Law & Policy Institute.

(JKrause@Central.UH.EDU)

TEXT:
 [*603]  Bioethics and health law are inextricably intertwined. The law is often
invoked to help resolve ethical dilemmas in health care. n1 It is no surprise,
then, that lawyers often sit on hospital ethics committees and sometimes staff
ethics consultation services. n2 Attorney involvement in these activities,
however, is controversial. n3


n1 C. Scott, "Why Law Pervades Medicine: An Essay on Ethics in Health Care,"
Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics & Public Policy 245 (2000): 106-147.

n2 HCA, Inc., Clinical Ethics Manual: Executive Summary, available at
<http://ec.hcahealthcare.com/CPM/Clinical EthicsManual.doc> (last visited July
6, 2005).

n3 B. White and L. E. Gottlieb, "Point and Counterpoint: Should an Institution's
Risk Manager/Lawyer Serve as HEC Members?" HEC Forum 3, no. 2 (1991): 87-89,
91-93; S. M. Mitchell and M. S. Swartz, "Is There a Place for Lawyers on Ethics
Committees? A View from the Inside," Hastings Center Report 20, no. 2 (1990):
32-33.

   In this column we discuss the ethics of lawyer-ethicists in the hospital
setting. We begin by discussing the appropriateness of including lawyers in
general, and hospital attorneys in particular, as members of institutional
ethics committees. The three most common tasks of ethics committees are (1)
educating clinical staff and patients about ethical issues in patient care, (2)
developing institutional policies, and (3) providing ethics consultation
services upon request. n4 While ethics committees sometimes convene to review a
particular clinical case, most hospitals have a smaller ethics consultation
service, composed of members of the ethics committee who respond when an
interested party requests an ethics consult. When called, the consultant or team
of consultants will generally review the patient's chart, talk to a variety of
stakeholders, and develop a recommendation for addressing the issues based on
ethical analysis.


n4 R. F. Wilson, M. Neff-Smith, D. Phillips and J. C. Fletcher, "HECs: Are They
Evaluating Their Performance?" HEC Forum 5, no. 1 (1993): 1-34.

   In the first section of this column, we consider the ethics of participating
in general ethics education and policy development. We find no compelling reason
to categorically exclude lawyers (even hospital attorneys) from these
activities. Unique challenges arise, however, when lawyers engage in clinical
ethics consultation and intensify when those lawyers also serve as hospital
attorneys. We therefore consider this task separately. We contemplate the
arguments in favor of and against allowing non-hospital lawyers to assume the
role of ethics consultant and suggest ways that many of the hazards associated
with lawyers assuming such a role can be overcome. We then address the most
challenging question-should hospital attorneys serve as clinical ethics
consultants? It is our experience that hospital attorneys can successfully
participate in clinical ethics consultation, but we explore whether, as a
general rule, their involvement can be justified.

Lawyers as Hospital Ethics Committee Members

The concept of a hospital ethics committee was first introduced into public
discussion nearly thirty years ago. n5 Ethics committees were proposed as an
alternative to judicial review of all morally charged medical decisions.
Ethically controversial cases could be reviewed by individuals with diverse
knowledge, which would provide an additional level of scrutiny for decisions and
assuage concerns about legal liability. n6 In 1991, the Joint Commission on
Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) mandated that all hospitals
establish a "mechanism for the consideration of ethical issues arising in the
care of patients." n7 Today, nearly all hospitals have an ethics committee, and
many include lawyers among their members. In fact, "[m]any IECs [institutional
ethics committees] have found that  [*604]  the inclusion of nonhospital
attorneys familiar with ethics issues is beneficial. In addressing
organizational ethics issues, their membership may be essential." n8


n5 In re Quinlan, 355 A.2d 647 (NJ, 1976); President's Commission for the Study
of Ethical Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research, Deciding
to Forego Life-Sustaining Treatment (Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing
Office, 1983); 49 Fed. Reg. 1622- 1654 (January 12, 1984).

n6 In re Quinlan, 355 A.2d 647 (NJ, 1976).

n7 JCAHO, "Patient Rights," 1992 Accreditation Manual for Hospitals (Chicago,
IL: JCAHO, 1992): 103-105.

n8 American Academy of Pediatrics, "Institutional Ethics Committees," Pediatrics
107, no. 1 (2001): 205-209.

   Arguments against the inclusion of lawyers on hospital ethics committees
center on concerns that attorneys typically adopt an adversarial approach to
problem solving. However, this not true of all lawyers, and according to the
American Medical Association (AMA) guidelines, "committee members should be
selected on the basis of their concern for the welfare of the sick and infirm,
their interest in ethical matters, and their reputation in the community and
among their peers for integrity and mature judgment," n9 not solely on the basis
of their training or profession. The AMA guidelines do specify that "[c]ommittee
members should not have other responsibilities that are likely to prove
incompatible with their duties as members of the ethics committee." n10 For most
academic or community lawyers, meeting this standard will not be a problem. It
may, however, present a challenge for hospital attorneys.


n9 American Medical Association, Code of Medical Ethics: Current Opinions with
Annotations (Chicago, IL: AMA Press, 2004): opinion 9.11, Ethics Committees in
Health Care Institutions.

n10 Id.


Hospital Attorneys as Ethics Committee Members

Hospital attorneys can add unique expertise and knowledge to institutional
ethics committees. Ethics education and institutional policy development require
not only general knowledge of legal issues, but often, specific knowledge of
institutional commitments, procedures, and culture. But is the hospital
attorney's obligation to provide legal representation and advice to the
institution incompatible with her duties as a member of the ethics committee? In
most circumstances, it is not, because: (1) it is generally advisable for health
care institutions to promote the ethical practice of medicine; (2) hospital
policies should be ethical, but they should also not conflict with the law; and
(3) when the law and ethics diverge, hospital staff and patients should be
educated about relevant ethical considerations, and should also be informed of
their legal rights and any potential risk of liability. Thus, there is no actual
conflict between the lawyer's role as an ethics committee member and her role as
hospital attorney. Of course, it is essential that the attorney have
institutional support to "wear two hats," and that she maintain professional
integrity by recusing herself from any committee deliberations that conflict
with her obligations to the institution. Any perceived conflict of obligation
that does not actually exist can usually be overcome through committee education
and a supportive institution.

   There will be situations where institutional support is lacking, the conflict
of obligation is great, or the perception of incompatibility is insurmountable.
Whether or not it is appropriate for a particular hospital attorney to
participate as a member of the institutional ethics committee must be determined
by the attorney, the other committee members, and the hospital administration.
If there is any doubt, the hospital attorney should refrain from sitting on the
ethics committee, but should be available as a consultant to the committee on
specific legal or administrative matters. n11


n11 See American Academy of Pediatrics, supra note 8, at 207.


Lawyers as Ethics Consultants

Ethics consultation has been defined as "a service provided by an individual or
group to help patients, families, surrogates, health care providers, or other
involved parties address uncertainty or conflict regarding value-laden issues
that emerge in health care." n12 A number of models exist for ethics
consultation, including the individual consultant model and the
interdisciplinary consult team model. Consultants, whether acting singly or in
teams, are usually members of the institutional ethics committee who have
received special training to equip them to respond when a patient or another
party with a stake in the care of a particular patient requests assistance. The
Core Competencies for Health Care Ethics Consultation, developed by the Society
for Health and Human Values-Society for Bioethics Consultation Task Force on
Standards for Bioethics Consultation, clearly contemplate the possible service
of lawyers as both individual consultants and consult team members. n13


n12 American Society for Bioethics and Humanities (ASBH), Core Competencies for
Health Care Ethics Consultation (Glenview, IL: ASBH, 1998): at 3.

n13 Id. at 11-12.

   Arguments in favor of at least allowing, and perhaps encouraging, lawyers to
serve as ethics consultants or members of consult teams include the contribution
of general legal knowledge, the contribution of valuable skills, and the
contribution of boundary recognition.

Contribution of General Legal Knowledge

The Core Competencies recognize health law as one of nine core knowledge areas
for ethics consultation. According to the Competencies, all consultants are
expected to have basic knowledge of the law relevant to ethics consultation
(e.g., end-of-life decision making, surrogate decision making, informed consent,
privacy); an individual consultant, or at least one member of a consult team,
should also have access to advanced knowledge. n14 While non-specialists can
acquire general legal knowledge in a variety of ways, often lawyers hold the
advantage not only in understanding particular areas of law but also in
understanding how the law works.


n14 Id. at 20.


Contribution of Valuable Skills

Legal education alone is usually not lethal to the sensitivity required for the
role of ethics consultant, and the negotiation and mediation skills frequently
taught in law schools may be a real asset. Nancy Dubler and Carol  [*605]
Liebman have recently developed a model for bioethics consultation that draws
heavily on the theory and practice of mediation. n15 This model has been
extensively tested and has drawn praise from many quarters.


n15 N. N. Dubler and C. B. Liebman, Bioethics Mediation: A Guide to Shaping
Shared Solutions (New York: United Hospital Fund, 2004).


Contribution of Boundary Recognition

Lawyer-consultants may be better than other consultants with some degree of
legal knowledge, but no law degree, at recognizing the potential slide from
ethics consultation to unauthorized or inappropriate practice of law. As Bethany
Spielman has noted, authorized sharing of legal information within the context
of ethics consultation involves "providing only general legal principles or
straightforward 'black letter' law"; the practice of law typically involves
"significant interpretation, judgment, or application of law to a specific fact
situation." n16 Spielman suggests that ethics consultants should encourage
parties who feel the need for case-specific legal information to obtain separate
legal advice. Some are likely to criticize this suggestion as just the sort of
thing one would expect from a lawyer, since the implication is that any occasion
for contact between life and the law must be pushed in the direction of an
adversarial, lawyer-heavy conflict. Still, it is valuable to be reminded that
resolving legal issues for the parties is not the province of ethics
consultants, whatever their training, and that in some cases ethics consultants
should remind the parties of their right to seek legal counsel.


n16 B. Spielman, "Has Faith in Health Care Ethics Consultants Gone Too Far?
Risks of an Unregulated Practice and a Model Act to Contain Them," Marquette Law
Review 85 (2001): 161-221, at 204-205.

   The arguments that may be advanced against the cultivation of
lawyer-consultants include the hazard of legalism and the hazard of boundary
violation.

Hazard of Legalism

The worry that lawyers will "act adversarial" or give undue weight to legal
considerations extends from ethics committee service to ethics consultation. As
noted above, lawyers vary in their approach to problem-solving, and in our
experience lawyers practicing ethics consultation are in the field precisely
because they have broader, humanistic leanings. The use of the interdisciplinary
team model can also lessen the hazard of legalism, since it allows for the
collection of multiple perspectives on a problem.

Hazard of Boundary Violation

Although many lawyers will be highly sensitive to boundary issues and the
importance of refraining from the practice of law while engaged in ethics
consultation, some may be so gratified by an opportunity to employ their special
expertise that they fail to consider the perils of speaking to the parties as a
source of authoritative direction on some knotty issue of law as applied to the
particular case. Both lawyer and non-lawyer ethics consultants need to be
reminded of the importance of clarity about their role. Clarity is partly an
internal matter, but there is also the issue of how much the consultant should
say to others about the significance of the J.D. or LL.M. after her name. We
would recommend facing the issue head-on by advising participants that although
one has training in law, here one is acting as an ethics consultant, a resource
to all the parties in their efforts to determine the best course of action in
the circumstances from an ethical perspective, and not as an attorney
representing one party or providing legal advice to the group.

Hospital Lawyers as Ethics Consultants

All of the arguments in favor of a blanket prohibition on lawyer-consultants can
be overcome if everyone involved is clear that the individual is acting in her
role as an ethics consultant, rather than a lawyer. But is it possible for the
hospital's lawyer to achieve the level of objectivity required of an ethics
consultant? Or, in other words, do hospital lawyers have "responsibilities
incompatible with the duties" of an ethics consultant? In order to answer this
question we must examine the obligations of ethics consultants as well as the
responsibilities of the various lawyers employed by the hospital. Finally, we
must ask, even if there is no actual incompatibility, is there a perception of
conflict that irrevocably interferes with the consultation process?

The Nature of Clinical Consultation and the Competencies of Consultants

Regardless of the ultimate satisfaction of all involved parties, a successful
consultation must conclude in consensus. The consultant must facilitate reaching
an agreement by navigating a course through strongly-held, often conflicting,
positions that are frequently clouded by "complex interpersonal and affective
features, such as guilt over a loved one's sickness or impending death,
disagreement among health care providers, possible conflicts of interest, or
distrust of the medical system." n17 At a minimum, the consultant must not let
any actual or perceived conflict in her obligations defeat the necessary
creation of an atmosphere of trust. All individuals will have personal moral
views that can affect their role in consultations, and a careful consultant must
acknowledge these personal interests in order to keep the consultation
atmosphere as neutral as possible so the "real parties" can work through their
own value uncertainties and conflicts. This requires the consultant to be
prudent, to have courage, and to be honest and forthright. n18


n17 See ASBH, supra note 12, at 3.

n18 Id. at 22.

   Whether a commitment to these virtues is enough to justify hospital lawyers
providing ethics consultation will depend on the nature of the lawyer's
relationship with the hospital as well as the expressed core values of the
institution.

Hospital Lawyer's Relationship to the Institution

Modern hospitals are complex enterprises that employ lawyers in a wide variety
of roles. In addition to the role of general counsel, hospitals employ lawyers
as risk managers, employment law specialists, compliance officers, contracting
specialists, and medical staff relations specialists. Some of these roles
include administrative responsibilities, and some do not. Some carry fiduciary
responsibilities, while others do not. Those  [*606]  with administrative
responsibilities should avoid consulting on cases for which they have direct
administrative obligations. This policy applies to all potential ethics
consultants. n19 The more administrative responsibility a consultant has
(whether a lawyer or not), the greater the potential for conflict of obligation.
In fact, the real issue may not be whether hospital attorneys can serve as
ethics consultants, but rather, whether any senior hospital administrator,
regardless of her professional degree, can maintain the objectivity required of
an ethics consultant. This is particularly challenging for those, such as some
hospital attorneys, who also have fiduciary obligations to the institution.


n19 Id. at 29.

   According to the American Bar Association's Model Rules of Professional
Conduct, if an attorney has been hired by the hospital to either represent or
advise the hospital on legal matters, then a fiduciary relationship exists
between the attorney and the institution. n20 A core component of any fiduciary
relationship is the idea that the fiduciary is responsible for promoting the
interests of the beneficiary. n21 Sometimes, the recommendations of an ethics
consultant may expose the institution to liability or some other risk of harm.
For example, consider the case of a patient who has unknowingly been harmed due
to an error in communication between the physician and the nurse. The ethics
consultant may recommend that the patient be fully informed of the error, even
if such disclosure may result in a lawsuit against the institution. n22
Therefore, attorneys who have fiduciary obligations to the institution should
not provide ethics consultation, unless the institution has explicitly stated
that its primary interest in ethics consultation is the ethical resolution of
cases. n23 Finally, if a hospital lawyer provides ethics consultation in
accordance with these provisions and the case ends in litigation then the lawyer
should avoid any corporate responsibility for managing the lawsuit. n24 If this
is not possible, for example in a small hospital with only one risk manager,
then that lawyer should not participate in ethics consultations.


n20 American Bar Association Center for Professional Responsibility (ABA), Model
Rules for Professional Conduct (2003): Model Rule 1.13.

n21 See, e.g., ABA, supra note 20, Model Rule 1.13; Restatement (Third) of the
Law Governing Lawyers (2000) sec. 96.

n22 Some have suggested that full disclosure of medical error may result in
fewer lawsuits, but there is insufficient evidence to support such a conclusion.
See, e.g., K. M. Mazor, S. R. Simon, and J. H. Gurwitz, "Communicating with
Patients about Medical Errors: A Review of the Literature," Archieves of
Internal Medicine 164 (2004): 1690-1697; K. M. Mazor et al., "Health Plan
Members' Views about Disclosure of Medical Errors," Annals of Internal Medicine
140 (2004): 409-418. In fact, one study suggests that while the amount of
payment may be lower following full disclosure, the number of lawsuits may
increase. S. S. Kraman and G. Hamm, "Risk Management: Extreme Honesty May Be the
Best Policy," Annals of Internal Medicine 131 (1999): 963-967.

n23 See ABA, supra note 20, Model Rule 1.7; Model Rule 1.2 (stating that "a
lawyer shall abide by a client's decisions concerning the objectives of
representation and,...shall consult with the client as to the means by which
they are to be pursued").

n24 See ABA, supra note 20, Model Rule 1.7 (stating that "a lawyer shall not
represent a client [here the hospital] if the representation involves a
concurrent conflict of interest. A concurrent conflict of interest exists
if:...(2) there is a significant risk that the representation of one or more
clients will be materially limited by the lawyer's responsibilities to another
client, a former client or a third person or by a personal interest of the
lawyer." [emphasis added]). If the hospital (client) is committed in ethics
consultations to the ethical resolution of cases then the lawyer's
representation of the hospital should not be limited by her responsibilities to
any of the parties involved in an ethics consultation. However, if the lawyer
has corporate authority in a resulting lawsuit, then her representation of the
hospital may be compromised by her participation in the ethics consultation, or
vice versa.

   If a lawyer is hired by a hospital but is not given the authority to act as
legal representative or advisor to the institution then there is no fiduciary
relationship between the lawyer and the institution. n25 The lawyer thus has no
actual conflict that would prevent her from acting as an ethics consultant. She
would simply be constrained by the conflict of interest rules that pertain to
all consultants. The only remaining question is whether there is a perception
about the lawyer's relationship to the institution that irreparably compromises
the consultation process and therefore justifies excluding her as an ethics
consultant.


n25 Many institutions, for example, hire lawyers to serve as compliance
officers. This position does not usually require one to engage in the practice
of law and in many institutions compliance officers do not have an
attorney-client relationship with the institution.


Perceived Conflicts of Obligation

The perception of conflict is important because ethics consultations are
triggered when one or more of the participants feel the need for an
intervention. Often that need is prompted by a feeling of unease about the
actions or attitudes of other participants. Thus, the ethics consultant often
arrives on the scene at a time when the air is already charged by more tension
than usual, even for serious health concerns. Furthermore, the consultant
arrives wearing a badge of authority. n26 This is a situation with significant
risk for abuse of power based on any conflict of obligation for the consultant
and with an even higher risk that one or more of the participants will perceive
the consultant is conflicted by interests other than the successful conclusion
of the consultation. If any party believes the consultant has a conflict, the
necessary atmosphere of trust is lost.


n26 See ASBH, supra note 12, at 29.

   We do not know if hospital lawyers are more likely than other ethics
consultants to be perceived as having a conflict of obligation or, if they are,
whether the consultant can overcome the perception and create an acceptable
environment to accomplish the goals of the consultation. The degree to which
there is a perception of conflict and to whom it applies is an empirical
question that deserves to be studied. We suspect that the perception of
conflict, if it exists, has more to do with the attorney's level of
administrative authority than her professional degree. Thus, this will be a
challenge for any senior hospital administrator who provides ethics
consultation. Certainly, where a perception of conflict exists, the consultant
should seek to mitigate that perception. We suggest she do this by acknowledging
the potential for conflict and addressing it with all parties involved. If the
consultant cannot maintain objectivity without breaching her fiduciary
responsibility to the institution then she should expeditiously withdraw from
the case. n27


n27 Id.

   Of course, the responsibility of providing opportunities for successful
consultations does not fall on the consultant alone. The institution must also
provide support. Hospital lawyers must be empowered by the institution to carry
out their work as ethics consultants with integrity and in an environment that
is free of concerns about job security, reprisals, or undue political pressure.
It takes not only a special person, but also a supportive institution for a
hospital lawyer to succeed as an ethics consultant.

 [*607]  Acknowledgments

We would like to express our gratitude to Daniel Bustillos, J.D. and to the
participants in the Ethics Journal Club sponsored by the Center for Medical
Ethics and Health Policy at Baylor College of Medicine for their thoughtful
comments on this manuscript.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Estate, Gift & Trust LawPowers of AttorneySurrogate
DecisionsGovernmentsFiduciary ResponsibilitiesLegal EthicsUnauthorized Practice
of Law


