                              382 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                 March 26, 2004

Issue of sponsorship by drug firms clarified
Advice given on procedures doctors should adopt in relation to competence and
conduct of colleagues

BYLINE: By EITHNE DONNELLAN, Health Correspondent

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; MEDICAL COUNCIL ETHICAL GUIDELINES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 608 words


The Medical Council has for the first time issued ethical guidelines to doctors
in relation to the terms on which they may accept sponsorship from drug
companies.

The guidelines, published yesterday, restate that any financial interest a
doctor may have in the pharmaceutical or allied industry must not influence him
or her when recommending therapy for patients.

But they add for the first time that "non-promotional educational grants
represent the only acceptable mechanism for financial support by the
pharmaceutical and medical manufacturing industries to individual doctors".

Prof Gerard Bury, president of the Medical Council, said that there was "no good
evidence of awfully bad practice" in this area, but patients might be concerned
about an "overly cosy" relationship between the two given that drug companies
sponsored doctors' travel to conferences and funded research.

"We believe it is appropriate to disentangle that relationship somewhat," Prof
Bury said.

The council's latest ethical guidelines for doctors also refer to a host of
other topics for the first time, including the "head-hunting" of doctors by one
hospital from another, the displaying of doctors' fees, doctors' websites,
whistle-blowing by doctors on colleagues, electronic prescribing, the use of
spare embryos and the need for doctors to obtain consent from patients with
disabilities.

The guidelines state that a doctor, having formally accepted any post - even a
locum post - must not then withdraw "without due cause" unless the employer has
time to make other arrangements to ensure that patient care is not compromised.

The chairwoman of the council's ethics committee, Senator Geraldine Feeney, said
that this had been a particular problem with non-consultant hospital doctors
(NCHDs) who, when due to turn up at a job in one hospital on July 1st, would
actually turn up at another, leaving hospitals and patients in the lurch.
Patients were actually being put at risk, she said.

The guidelines state that the council welcomes the provision of appropriate
information to patients, including the displaying of professional fees.

The handbook states that electronic prescribing is acceptable if it meets legal
and best-practice clinical standards. It adds that a prescription must be
legible, dated and signed by a registered medical practitioner. Prof Bury said:
"Doctors' handwriting is gone beyond being a joke."

The guidelines also state that where a doctor believes a colleague's conduct or
competence poses a risk to a patient, the doctor should express his or her
concern initially to the colleague concerned and advise on remedial action.
"Where local systems of support or remediation are available, they should be
availed of as the next step. Should the colleague's response be unsatisfactory,
then the doctor should refer the matter to the Medical Council."

Prof Bury said that if any patient came to harm while a doctor hesitated to act
in relation to a colleague, he or she could be dealt with critically.

Under the guidelines, doctors can set up websites to provide information to
patients as long as their site is not self-promotional.

There are also references for the first time to complementary medicine. Doctors
who refer patients for such therapy must be aware of the efficacy and potential
side effects of the treatment and advise patients accordingly.

It is also stated that doctors should offer a chaperone to a patient,
irrespective of their age or gender, before conducting an intimate examination
on them.

IVF guideline has huge implications for family: page 16; Editorial comment: page
17

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2004 The Irish Times


