                              381 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 28, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Naval Center Halts Research During Inquiry About Ethics

BYLINE:  By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 488 words


The National Naval Medical Center has suspended all orthopedic and radiology
research on patients while it investigates a study that violated standard
ethical practice, officials said last week.

Doctors who began the study of shoulder injuries two years ago had failed to
seek approval from an ethics committee, as federal law requires, before
injecting a chemical dye into 48 patients who then underwent M.R.I.'s, the
officials said.

The study was aimed at determining which type of injection -- directly into the
shoulder joint or a vein -- led to a better M.R.I. to delineate injuries.
Doctors use the images to help determine the need for surgery.

Each type of injection is standard practice in American hospitals, although the
choice varies, Dr. Michael Krentz, a Navy captain, said. He is deputy commander
of the center, which is the Navy's flagship hospital and the hospital where
President Bush gets his annual checkups.

But subjecting a patient to both types of injections is investigational because
the risks or benefits of an additional injection are not known, Dr. Krent said
in a telephone interview.

Navy officials have ordered a commandwide training of doctors and health workers
in the ethics of human experimentation.

A doctor training to become an orthopedic surgeon undertook the study without
submitting a detailed scientific blueprint as required from an ethics committee
known as an institutional review board, Dr. Krentz said. The ethical breach was
reported in June.

Findings have not been reported at a scientific meeting or published because the
number of patients in the study was too small for a meaningful statistical
analysis. If the study design had been submitted to the review board, its
members might have improved it before the first patient was enrolled, Dr. Krentz
said.

The Navy's investigation has included reviews of patient charts and interviews
with hospital workers and patients. The patients included active-duty personnel,
retirees and family members. The last patient was enrolled in the spring.

Dr. Krentz said the center was not aware of any patient suffering an adverse
effect but has invited all participants to return for follow-up studies at no
cost to determine if any complication did occur.

The Navy has notified the federal Office for Human Research Protections and has
not publicly released the names of the doctors involved.

The medical center's institutional review board has approved 177 research
projects that are currently being conducted and is reviewing applications for an
additional 50, Dr. Krentz said. The ban applies to five studies being conducted
by radiologists and one other project being conducted by orthopedic surgeons.

Dr. Donald Arthur, a rear admiral, said, "This is an isolated occurrence of not
following well-prescribed research protocols; it is being fully investigated and
reviewed to determine the cause of the oversight and to prevent recurrence."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


