                              373 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 20, 1982, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HOSPITAL IS INVESTIGATED ON LIFE-SUPPORT POLICY

BYLINE: By DAVID MARGOLICK

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 34, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 886 words


A Queens hospital is under investigation by the New York Attorney General's
Office for possible criminal violations stemming from the denial of certain
life-support measures to some seriously ill patients.

The disclosure came in a ruling Thursday from the New York Court of Appeals,
which held that La Guardia Hospital in Forest Hills could not invoke the
doctor-patient or social worker-client privileges to withhold evidence from a
grand jury investigating the death of two elderly patients.

Arthur G. Weinstein, the lawyer handling the inquiry in the office of the
Special State Prosecutor for Medicaid Fraud Control, would not comment on he
particulars of the inquiry. A lawyer for La Guardia Hospital, Charles G.
Moerdler, denied that the institution had done anything improper.

Legal and Ethical Uncertainty

''The hospital engaged only in those medical practices which are generally
accepted and are at all times consistent with the highest standards of medical
care,'' he said.

The Attorney General's investigation raises, in the unusual context of a
criminal proceeding, the legal and ethical problems inherent in the
discretionary use of life-support systems for the terminally ill as well as the
rights and responsibilities of doctors, family members and patients in deciding
whether to use them.

The issue, according to E. Donald Shapiro, dean of the New York Law School, is
''probably the most touchy ethical area in medical practice today.''

While guidelines governing the use of such equipment have been devised in some
parts of the country, neither the courts, the Legislature, nor many hospitals in
New York have done so. As a result, hospitals and doctors in the state must make
these life-anddeath decisions daily amid legal and ethical uncertainty.

2 Subpoenas Issued

''This is a problem that has confronted physicians, family members and hospital
administrators ever since artificial methods of life support and methods of
cardiac and respiratory resuscitation have been developed,'' said Barry A. Gold,
a specialist in health-care law in Albany.

According to the court's opinion, last July, Edward J. Kuriansky, a deputy
attorney general, issued two grand jury subpoenas - one to La Guardia Hospital
and the other to its executive vice president - calling for the hospital records
of a patient identified only as Maria M. A second subpoena, for the records of
one Daisy S., followed shortly thereafter.

The subpoenas were issued as part of an investigation into a ''no coding''
procedure at La Guardia Hospital.  In the event of a medical crisis, hospitals
summon emergency assistance with coded public-address announcements - calling,
for example, a nonexistent ''Dr. Pacemaker.'' The coding is used to avoid
alarming other patients.

In the case of terminally ill patients, however, a decision is made in advance -
usually by a physician, but in some instances by nurses or even paramedical
personnel - to forgo the use of various resuscitative and life-support measures
in the event of cardiac arrest or other medical crisis.

Such patients, in hospital terminology, are ''no-coded.'' Once in that category,
they are not given emergency assistance in the event of a medical crisis, such
as heart attack or respiratory failure.

Concerned with the moral and legal implications of such decisions, doctors and
lawyers in communities such as Los Angeles and Minneapolis have devised
standards governing no-coding. In Massachusetts, courts have explicitly
authorized such procedures for terminally ill patients.

In New York, however, no such guidelines exist. While the Court of Appeals ruled
last March that terminally ill patients could decide whether life support
systems should be used to sustain them, it has yet to consider the obligations
of doctors and hospitals. Nor has the State Legislature addressed the issue. New
Jersey and Connecticut similarly have no specific legislation or legal
guidelines.

Hospitals Operate at Own Risk

As a result, hospitals in the state that use no-coding do so at their own risk.
Some have adopted their own guidelines; others have declined to do so, fearing
that written policies that explicitly delineate when the death of a patient may
in effect be expedited could subject them to criminal or civil liability. La
Guardia is one such institution, according to a hospital spokesman.

Citing the doctor-patient and social worker-client privileges as well as the
deceased patients' privacy rights, the hospital sought to quash the subpoenas.
In a unanimous opinion, written by Judge Domenick L. Gabrielli, the court
rejected the hospital's position.

Mr. Moerdler insisted that officials at La Guardia Hospital had been willing all
along to comply with the subpoenas but feared problems or even lawsuits from the
deceased patients' next of kin had they done so.

''We were waiting for a waiver from the relatives or a court order,'' he said.
''Now that we have it, we consider ourselves free to release the medical records
and are pleased to do so.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1982 The New York Times Company


