                              385 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                             March 26, 2010 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Church sets out Calvary provisos

BYLINE: Ewa Kretowicz; Assembly Reporter

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 267  words


The Catholic Church has set out its non-negotiable conditions as part of the ACT
Government's new proposal to buy Calvary Hospital.

The Catholic Archbishop of Canberra and Goulburn, Mark Coleridge, said yesterday
he was open to the plan but would need more detail before any decision was made.

But in a letter tabled by ACT Health Minister Katy Gallagher in the Legislative
Assembly yesterday, Archbishop Coleridge outlined his deal-breakers.

Archbishop Coleridge said the Little Company of Mary would need to retain
operation of the hospital for at least 88 years and there would have to be
genuine autonomy and full respect for Catholic ethical requirements.

"... there would be no joint appointments of key personnel such as the chief
executive officer, the director of medicine and the director of nursing, all of
whom would be appointed solely by the Little Company of Mary," Archbishop
Coleridge said in the letter.

Chief Minister Jon Stanhope wrote to Archbishop Coleridge on March 12 outlining
the new proposal after the collapse of the first takeover plan in February.
Archbishop Coleridge's response was received on March 19.

The response made the archbishop's position on abortion and the possible
provision of termination services at Calvary Hospital clear. "There would also
need to be full respect for the Catholic identity of the hospital and the
ethical requirements which this implies. This would mean ... no attempt to
co-locate on a government-owned Bruce site services which would be unacceptable
to the Catholic Church or to use the facilities for the hospital for such
services," he wrote.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2010 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


