                              390 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                              The American Banker

Check the Rules Before Offering Deposit Pickup

                            March 23, 1993, Tuesday

Paul Nadler


The mail is coming in to the Weekly Adviser, and I am happy to present some
comments from readers.

Richard Wilhelm, vice president and manager of compliance administration for
First Interstate Bank of Oregon, has an important observation to make on the
list of 21 ways to improve business that we presented on Feb. 9.

This list, compiled by the American Bankers Association's Community Bankers
Council, presented as its first suggestion, "Offer deposit pickup and delivery
for a fee of $50 a month."

Mr. Wilhelm writes: "You might want to suggest to your readers that they check
with their attorney or compliance officer before implementing such a service."

Mr. Wilhelm attached a copy of Vol. 58, No. 8, of the Federal Register, dated
Jan. 13, 1993, that goes into the question in great detail.

***

Next we have a letter from Steve Boone of the Farmers State Bank, Lanesville,
Ind. Mr. Boone refers to our column on how community banks should react to the
visits of bank examiners, which ran Feb. 23.

Mr. Boone's comment:

"I work for a small financial institution in southern Indiana. I previously
worked as a field examiner for the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions.
As you can tell, I've been on both sides of the fence.  Like Mr. Gray, I feel
that I have some words of wisdom that may help speed up the examination process.

"1. Be prepared.  If your bank receives a pre-notification package, gather as
much information as possible prior to the exam team's arrival.  That first day
can set the tone for entire examination.

"2. Designate an employee to work with the examiners and handle their questions
and requests for documentation.  This will limit the amount of disruption of
your daily banking operation and will centralize the examination process.

"3. Be honest and up-front with them during loan discussion.  In some cases, you
may get the benefit of the doubt.

"Attitude is a big factor if you're looking for a smoother examination process.
Remember: Examiners have to pack their suitcases every week and spend most of
their time away from home.  Why not make their stay a little more pleasant? I
think in the long run you and your bank will benefit from it."

***

A more critical but equally valuable letter arrived from William Watson,
president of Cross Keys Bank of St. Joseph, La., commenting on the column we ran
on Feb. 16.

This discussed the relationship that community banks can develop with their
local hospitals.  The column presented the views of a hospital's chief financial
officer as to how much more banks can do for their hospitals and hospital staffs
than they do now.

Mr. Watson's response:

"While bankers should do many of the things you suggested to try to have a
large-scale 'relationship' with the hospital, its employees, and supporters, you
overlooked certain ethical concerns in regard to granting 'sweetheart' deals to
staff doctors in regard to their personal investment needs.

"As we have been shown dramatically by Regulation O, directors of banks are
criminally liable if, by virtue of their position, they are granted 'sweetheart'
or preferential treatment from their banks or even correspondent banks.

"This ethical situation was understood by most bankers even before Regulation O,
but Burt Lance's notoriety brought about the regulation.

"The same ethical position is evident in doctors' attempting to receive special
treatment because of the profitability of the bank's dealings with the hospital,
an entirely separate entity.

"This ethical concern is probably less understood in New Jersey and New York,
where ethics seem less important than in my southern sphere of experience.

"While your CEO pops off about increased banking costs for their cash management
services, I almost throw up.  Let's compare increases in banking service costs
over the last 10 years to those of hospitals.  "Good grief!" Benefits of Small
Town

Also of interest to community banks should be the enclosures that Mr. Watson
provided of a copy of his employee newsletter and of his most recent message to
shareholders.

His employee communication had an article presenting the positive features of
small-town life in an era when many of these communities are "drying up."

He buttressed his case with a list of community people who had left and then
come back home with spouses brought in from other communities - naming the
communities they were from - who now "add so much to the cultural, educational,
and economic progress of Tensas Parish." A View of the Economy

His letter to shareholders, however, after asking stockholders to write
legislators about "make-work" regulations that hamper bank operations, provides
as optimistic a comment on the American economy today as you could ask for:

"1992 will be remembered as the year the Democrats won back the White House by
convincing the American people that the nation was in the deepest recession
since the 1930s.

"We watched curiously as people in Monroe stood overnight, not in soup lines,
but to buy Garth Brooks concert tickets at big bucks a pop, requiring three
shows instead of one to satisfy the demand."

It would be hard for me to say anything about the future of community banks and
their communities that could top Mr. Watson's optimistic comments presented
here.

Keep those letters coming.

Mr. Nadler is a contributing editor of American Banker and professor of finance
at the Rutgers University Graduate School of Management.

SECTION: COMMUNITY BANKING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 927 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1993 American Banker, Inc.


