                              389 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                           September 4, 2012 Tuesday

MDs urged to deal proactively with global drug shortage;
T.O. doctor says hospitals require ethical policies to allocate medications

BYLINE: Theresa Boyle Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 566 words


Health-care workers need to face the fact that there is no quick fix to the
global drug shortage and they need to step up rather than rely on others to
tackle the problem, a Toronto geriatrician says.

In an interview and in a co-written commentary in the Archives of Internal
Medicine, Dr. Paula Rochon, a senior scientist at Women's College Hospital, said
doctors and other clinicians need to be part of the solution.

"Some clinicians have viewed drug shortages as a problem for pharmacists and
pharmacies and have paid little or no attention to the drug-shortage alerts they
now receive regularly," states the commentary, co-written by Dr. Jerry Gurwitz,
a professor of geriatric medicine at the University of Massachusetts Medical
School.

"Clinicians need to be vigilant about reviewing the drug-shortage alerts they
receive because these alerts may directly affect their patients and their plans
for patient care," it continues.

(Alerts are typically issued via email in hospitals when drugs run low.)

The authors note that the shortage is worsening with 178 drug therapies listed
in short supply in 2010, almost three times as many as in 2005. That number
jumped to 220 by October last year.

"Given the dramatic increase in the number of drug shortages, shortages are now
an issue for all clinicians," the commentary argues.

Cancer drugs are most frequently affected, followed by antibiotic therapies.

Also on the short supply list are painkillers, anesthetic agents, cardiovascular
medications, electrolyte solutions and vitamins.

The causes are numerous and include problems at various stages of the supply
chain.

Shortages present numerous challenges that should be anticipated and addressed
proactively, Rochon said in an interview.

"When you are aware of the issue, you are proactive and you can manage through
situations so they don't become a problem," she said.

Potential problems include prescription errors that occur when unfamiliar
substitutes are used. A 2010 survey of 1,800 health-care professionals in the
United States by the Institute for Safe Medicine Practices found a significant
association between drug shortages and harmful medication errors. A third of the
respondents reported that their facility had experienced a "near miss" in the
previous year because of the drug shortage. About one in four reported actual
errors and one in five reported adverse patient outcomes.

Another problem is deciding which patients should get access to drugs in short
supply.

Rochon and Gurwitz point to a companion piece in the journal that proposes an
ethical approach to allocating scarce drug resources. It argues, for example,
that there should be no preferential access for VIPs.

The commentary urges hospitals to create ethically sound policies to allocate
scarce medications.

Earlier this year, the Ontario Ministry of Health, in conjunction with the
University of Toronto Joint Centre for Bioethics created an "ethical framework"
that health professionals and hospitals could draw upon when grappling with
shortages.

It advocates, for example, sharing drugs with other hospitals and postponing
elective procedures that require use of drugs in limited supply.

Meanwhile, a recent editorial in the Canadian Medical Association Journal argued
that Canada needs a national approach to managing its supply of pharmaceutical
drugs, starting with a mandatory reporting system for drugs in short supply.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

