                              388 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                        Warwick Daily News (Queensland)

                             May 16, 2012 Wednesday

Complaint over alleged violation of patient info;
EXCLUSIVE: Employee under investigation by Queensland Health

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 345  words



HIGHLIGHT: Hospital employee under investigation for alleged patient
confidentiality breach


Kerri Burns-Taylor

Reporter

A WARWICK Hospital employee is the subject of an ethics investigation, following
allegations they leaked sensitive and confidential information about a patient.

The patient is believed to have sought treatment at the hospital following a
sexual mishap, with the woman's name and details of the incident obtained by a
former friend of the employee.

The man claims the employee directly told him all the details of the incident
and said it was not the first time he had been on the receiving end of
confidential and personal patient information.

He said he had heard countless stories from two employees about Warwick women
being treated for various sexual conditions.

"I know the two (employees) very well and I have heard loads of stories about
girls who have gone up there for treatment," he said.

"They pretty much tell me which girls to stay away from and which conditions
they have, and I am absolutely sick of hearing this information about these
young girls.

"I am a single bloke so it's good information for me to have but I just don't
think they should be telling people these things."

Queensland Health has confirmed one employee is being investigated by the
Ethical Standards Unit but said no similar action had been taken against a
second.

Warwick Hospital director of nursing Megan O'Shannessy said the employees were
entitled to a presumption of innocence until the investigation was completed.

"Queensland Health takes these claims seriously and will investigate where
required and address appropriately," she said.

"In the particular matter raised by (the) complainant, the District has referred
the issue to the Ethical Standards Unit which liaises with the Crime and
Misconduct Commission.

"All Queensland Health staff, including those at Warwick Hospital, are informed
of the requirements of the Health Services Act 1991 which provides for patient
confidentiality."

The Act regulates the disclosure of confidential information and prevents
Queensland Health staff from disclosing such information without the consent of
the patient.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDN


                    Copyright 2012 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


