                              383 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 22, 1988, Monday, Late City Final Edition

Brain-Dead Baby Allowed to Die; No Recipients Found for Organs

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 578 words

DATELINE: LOMA LINDA, Calif., Feb. 21


A brain-dead baby boy was taken off life-support machines Saturday after no
recipients could be found for his organs, but another baby, also born without a
brain stem, was on a respirator today in hopes of saving her organs for
transplant.

The boy, Baby John, who was born Tuesday and declared brain-dead Thursday, had
been kept alive in hopes that his organs could be transplanted in a pioneering
program established by the Loma Linda University Medical Center.

The infant was removed from life-support Saturday after doctors seeking a liver
for four patients rejected his organ because it had deteriorated over a 36-hour
period. No candidate with the same blood type was found for his heart, which
stopped beating after he was removed from a respirator.

The deterioration of the liver affected all the baby's organs, said a hospital
spokeswoman, Anita Rockwell. ''When one organ begins to fail, the other organs
begin to fail.''

'Resting Comfortably'

Baby John was the program's first American baby. Another couple had hoped to
enroll their child in the program, but the infant was stillborn on Dec. 22.

The girl, Evelyn Keys, who was born Saturday in San Antonio, with the same fatal
birth defect, was flown to Loma Linda and placed in the transplant program for
anencephalic infants, babies born without most of their brain.

''Baby Evelyn is resting comfortably this morning,'' said Ms. Rockwell. ''She
shows some signs of brain-stem deterioration but has not yet met all criteria of
total brain death.''

Anencephalic babies live only briefly. Loma Linda wants to establish a practice
of sustaining such babies so the organs can be used for transplants after brain
death occurs.

Baby Evelyn, the first child of Judy Keys, 22 years old, and Airman Todd Keys,
21, stationed at Lackland Air Force Base, was born with only a brain stem.

Growing Ethical Debate

Sustaining anencephalic infants for use as organ donors has raised an ethical
debate. Last December, Loma Linda became the first hospital in the United States
to develop a medical protocol allowing the practice.

Under Loma Linda's guidelines, an anencephalic baby will remain on a respirator
no longer than a week.

If the baby is declared brain dead in that time, as was the case with Baby John,
he or she becomes a potential donor. But in Baby John's case, the hospital said
the liver deterioration was so significant and the chances of finding a heart
recipient so slim that the baby was taken of the respirator.

After the week is up, the hospital protocol requires that the baby be removed
from the respirator and allowed to die naturally, whether brain death has been
declared by that time or not.

Several thousand anencephalic babies are born in the United States each year.
Their brain stems sustain basic functions such as breathing for a short time,
but death occurs within hours or days of birth.

Ethical problems raised by the practice of sustaining anencephalic babies
include the questions of whether such infants feel pain and whether it is
ethical to prolong a life when it does not benefit the patient.

Last October, a brain-dead anencephalic girl was flown from Canada to Loma Linda
where her heart was successfully transplanted into the chest of a newborn, Paul
Holc.

The medical center, a Seventh-day Adventist hospital, has specialized in infant
heart transplants. Thirteen babies under the age of 4 months have received new
hearts there. Nine have survived.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1988 The New York Times Company


