                              387 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                              May 02, 2014 Friday
                                   E1 Edition

Top hospital staff lose |their licences

BYLINE:  ANGELIQUE SERRAO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 329 words


Two senior employees at Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital have
been suspended by the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA).

According to the council, clinical director Dr Mamorena Mofokeng and clinical
executive Dr Sibusiso Ngobese have failed to comply with continuing professional
development (CPD) requirements.

HPCSA spokesman Lize Nel confirmed that Mofokeng was suspended last month and
Ngobese in March.

CPDs are learning courses doctors have to complete every year. Every
practitioner is required to accumulate 30 continuing education units a year.

Five of these units must be done on topics such as ethics, human rights and
medical law. Each course is valid for 24 months.

Nel explained that ethical practice of the healthcare professions requires
"constant and ongoing commitment from all concerned to lifelong learning to
update and develop the knowledge, skills and ethical attitudes that underpin
competent practice".

Nel said the council's CPD office performs random audits on all healthcare
professionals registered with it. Once a practitioner's name has been selected,
they are required to submit a portfolio to the council within 21 days.

Non-compliant practitioners are given six months in which to comply.

"After the period of six months, a practitioner will again be audited, and if
there is still non-compliance, the board will consider appropriate action,
including working under supervision, a remedial programme, examination,
suspension from practice or any other action recommended by the board."

Gauteng Department of Health communications director Simon Zwane said there had
not been any formal communication from the HPCSA informing them that the
licences of the two employees had been suspended.

Ngobese said he had not been informed of the suspension and Mofokeng could not
be reached for comment.

DA health MPL in Gauteng Jack Bloom said it was shocking that senior doctors had
not qualified for a renewal of their registration.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


