                              386 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                             April 13, 2008 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

B.C. family seeking 'saviour sibling' for sick son turns to U.S. fertility
centre; Vancouver hospital refuses to help couple with in vitro attempt

BYLINE: Pamela Fayerman, Canwest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 963  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


VANCOUVER - Parents Mike and Pam Obadia are opting for desperate -- and
controversial -- measures to boost the survival odds of their son, who's been in
a five-year battle with leukemia.

Eight-year-old Benjamin is currently receiving chemotherapy treatment at B.C.
Children's Hospital in Vancouver after suffering a relapse of the acute
lymphoblastic leukemia he first got in 2002.

A bone-marrow transplant would improve the odds of finally beating the cancer,
but there are no family matches and an international registry of volunteer
donors has also not turned up any, after nearly two years of searching.

So even though the odds of fertility success are ever so slim because of Pam's
age of 47, the couple will try to create a "saviour sibling" -- a term used to
describe a test-tube baby created to save an older, sick sibling through donor
stem cells from the newborn's umbilical cord.

But the couple from Port Coquitlam, about 25 kilometres east of Vancouver, has
to go to Chicago for the procedure, which will cost up to $30,000.

Doctors at Children's and Women's Hospital in B.C. aren't prepared to aid their
quest because of ethical and moral concerns about creating -- and exploiting --
a life to potentially save another.

The couple has fully weighed all the issues and are still convinced they are
doing what they must as parents who can't bear to lose a child.

"We have to do this to exhaust all the possibilities to help Benjamin," says
Pam. "It's not like we are trying to create a designer baby. We want another
child, we will love another child. If we succeed ... (it) may help with
Benjamin's illness."

They haven't said much to Benjamin about their plan. They don't want to talk to
him about subjects like death, since he himself is so upbeat.

"As far as he is concerned, he's a child and only adults die of cancer. I think
it's a good thing that he's so positive," says Pam, in an interview between
treatments at the hospital this week where Benjamin is having tests and
high-dose chemotherapy.

He's a boy who loves reading books like The Spiderwick Chronicles and even
writes his own books, complete with illustrations of dragons and giant bugs.

When he relapsed nearly two years ago, his younger sister, who was then four,
was overcome with sadness and confusion. She asked her parents "why the doctors
gave Benjamin his cancer back."

They told her that the drugs weren't strong enough. This time around, Benjamin
is on a regimen of about six drugs, sometimes requiring hospital stays. So far,
Benjamin has endured 295 courses of chemotherapy, 263 needles, 16 blood
transfusions and 13 bone-marrow biopsies. His life and cancer treatment are
documented at www.mobadia.ca.

He was only three when cancer struck, an age when he loved sitting on his
parents' laps, having them read books such as The Giving Tree to him. By age
four, he was reading himself.

The couple readily admit they are grasping for a miracle.

"Though we've been told our chances are nil and it will cost us $30,000, we will
try anything to save our son," says Mike, "and we will also try naturally to
have a child and take our chances that it will be a match."

The process begins with conventional in vitro fertilization, in which embryos
are created in a laboratory with the mother's eggs and father's sperm. But the
next step is controversial; doctors at the Reproductive Genetics Institute in
Chicago then screen embryos to look for one that is a tissue match. The matched
embryo would then be implanted into the mom's uterus and when the baby is born,
umbilical cord stem cells would be harvested for transplantation.

Pre-implantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) has been available for genetic
screening of inherited diseases for about 15 years, but only in recent years has
it been used as well to make saviour babies. The Chicago clinic has done at
least three dozen such tissue-typing cases.

Dr. Paul Rogers, medical director of pediatric oncology at B.C. Children's
Hospital, said the medical centre here has never offered the procedure for
cancer patients. B.C. Children's Hospital did, however, use the umbilical-cord
blood from a naturally conceived newborn to transplant into an older sibling,
who was then cured of his life-threatening bone-marrow disease. In that case,
the mother was already pregnant when the older child got sick. In other words,
the baby was not conceived for the purpose of being a saviour child.

Lori d'Agincourt-Canning, a clinical ethicist at B.C. Children's and Women's
Hospitals, said it has not become standard practice because of cost and moral
and ethical issues.

"We understand that parents will seize on anything to help their sick children,
but the (uninsured) costs to them are so high that we don't want to create a
burden on parents who cannot afford this," she said.

"There are also ethical concerns about whether it is right to conceive a child
for the sake of another. What if something goes horribly wrong?"

But she concedes that the Obadia case should prompt the hospital to conduct a
review on the potential harms, benefits and ethical issues. After that, some
guidelines and policies could be formed.

Pam Obadia hopes the hospital will, at the very least, tell parents about the
procedures. She's distressed that PGD for tissue typing wasn't mentioned to them
by oncologists at Children's Hospital two years ago, when Benjamin relapsed. At
that time, she might have had slightly better odds of getting pregnant.

Dr. Tim Rowe, head of reproductive endocrinology and infertility at UBC, who is
not involved in the case, said it is "almost certain" that she won't produce
"viable embryos."

"So you have to wonder about the ethics of the Chicago company that is willing
to take that much money from a couple facing almost certain odds of pregnancy
failure," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Vancouver Sun, Canwest News Service, File; Benjamin Obadia, 8, is
surrounded by his sister Stephanie, 6, his mother Pam and his father Michel.
Benjamin has leukemia and needs a bone marrow transplant. ;

