                              41 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                          December 29, 2010 Wednesday

Role of ethics committees

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 543 words


Madam,   Prof Desmond O Neill s letter (December 24th), misses the point, indeed
misses many points.

The fact is that it is the Charter of the Adelaide Meath Hospital, commonly
called Tallaght Hospital, which in legal terms uniquely protects the
confidential relationship between doctors and their patients. In the hospital
there is no ethics committee to which doctors must refer clinical cases: there
is no prescriptive code of religious or denominational ethics to which all
clinicians must abide as is the case, for example, in St Vincent s University
Hospital and other religiously controlled hospitals. His attempt to ascribe this
factual situation as simply being my views or the views of the Adelaide Hospital
Society is rather sad as he is a  senior clinician  in the hospital.

Prof O Neill s reference to the joint research ethics committee shared by St
James s Hospital and Tallaght Hospital is quite beside the issues raised by the
case of Michelle Harte at Cork University Hospital. Research ethics committees
provide oversight for research but not for clinical practice and for specific
cases of individual treatment. Prof O Neill s references to the value of
clinical audit, accreditation, the coroner (surprisingly he does not refer to
the Medical Council which provides the ethical framework for doctors) as sources
of clinical oversight again obscures rather than enlightens the issues arising
in the Cork University Hospital case. The framework for ethical practice in
Tallaght Hospital allows both doctors and patients to obtain, and, if they wish,
to abide by whatever ethical or religious advice they wish: it is the presence
or absence of a prescriptive written code of ethics religiously or
denominationally controlled that is at issue. Those of us who respect freedom of
conscience and the freedom to practise religion object to the presence of such
codes in our publicly provided health services which are there to serve all
citizens.

The value of the Charter of Tallaght Hospital is that it facilitates those with
divergent religious and ethical perspectives to serve together in a university
hospital so long as they abide by their professional codes of ethics and the
laws of Ireland. It is apparent from my experience as a board member of the
hospital since 1996 that very many people both inside the hospital and outside
the hospital, both North and South, see it as a model for an inclusive health
service in this regard.

Finally, Prof O Neill s rather dismissive reference to my not being a medical
doctor shows perhaps that we are not yet past the day when medical consultants
were perceived as the fount of all knowledge; medical ethics concern everyone
and indeed lay involvement is now seen as central in medical and health
governance. I do have a post graduate degree in health services management which
involved the study of medical ethics and I have co-edited a valued book on
medical ethics, so perhaps Prof O Neill will allow me to state what is the
actual situation in the hospital without such personalisation of any argument he
might wish to make. Let us address in a mature way the important issues raised
by the Harte case.   Yours, etc,

FERGUS O FERRALL (Dr),

Adelaide Lecturer in Health

Policy,

Trinity College, Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


