                              393 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     January 24, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

University of Cincinnati, Health Centre: Two-Day Conference Addresses Topic of
Measuring Ethicality

LENGTH: 450  words


New Delhi, Jan. 24 -- Can ethics be measured? Can data offer a better
understanding of the ethicality of clinical research?

Those are the questions being presented Thursday, Feb. 21, and Friday, Feb. 22,
at a conference titled "Empirical Bioethics: Emerging Trends for the 2st
Century." The event takes place in the Kingsgate Marriott Conference Center on
UC's medical campus. Registration is required by Feb. 15, 2013.



Sponsored by the Center for Clinical and Translational Science and Training
(CCTST) and the Ethics Center at Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
this conference will bring together local and national experts on the topic of
bioethics to discuss cutting-edge research defining the ethical framework
guiding clinical and translational studies.

Keynote speaker Daniel Sulmasy, MD, PhD, Kilbride-Clinton Professor of Medicine
and Ethics and associate director of the MacLean Center for Clinical Medical
Ethics at the University of Chicago, will present "Ethics and Evidence: What
Data Can and Cannot Do for Bioethics."

Featured presenters on Day 2 are Peter Ubel, MD, professor, Fuqua School of
Business and Sanford School of Public Policy, Duke University, and Rebecca
Pentz, PhD, professor of research ethics with the Winship Cancer Institute,
Emory University School of Medicine.

A sampling of additional presentation topics include:

* Returning children's genomic data research results to parents.

* Vaccine decision aids.

* Informed consent in pediatric cancer research.

* Measuring voluntary consent in parents with seriously ill children.

* Influences of financial interest disclosures in the informed consent process.

* Community consultation in studies involving exception to informed consent.

"Medical science is moving into a new era, one in which important ethical issues
faced by patients, clinicians and researchers are being scrutinized more closely
than ever before," says Richard Ittenbach, PhD, professor of pediatrics at UC,
member of the biostatistics and epidemiology division at Cincinnati Children's,
and member of the CCTST ethics group. "The processes used to solve these
dilemmas and the decisions that result are now being investigated using s
rigorous analytical methods.

"Developing an 'ethical framework' that includes established and well-recognized
methods will provide clinicians and scientists with a much-needed guide to
confront many of our most pressing ethical questions."

The fee for the conference is $100, which includes a reception for attendees,
meals and parking. Continuing medical education credits and psychology ethics
credits are available. Additional information and links to online registration
can be found at www.cctst.uc.edu/node/195.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


