                              400 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           October 09, 1999, Saturday

Hospital suitors differ on retention

BYLINE: BRYAN GILMER

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 659 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



(ran SS edition of Metro & State)

Does one group's offer of job security to top staffers at Helen Ellis Memorial
Hospital present ethical conflicts about its sale? Opinions differ.

If non-profit Choice Health Alliance took over management of Helen Ellis
Memorial Hospital, the hospital's top managers would keep their jobs, the city
attorney and city commissioners, who have been briefed on the deal, said Friday.

The only other company that has expressed interest in taking over the
financially troubled hospital, for-profit Health Management Associates, has said
it would guarantee that all employees except the hospital's top administrators
would continue to be employed.

"This is necessary to eliminate any possibility of conflict of interest," HMA's
senior vice president for acquisitions, Gary C. Bell, wrote in a July letter
outlining his company's unsolicited bid to take over the hospital.

The circumstances might give top hospital executives a personal incentive to
favor affiliating with Choice Health over other groups that wouldn't protect
their jobs.

Administrator Joseph Kiefer is the hospital's top executive. He is also a voting
member of the board of the Tarpon Springs Hospital Foundation. That foundation
operates the city-owned hospital and is also negotiating the terms of a deal
under which Choice Health could take over the hospital.

The City Commission and voters would have to approve a final deal.

Kiefer said Friday that he does not believe he has an ethical dilemma and will
continue to vote on matters related to an affiliation.

"If I felt I had a conflict of interest, I would abstain from voting," Kiefer
said. "I definitely don't think there's a conflict. I'm not the one doing the
negotiating."

He said hospital attorneys and other board members are leading that effort.

The board favors the Choice Health deal. That is because the board says Choice
Health, the Tampa Bay-area partnership between University Community Hospital and
Winter Park-based Adventist Health System, is the only possible non-profit
suitor.

The hospital stands to lose more than $ 4-million this year and needs to
affiliate with a larger company to survive.

City Commissioner Beverley Billiris said Friday that the offers of employment
concern her.

"We need to compare one (hospital company) against another ultimately with the
goal that the residents of Tarpon get the best deal," she said. "I'm not looking
at administrators getting the best deal. I have some concerns about that."

Billiris said she has an appointment to discuss the issue and others with Kiefer
on Monday.

City Attorney John Hubbard said offering to employ the current management raises
an ethical question, not a legal one.

"HMA took the position they absolutely would not do that because they say that's
unethical, because that looks like a bribe," he said. "The Adventists say it's
their standard practice."

Two of Billiris' commission colleagues said they are not worried about the
situation.

"It just makes everything go more smoothly," Commissioner Cindy Domino said
Friday of Choice Health's offer to keep Kiefer and other executives. "If you get
rid of top management, it's the stupidest thing you can do, because all that
institutional knowledge goes out the window."

Commissioner David Archie said he is not so worried about a conflict of interest
as he is about considering more than one possible deal.

He thinks the public needs more information than it has been given so far about
the terms of Choice Health's proposal, and he thinks the community would be
better served if commissioners considered more than one deal.

"Some people just feel it should be non-profit and that's it," he said. "But I
just think we need to do whatever is in the best interest of the residents.
Everybody that talks to me is concerned about quality health care, what happens
to indigent patients, and they're concerned about the employees."


LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


