                              399 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                      January 16, 2015 Friday 6:23 PM GMT

Huddersfield town centre abortion clinic given green light despite nearly 500
objections;
Marie Stopes centre, on Cloth Hall Street, will offer advice and early-stage
terminations

BYLINE: By Dave Himelfield

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 342 words


An abortion clinic in Huddersfield town centre has been given the go-ahead
despite hundreds of objections.

Councillors approved a plan to open a Marie Stopes clinic, on Cloth Hall Street,
offering pregnancy advice and early stage 'medical' abortions.

Previously women wanting medical abortions (using an abortion pill) would need
to travel to Leeds, Bradford or Wakefield.

Kirklees Council received 478 objections to the plan, many of which were made on
ethical and religious grounds.

Some had lodged objections over concerns that protests by anti-abortion
campaigners outside the clinic would be detrimental to local businesses.

But 10 out of 13 councillors on the Huddersfield planning committee backed the
proposal while three members abstained.

Councillors had earlier been advised that moral and ethical reasons for
objecting to Marie Stopes' plan were not relevant when considering the planning
application.

The committee heard from Barbara Madeja-Edmunds, who represented the
anti-abortion group, Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child.

Ms Madeja-Edmunds was warned repeatedly by committee chairman Clr Paul Kane that
ethical and religious objections would not be considered.

But Ms Madeja-Edmunds described abortion as a 'legalised violation of human
rights' and claimed the students of the town's colleges and university would be
'the first to be targeted' by the clinic.

Moving the motion for the clinic's approval, Newsome ward Green councillor
Andrew Cooper said he was 'pleased' to support the plan.

Women requiring a surgical abortion - necessary at later stages of pregnancy -
will still need to travel to Leeds or Manchester.

Surgical abortions were previously carried out at Calderdale Royal Hospital,
Halifax, but hospital bosses lost the contract when it went out to tender.

Greater Huddersfield Clinical Commissioning Group awarded the contract to
national charity Marie Stopes which previously had no facilities in Kirklees or
Calderdale.

As well as abortion, the charity offers sexual health advice and treatment as
well as counselling.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


