                              392 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 5, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Apollo Hospitals: AHERF Organizes a National Conference on Evolving Roles of
Ethics Committees in India

LENGTH: 686  words


New Delhi, June 5 -- Apollo Hospitals Educational And Research Foundation
(AHERF) today organized a 'National Conference on Evolving Roles of Ethics
Committees in India' at Delhi with the objective of increasing awareness,
aligning all stakeholders on current state, discussing and identifying key
changes required on the regulatory and industry front, identifying
responsibility amongst stakeholders and charting out the roadmap to strengthen
ethical conduct of clinical research in India.



In the recent past, India has witnessed great negativity around the conduct of
clinical trials and the regulatory framework has been evolving to align itself
with the changing scenario. There is obvious room for improvement in the
framework and standards within which clinical trials are conducted in India. One
key element in this improvement is the role of ethics committees. The one and a
half days long conference provided a platform for the convergence of key
stakeholders and facilitated an exchange of ideas through plenary sessions and
panel discussions which resulted in a productive dialogue on ethics in clinical
research. Further, as part of the conference, a hands-on workshop on ethics
committee processes was conducted to impart education on ethics committee
operations and best practices.

Dr.Roy Chaudhary said, "While the rapid expansion in the field of clinical
research has been beneficial for the Indian population, it has also raised
concerns that ethical conduct is often forgone when conducting clinical trials.
The specter of unethical trials being frequently reported is a reflection of an
ailing and substantially ineffective research regulatory system in India. The
increasing awareness about ethical requirements in research, as well as the role
of activists in questioning trial conduct when deemed exploitative, has resulted
in a positive change to some extent. However, a lot still needs to be done. This
requires a multi-faceted approach and involvement of all the stakeholders with
an aim for more robust science, which incorporates a strong commitment to
ethics."

Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Mubarak Naqvi, Senior Director, Clinical Study
Unit, Sanofi said, "The mission and purpose of the healthcare industry is to
address patients' needs by providing them with appropriate therapeutic
solutions. To meet unmet medical needs of patients, clinical trials become a
mandatory part of the drug discovery, development and marketing approval
process. As medical practitioners and researchers committed to the safety and
health of our patients, it is our responsibility to ensure that clinical trials
are conducted with appropriate regulatory and ethics approvals and are in line
with Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines. Hence, the role of the ethics
committees and the laws regulating their functioning become ever so critical to
the future of clinical research."

The conference also witnessed the presence of various sites and institutions
which are key stakeholders in the conduct of clinical trials. Dr. Sita Naik,
Advisor to Chairman, Research Task Force, Apollo Hospitals, said, "Although
ethics committees have been around for some time, there is a genuine lack of
understanding of the issues involved by both the investigators and members.
There is an urgent need to have training programs at various levels in order to
increase the pool of competent ethics professionals. Programs like the present
meeting, are aimed to widen the net and increase the awareness."

From another perspective, Mr. Seemant Jauhari, CEO, AHERF added, "Conduct of
clinical trials is perhaps an inevitable component of the drug development
process. The only option is to undertake it with great responsibility and the
stakeholders should ensure their conduct with accountability governed by clear
regulatory processes. However such processes must be balanced enough to allow
effective yet efficient evaluation of studies in India. A well-focussed group,
with wide representation of all stakeholders should champion this topic
consistently and contribute to establishing benchmarks in ethical conduct of
trials."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


