                              42 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    October 31, 1994, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Hospital bioethicist overdue, expert says: HOSPITAL: Bioethicist would 'offer
parents personal perspective on difficult medical issues'

BYLINE: ALEX STRACHAN; VANSUN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 694 words


A proposed bioethicist for B.C. Children's Hospital would be a first for a
hospital in B.C. and is long overdue, a professor in ethics and medicine said
Sunday.

Eike Kluge, professor of medical ethics at the University of Victoria and the
inaugural president of the Canadian Medical Association's ethics board, said
creating a position for a bioethicist at Children's Hospital will force other
B.C. hospitals to re-examine their priorities.

As modern technology and advances in medical science overtake established
methods of dealing with illness, parents of critically ill or injured children
are being forced to make increasingly difficult decisions on behalf of their
children.

The position of bioethicist is just one item buried in a blizzard of Christmas
wishes for Children's Hospital as part of the hospital's $ 30-million corporate
and private fundraising drive, launched last week.

Part of the raised funds will be put towards an endowment, which among other
things would support a staff bioethicist at Children's Hospital.

A bioethicist would assist families and hospital staff in dealing with the
complex ethical dimensions of caring for children who are acutely or terminally
ill.

Parents are too often forced to live alone with the pain and distress their
decisions bring, Kluge said.

Kluge, who has been teaching at the University of Victoria since 1975, said
bioethics is not the same as medicine.

Simply being a professional in the medical field does not qualify someone to
give advice based on moral judgements.

A bioethicist would not be strictly a physician but someone trained also in the
application of social and moral principles, Kluge said.

A bioethicist at Children's Hospital would provide parents with a more personal
perspective on difficult medical issues.

A bioethicist is an adviser only and the final decision must rest with the
patient.

"An ethicist is not a gun for hire. His obligation is to declare the ethical lay
of the land, detailing the rights and obligations of all the parties involved,
to try and show people where their values lie and whether those values are
appropriate under the circumstances. Sometimes the advice an ethicist gives is
very clear, but in the end it is not his decision to make."

Issues such as euthanasia are likely to stir ethical debate for years to come.

A federal senate committee headed by Liberal Senator Joan Neiman has been
examining the ethical debate surrounding euthanasia for the past seven months
and is expected to hand down recommendations to parliament in December.

Kluge said emotions surrounding divisive issues such as euthanasia are
intensified where children are involved.

"Who should make a decision on the basis of values and informed consent
standards for a particular child?" Kluge asked. "You need someone who can weigh
the legal, medical and ethical issues."

Patients who are deeply religious should consult their own religious counsellors
for moral guidance, he said.

Since proclamation of the provincial Infant Act in 1993, a child in B.C. has the
right to accept or refuse medical treatment irrespective of the parents'
beliefs, so long as the child is competent.

"Advances in medical cures have created relatively few ethical dilemmas," Kluge
said. "Where problems have cropped up is cases where technology has drawn out
the dying process.

"We now have the ability to keep alive for a long time individuals whose quality
of life is increasingly negative -- both from the view of physicians and the
families.

"A lot of the time physicians know this is merely prolonging the dying process
-- but the family insists on it because the technology is available.

"A lot of the time, the family feels keeping a loved one alive is inappropriate
-- but the physicians insist on it because they have the technology.

"Very often, the problem has come up because the parties involved don't realize
what their rights and obligations are. Once that gets clarified, the issues tend
to become, if not simple, a little clearer. A bioethicist can help, and I am
absolutely delighted that Children's Hospital is taking this step."


LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EIKE KLUGE

               Copyright 1994 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


