                              406 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 20, 1989 Friday

Freezing of human embryos raises legal, ethical questions

BYLINE: DOROTHY LIPOVENKO; GAM

LENGTH: 817 words


BY  DOROTHY LIPOVENKO
 The Globe and Mail
   Canadian doctors are freezing embryos for future implantation in women
being treated for infertility, despite legal and ethical uncertainties
surrounding the practice.

These uncertainties include the need to answer questions about who owns
the embryos if a couple were to divorce, or a partner were to die, and
about how long unused embryos should be kept frozen before being
destroyed.

"There are no strict rules. It's like having an unwritten
constitution," said Dr. Ian Tummon, an infertility specialist at
University Hospital in London, Ont., which has been freezing embryos since
October, 1987. The hospital has frozen embryos for 15 couples.

Toronto East General Hospital started freezing a year ago and Toronto
General Hospital will begin doing so in the next few weeks.

At Toronto East General, some couples have donated their frozen embryos
to other infertile couples in the program.

Doctors say they have turned to freezing to help resolve the dilemma of
being stuck with surplus embryos that cannot be destroyed but if used,
increase a woman's chance of a multiple pregnancy.

The dilemma is created in hospitals every day: several eggs are
retrieved from infertile women who have been treated to superovulate and
all the eggs are fertilized (outside the womb) to maximize the potential
for achieving at least one pregnancy.

Doctors want to limit the number of embryos they implant to reduce the
chance of a multiple pregnancy , which can be medically risky or unwanted
by some people.

But that leaves a problem: put in too few embryos and you limit the
potential of getting at least one embryo to "take" in the womb, while also
being stuck with extra embryos that cannot be destroyed. Put in too many
embryos and you run the risk of the woman carrying triplets or even
quadruplets.

With freezing, doctors say they can fertilize all the eggs they
harvest, use some of the embryos and preserve the rest in storage as
backup if the woman doesn't get pregnant on the first try.

Freezing is also cheaper and less painful than putting a woman through
another round of egg retrieval. And a woman who gets pregnant through in-
vitro fertilization and wants more children has a frozen supply of embryos
ready for use.

However, thawed human embryos have a 50 per cent chance of not
surviving.

"I think we want to be small-c conservative and be aware of the
sanctity of potential human beings. A healthy embryo forces you to
freeze," Dr. Tummon said.

The issue of freezing human embryos is so murky that even those centres
involved in it agree they have not resolved many of the ethical and legal
questions.

The Toronto General has decided to put a two-year limit on embryo
storage, after which unused ones will be destroyed or donated for
research, Dr. Hannah Balakier, director of the hospital's in-vitro
fertilization laboratory, said in an interview yesterday.

She said the hospital will be ready to begin freezing in a few weeks.

The process involves coating the embryos in a special solution to
protect against the formation of ice crystals, which can damage the
organism. The embryos are then stored in liquid nitrogen.

Toronto East General and University Hospital have no time limit on
embryo storage.

"It's not the best thing in the world yet," said Dr. Sam Batarseh,
chief of obstetrics and gynecology at Toronto East General and an
infertility specialist. But, he said, it is the only way of getting around
the surplus embryo problem while maximizing the chance for a pregnancy.

He said the hospital will freeze no more than three or four embryos per
couple.

The embryos become the hospital's property should both spouses die
unexpectedly, he said. But it is still uncertain who owns the embryos if a
couple splits up.

According to Dr. Murray Kroach of the East General's infertility
clinic, the frozen embryos would be destroyed if an estranged couple could
not agree on ownership.

He also confirmed that some couples have agreed to anonymously donate
frozen embryos to other couples in the in-vitro program. This poses some
risk, he admitted, because a child will not know his or her genetic
history.
 Couples who want to donate frozen embryos are screened for genetic
defects, Dr. Kroach said. But that does not entirely eliminate the risk
that a child born to a woman who carries another couple's frozen embryo
could not one day have a medical problem that escaped screening detection.

Canada is not alone in embryo freezing. For several years, Australia,
England, France and the United States have been freezing embryos obtained
through in-vitro fertilization to get around the multiple pregnancy
problem.

But Dr. Tummon said embryo selection for freezing is biased. At one
U.S. clinic where he worked, Dr. Tummon said, the embryos frozen were the
least healthy of the lot.

Australia had the first case of "orphan embryos" when a wealthy couple
whose frozen embryos were left in an infertility clinic there died in an
accident.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1989 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


