                              407 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                    March 26, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Ethical approvals get study under way: One in two heart attack victims to test
effect of drug

BYLINE: PAMELA FAYERMAN, SUN HEALTH ISSUES REPORTER; VANCOUVER SUN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B1 / Front

LENGTH: 670 words


More than 200 people in the Lower Mainland who will suffer heart attacks over
the next couple of years will be part of the first multi-hospital study ever
done on a drug that may reverse the death sentence they could face without it.

Ambulance paramedics or emergency room doctors attending to people in cardiac
arrest will administer a rapid-acting, blood clot-busting drug called TPA
(tissue plasminogen activator) to 122 study subjects while the other half of the
244 subjects will get a placebo of salt water in a double-blind, controlled
study.

Only people who are in a state known as pulseless electrical activity -- (PEA)
will receive a 15-minute infusion of the drug. In that group, there is
electrical output from the heart but ineffective pumping.

People with PEA heart attacks are believed to account for 600 of the 3,000 heart
attacks in B.C. each year. Such people have a 99-per-cent chance of dying.

Recent research indicates clots may be to blame for up to 50 per cent of heart
attacks, which is why some people take blood-thinning Aspirin or other
anti-coagulant agents as preventative therapy.

Under current therapy, 99 per cent of all such heart attack victims likely die
due to blood clots in an artery of the heart or lungs which don't respond to
standard therapy including intravenous fluids, CPR, oxygen and adrenaline.

Dr. Riyad Abu-Laban, an emergency room doctor at Vancouver Hospital who has
spent the past four years coordinating the complex study, said there are
anecdotal reports but no studies -- such as this one -- that suggest the drug,
an enzyme manufactured through genetic engineering, may dramatically increase
the chance of survival of people with PEA heart attacks.

"In the best-case scenario, we might be able to save 600 lives a year in B.C. if
this works," he said.

The $ 350,000 study is being paid for by the pharmaceutical company which makes
TPA, Hoffmann La-Roche. The drug is also used for stroke victims, to break up
blood clots in the brain.

Because TPA can cause bleeding complications, it is considered dangerous to use
in people who have bleeding disorders or who are at risk of internal bleeding.

Dr. Roy Purssell, head of the emergency department at Vancouver Hospital and the
emergency medicine division at the University of B.C., said the question of
resolving ethical issues pertinent to the study delayed its implementation.

The study won ethical approval from the Health Protection Branch in Ottawa, the
Justice Institute, the B.C. Ambulance Service and various hospitals.

The consent issue was one which was contentious since unconscious patients in
cardiac arrest aren't capable of giving consent to participate in a medical
study involving a drug which they don't even know whether they will receive.

In order to properly evaluate the study results, neither the patient, family,
paramedics or medical team will know whether the solution administered is real
or placebo.

The study was given the green light because death is almost a sure thing without
a new therapy and the drug is expected to give victims far greater chances of
survival, he said.

The study announcement was made at the Vancouver Trade and Convention Centre,
where nearly 2,000 emergency doctors from 34 countries around the world have
gathered for the International Conference on Emergency Medicine.

The five-day conference will examine such issues as ways to decrease reliance on
emergency care when public demand is out of step with fiscal realities, planning
for and dealing with disasters such as bombs, infectious or viral diseases, and
ethical issues.

Conference co-chair Dr. Anton Grunfeld, an emergency doctor at Vancouver
Hospital, said delegates will also be discussing the "shameful and
unconscionably long" patient waits for care in the emergency department.

"It's a reflection of our poor state of health care when the emergency
department function is being subverted because of lack of funding for acute care
beds," he said.


LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: Vancouver Sun / COMPLEX TASK: Dr. Riyad Abu-Laban to
coordinate test of heart drug.

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


