                              410 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Evening News (Edinburgh)

                           November 25, 2008, Tuesday
                                   1 Edition

Around Town

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 473 words


Judges to split hairs over top moustaches

THE city's best moustache will be revealed at a huge party tonight.

As part of a prostate cancer campaign, men from across the Lothians have been
encouraged to grow a moustache throughout the month of November.

Hundreds of people have signed up for the Movember initiative.

A judging panel will be present tonight in The Caves on Niddry Street South to
assess the best and worst examples.

The event starts at 8pm.

Foulkes meets ID protesters

LOTHIANS Labour MSP George Foulkes is to address the next meeting of the
Edinburgh branch of the NO2ID pressure group.

The meeting takes place from 7.45pm tomorrow night at the Quaker Meeting House
on Victoria Terrace.

Christmas fair for the ethical

AN ethical Christmas fair will take place from December 6-14.

The Edinburgh Ethical Christmas Fayre brings together the very best in fair
trade, ethical, sustainable gifts, food and drinks from retailers across the UK
and beyond.

Girlie night aims to pamper up disability charity

DISABILITY charity The Thistle Foundation is offering the chance to pamper
yourself and raise money for its work.

The organisation will hold a Girlie Pamper Evening at Le Monde, George Street,
on Thursday.

There will be the chance to enjoy a Virgin Vie makeover, and bid in a charity
auction for prizes including the services of a professional cocktail barman and
a date with Forth One's Andy Booglas.

Tickets cost GBP 15. Check the website, www.thistle.org.uk, for more details.

Man taken to hospital after crash

A MAN was taken to hospital after a crash in the Capital.

Emergency crews were called to the single-vehicle crash at the roundabout
linking Fishwives' Causeway and Baileyfield Crescent in Portobello at 7.10am
yesterday.

Book signing by city sci-fi writer

AN award-winning science-fiction author is to sign copies of his latest book in
the Capital.

The city-based author Charles Stross will be reading from and signing copies of
Clan Corporate in the Waterstone's West End book shop. The free event is being
held on Thursday, December 11, at 6pm, and tickets are available from the shop.

Fundraising night helps cancer unit to race ahead

A RACE night raised more than GBP 4000 for research into breast cancer at the
Western General.

The event was put on by two workers at the Braid Hills Nursing Home.

Activity co-ordinator Barbara Thomson suffered from the disease last year and
said she wanted to stage the event at Liberton Rugby Club as a thank-you.

The event raised GBP 2450, a sum that was complimented by GBP 2000 from Bupa,
and she paid tribute to colleague Sally Duddy who helped organise it.

Picture caption

CARDINAL Keith O'Brien and Councillor Marilyne MacLaren help Niddrie Mill pupil
Shannon Gray and Humeira Din from St Francis plant a sapling to mark the spot of
the time capsule buried to mark their new Craigmillar campus.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 The Scotsman Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


