                              404 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                               Sunday Independent

                                 June 12, 2016
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Union fury as 'hospital staff gagged by the HSE';
Impact hits out at Crumlin's new 'restrictive' code of conduct

BYLINE: MAEVE SHEEHAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 579 words


THE country's largest health union has criticised a new code of conduct for
staff at Our Lady's Children's Hospital in Crumlin that it claims restricts
employees from speaking out.

The "code of ethical business conduct" issued to staff at Our Lady's Children's
Hospital in April instructs employees "to ensure that nothing they say or do
should ever weaken the reputation" of the hospital and its staff.

Another clause says employees "will avoid publicly criticising" the Board or the
hospital without having first exhausted every "internal avenue" of complaint.
All hospitals are now required to produce code of conducts and ethics for its
employees.

However, Impact, which represents a large number of staff at the hospital, has
criticised some "restrictive" clauses in the Crumlin children's hospital
document, which also covers conflicts of interest, business ethics, and how
employees should interact with patients and colleagues.

Sources claim the new code could stop employees from speaking out about issues
such as the location of the new National Children's Hospital which has been the
subject of huge debate amongst doctors and families.

"There was no discussion with employees, or their union Impact, before this code
of ethics was circulated to Crumlin hospital staff. Impact has since raised a
number of questions about the code with hospital management.

"We have queried the extent of the restrictions on staff members speaking out
about issues like the new children's hospital," said the Impact source.

"While the union has not adopted a position on the location of the new
children's hospital, we believe that citizens and parents have the right to
express an opinion regardless of where they happen to work, and that includes
staff of Crumlin hospital."

In a statement, Our Lady's Children's Hospital said it has not been contacted by
Impact, and said staff continue to sign the code of conduct.

"A Code of Ethical Business Conduct was issued to staff at Our Lady's Children's
Hospital, Crumlin, last month in line with corporate governance requirements
under the Hospital's Service Level Arrangement with the HSE. Procedures in
relation to dealing with media remain as they were prior to the introduction of
the Code."

The Department of Health urged all healthcare providers to introduce codes of
conduct for employees to help improve standards of care and performance.

Hospitals that didn't already have codes in place began introducing them last
year. Breaches of the codes can result in disciplinary procedures.

Codes differ from hospital to hospital. The code of conduct at Temple Street
Children's Hospital, for instance, encourages employees to speak on behalf of
patients when necessary.

The code states that employees should be "advocates" for patients and that "all
employees are responsible for promoting and protecting the interests of their
patients and families, taking into account all aspects of equality and
diversity.

"This could involve speaking up for people to make sure that what is best for
each individual is always taken into account."

Employees are also encouraged to "report in good faith to hospital management or
through the 'Protected Disclosure Policy' a workplace concern that relates to
the health or welfare of patients".

It also says reports must not be intended to undermine the reputation of any
colleague or service provider.

'Citizens have  ;  ;  the right to  ;  ;  express an  ;  ;  opinion no  ;  ;
matter where  ;  ;  they work'  ;

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SILENT TREATMENT: Staff at Our Lady's Children's Hospital are
restricted from speaking out against the Board

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SDI


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


