                              401 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                       May 20, 2002 Monday Final Edition

Kudos

SOURCE: Vancouver Sun

SECTION: Business BC; Keeping Track; Pg. C4

LENGTH: 570 words

Rix Clinical Laboratories and the B.C. Yukon Trades Council donated $15,000 each
to the Mainstream Association for Proactive Community Living, as a down payment
on a Burnaby house for physically and developmentally challenged people. It has
been named Fred Randall House in honour of association board member and tireless
advocate for individual rights, Fred Randall, who organized the donations while
he was ill with leukemia.

The Golden Ears Shrine Club donated $8,000 to the Eagle Ridge Hospital
Foundation for the purchase of four pediatric infusion pumps.

Ethical Funds is continuing its partnership with UNICEF Canada by donating over
$21,000 for the purchase of school supplies for children in developing
companies. The mutual fund company donates a portion of its revenues from new
Registered Education Savings Plan accounts.

The CH.I.L.D. Foundation received $3,000 from the Christmas Family Ball Society.

The third annual B.C. Restaurant and Foodservices Association/Vancouver Wine
Academy Sommelier Award was won by Brent Hayman of Raincity Grill.

Winners of Retail B.C.'s first Window Design competition were Cathy Burrell and
Sharon Wallace of Cavern Clothing in Abbotsford, John Rea and Peter Podolak of
Edward Chapman Ladies' Wear and Jim Ralph of Victoria's Rogers Chocolates. Four
$1,000 scholarships were awarded to young future retailers Tina Ng and Jennilee
Marigomen of Vancouver, Devin Kyler of Kaslo and Katherine Ridewood of
Chemainus. The scholarships were sponsored by Retail BC (in memory of Peter
Glen), the Retail Council of Canada, Jim Dion of Dionco and dmg world media.

At the One Show Interactive awards ceremony in New York City, Blast Radius
received a silver "Pencil Award" in the category of Promotional Advertising
Websites, for its work on the Nintendo GameCube campaign.

Specialty lighting technology company TIR Systems won three awards for Solid
State Lighting projects and products: the Illuminating Engineers Society of
North America B.C. section Award and the Edwin F. Guth Award of Merit for the
IESNA's Pacific Northwest Region, for the Strawberry Mansion Bridge lighting
project in Philadelphia; and the 2001 Awards for Design Excellence Platinum
award for its SSL Destiny Series - ColorBar product.

Information Services Vancouver, a non-profit society that operates local and
province-wide telephone helplines, is the first Canadian agency to be accredited
by the Alliance of Information and Referral Systems, the body that sets
professional standards for information and referral services across North
America. The accreditation process requires agencies to meet stringent standards
in areas such as organizational structure, training, service delivery and
program evaluation.

For seven years, students of the Applied Information Technology program at
Capilano College have been donating their time and skills to non-profit
agencies. Through the efforts of Marty Zlotnik, nine Infotec students developed
Web sites for the B.C. Sports Hall of Fame and Museum and the UBC Sports Hall of
Fame, under the guidance of TELUS Enterprise Solutions. The head designer of the
student group, Richard Bridgwater, recently took second-place honours in the
international Macromedia Student Web Design competition.

TD Canada Trust donated $10,000 to the Coast Foundation Society to help fund
services to people with a mental illness.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ETHICAL FUNDS;UNICEF: Ethical Funds vice-president Margaret Yee
(left) presents a cheque to UNICEF regional director Shirley Kepper.; Photo:
CHRISTMAS FAMILY BALL: Christmas Family Ball organizer Marina Knutson (left) and
incoming chair Anne Hankinson (right) present a spring-time Christmas present to
Grace McCarthy of the CH.I.L.D. Foundation.

TYPE: Business

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


