                              403 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                            November 13, 2005 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

OK, it's legal, but it's dead wrong;
MORAL MAZE

BYLINE: HUGH MACKAY, Email your ethical dilemma to moralmaze@fairfax.com.au

SECTION: NEWS; Extra; Pg. 90

LENGTH: 604 words


THE High Court has recently declared there was nothing unconstitutional about
the Government's media campaign advocating its new industrial relations laws.
But, as we all know, the fact that an action is legal doesn't necessarily make
it ethical. Obedience to the law is by no means the same thing as morality.

So there's still a perfectly legitimate moral question to be raised about that
campaign: was it ethical for the Government to spend $55 million of taxpayers'
money on propaganda designed to soften us up for legislation before it had even
been submitted to the Parliament? Is flagrantly political advocacy for proposed
legislation in the same moral league as government advertising designed to
explain people's rights and obligations under new legislation?

The Government's defence that the legislation was already under attack from the
trade union movement is no defence at all: trade unions, like commercial
organisations, can spend their own money to say whatever they like, but
taxpayers' money is in a different category. It doesn't take much imagination to
ponder all the things that might have been done with that $55 million. In public
hospitals all over Australia, staff would have wept with relief at the sight of
any of those millions in extra funding.

Legal? Yes. Right? I think not.

Now we are being confronted with a far more serious example of the tension
between what is legal and what is ethical. If the Government's proposed
anti-terror legislation passes into law, we will have legalised a process
imprisonment without charge that most Australians would once have regarded as
utterly wrong. And in the anti-sedition provisions of the proposed laws, we will
have eroded Australia's commitment to freedom of speech.

There is a great deal about the proposed anti-terror laws we still don't know,
but we do know this: the Government is proposing to give the police the power to
lock people up for 14 days without their being charged with anything. While
you're thinking about that, ponder the fact that such a law doesn't only
redefine what Australians regard as fair; it also contravenes international
human rights agreements to which Australia is a signatory.

In other words, we are not only sacrificing one of our most precious freedoms
freedom from the possibility of imprisonment without charge but we are turning
our backs on our moral obligation to uphold one of the most fundamental of human
rights. Is Australia, once again, to become known for its human rights abuses?

This is a retreat from values many of us thought were central to the Australian
way of life. It means that by our willingness to modify, in such radical ways,
the administration of justice in Australia, we have actually abandoned some of
the freedoms we are claiming to defend.

(By the way, this has nothing to do with the arrest of terrorist suspects in
Sydney and Melbourne this week: they have all been charged with offences under
existing anti-terrorist laws. Under the proposed legislation, no such charges
need be laid.)

Yes, we're all worried about the threat of terrorism. Yes, we know Australia has
become a more likely terrorist target because of our participation in the
invasion of Iraq. Yes, we want our authorities to administer the law without
compromise and to pursue any intelligence leads they may have. But are we really
sure that these particular provisions so obviously open to abuse and so
characteristic of regimes we have always found abhorrent are the best way to
preserve our national integrity?

If the proposed laws are passed, imprisonment without charge will become legal.
But that won't make it right.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2005 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


