                              408 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                            July 13, 2005 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Babies 'at risk' without doctors

BYLINE: JENNY DENNIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 337 words


ILLAWARRA doctors fear babies will die if midwife-only births are allowed at
Shellharbour Hospital.

Clinicians fear their concerns could be ignored in the face of political
pressure to have the Shellharbour birthing unit reopened.

A recommendation to introduce midwife-only births at Shellharbour has followed a
trial of the practice at Wollongong Hospital which was found to work well.

A review of the trial has found the midwife-only model could be viable and safe
for low-risk births at Shellharbour Hospital. This is despite safety concerns
raised by doctors.

"I don't know of one doctor in the Illawarra who supports the move," an
Illawarra doctor told the Mercury. He said the plan to reopen Shellharbour's
birthing unit would place doctors at the hospital in an ethical dilemma.

"Ethical doctors can't refuse to help in an emergency and they're relying on the
fact that people will come running if there's a problem."

Reopening the unit would place more stress on the hospital's emergency
department, which since January 1 has been operating without specialist
emergency physicians.

Illawarra Patient Safety Committee chair Paul Kovac said safety was about the
ability to respond to rare, life-threatening situations that child birth
inevitably threw up.

"Women undergoing midwife-only labour need to understand they are taking certain
risks by choosing to have their babies at a facility where there's a lesser
(medical) cover," Dr Kovac said. "It's not just having a doctor on site, you
need to have the right doctor."

A spokesman for NSW Health Minister Morris Iemma said the safety of mothers and
babies was paramount in consideration of maternity services and a midwifery-led
model would only proceed at Shellharbour if the steering committee believed it
could do so safely.

A Wollongong ambulance officer said the report's recommendation that an
ambulance be available for immediate transfers between Shellharbour and
Wollongong was unrealistic. His best estimate of transfer time between the two
hospitals was one hour.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2005 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


