                              402 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                      Business and Financial Times (Ghana)

                           August 19, 2015 Wednesday

Pharmacists urged to embrace ethics

LENGTH: 500  words


Source: Obed Attah Yeboah & Khareema Thompson | B&FT Online | Ghana

Stakeholders in the pharmaceutical industry have asked pharmacists to adhere to
the ethics in their profession in order to grow their businesses. This was said
in a roundtable discussion on the topic: "Sustaining the Pharmaceutical
industry" held by the Centre for Sustainability and Entrepreneurial Development
of the University of Ghana Business School.

Speaking at the discussion, Richmond Adusa-Poku -- Sales Manager, Janssen
Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson& Johnson, said that pharmacists must strive
to be ethical in marketing their products in order to keep the cost of seeking
medication moderate.

"When you don't have ethical marketing practices in the pharmaceutical sector,
the cost of medication will even rise because there may be corruption between
the prescriber and producer of the medicine; and therefore we must make sure
ethical marketing cuts across the industry through tenders at the various
pharmaceutical companies, hospitals and clinics.

Dr. Michael Agyekum Addo, CEO of KAMA Group, also opined that a fair and just
legal system has a key role to play if ethical standards are to be upheld in the
industry. He further stated that anyone who has been a victim of injustice by
the legal system will feel less inclined to report any case of unethical
practices in the industry.

"Our legal system should be fair and just to motivate companies to employ ethics
in their profession. I have personally suffered injustice in court when my
product was faked by another company and I had a very unfair ruling on the case.
So, frustrated, I texted the judge: "Do you think I would have the courage to
come to you next time to bring somebody who has faked my drug?"

"Our industry has to do with people's lives but the judiciary is not on our
side. So, no matter what we do there will be problems if the judiciary does not
help us," he added.

A discussant, Ralph Yaw Agyarko, Head of Sanofi Consumer Health Care, urged
pharmacists to be compliant with rules and regulations governing the industry
even if it will cost them a decrease in revenue.

"Complying with rules that governs a business is very important even though we
want to make money. But the very moment we put the rules aside then we are in
the jungle where anything goes. This is when good manufacturing practices come
in. For example, pharmacists must be truthful with the substances they use in
producing their drugs. If a particular drug does not contain a certain amount of
compound, it should not be stated as such.

"The other thing is also dealing with patients in prescribing medication. It is
very important to tell them the truth about the drug. We must make sure any
recommendation we make to patients is the right information. Your boss may not
be happy with you if you want to comply with the rules because it may result in
decrease in sales. But however little your business is, you can do things
ethically and you will feel proud about that," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1800


                  Copyright 2015 Business and Financial Times.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


