                              409 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            August 31, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Wilkie may yet reject all suitors;
Both major parties could miss out

BYLINE: CAROL NADER CANBERRA

SECTION: NEWS; Federal Politics; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 474 words


ANDREW Wilkie has left open the possibility of shunning both major political
parties and refusing to help either leader form a minority government. As Prime
Minister Julia Gillard and Opposition Leader Tony Abbott continue to court the
independent MPs, the member for Denison emerged last night from discussions with
both leaders and said it could still be some days before he chooses sides.
Previously Mr Wilkie has indicated he could decide as early as today, and that
remains a possibility.

He ruled out accepting any ministerial or speaker position, saying he was
"fiercely protective" of his independence. "I will support the party or parties
that I believe will deliver stable, competent and ethical government . . . and
I'm still to decide whether any one party or parties are going to do that," he
said. "I reserve the option of backing no party or parties . . . I note that in
the last few months the Labor government has been neither stable, competent nor
ethical, and I'm yet to be persuaded that the opposition can do any better." Mr
Wilkie has requested further meetings with each leader, and had dinner with the
other three independents last night. He said that if he did not side with either
party, he would do nothing to risk stability and would not block supply. If he
did side with a party, that party would have to negotiate with him on
legislation and he would vote for it on its merits. He insisted his list of 20
"priorities" he had given each leader were not demands. But he said there were
two particular issues there must be reform on - the "unacceptable" state of the
Royal Hobart Hospital, and poker machines. He wants $1 bet limits and losses of
no more than $120 an hour. Mr Wilkie denied his push for more funds for the
hospital was pork barrelling, saying Denison had been a safe Labor seat for more
than 20 years, which meant it had not received its fair share of funding. "The
tiles are falling off the walls in the hospital. What I am trying to achieve
here is catch-up," he said. On poker machine reform, he said both party leaders
had been receptive to the idea. "I think they both understand that poker
machines are doing terrible harm," he said. Mr Wilkie said neither party had
ethical policies on asylum seekers, although Labor's policy was the "least bad".
He also favoured Labor's policy on the national broadband network, but said the
Coalition's mental health policy was superior. Mr Wilkie also wants a price on
carbon, federal whistle-blower legislation, dental care to be included in
Medicare, a conscience vote on same-sex marriage and the introduction of a
national disability insurance scheme. Independent South Australian senator Nick
Xenophon, who shares Mr Wilkie's views on poker machine reform, told The Age
that a conscience vote might be the way to achieve tougher limits on poker
machines.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew Wilkie meets Tony Abbott at Parliament House.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


