                              405 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                           August 13, 2014 Wednesday

Eight Chinese quarantined as panic grips Ebola-hit west AfricaOver 1,000 killed,
1,848 infected by deadly virus, Liberia getting experimental drug

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 759 words


Agence France-Presse

FREETOWN, Geneva

Eight Chinese medical workers who treated Ebola patients have been quarantined
in Sierra Leone, as the latest World Health Organisation (WHO) data showed the
deadly virus has killed 1,013 people and infected another 1,848.

The fatalities include 52 deaths recorded between August 7-9 in three West
African countries at the centre of the epidemic â[#x20ac]" Guinea, Liberia and
Sierra Leone â[#x20ac]" according to the data released late on Monday.

China's ambassador to Sierra Leone Zhao Yanbo said that seven doctors and one
nurse who treated Ebola patients had been placed under quarantine, but would not
be drawn on whether they were displaying symptoms of the disease.

In addition 24 nurses in Sierra Leone, most from the military hospital in the
capital, have also been quarantined, according to Yanbo and hospital director
Sahr Foday.

Foday said a senior physician at Freetown's Connaught Hospital had contracted
Ebola but was responding well to treatment. The nation's sole virologist, who
was at the forefront of its battle against the epidemic, died from Ebola last
month.

Gripped by panic, west African nations battling the tropical disease ramped up
drastic containment measures that have caused transport chaos, price hikes and
food shortages.

Liberia, meanwhile, said it had requested samples of an experimental drug and
that supplies would be brought into the country "by a representative of the US
government" later this week.

There is currently no available cure or vaccine for Ebola, which the WHO has
declared a global public health emergency.

The disease has hit doctors hard in the ill-equipped and fragile health systems
of west African nations.

The use of an experimental drug called ZMapp on two Americans and a Spanish
priest infected with the virus while working in Africa has opened up an intense
ethical debate.

The drug, made by private US company Mapp Pharmaceuticals, has shown promising
results but is still in an early phase of development and had only been tested
previously on monkeys.

ZMapp is in very short supply, but its use on Western aid workers has sparked
controversy and demands that it be made available in Africa.

"Is it ethical to use unregistered medicines to treat people, and if so, what
criteria should they meet, and what conditions, and who should be treated?" said
WHO assistant director-general Marie-Paule Kieny on Monday.

"What is the ethical thing to do?"

Mapp Pharmaceuticals said it had sent all its available supplies to West Africa.

"In responding to the request received from a West African nation, the available
supply of ZMapp is exhausted," it said in a statement.

"Any decision to use ZMapp must be made by the patients' medical team," it said,
adding that the drug was "provided at no cost in all cases".

The company did not reveal how many doses were sent.

"The White House and the United States Food and Drug Administration have
approved the request for sample doses of experimental serum to treat Liberian
doctors who are currently infected with the deadly Ebola virus disease," the
Liberian presidency said.

The latest outbreak, which the WHO says is by far the worst since Ebola was
discovered four decades ago, has left more than 960 people dead, and infected or
possibly infected nearly 1,800.

In Liberia, where Ebola has already claimed about 370 lives, a third province,
Lofa, was placed under quarantine after similar measures in Bomba and Grand Cape
Mount.

"From now on, no one will be allowed to go to Lofa, no one will come out of
there," President Ellen Johnson Sirfleaf said. "We want to protect areas that
have not been yet affected."

Sirleaf also banned state officials from travelling abroad for a month and
ordered those outside the country to return home within a week.

While impoverished Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone account for the bulk of the
cases, the latest outbreak has spread further afield. Nigeria, Africa's most
populous country, has so far counted two deaths.

Numerous countries have imposed a raft of emergency measures, including flight
bans or screening of passengers.

In the latest such move, the Ivory Coast announced it was banning all flights
from the three hardest-hit nations.

And it said in the past few days it had turned back around 100 Liberians trying
to flee across the border into Ivory Coast, which has not reported any Ebola
cases.

Niger, which also has yet to confirm any cases, has put in place an "emergency
plan" to train health workers and boost checks at borders, airports and
stations. Togo has also strengthened health screenings.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


