                              412 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                           January 25, 2007 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Catholic Church told to butt out of new hospital

BYLINE: Jeremy Warren, Saskatchewan News Network

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 533  words

DATELINE: SASKATOON


SASKATOON -- The mayor of Humboldt is asking the provincial government to ensure
the Catholic Church is not involved in the city's new hospital.

"The message (city) council has received from the community is that there is a
clear desire for a public hospital," said Mayor Malcolm Eaton in an interview
with The StarPhoenix.

"In order to have a hospital that doesn't get into Catholic ethical issues, we
need a public hospital."

Construction will start on a new hospital this spring, which has prompted debate
about who will operate the new facility.

Other communities involved in the new hospital have also expressed support for a
publicly operated hospital instead of a faith-based facility, Eaton said.

But the final decision about governance will be made by Health Minister Len
Taylor, said Louise Greenberg, associate deputy minister of health.

The minister will meet with the Catholic Health Corp. and Catholic bishops in
the coming weeks, as well as people living in the communities served by the new
hospital, she said.

St. Elizabeth's hospital in Humboldt serves about 35,000 in the region and is
owned by the Saskatchewan Catholic Health Corp. The Catholic-run board receives
money from the Saskatoon Health Region to operate the facility.

Elective tubal ligation surgery, where a woman's fallopian tubes are severed and
sealed to prevent conception, was prohibited by the Catholic-run board in July.
That decision sparked ethical debates about faith-based hospitals in and around
Humboldt, about 100 kilometres east of Saskatoon.

"I stress that we have not severed ties with the Catholic church. No final
decision has been made," Eaton said.

Two family doctors -- Dr. Carrie Levick and Dr. Jacquie Bourgeois -- submitted
their resignations in December, leaving Humboldt to deal with a potential
shortage of doctors.

"Our immediate concern in the community is how can we create the circumstances
for the two doctors to reconsider or set aside their resignations," Eaton said.
"There's widespread support for (Levick and Bourgeois) in Humboldt."

Community representatives met with provincial health department and health
authority officials at a Jan. 18 meeting to discuss the operations of the new
hospital.

"At the end of the day it appeared officials heard and understood what we had to
say. The health region expressed to me they would be anxious to respect the
wishes of the communities involved," Eaton said.

The communities involved with the meeting were clear about their support for a
publicly operated hospital, but the province also heard there is still a role
for spiritual care, such as religious programs and chapel services, Greenberg
said.

"It's a complicated issue. It's not black and white," Greenberg said. "That
medical decisions should be made by the patient and doctor is only one view.

"People might not like the decision in the end, but at least they were involved
in the process."

According to the construction timeline to replace the 1955 building, tenders
will be issued in February or March, with the crews on-site in the spring.

Calls to the Saskatchewan Catholic Health Corp. and the Catholic diocese were
not immediately returned. The Saskatoon Health Region declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

