                              44 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

Ethical challenges in health organisations discussed

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Dec. 16 -- Traditional ethics committees in health care organisations
are reactive and addressing only the most visible ethical concerns, Assistant
Professor, Aga Khan University (AKU) Dr. Robyna Khan pointed out at a symposium
organized by AKU Hospital on Saturday.

Chairing the sixth hospital Ethics Committee symposium, she said those
committees were unable to highlight deeper organisational factors that influence
how a health care organisation functions, instead focusing on issues related
primarily to clinical ethics.

Additionally, ethics committees are not well connected with other functions of
the organisation, which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.

She pointed out that addressing these issues often fall beyond the scope of
conventional ethics committees because they may not pertain to clinical service,
research or academics, but to the way the organisation runs.

"Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be set, communicated
and enforced in every function of the institute," explained Dr. Robyna Khan,
Assistant Professor, AKU.

In her keynote address, Dr. Melissa M. Bottrell of the National Center for
Ethics in health care in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an integrated ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most

of these defects.

"By envisioning new ways of looking at ethical concern in health care,"
integrated ethics empowers organisations to do the right things because it is
the right thing to do", she said.

Professor Murad Khan, Chairperson, Department of Psychiatry, AKU described
various components of organisational ethics. "As part of an organisational
approach to ethics, committees should address matters such as conflict of
interest issues, resource allocation, appointments and promotions as well as
support other ethical activities in their institution." The Symposium provided
an opportunity to review challenges, examine ethical issues in organisations,
and identify the role of leaders, faculty, administration and staff in
formulating and implementing solutions.

Summarising the discussions Professor Camer Vellani, reviewed the impact of
organisational culture, leadership, and ethics committees as drivers of success
in an integrated ethics approach.

Other notable speakers at the Symposium included Dr. Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus
Hospital, Ameena Saiyid, Managing Director, Oxford University Press, Professor
Arif Zaman, former Dean, Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr
Nida Bashir, Consultant Surgeon, Patel Hospital. Published by HT Syndication
with permission from Daily Times. For any query with respect to this article or
any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


