                              416 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                February 7, 2003

Commission on Assisted Human Reproduction

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 420 words


Remit

The Commission (CAHR) was set up by the Minister for Health in March 2000 to
prepare a report on all aspects of this subject. Its chairwoman is Prof Dervilla
Donnelly, emeritus professor of organic chemistry in UCD. Its terms of reference
are "to prepare a report on the possible approaches to the regulation of all
aspects of assisted human reproduction and the social, ethical and legal factors
to be taken into account in determining public policy in this area."

In setting it up, Mr Martin pointed out that, while many countries had
legislation in this area, there was none in Ireland. Medical practice is
governed by the ethical guidelines of the Medical Council, but these do not
extend to any service operated by other people.

In Britain, the area is regulated by the Human Fertility and Embryology Act of
1990, and the general principles of this Act have been followed in most other EU
countries, with the notable exception of Germany, which has more restrictive
legislation. In the US, there is no federal regulation, and the market dominates
what services can and do operate.

The CAHR is intended to serve two purposes: to provide the medical, ethical and
legal expertise necessary for a detailed examination of the possible approaches;
and to prepare a report for the Minister which provides the basis for an
informed public debate. The report is expected to be ready by June.

Commission membership

Chairman: Prof Donnelly.

Dr Carol Barry Kinsella, obstetrician, Rotunda Hospital; Dr Aonghus Nolan,
Fertility Unit, University College Hospital, Galway; Prof Andrew Green,
geneticist, Our Lady's Hospital, Crumlin, and professor of genetics, UCD; Dr
Marina Lynch, Department of Physiology, TCD; Prof Tom Cotter, Department of
Biochemistry, UCC; Dr Deirdre Madden, lecturer in law, UCC; Mr Gerry Whyte,
senior lecturer in law, TCD; Ms Mary Cooke, Attorney General's office; Dr Alpha
Connolly, Department of Foreign Affairs; Dr Paul McCarthy, child psychiatrist,
St James's Hospital; Ms Noirin Hayes, head of Social Sciences, DIT; Dr Tony
Ryan, paediatrician, Erinville Hospital, Cork; Ms Caroline Harrison, counsellor
in the human assisted reproduction unit, Rotunda Hospital; Ms Nora Geary,
midwife, Erinville Hospital, Cork; Dr Miriam McCarthy, Northern Ireland
Department of Health and Social Services; Ms Helen Browne, Information
Infertility and Support Group, Cork; Ms Geraldine Luddy, director of the Women's
Health Council; Mr Brian Mullen, Department of Health and Children.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2003 The Irish Times


