                              413 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                    October 12, 2000 Thursday Final Edition

Doing the right thing at the end of life: Unique program takes ethics from books
to bedside

SOURCE: The Edmonton Journal

BYLINE: Andy Ogle, Journal Staff Writer

SECTION: City; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: Edmonton

Nothing in Gary Goldsand's five years of studying health ethics at university
quite prepared him for the real-life, bedside discussions he's having now at the
Royal Alexandra Hospital.

Take the decision about whether to insert a feeding tube into a terminally ill
patient's stomach.

"It's one thing to read about it in a textbook or in case studies; it's another
to speak to the patient, family and health-care workers," says Goldsand who is
in Capital Health's new one-year residency program in clinical ethics, the first
of its kind in Canada.

Textbooks and theoretical discussions just can't deal with the emotions that
arise in such moments, he says.

Goldsand, who is completing a doctoral degree in religion and bioethics at the
University of Toronto, said the hospital training he'll get this year will be an
invaluable part of his education.

Developed by the Royal Alex bioethics committee with the John Dossetor Health
Ethics Centre at the University of Alberta, the residency is designed to bridge
the gap between academic and clinical settings in an area where advances in
technology, new drugs, and workload pressures have increasingly raised complex
ethical questions.

It arises out of the pastoral care program at the Royal Alex, which was in its
infancy 15 years ago when Rev. Neil Elford joined it.

Elford, who is now manager of supportive care at the Alex and vice-chair of the
hospital bioethics committee, says increasing ethnic and cultural diversity in
Edmonton and other Canadian cities has also increased the complexity of ethical
questions in health care.

"A lot of the decisions that must be made around end-of-life questions and
quality of life are based on individuals' value systems and we need to take into
account different religions and different values," says Elford, who was ordained
in the United Church.

Dr. Rick Johnston, clinical chief for adult intensive care at the Royal
Alexandra Hospital, says the pastoral care service has become an invaluable part
of the hospital, with people from a dozen different religions offering support.

"It has gone from 'What the hell is pastoral care?' to 'Where the hell is
pastoral care -- we need them,' " Johnston says.

Over the last 10 years, he says, there has also been a strong push to bring
ethicists into hospitals to make sure a proper ethical framework is being
followed in deciding "what is the right thing to do."

This is especially true when there are disagreements between medical and nursing
staff and patients and their families, Johnston says.

"But one problem is if you read what has been published by ethicists, it becomes
extremely clear that very few of them have spent time at the coal face."

Their ideas may be correct but often it's a matter of how you word them, he
says.

Out of that arose the discussion of providing the same practical experience that
medical students get to a student of medical ethics.

This is exactly the component that Goldsand says he's lacked in his otherwise
excellent training at the U of T.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Lucas, The Journal; Facing the complex medical ethics
decisions at the Royal Alex are, from left, Rev. Neil Elford, Dr. Gary Goldsand
and Dr. Richard Johnston.

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


