                              419 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                          July 15, 1995, CITY EDITION

SETBACK AT THE MEATH

SECTION: EDITORIAL PAGE; EDITORIAL COMMENT; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 564 words


The decision by the board of the Meath Hospital to reject the proposed charter
for the new Tallaght hospital is deeply disappointing. It is a decision that
will anger the Minister for Health, Mr Noonan, greatly disturb the people of
Tallaght and will mystify many, including a significant section of the Meath
Hospital staff. Indeed, it would appear that the board of the Meath Hospital is
not unanimous in its rejection and it is noteworthy that, despite the matter
being of such vital importance to all concerned, the Meath Hospital board did
not vote on it.

The chairman of the board, Mr Gerry Brady, insists that the board's decision is
not based on a religious or ethical dispute but that "it has to do with
industrial relations and with ensuring that staff are properly looked after". Mr
Brady has cited a part of the proposed charter which establishes a link tween
appointments to the hospital and the services to be provided. It is quite
extraordinary that it should be deemed significant enough to reject the charter,
after years of discussion have been spent on it. One cannot help wondering if
other unstated objections exist.

The new hospital, which will include the Adelaide and the National Children's
Hospital as well as the Meath, is intended to incorporate the Protestant ethos
of the Adelaide in its charter. This means, for example, that patients seeking
sterilisation will be assured of treatment in Tallaght whereas such treatment
can be difficult to obtain in other hospitals because the staff, or the
management, or both, have ethical objections. It has been made clear that
ethical objections will not be held against any person seeking an appointment or
a promotion at the hospital. Nor should they be. Appointments must be made on
merit alone but with one important proviso - that the hospital will provide all
medical procedures relevant to a general hospital which are legal in the State.

Hypothetically, it is possible that all the persons in a particular section
might object to sterilisation or genetic counselling or whatever. In such a case
the hospital would have no alternative but to hire additional staff and merit
would not be paramount in their case. The board of the Meath Hospital (though
not all of the board) takes the view that the charter's linkage between
appointments and the requirement to provide all legal procedures, is
unnecessary. The board is wrong. It is essential if the hospital is to offer
pluralist services for all traditions pertaining in the State.

The task now falls to the Minister for Health to secure the Meath Hospital's
agreement on the charter. If this linkage is the only obstacle, hopefully he
will be able to persuade the hospital of its necessity and of his determination
to ensure that Meath personnel will not be disadvantaged by it. If, as reported,
another objection is that the Meath consultants want a guaranteed place on the
board of the new hospital, he should treat that objection with the contempt it
deserves. Tallaght is fifteen years in the planning. The charter has been under
discussion for eight years. All three hospitals agreed two years ago that it
will have a "multi denominational and pluralist character" and that it would
serve as "a focus for Protestant participation in the health services". Mr
Noonan will need to be fair but he must be firm. No more delays, please.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 1995 The Irish Times


