                              414 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Brunswick News (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday

SGHS honors top nurses

BYLINE: Anna Hall, The Brunswick News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 554 words


May 12--City, county and hospital officials gathered Monday to proclaim a
singular message: Thank you, nurses.

In honor of National Nurses Week, from May 5 through May 12, members of the
hospital and community came together for a banquet to let area nurses know they
are appreciated.

Honorees were nominated for awards and gift bags by hospital staff and
officials. The results of the nomination process was close to overwhelming for
Elizabeth Gunn, Southeast Georgia Health System vice president of patient care
services.

"We handed out a piece of paper and asked that people write down why a certain
nurse inspires them," Gunn said. "Turns out, one piece of paper wasn't enough.
The length nominators went to, to explain what nurse they chose and why, it was
amazing. The stories just kept coming in."

Every year, the hospital hosts a reception for its top nurses, simply to say
good job and note that their hard, ongoing work has not gone unnoticed.

This year, Brunswick mayor Cornell Harvey and county commission chair Dale
Provenzano, as well as hospital president and chief executive officer Gary
Colberg, delivered speeches to profess their gratitude for the men and women who
stand on the health front lines, proving invaluable to the success and forward
movement of the local heath care system.

"You, our nurses, are just like the police department, the fire department,"
Provenzano said. "You are there serving our community in immeasurable ways.
Nurses are there, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. Thank you
for all you do. It is appreciated."

The 2015 theme for the national week, "Ethical Practice. Quality Care," is
certainly fitting for Brunswick's nursing team, Colberg said.

"Our nurses fit that bill perfectly," Colberg said. "Ethical, providing quality
care and I would even venture to add one more title, that they are completely
committed to serving our community. They live it, they are it, every day."

Noting that he himself was a recent patient at the hospital, Colberg said he has
personally experienced the passion and consistent dedication the hospitals
nursing team exudes on a daily basis.

"We are lucky to have a nursing staff like this," Colberg said.

Harvey noted that the effects of their work is felt beyond the walls of the
hospital.

"I say it all the time, we are building a better Brunswick," Harvey said. "You,
our nurses, are contributing to that in ways you may not even know. You are
helping us build a better Brunswick."

For operating room nurse Nicole Angel, the afternoon event was a touching
reminder that her work, and that of her fellow team, has not gone unnoticed.
Having only been at the Brunswick center for a year, she admits she was slightly
surprised to be included in the league of her top peers. Nonetheless, knowing
that she is appreciated is always inspiring, she said.

"I love working here, with the small town feel and the love we all share for our
patients and other staffers," Angel said. "I can't wait to get back to work and
work with new patients."

Reporter Anna Hall writes about education and other local topics. Contact her at
ahall@thebrunswicknews.com, on Facebook or at 265-8320, ext. 322.

___ (c)2015 The Brunswick News (Brunswick, Ga.) Visit The Brunswick News
(Brunswick, Ga.) at www.thebrunswicknews.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150512-GE-SGHS-honors-top-nurses-0512-20150512

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GE


                       Copyright 2015 The Brunswick News


