                              411 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            March 21, 2012 Wednesday
                                  1 - Edition

Health dept rejects whistleblower calls

BYLINE: Daniel Bateman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 415  words


QUEENSLAND Health has dismissed a whistleblowers' claims of an alleged cover-up
and official misconduct at Townsville Hospital.

Jo-Anna Barber, a senior investigator with the health department's ethical
standards unit, has approached the Crime and Misconduct Commission with a number
of allegations about government employees not protecting public safety at the
Townsville and Gold Coast hospitals. She has given the CMC more than 30 hours of
recorded one-on-one interviews with hospital staff, testimonies and several
documents gathered during her investigation into the hospital's cardio-thoracic
unit crisis in 2008.

The surgical service was temporarily closed after bureaucrats were unable to
settle personality conflicts among some of the unit's staff.

Among Ms Barber's allegations are claims patients were brought to serious harm
by a surgeon in training; the investigation unit was woefully under-resourced;
there was a culture among department officials in ensuring complaints were not
seriously dealt with; and some Medical Board of Queensland members did not
understand their legal duties to protect patients.

Ms Barber, a former policewoman, is being assisted by Burnett MP Rob Messenger,
who helped another whistleblower bring Bundaberg Hospital's Jayant ``Dr Death''
Patel scandal to light seven years ago.

Townsville health district CEO Dr Andrew Johnson said the investigation into the
cardio-thoracic crisis was one of the most in-depth investigations ever carried
out by the department's ethical standards unit, under the supervision of the
CMC.

``Investigators collated and examined more than 5000 documents and conducted
more than 60 in-depth interviews with witnesses,'' he said.

``Queensland Health also referred this matter to the CMC to confirm the
allegations had been properly investigated.

``The CMC found that the Queensland Health investigation was entirely
appropriate and no further action was required.''

Dr Johnson, who was the head of the hospital during the crisis, had previously
said the decision to temporarily close the cardiac unit was the biggest
disappointment of his professional career.

Australian Medical Association Queensland president Dr Richard Kidd said it
would not be appropriate for him to pre-empt any CMC investigation into Ms
Barber's allegations.

``As the representative body, the AMA is supportive of any process that
contributes to accountability and transparency when it comes to patient care,''
he said.

daniel.bateman@townsvillebulletin.com.au

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


