                              418 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday

Doctor's charges: How high is too high?;
Public hospitals, insurance policies, peer pressure set 'ethical limit': Docs

BYLINE: Poon Chian Hui And Bryna Singh

SECTION: SINGAPORE

LENGTH: 574 words


DOCTORS have revealed which factors they use to determine the size of their
bills, in the wake of the Susan Lim overcharging case.

Public sector fees, insurance payouts and peer pressure all help them to gauge
the "ethical limit" on how much specific services should cost.

Eight doctors spoke to The Straits Times following Dr Lim's failure to overturn
her professional misconduct conviction.

The 58-year-old surgeon had appealed against her three-year suspension and
$10,000 fine for charging $24 million to treat a royal patient from Brunei.

But the Court of Three Judges upheld the verdict, saying medical fees have an "
ethical limit" - regardless of market forces or contracts signed by the patient.

While this limit is not fixed, fellow doctors and patients play a large role in
pricing policies in the private sector.

Medical oncologist Wong Seng Weng, who runs practices at Paragon and Mount
Elizabeth Novena Specialist Centre, said these factors give doctors a sense of
where the average price hovers.

"Most people who have been practising for quite some time will know roughly how
much a service costs from speaking to peers or to patients who may doctor-hop."

Dr Tony Tan, who heads the Obstetrical & Gynaecological Society of Singapore,
said peer pressure and criticism will probably keep up to 90 per cent of doctors
in check. "Doctors are the worst critics of one another," he added.

Liver specialist Desmond Wai, who practises at Gleneagles Medical Centre, said
one way to gauge how much to charge is to look at prices at public hospitals,
which are available on the Health Ministry's website. Patients' insurance
policies also help as there are fixed sums that can be claimed for specific
procedures.

But others believe clearer benchmarks will help prevent cases such as Dr Lim's
from happening again.

Fee structures are "necessary to prevent exploitation", said one primary care
doctor who did not want to be named. He added that medicine "cannot be treated
like any other business, subject to the same commercial considerations or
anti-competition laws".

The Singapore Medical Association published guidelines in 1987, but they were
scrapped six years ago due to the Competition Act, which aims to stamp out
anti-competitive practices.

Dr Jeremy Lim, an expert in health systems, said: "In the absence of specific
guidelines, it will be near impossible to know where the lines are drawn."

Meanwhile, lawyers told The Straits Times they are also subject to ethical
limits. "Overcharging is not allowed," said lawyer Nicholas Narayanan.

But like doctors, the legal profession does not have written price guidelines.
To minimise fee disputes, lawyers say they generally enter into written
agreements with clients right from the start.

Architects told The Straits Times they do not have ethical limits as their
industry is client-driven. When a tender is called, it is in their interest to
submit a competitive price.

"If you mark up your costs too high, you'll lose out," said architect Amy Heng,
27.

Meanwhile, the Health Ministry yesterday described the decision to turn down Dr
Lim's appeal as "necessary in order to preserve the relationship of trust and
confidence between the medical profession and the public".

The Straits Times understands that the surgeon may still be able to practise
overseas, even while suspended, if she can obtain the necessary medical
registration in that country.

chpoon@sph.com.sg

brynasim@sph.com.sg

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


