                              45 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             June 19, 2014 Thursday

Tata memorial joins global club;
ETHICALLY YOURS | High levels of ethical standards in clinical research bring
hospital laurels

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 401  words


ETHICALLY YOURS |  High levels of ethical standards in clinical research bring
hospital laurels

With 64,000 new cancer patients every year, the Tata Memorial Hospital (TMC)
probably sees the highest load in the world. But that has not dented the
commitment of the Parel-based hospital towards its patients a bit. In fact, the
centre just lifted it a few notches.

TMC has become the only government-run hospital in the country to be maintaining
the highest ethical standards to protect those taking part in clinical research.
The comprehensive cancer-care institute is autonomously run under the Department
of Atomic Energy.

"In the US, the largest institutes cater to close to 30,000 patients in a year,"
said Dr Rajendra Badwe, director, TMC, reacting to the accolade that came after
18 months of rigorous screening.

TMC has been accredited by the Association for the Accreditation of Human
Research Protection Programs (AAHRPP), a US-based agency that assesses health
institutes for the quality of clinical research and care provided to the human
subjects during trials.

Only up to 300 hospitals around the world are AAHRPP certified, including few
Asian set-ups - one in Singapore, two in China and five in Korea.

Currently, 220 clinical studies are underway in TMC, of which eight to ten
trials have the potential to change the way treatment for cancer will progress
in future.  Close to 4,000 patients are involved in these trials.

"Some landmark research has emerged out of these trials which involves
introduction of low-cost centennial node biopsy, cervical cancer screening
methods using acetic acid or vinegar, effective breast cancer treatment options
etc," said Dr Badwe.

Apart from this, trials to reduce treatment costs are also underway. "We are
looking at feasibility studies for repurposing of those drugs which are used in
other ailments for cancer treatment. This, we believe, will bring down costs,"
added Dr Badwe.

Doctors said a patient is enrolled for trials only after obtaining his consent.
Also, they have a choice of opting out of a trial. "We focus on counselling. If
a patient is in an unconscious stage during the trial, consent is obtained from
his relatives. But once s/he comes back to consciousness, we have to re-counsel
and ask for his/her consent on continuation of the trial," said Dr J Divatia,
head, department of anaesthesiology.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2014 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


