                              424 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                December 2, 2000

Cornhill ward set to close

BYLINE: By Ayoung

SECTION: News:Other:Others, Pg.3

LENGTH: 571 words


STAFF at the Royal Cornhill Hospital in Aberdeen have been briefed regarding the
proposed closure of an old age psychiatry ward next year. Grampian Primary
Healthcare Trust spokesman John Miller said yesterday staff had been given
details of the plan earlier this week. No jobs will be lost and it is hoped
staff will be relocated either in the hospital or locally when the ward closes
next March. Some of the patients who have been assessed as not requiring NHS
care will go to local nursing homes, while others will be transferred to other
areas of the hospital. The ward closure is expected to save around GBP 400,000
which will be ploughed back into developing community services.

Animal protest

ANIMAL rights campaigners will be protesting outside the British Heart
Foundation shop in Aberdeen today. The People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals claim recent research funded by the charity has involved "primitive
experiments on dogs, cats, and rodents".  Supporters will be wearing beagle
masks outside the shop from 2pm to 4pm today.

Maths tuition

A LEADING UK mathematics expert will be in Aberdeen next week to work with
teachers in the city. Peter Patilla will be holding a series of courses with
primary, secondary and special education teachers, demonstrating new ways of
encouraging mental agility. He will be working with teachers at Summerhill from
Monday to Wednesday.

Finalists

SIX postgraduate students from Aberdeen University have reached the final stages
of Britain's Younger Engineers in 2000 competition. The talented team have been
selected to attend a lunchtime reception at the House of Commons hosted by MP
Claire Curtis-Thomas. The successful Aberdeen students, who are from the
departments of engineering, orthopaedics and biomedical physics, are Fazilat
Dar, Godfrey Azangwe, Kheng-Lim Goh, Leanne Burgin, Jenny Gregory and Peter
MacConnell.

Antiques fair

MARYCULTER House Hotel, near Aberdeen, is the venue tomorrow from 10.30am-4.30pm
for an antiques and collector's fair. Alongside silverware and fine furniture,
the Grampian Fairs event will include a stall specialising in books on the North
-east and historic postcards of the area.

Loose change

SPARE change from passengers at Aberdeen Airport is giving a welcome boost to
the funds of four local causes. The charity box at the airport's information
desk was opened after 18 months last week to reveal more than GBP 1,400. The
money will be divided equally between Voluntary Services Aberdeen, the People's
Dispensary for Sick Animals, Hazelwood Special School and Agecare Aberdeen.

VSA appeal

THE children of Aberdeen's Middleton Park School in Bridge of Don will be
presenting the toys and food parcels they have collected for the annual
Voluntary Service Aberdeen Christmas appeal on Monday. Anyone who would like to
contribute to the appeal can drop off parcels or toys at the VSA offices in
Castle Street. Those wanting more information on what kind of food or toys are
required should contact VSA on 01224 212021.

GBP 1,000 raised

SUPPORTERS of Aberdeen's charity Archway will be raising their glasses to say
cheers to the North East of Scotland Real Ale drinkers, who have donated more
than GBP 1,000 to the charity. The Campaign for Real Ale group raised money for
the charity during a raffle, collecting cans and the proceeds from unused beer
tokens at the organisation's recent annual beer festival.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2000 Aberdeen Press and Journal


