                              421 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday

LEEF 2010 Opportunity to See How Serious Games are Effective Learning Solutions
for 'Soft' and 'Hard' Skills

LENGTH: 490  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, June 06 -- From leadership and program management, to emergency
evacuation or electrical safety - games, simulations and virtual worlds provide
an effective learning experience.

Through interactive case studies , attendees at the 2010 Learning and
Entertainment Evolution Forum at Harrisburg University of Science and Technology
will learn how experts at IBM, DAU, Applied Research Associates, Forio, the US
Naval Academy, Centrax, Novonics and others are overcoming challenges and
implementing effective solutions with games, sims and virtual worlds!

The event is set for June 17-18 and its lineup will include more than a dozen
case studies, including:

Forio Corporation Business Simulations:How do you teach leadership at your
organization? Harvard Business Publishing and Forio offer a simulation on
leadership styles and team dynamics. Working with subject matter experts, they
created a storyline, embedded educational components, added game play challenges
and built the online multi-player simulation. Now one of their most popular
simulations, the team will share their design and development process.

Novonics Corporation:The Intact Team Training (ITT) simulation provides a
virtual collaborative learning environment in support of the Program Management
(PM) curricula at the Defense Acquisition University (DAU). The simulation
presents a role playing environment requiring learners to solve program
management challenges. The simulation is designed to accelerate skill
acquisition by allowing learners to experience a context-specific slice of
reality within a "micro-world" and eventually transfer the acquired skills to
real-life tasks.

Stockdale Center for Ethical Leadership , US Naval Academy:Blending innovative
interactive simulation technology into traditional educational environments has
been successfully achieved at the US Naval Academy and the Surface Warfare
Officer School. Students joining the military expect greater degrees of activity
and experiential learning. Teaching ethical decision making using computer-based
interactive simulations over the last four years report positive quantitative
and qualitative assessment results. Learn how simulations are used to teach
ethical decision making and leadership development, and experience the content.

Centrax Corporation:'How do you stay always ready in case of disasters in a
24/7/365 facility, where shutting down for drill/practice is not an option?'
Children's Memorial Hospital and Centrax Corp created an innovative learning
solution to address a hospital training challenge - How to practice disaster
preparedness training at a reasonable cost, without endangering the staff or
putting patients at risk? Centrax created a virtual hospital in Second Life
replicating the hospital Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right
Vision News. For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


