                              427 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 25, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

V.A. Hospital Is Told to Halt All Research

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 781 words


The Department of Veterans Affairs has for the first time suspended all research
in one of its health care centers, saying the center has failed to meet ethical
guidelines in human experiments.

After six years of investigations and temporary suspensions, the hospitals and
clinics of the Veterans Affairs of Greater Los Angeles Health Care System --
including the West Los Angeles Veterans Affairs Medical Center, one of the
nation's largest research hospitals -- were ordered on Monday to halt all of
their animal and human experiments. The order will go into effect on Friday.

About 100 researchers are conducting 500 experiments there, officials said.

Dr. Dean C. Norman, acting chief of staff at the Los Angeles veterans hospitals,
said in a telephone interview that several managers of research projects would
be removed from their jobs and an interim team would be put in place to correct
the problems.

Dr. Norman added that "no patients or animals have been harmed" and that the
failures were breakdowns of administration, not of patient care.

The shutdown was ordered by Dr. Kenneth W. Kizer, Under Secretary for Health at
the Department of Veterans Affairs, who noted that the hospitals had already
been put on probation and that the management had repeatedly failed to correct
the problems.

At the same time, the Department of Health and Human Services office in charge
of overseeing human experiments officially cut off all Federal funds to the Los
Angeles hospitals. Dr. Kizer's order also halted all private funds for the
hospitals.

The problems mainly involve experiments carried out on veterans who are mental
patients. In some experiments, advocates for the patients say, subjects in the
experiments were deliberately taken off their medicines and allowed to suffer
relapses so that researchers could study the course of their symptoms.

In other experiments, the subjects were given drugs that intentionally made the
symptoms worse so that doctors could observe them as they occurred.

The investigation of the Los Angeles hospitals began in 1993 when Federal
officials found, among other violations, that proper informed consent was not
obtained from patients in the experiments.

To protect against such problems, hospitals are charged with establishing review
boards that monitor proposed experiments for abuses, said Dr. John F. Feussner,
the chief research and development officer at the Department of Veterans Affairs
in Washington.

It is the failure of the Los Angeles hospitals to properly monitor and report on
the sensitive experiments, he said, rather than any specific abuses of patients,
that led to the Government's order to suspend the research this week.

Dr. Adil Shamoo of the University of Maryland, an expert on ethical issues in
psychiatric experiments, said yesterday that the action against the Los Angeles
hospitals showed that "levels of concern on these kinds of experiments have been
rising."

"People are now seeing some potential harm to patients if these issues are not
taken seriously," Dr. Shamoo added.

Dr. Feussner, describing the research system as "an honor system," said: "It
requires that responsible officials assure us that their human and animal
studies meet Federal policies and my expectations. In this case, the processes
in place do not provide us with that assurance. I don't have any evidence that
harm is taking place, but I don't have the proper assurance that it isn't,
either."

He continued, "I am unwilling to assume things are fine, because the costs of
being wrong are too high for the patients."

In a six-page letter on Monday, the Department of Health and Human Services'
Office for the Protection from Research Risks charged the hospitals with
multiple violations, including these:

*Failure to include at least one representative to speak for the experimental
subjects on the board that gives ethical approval for the experiments.

*Failure over five years to establish a "data safety monitoring board" to
oversee events during experimental treatments as they were going on to assure
the safety of particularly sensitive subjects like those with severe psychiatric
disorders.

*The hospital ethical review board's continuing, despite warnings, to approve
human experiments when few board members were present and even though
insufficient information to decide on the ethics of the experiments was given to
the board members.

Dr. Feussner said that it would take 30 to 90 days to correct the problems
initially, but that the Department of Veterans Affairs expects to monitor the
Los Angeles hospitals for at least a year after new rules and new managers are
put in place.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


