                              422 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Santa Fe New Mexican (New Mexico)

                             April 13, 2008 Sunday

MY VIEW: CREATE ETHICS OFFICER POST TO OVERSEE MERGED HOSPITAL

BYLINE: HALLEY S. FAUST

SECTION: EDITORIALS; Pg. B-5

LENGTH: 435 words


Now that the Christus Health and St. Vincent Regional Medical Center merger has
been approved by the Department of Health and the Department of Human Services,
and the deal has closed, I propose that the hospital move immediately to appoint
an independent corporate ethics officer.

The community and St. Vincent employees repeatedly have been assured that all
services previously provided will continue to be provided by the newly merged
hospital, and that the ethical and religious directives of the Catholic Church
will not substantively impact care. These reassurances have been made as
representations by the board and management while explicitly denying the
community the ability to view the merger documents.

The duty of the ethics officer would be to identify, respond to, investigate,
and attempt to resolve issues fairly, without being beholden to the institution,
any individual, the management, or the Catholic Church.

The ethics officer would be an ex officio member of the hospital's board of
directors, have complete and direct access to all documents, employees,
managers, and others of the hospital, and be a member of and work closely with
the hospital's bioethics committee to develop and encourage an ethical
environment conducive to the diversity of the Santa Fe community.

Saint Vincent Regional would assure unencumbered direct access to the corporate
ethics officer for all stakeholders, including Christus' employees and
management, patients and their families, suppliers, health-care providers,
citizens of the service cachement area and others.

To guarantee independence, the ethics officer would be compensated in a way
pioneered in the medical-device business by Abiomed: a five-year budget would be
developed, mutually agreed-upon between the proposed ethics officer and the
hospital, and placed in an escrow account only accessible by the ethics officer
or his/her successor. This would minimize financial conflicts of interest, and
permit the ethics officer to respond to sensitive issues in the most beneficial
way taking into account the complainant's, hospital's and community's needs.

The person chosen for the position should be trusted by management, the board,
and the community, and trained and knowledgeable in business ethics, health-care
ethics, health-care management and clinical care. By developing such a position,
the Hospital would be on the forefront of institutional ethics while at the same
time providing the reassurance the community needs.

Halley S. Faust, MD, MPH, MA, is a business and medical ethicist, physician, and
a member of the hospital's bioethics committee.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 The New Mexican


