                              423 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                           September 20, 1999, FINAL

Entertainment News

SECTION: Arts; B11

LENGTH: 640 words


Marilyn Monroe Memorabilia Display Opens in London

Marilyn Monroe's driver's licence and her invitation to President John F.
Kennedy's birthday party in 1962 went on display in London yesterday before
being shipped to New York with other memorabilia for auction next month. The
invitation and program for Kennedy's party at Madison Square Garden, where she
sang Happy Birthday, is valued at about $15,000 U.S., the auctioneers at
Christie's said yesterday. The singer's licence, issued in Los Angeles in
February 1956 when she was 29, includes the information: ''Eyes -- blue, hair --
blonde.'' Clothes, movie scripts and books are also in the London exhibition,
which runs until Wednesday. ''She will never grow old and will always look
fabulous, '' said Christie's director Meredith Etherington-Smith.

McLachlan Makes McCartney Cry

Sarah McLachlan's mournful ballad Angel reduced Paul McCartney to tears at an
animal rights awards show. McCartney, who was hosting the event sponsored by the
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals Saturday night, returned teary-eyed
to the stage after McLachlan's piano solo. He explained that the song was
brought to his attention after his wife, Linda McCartney, an active animal
welfare crusader, died of breast cancer in April 1998. It includes the lyrics:
''You're in the arms of an angel. May you find some comfort there.''

TV Game Show Host Bob Barker to Undergo Surgery

Veteran television game show host Bob Barker will undergo surgery today to
unblock an artery on the left side on his neck, a spokeswoman for George
Washington University Hospital said. ''If it's not treated he could potentially
have a stroke, which is why he wants to undergo treatment right away,'' said
Lisa Saisselin, director of public relations at the hospital. The 75-year-old
host of The Price is Right is in ''great spirits,'' Saisselin said. ''He's doing
well and we're just awaiting surgery on Monday.'' Barker was admitted to the
hospital Thursday after he complained of feeling fatigued. The blockage was
discovered during neurological tests the next day, Saisselin said. Barker will
undergo a procedure known as an endartery ectomy to clear out his artery,
Saisselin said.

Living the Good Life

Patricia Duff, who is fighting billionaire Ron Perelman for custody of their
four-year-old daughter Caleigh, has requested $4,400 a day in child support for
the next 14 years. This amount (which would be in addition to $1.3 million a
year in alimony) includes: $9,935 a month in travel expenses for the child and
her nanny; $3,175 a month for the girl's clothing; $1,450 a month for her
restaurant expenses; $3,585 a month for ''recreational'' activities; and $30,098
a month for nannies and maids.

Moving on Up to the East Side

Michael Jackson, his two children, wife and entourage are living in what real
estate agents are calling the most expensive townhouse ever rented in Manhattan.
Jackson is paying $75,000 a month for the six-storey, 12,000-square-foot house
on the Upper East Side. Jackson has a six-month lease that runs through
November. His landlord is Richard Sabella, who bought it in 1994 for $3.1
million, renovated it and has it on the market for $12.75 million.

She's Says It's Hot, He's Not So Sure

''He's not a Latin lover. That term doesn't do him justice. He is an incredible
lover. I'd say he's definitely smouldering. But he's also intelligent and
humble.''

-- Melanie Griffith about her husband, Antonio Banderas.

''I wouldn't say that we were going to be forever together. Sometimes you may be
happy; sometimes you may not get along anymore. But for now, everything is going
perfectly, very good. But many things in life are a surprise.''

-- Antonio Banderas about his marriage, in the New York Daily News.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1999 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


