                              420 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                The Jordan Times

                             April 16, 2010 Friday

BUSINESSCLUB

LENGTH: 1031  words


PepsiCo-Jordan sponsors Dead Sea Ultra Marathon
In line with its interests to support the Society for the Care Of Neurological
Patients (SCNP) and as part of its dedication towards sponsoring and promoting
different sports activities throughout the Kingdom, PepsiCo-Jordan - the winner
of the King Abdullah II Award for Excellence/Private Sector - has sponsored the
17th Dead Sea Ultra Marathon that took place on April 9 for the fifth
consecutive year, under the slogan, "Run to The Lowest Point on Earth". The
marathon, which was organised by the SCNP, witnessed the participation of over
6,000 runners. A team of runners comprising 18 of PepsiCo-Jordan's employees
participated in the event. Muhannad Saleh, PepsiCo-Jordan's sales and marketing
director, said: "Our sponsorship of this event and the participation of our
employees serve to enhance our contribution to our local community and reflect
our belief in the importance of creating a strong and cohesive society."
Arab Bank Together and Madrasati cooperate on road safety
As part of Arab Bank's corporate social responsibility programme, Together, and
in collaboration with Madrasati, an awareness session was held for the Sewaniyeh
School in Salt about traffic issues on March 22. Organised by Arab Bank and
Madrasati, representatives from the Traffic Department visited the school to
give important lessons to the children about traffic safety.

The session included a brief presentation on main traffic issues, a general
discussion with the students about best practices, role playing activities and
distribution of educational colouring books to all the students. Last year, Arab
Bank adopted Sewaniyeh School under the Madrasati initiative led by Her Majesty
Queen Rania. Dina Shoman, executive vice president of branding at Arab Bank,
said: "This awareness session is very important because it deals with many
issues that these students see everyday. With high accident rates in the
country, it's important to spread knowledge and awareness. Children's safety is
paramount, and the more informed they are, the better decisions they can make on
a daily basis."
USAID supports Private Hospitals Association to attend the Moscow Fair
Promoting activities that enhance medical tourism in Jordan, USAID Jordan
Economic Development Programme (SABEQ) supported the attendance of six private
hospitals at the Moscow Fair for Medical Tourism held in Moscow from March 17 to
20. The Jordanian booth at the fair received a good number of visitors and the
delegation met with a number of Russian companies interested in cooperating with
Jordanian hospitals. The Jordanian delegation ran a series of activities that
aimed to inform interested public in medical tourism in Jordan. The chairman of
Private Hospitals Association (PHA) made a presentation on Jordan as a centre
for medical tourism explaining the benefits and attractions that Jordan has to
offer to Russian patients. Another presentation was made by Zahira Haram from
the Istishari Hospital, which highlighted modern medical facilities and
capacities at the hospital and the exceptional services it provides to local and
foreign patients.

InterContinental Hotels Group arranges media spokespersons workshop
Media Spokespersons of the InterContinental Hotels of Jordan & Palestine
gathered at InterContinental Jordan for a training programme carried out by Hill
& Knowlton for the first time in the region. The programme focused on three core
areas of a spokesperson's performance, which are: Message Development, Interview
Control and Message Delivery. Attendees were given techniques on how to approach
an interview with a defined objective, block difficult questions and manage body
language, gestures and posture and learned the differences between print, radio
and television. The training was attended by media spokesperson of
InterContinental Jordan, InterContinental Aqaba, InterContinental Jericho,
Crowne Plaza Amman, Crowne Plaza Petra, Holiday Inn Amman & Holiday Inn Dead sea

Standard Chartered named among the world's most ethical companies
Standard Chartered Bank has been recognised by the Ethisphere Institute as one
of the World's Most Ethical Companies for 2010. Out of a record number of
nominations for the award, Standard Chartered secured a hard-earned spot on the
list in recognition of its ongoing commitment to build a sustainable business
for the benefit of customers, clients and the wider communities in which it
operates. The Ethisphere Institute commended Standard Chartered Bank for going
the extra mile, implementing upright business practices and initiatives that are
instrumental to the company's success, benefit the community and raise the bar
for ethical standards within the industry. Geoffrey Buchanan, Standard Chartered
Bank's Jordan chief executive, said: "Standard Chartered's success is rooted in
our strong values-led culture. We have an unwavering commitment to run the bank
responsibly and to serve the long-term interests of our customers and clients,
employees and communities. It is an honour to be recognised for the high
standards which we have set and which we work to uphold everyday."
Sesame workshop joins the Global Road Safety Partnership
Sesame Workshop, the producers of the global educational brand, Sesame Street
and the Jordanian Co-Production Hikayat Simsim , has recently joined the Global
Road Safety Partnership in a move to contribute its educational media expertise
to the worldwide effort to reduce the number of accidents and fatalities among
children and families. The Global Road Safety Partnership is a partnership of
business, civil society and governmental organisations dedicate to improving
road safety conditions in low- and middle-income countries. "We, as an
organisation, recognise the immensity of this worldwide issue," said Gary Knell,
president and CEO of Sesame Workshop, adding that raising awareness and
knowledge of vital road safety behaviours is the key to reversing these
statistics." "Hikayat Simsim thrives to me an inhibitor in Road Safety education
in Jordan", said Khaled Haddad general manager of Jordan Pioneers and executive
producer for the series.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 62


                        Copyright 2010 The Jordan Times.
                              All Rights Reserved
                         Syndigate.info, Al Bawaba.com


