                              425 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                          December 14, 2005 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Kudos

BYLINE: Vancouver Sun

SECTION: BUSINESSBC; Keeping Track; Pg. D8

LENGTH: 462  words


Interfor donated $15,000 to the Pacific Parklands Foundation to complete the
Camosun Bog boardwalk in Pacific Spirit Regional Park.

- - -

BC winners at the 2005 Canadian Investment Awards Gala in Toronto were The
Ethical Funds Company (the Canadian Small Cap Equity Fund Award for its Ethical
Special Equity Fund and the Imagine Canada Socially Responsible Investment Fund
Award for its Ethical Canadian Dividend Fund) and Coast Capital Savings (Imagine
Canada Corporate Citizenship Award for integrating responsible and accountable
social, environmental and financial objectives into its business practices).

- - -

Best Buy Canada celebrated the opening of its new store at Landsdowne Shopping
Centre with a $2,500 donation to Big Sisters of BC Lower Mainland.

- - -

The MS Society of Canada (BC) received $12,102 from Silex Restorations. Silex
had announced through Team 1040 Sports Radio that it would donate $2 to the
society for every yard passed by the BC Lions this season.

n

Brenda Waechter and Laurie Dye received the Certified General Accountants
Association of B.C.'s highest honour, a Life Membership. It recognizes exemplary
service to the association and the profession. Bruce Hurst received the CGA-BC's
Harold Clarke Award of Merit for outstanding service at the provincial committee
level.

- - -

Victoria-based health technology company Vigil Health Solutions was the only
Canadian firm selected to participate in the Center for Aging Services
Technologies' technology exhibition at the White House Conference on Aging in
Washington, DC. The conference occurs once a decade to make aging policy
recommendations to the president and congress. Vigil will demonstrate its
Wireless Dementia System.

- - -

GenoLogics Life Sciences Software of Victoria received Frost & Sullivan's 2005
Drug Discovery Technologies Niche Player of the Year Award for its success in
the systems biology market for the fiscal year 2004. The award is presented to a
company that has a track record of excellence in its market niche and
demonstrated business and marketing strategies that ensure market success.

- - -

West Vancouver event planning and concierge service company Outstanding
Solutions and its president Rozmin Watson donated 500 gingerbread men to B.C.
Children's Hospital, Silver Harbour Seniors Club (North Shore) and Ambleside
Youth Centre Project Share Initiative.

- - -

The 10th annual Coats for Kids campaign, organized by the Greater Vancouver Home
Builders' Association, brought in over 3,000 winter coats, blankets, sweaters
and scarves for needy children, teens and adults.

- - -

E-mail details of corporate awards, donations, etc. to
keepingtrack@png.canwest.com. Include the information in the body of the e-mail.
Photos can be attached, but their inclusion depends on space.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Laurie Dye receives a Life Membership award from CGA-BC president Rita
Estock.;
Photo: Shaking hands in front are Ric Slaco of Interfor, Laurence Brown of the
Camosun Bog Restoration Group and John Scott of the Pacific Parklands
Foundation, surrounded by directors of the foundation and the Camosun Bog
restoration group.

