                              437 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             THE WEEKEND AUSTRALIAN

                           November 9, 1996, Saturday

A question of ethics / NHMRC: 60 YEARS OF EXCELLENCE

SECTION: FULLPAGE / FEATURES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 509 words


THE Australian Health Ethics Committee (AHEC), has had a major impact on the
maintenance of very high ethical standards in medical and health research its
chairman, Professor Don Chalmers said.

The AHEC is the successor of the Medical Research Ethics Committee which existed
between 1982 and 1992, and Professor Chalmers took over the leadership from Ms
Robyn Layton, QC, of South Australia.

"Australia was one of the first countries in the world to produce ethical
standards on human experimentation," Professor Chalmers said.

In some institutions there had been institutional ethical committees (IECs)
dating back to the 1960s.

These 180 committees ensure the protection of participants in research projects
in universities, laboratories and hospitals. They set guidelines for medical
research and provide compliance reports.

Service on these IECs is voluntary and unpaid, saving costs and avoiding
conflict of interests.

The committees operate through consultation and the application of commonsense
ethical judgments.

AHEC has sole responsibility for the publication of guidelines for the conduct
of health and medical research.

Consultation takes place in the preparation of the guidelines, which once
established were again subject to public consultation.

This unique process, though maybe cumbersome, avoided the possibility of ethical
committees setting their own guidelines.

The AHEC had been responsible for setting the guidelines for assisted
reproduction, organ transplantation and women in clinical trials.

In the future AHEC will be taking a comprehensive look at the ethical, legal and
social implications of human genetic research.

The committee was required to keep abreast of the international bioethical
debate.

Professor Chalmers said the standard of public debate in Australia on ethical
standards had been mature with a high intellectual content in the areas of
reproductive technology, genetics and euthanasia.

While it had been shown in the United States there had been some unethical
research involving prisoners and others in institutions in the 1950s and 1960s,
there had been no evidence of such occurrences in Australia.

The next task of AHEC will be to look at living donation of organs and donations
from deceased relations.

The arguments would be presented in plain English as it was necessary to explain
what was involved and convince people of the need for more donated organs. The
focus was to be on the community and not the professionals in the field.

"It will help individuals come to a decision," he said.

Professor Chalmers said that some issues were likely to endure, "but in a
pluralistic society we must be guided by some general transcendent principles
such as the respect for life and human dignity; principles like justice, a fair
go and respect for the individual.

"It is the paradoxical nature of all ethical debate that there are no
universally agreed right answers but we are all duty bound to engage in the
debate to strive for better solutions,"he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 1996 Nationwide News Pty Limited


