                              433 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             April 25, 2014 Friday

MARS acquires Kinder IVF, expands footprint across India through Mangalore

BYLINE: Jaideep Shenoy

SECTION: MANGALORE

LENGTH: 306 words


MANGALORE: Manipal Ankur Andrology and Reproductive Services (MARS), chain of
fertility focused hospitals has acquired Kinder IVF centre here to deliver
specialized service in ambit of andrology, men's health and reproductive
medicine in the city. Manipal Ankur having its presence in south and central
India, is part of Manipal Health Enterprises. Deputy Commissioner AB Ibrahim and
DHO Dr H S Shivakumar inaugurated the revamped clinic at Kadri.

MARS is a comprehensive healthcare provider in the areas of reproductive
medicine - IVF, andrology and men's health. This acquisition and presence of
Manipal Ankur at Mangalore amplifies expertise of MARS in managing standalone
fertility focused hospitals across multiple locations in India. Currently, MARS
is the second largest infertility chain of hospitals in the country by footprint
having 10 centers across seven cities and five states.

Dr Vasan S S, chief executive officer, MARS told reporters here on Wednesday,
"The kind of success and response we have received, has only encouraged us to
take this world class medical service beyond boundaries of Bangalore where we
started this journey. We as a brand want to establish ourselves as
technologically advanced and continuously innovating service provider, in
addition to being highly focused towards patient care and ethical values."

Nitin Nag, chief operating officer, Manipal Ankur said, "Our endeavor is to be a
premier service provider in India and stride into Mangalore is reflection of
that aspiration. We will continue to expand into other major markets in the
country and strive to deliver quality services in an ethical manner to
patients." Currently nearly more than 20,000 patients walk into centers of
Manipal Ankur in a year, Nitin said. Call: Dr Siddhi Rane, Manipal Ankur,
9901477756.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


