                              432 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                            January 10, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Calvary dedicated to providing quality care for all

BYLINE: The Canberra Times

SECTION: A; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 696  words


When considering future options for health services in the ACT it is appropriate
to consider major issues such as quality of life, equity of access, social
justice and affordability.

Some recent media contributors have suggested the practice of the Code of
Ethical Standards for Catholic Health and Aged Care Services at Calvary in some
way diminishes the services available to the community or denies access to some
within our community.

Other contributors have focussed on the need for planning and access to health
care in a plural health care system of government, not for profit, commercial
and advocacy organisations all of whom play a vital part.

In any case, from a consumer point of view, the key issues remain access,
outcomes and performance, not structures of command and control. In response to
"Streamline health for wealth" (P 15, CT 6 January 2011), there are abundant
examples of Calvary working in an integrated and coordinated manner with ACT
Health, service providers and consumers. The outcome is high quality hospital
and health services and well-being for the local and surrounding communities.

In terms of access for patients, Calvary has, for more than 30 years, provided
welcome, comfort and care to people of all cultures, beliefs or backgrounds.

Caring for the sick and dying in any of these circumstances is at the heart of
Calvary's approach founded by the Sisters of the Little Company of Mary and
reinforced by our values, particularly those of hospitality and respect.

A notable example is that that through the 1990s Calvary led the way in the
provision of palliative care services to many HIV/AIDS patients.

This care encompassed physical, mental and social well-being in addition to
disease management, and above all never denied care and dignity to those in
need.

The history of this approach, spanning 125 years in Australia and evidenced by
what we do today, gives us confidence that Calvary can continue to respond to
both changing community needs and the governance frameworks that encompass
economic, social and cultural rights in health.

Calvary does take a Catholic ethical approach to health care service delivery
which is based on respect for life and dignity of the human person. This ethical
approach is not inconsistent with Calvary's current role in the ACT health
system.

Furthermore, across the health care system it is evident that not every hospital
provides every procedure and many services are appropriately not provided in a
hospital setting.

The challenges in health care service delivery are increasing steadily.

Calvary's contribution to the debate about the future indicates a willingness to
both listen and respect a variety of views.

Above all, Calvary and its dedicated staff are totally committed to an ongoing
and significant contribution to caring for Canberrans regardless of their
cultures, beliefs or backgrounds.

Dr Allan Pelkowitz, director of Medical Services, Calvary Hospital, Bruce When
Ernst Willheim (Letters, January 5) suggests that the Little Company of Mary's
funding to conduct a public hospital be compatible with the right of the ACT
community to health services without discrimination on religious grounds if the
recommendations of the ACT Economic Social and Cultural Rights research project
be included in the Human Rights Act should be be central to the current debate
one wonders what "current debate" he is talking about. Is it the debate on the
issue of funding for the Little Company of Mary and Calvary Hospital, or is it
the debate on the extent and definition of individual "human rights" that can be
included in human rights legislation.

Adding to the long list of human rights that are currently defined in
Australia's anti-discrimination legislation would no doubt be a goldmine for the
legal fraternity, of which Willheim is a member.

The central debate should be about where we call a halt to the burgeoning human
rights industry and the nightmare of increasing individual rights definitions
that will clog up the courts increasingly, rather than focus on the Little
Company of Mary, whose community work is, after all, performed in the ACT
community's best health interests.John Bell, Lyneham

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2011 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


