                              429 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                              July 14, 2013 Sunday

Duty to abide by ethical medical code

SECTION: THINK

LENGTH: 316 words


Some employers request that their appointed medical service providers issue
fewer days of medical leave to their workers so as to avoid having to report
workplace accidents ("Docs told to give injured workers enough leave" and
"Injured workers tell stories of leave denied"; last Sunday).

A high incidence of workplace accidents may subject the employer to queries from
the relevant authorities, resulting in severe consequences. For example, in the
building and construction industry, such inquiries may result in stop-work
orders that will affect the progress of projects.

Other possible reasons to avoid trouble with the authorities include minimising
the negative impact on the employer's applications for new work passes and
permits, or on its attractiveness to future hires.

Giving workers insufficient medical leave not only inhibits their recovery but
also creates unnecessary anxiety as they would ponder how they can resume work
given their less-than-fit state.

Such workers are usually later referred to public hospitals for treatment. This
adds to the patient loads at already-strained public health-care institutions.

Medical service providers should not give workers insufficient medical leave as
their core duty is to provide competent, compassionate and appropriate care to
patients.

An ethical medical service provider should act as a constructive partner to the
employer to ensure that the latter complies fully with local labour laws.

According to the Singapore Medical Council's Ethical Code and Ethical
Guidelines, "the issuance of a medical certificate by a doctor carries with it
the responsibility to ensure that the patient deserves it on proper medical
grounds and that such grounds have been arrived at through good clinical
assessment".

This principle has not changed.

It is unfortunate that errant practices exist, but I believe those clinics are
in the minority.

Ian Sim

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2013 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


