                              436 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             March 5, 2013 Tuesday

PSSID, AIMS organize various informative activities

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 63

LENGTH: 458  words


The Pakistan Society for Study of Liver Diseases (PSSID) and Asian Institute of
Medical Sciences (AIMS) Hyderabad jointly arranged a two-day informative
activities including holding of Single Topic Conference on Medical & Ethical
Aspects of Liver Transplantation, informative & awareness programmes and
Facilitate to the liver patients for their Medical Checkup at the premises of
AIMS Hyderabad on March 9th & 10th, 2013 respectively.

According to the head of AIMS Hyderabad Professor Dr. Sadiq Memon, the Single
Topic Conference on the Medical & Ethical Aspects of liver transplantation would
be held on March 9, 2013 at 10-30 am at the AIMS premises while another
programme about creating awareness among the liver patients about taking care &
cure methodologies before and after transplantation would be held on March 10,
2013 from 09 am to 04 pm where renowned physicians and surgeons of liver
diseases from APOLLO Hospital, New Delhi, India would check up the interested
liver patients and to advise them taking pre and post liver transplantation
care.

The Single Topic Conference on Medical & Ethical Aspects of Liver
Transplantation which is scheduled to be held on March 09, 2013 would have three
sessions including inaugural session followed by first & second session to be
attended by physicians/ surgeons of liver diseases.

The main topics including "what is the estimated national burden of chronic
liver disease and need for liver transplantations", " how to asses severity of
liver disease", "who is good candidate for liver transplantation and who is
not", "who could be the donor", "how we evaluate a potential donor",
"pre-transplantation recipients evaluation, what additional tests are needed" to
be discussed in session one while other topics including "Managing liver
Transplantation in HCC patients", "AIMS Experience of post liver Transplantation
of patients", "Handling Immune-suppression after liver transplantation", "post
transplantation management of HCV & HBV infections", "post transplantation
biliary complications /management and ethical consideration in liver
transplantation" would be discussed in second and last session.

He said that programme for creating awareness among the patients about liver
diseases and liver transplantation would be held at same premises on March 10,
2013 from 09 am to 04 pm. He said that during the programme the renowned
physicians and surgeons of liver transplantation from APOLO Hospital New Delhi,
India would check up the liver patients. Professor Dr. Sadiq Memon advised the
interested patients to get themselves registered in advance and to bring their
pre and post transplantation tests, reports and hospital discharge summary with
them while coming for their medical checkup.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


