                              434 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                             July 6, 2000, Thursday

Medical rules have a role in abortion issue

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 544 words


ABORTION causes wide division within society because of its complex ethical,
religious and social dimensions. Even so, there has been a settlement of sorts.
The law does not speak clearly about it but abortion takes place and goes
unpunished. It is difficult to see renewed debate about abortion as a general
question leading anywhere but to deeper division. Yet, an issue has arisen that
cannot be avoided: late-term abortions. This has arisen as a discrete issue and
it should be discussed and dealt with as such. It has been raised by the medical
profession, which has a responsibility -- and the capacity -- to clarify the
points of contention.

The matter of late-term abortion is assuming more prominence because advances in
medical technology and practice allow a foetus to become viable at an
increasingly early stage of gestation. This continually raises questions about
our concepts of the beginning of human life and the ethical questions that lie
at the heart of this debate. An explicit example of this emerged last year when
an abortion carried out in Darwin produced a foetus that survived for 80 minutes
outside the womb. A different, but equally troubling dilemma, is represented in
the case of an eight-month-old foetus aborted by doctors at a Melbourne
hospital.

Situations such as these are, understandably, causing unease among the medical
profession. The sense of disquiet has led to members of the profession turning
in their own. The incident at Melbourne's Royal Woman's Hospital is now subject
to an internal investigation. Three senior staff have been suspended and the
hospital has forwarded details of the event to the state coroner. Yet, the
coroner has questioned whether he has any investigative role. This growing sense
of both medical and legal uncertainty leads to the view that existing laws and
protocols are insufficient in guiding doctors, nurses and hospitals in such
troubling circumstances.

It must be acknowledged that late terminations are very difficult to tackle
legally. Each Australian state and territory has different regimes. Legal
continuity is made more difficult because in most jurisdictions there are no
statutes referring to legal abortion: the practice of abortion relies on
judge-made common law. There has been no political will to legislate for clarity
in this area and without legislation referring to legal abortion it is hard to
think of a law covering late terminations.

The issue faces doctors, hospitals and their ethics committees. They need to
consider the development of protocols to deal with late-term abortion. This
exercise will present them with very difficult choices. But they have experience
in dealing with thorny ethical dilemmas, such as those involving withdrawal of
treatment and life-support machinery. It may be impossible for the issue of
late-term abortions to be clarified, and the practice controlled, without
returning to past debates about abortion generally. The Australian is never
opposed to discussion on issues of public concern but we should not expect such
a debate to resolve the basic question -- or to bring greater clarity to the
issues of late-term abortions. But it remains the case that the medical
profession must tackle the matter squarely.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2000 Nationwide News Pty Limited


