                              440 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                            February 5, 2010 Friday

New stem-cell regulation draws flak

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 438 words


A law professor yesterday slammed the Medical Council for issuing a new
regulation requiring stem-cell researchers to seek additional approval from a
newly set up national regulatory body, saying that the new rule would benefit
private hospitals rather than foster research.

"This regulation would benefit private hospitals because I know many private
hospitals have invested a lot for stem-cell research," Sawang Boonchalermvipas,
a prominent law professor from Thammasart University, said.

According to law, private hospitals are not allowed to conduct research, just
provide medical services to patients, he added.

Earlier, all stem-cell studies just needed approval from an ethics and academic
committee at medical schools, hospitals and educational institutions. However,
under the Medical Council's new regulation, which took effect in November, all
stem-cell research also needs to be approved by the council's ethical committee.

In addition, the new regulation also controls the use of stem-cell treatment in
diseases related to veins, organ transplants and heart disorders.

Stem-cell technology is already being used in bone-marrow transplants and blood
disorders.

Sawang is worried that the new regulation would allow private hospitals to do
stem-cell research because they can get easy approval from the Medical Council's
panel.

"I wonder if the Medical Council issued this new regulation to support stem-cell
research or stem-cell treatment that is already being conducted in many private
hospitals," he said. "After all, many members of the Medical Council's board are
representatives of private hospitals."

Sawang also wondered if the new regulation would present obstacles for state
research agencies because the Medical Council's ethical committee might control
proposals put forward by government agencies.

"I am not sure if the Medical Council's new regulation would effectively control
illegal stem-cell treatments, because I wonder how it could investigate illegal
research and treatment because it usually asks royal colleges to do this job,"
he said.

The Medical Council's secretary-general, Dr Somsak Lohlekha, said the council
had issued this regulation because it wanted to control the standard of
stem-cell research and treatment because international research communities had
already condemned Thailand for substandard work.

He also insisted that the council's regulation would not present obstacles for
state agencies or benefit private hospitals. The council will hold a public
forum at the Public Health Ministry on February 12 to explain how its new
regulation would control stem-cell research in the Kingdom.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


