                              445 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 31, 2016 Tuesday

Seminar on affordable healthcare

SECTION: CHANDIGARH

LENGTH: 384 words


CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh Press Club organized a seminar on ethical and affordable
healthcare in India in collaboration with SPEAK (Society for Promotion of
Ethical and Affordable Healthcare) on the occasion of the first anniversary of
the NGO. The event saw the re-launch of updated version of SPEAK's website for
healthy lifestyle, patient education, prevention of disease and promotion of
ethical and affordable healthcare.Vivek Atray, an IAS officer, mentioned about
the role of positive thinking in better health outcome. Dr Dilpreet Sandhu from
Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, dwelt on the issues
concerning avoidable surgeries in gynaecology and other areas.

Dr Pallab Ray, professor, medical microbiology, PGI, spoke on the problem of
over-exploitation of lab and imaging tests. Dr A K Kaushal, former secretary,
IMA, spoke about model of affordable health care. Dr R Kumar warned of dangers
of medicalization, misuse of antibiotics and medical interventions by patients
themselves or on prescription of doctors.SPEAK made several recommendations of
far-reaching importance to the government and society. Some very pertinent were
due weightage for compassion and ethics as the criteria in admissions to
medicine courses apart from academics, providing free medicines and tests to all
and 'second opinion' centres to weed out medical malpractices. It also
recommended higher public investment in healthcare sector. The point that came
out at the seminar was the need to shift to healthy lifestyle and prevention of
disease. Speakers called for adequate surgical facilities in the public sector.
A recommendation was made of ample medical faculty to make medical institutes
function in an effective way. Another very important suggestion was that
government should give aid and incentives to private doctors to set up clinics
in each locality.Dr R Kumar, administrator of the website
www.speakforhealthyindia.com said "The website is a movement that focuses on
bringing medical ethics to the fore while highlighting the good work being done
by the doctors. We do not intend to criticize any particular doctor or interfere
in the treatment. The site is purely educational and is your family friend and
is not intended to replace the family doctor."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


