                              441 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                             THE WEEKEND AUSTRALIAN

                          September 13, 1997, Saturday

Save the planet

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: Amanda Silins

SECTION: FULLPAGE, FEATURES; Pg. F01

LENGTH: 1069 words


Are investors morally responsible for how their money is used? Amanda Silins
reports

...

  WHEN investors hand their money over to a bank or fund manager they rarely ask
how the money will be used.

They might not always want to know the answer.

Dr John Ratcliffe is an investor who believes people are morally responsible for
how their money is used.

"If a person lends money to a bank which then lends to a sex-tour operator in
The Philippines, the initial investor is responsible for that," he said.

"People should be aware where their money's going."

Dr Ratcliffe and his wife, Helen Kerr, also a doctor, are among a group of
investors who choose to invest in an ethical or socially responsible manner.

For the past two years, the couple have channelled their investment and personal
superannuation dollars into enterprises consistent with their personal values.

They avoid investing in businesses involved in tobacco products, woodchipping or
exploitation of women or children and are very cautious about mining and
petroleum companies.

"I believe that people shouldn't profit from immoral or unethical business, and
shareholders profit as much as anybody,"

Dr Ratcliffe, a specialist at Brisbane's Royal Children's Hospital, said.

Ethical investments can be accessed in a variety of ways, including listed and
unlisted shares, unit trusts, insurance and friendly society bonds, super funds
and community-based funds.

...

  <<<-[Page F06]->>>

Ross Knowles, editor of the recently published Ethical Investment, says the
Australian ethical investment market is much smaller and less researched than
those in the United States and Britain.

He estimates there is over $200 million invested in Australian ethically managed
funds.

Australian Ethical Investment Ltd -established in the late 1980s -manages over
$25 million in its Australian Ethical Investment and Australian Ethical Equities
trusts.

James Thier, a director of Australian Ethical Investment Ltd, says the trusts'
2500 investors can gain exposure to more than 70 different investments.

These include listed and unlisted shares, property, term deposits, bank and
government securities and business loans.

The trusts invest in businesses involved in recycling, waste management,
alternative energy, solar architecture, community tenancy schemes and
convalescent rehabilitation centres.

Australian Ethical Investment Ltd does its own research and selects investments
against an ethical charter.

Mr Thier said ethical investment grew out of the US anti-war movement
surrounding Vietnam and the anti-apartheid movement. In the early 1960s, people
were motivated to avoid investing in militarism or South Africa.

Over the years, the concept of ethical investing had extended to animal welfare,
uranium mining and native forest logging, Mr Thier said.

A number of consultancies now specialise in corporate, social and environment
research.

Lou de Leeuw, chief executive of Ecobusiness Consultants Pty Ltd in Adelaide,
said there was a lot of demand for information about the effect of companies on
the environment.

Mr De Leeuw -a chartered accountant -uses annual reports, environmental
statements and Internet sites to research listed and unlisted companies.

He gathers information on companies' safety records, environmental records and
their financial details.

This research is then used by investment advisers, fund managers, stock brokers
and individual investors.

"Investors should have a look at the social and environmental history but should
also look at the asset backing and rate of return," Mr De Leeuw said.

"I tend not to make judgements . . . what people want is information so they can
make their own decisions.

"One person's ethics are not the next person's ethics."

A broad range of people are involved in ethical investment.

Mr Thier said investors involved with Australian Ethical Investment Ltd included
teachers, students, a lot of scientists and engineers, computer specialists and
paramedical and medical staff.

Brisbane-based ethical investment adviser Terry Pinnell has clients ranging in
age from 30 to 78.

Most are tertiary-educated and have an average of $200,000 invested.

Mr Pinnell started Directed Ethical Investment -licensed to Personal Investment
Planners in 1992.

He applies different screens in the investment selection process.

Some screens are positive attractive investments such as recycling and
alternative energy, while others are negative investments to avoid such as
gambling or tobacco.

Mr Pinnell said investments could also be neutral.

"Some may not be too crash hot or particularly ethical but they're not doing a
lot of damage," he said.

Mr Pinnell seeks to provide his clients with as much choice as "normal"
investors.

"The managed ethical investment field is fairly narrow but what I would say is
that you can expand far more with direct shares and other direct investments,"
he said.

Mr Pinnell's client list includes Dr Ratcliffe and his wife.

The couple have expanded their ethical investment portfolio with direct shares.

Dr Ratcliffe describes their portfolio as "fairly broad and liberal". Their
investments extend to mainstream companies such as Woolworths, which the couple
believe have good industrial relations policies and provide good services.

The couple have seen a 25 per cent capital growth on their ethical investments
over the past two years.

There need not be a cost to ethical investing.

Mr Thier said the Australian Ethical Investment Trust had a 10.2 per cent
return, net of management fees, for the year to June 30, 1997.

The Australian Ethical Equities Trust had a 14.3 per cent return for the same
period, net of management fees. Some of the shares also had franking credits.

Mr Pinnell said a conservative estimate of his clients' average portfolio return
was 15 to 20 per cent after fees.

"A lot of people think ethical investing is tantamount to charity but it doesn't
have to be," he said.

  Mr Pinnell said ethical investing provided three types of dividend

  "The first, growth in investment, the second, income return, and the third the
difference many will make to society and the environment.

  "They will have a cleaner, safer, better place to live," he said.

  "If everybody invested ethically, the world would be a much better place."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 1997 Nationwide News Pty Limited


