                              443 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          November 17, 1999 Wednesday
                                National Edition

Quebeckers weigh cost of saving lives  Elderly infuriated by health-care report
from cash-strapped hospital association

BYLINE: RHÉAL SÉGUIN Quebec Bureau

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 511 words

DATELINE: Quebec


At what age does a patient become too old to receive a new heart, to undergo a
hip replacement or dialysis, or even to have a pacemaker implanted? At what
point does it cost too much to save a life?

The Quebec Hospital Association has created panic among Quebec's elderly and
triggered an outpouring of condemnation with a report this week that considers
such ethical questions in the light of health-care cutbacks.

The hospital association's vice-president, Daniel Adam, said that without
additional funds, hospitals will have to make difficult decisions.

"We will have to ask certain questions," he said. "Do we implant a pacemaker or
a replace a hip on an 82-year-old patient? Do we accept to give dialysis to a
90-year-old patient?"

He said that as the population gets older, health needs will grow and so will
the cost of delivering the services when funds are critically limited.

"The phone hasn't stopped ringing all day," Guy Fournier, vice-president of the
Association québécoise de défense des droits des retraités, a group defending
the rights of the elderly in Quebec, said yesterday. "The elderly are afraid to
have to use the health-care system, of becoming victims of a system where
ethical and humanitarian concerns are being ignored."

Mr. Fournier said people feel guilty if they get sick and are increasingly
suspicious of doctors and hospitals.

The issue has been simmering for years but the controversy has been brought into
the open by hospital administrators who condemned the $350-million total deficit
accumulated by almost 100 of the province's 130 hospitals.

The elderly complained that they have become pawns in a political struggle
involving hospitals, doctors, health-care workers and the provincial government,
all calling for a bigger share of the $95-billion surplus projected by the
federal government over the next five years.

Liberal Opposition Leader Jean Charest blamed the Parti Québécois government for
allowing the health-care system to deteriorate.

"What was said yesterday is extremely serious," Mr. Charest said yesterday in
the National Assembly, referring to the comments made by the Quebec Hospital
Association.

"I can tell you that a lot of elderly people in Quebec heard it and that they
must be concerned, Mr. Charest said. "Because people in the health-care system
are saying that at the rate at which services are eroding, there will have to be
arbitrary decisions to implant pacemakers, to offer dialysis, to get a
prosthesis."

Quebec Health Minister Pauline Marois said it is wrong for hospitals to tell the
elderly that cost factors would prevent them from receiving quality care. In an
effort to reassure the elderly, Ms. Marois said that more money will be made
available for health-care services but that there must be a public debate soon
to decide how to ensure stable funding for the future.

"We will have to work to change the situation and, I think, invest more money in
our system. But to do that we will have to accept to put more money than what we
invest now because our collective wealth is not enough," shesaid.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1999 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


