                              444 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Manawatu Standard (New Zealand)

                              May 2, 2017 Tuesday

Vulnerable at risk - advocate

BYLINE: NICHOLAS MCBRIDE

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 413 words


Changes to New Zealand's medical ethics could lead to a repeat of one of its
worst breaches of patient rights, a health advocate has warned.

The Health and Disability Commissioner finished consulting on Sunday on the
rights of patients when they are unable to provide consent.

However, concerns have been raised that a review could open up further risk to
those most vulnerable.

There are also worries a scenario similar to the Unfortunate Experiment, where
treatment was withheld from patients at National Women's Hospital in Auckland,
could happen again.

Federation of Women's Health Councils co-convenor Barbara Robson said the issue
was not black and white.

Under the present law in New Zealand, patients in comas can be experimented on
without their consent. Doctors can proceed if they prove research is in the
patient's "best interests".

However, next of kin cannot give consent on behalf of another adult, except in
specific circumstances. A law change would be required for that.

Robson said it was not just a legal issue, but an ethical one. She questioned
who decided what the best interests of a patient were.

She also worried that the ethical review process had been watered down.

"The [Unfortunate Experiment] could happen again if the drivers are the wrong
ones, if [ethics] continue to be watered down and the protection of patients is
not the most important priority of ethical reviews."

Michael Hills was in an induced coma for 21 days after a car crash in 2003.

He was 18 at the time. Though he had no obvious physical injuries, his brain
bore the brunt of the crash.

"My short-term memory was non-existent.

"If you told me something, I could not tell you it a minute later.

"I have been going good for a few years now but it did take a while."

Hills is now a husband and father of three and works on a dairy farm in
Feilding.

He said doctors were prepared to operate on his brain to relieve the swelling,
but he responded before this was necessary. He said doctors did the right thing.

"If you're in that position, I fully believe the doctors can make the calls.

"They want what is in the best interest for you."

University of Otago medical ethics lecturer Dr Angela Ballantyne said research
had to go through far more "checks and balances" than general treatment did.

General treatment could vary between hospitals and clinicians.

"There has to be a bit of trust that doctors are there to help, and they would
not agree to do research if it was not in the patient's best interest."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


