                              446 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 August 22 1993

Doctors who play God's role: Peter Hillmore questions the right of the medical
profession to refuse treatment on moral grounds

BYLINE: PETER HILLMORE

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 899 words


LONG before PC meant Political Correctness, it stood for Physical Correctness.
The decision by doctors at Wythenshawe Hospital not to give an operation to a
heart patient, on the grounds that he was a smoker, is just the latest example
of doctors using their medical knowledge to pass moral judgment. Like
masturbation, much inveighed against by doctors of previous generations, smoking
is 'self-abuse'.

In the words of the contemporary French philosopher Michel Foucault, 'A new kind
of power relationship has arisen in modern society. Authorities who understand
our bodies have gained the right to make and enforce rules about morality.'


The bacteria which cause syphilis were once medically known as 'God's Little
Allies' because they were seen as punishment for indulging in sex, a fearsome
incentive to moral behaviour. Many doctors opposed the distribution of
prophylactics on the grounds that they would be an encouragement to sexual
licence.

Sex within marriage would not seem to be an area rich in moral uncertainties,
nevertheless Dr Louis Bergeret produced a treatise arguing that sex which does
not lead to conception was harmful. Not only morally harmful, but also medically
harmful. It could lead to nymphomania, cancer, prolapse, insanity and blindness.
If all those misfortunes weren't enough, it could also cause backache.

In the early days of the Aids epidemic, many homosexuals felt that doctors were
exaggerating the effects of the disease, in order to discourage 'immoral'
behaviour. Unfortunately, this proved not to be the case.

In 1974, the American Psychiatric Association decided that homosexuality was not
an illness. It did not reach this decision by empirical medical analysis, but by
taking a vote among its members. It was moral decision, and probably the first
time that a disease has been diagnosed by a vote.

Big Doctor is still watching you. Although smoking, unlike masturbation, is
demonstrably dangerous to health, the decision to deny Harry Elphick an
operation was made on moral grounds, in keeping with the hospital's standpoint
that it is unable to waste scarce resources on patients who, it claims, will die
prematurely anyway.

'If people don't stop smoking, they don't get the surgery,' said consultant
surgeon Christopher Ward when the hospital's policy was announced. He then added
the clinching moral reasoning: 'It's a good way to persuade them to give up.'

Although the refusal to treat Mr Elphick before he convinced the hospital he had
given up smoking has been criticised by the British Cardiac Association on
medical grounds, it was defended last week by the British Medical Association on
moral grounds. A former president of the Association of Physicians, Sir Raymond
Hoffenberg, has publicly advocated that people with smoking- or drinking-related
illnesses should pay for their treatment.

Ian Kennedy, Professor of Medical Law and Ethics at King's College, London, has
said that 'the majority of decisions taken by doctors are not technical. They
are instead moral and ethical. They are decisions about what ought to be done in
the light of certain values.' But, Professor Kennedy said, 'Doctors are not
uniquely competent to make ethical decisions. They receive no training to
prepare them for such a role. They have no preparation in moral philoso- phy,
they have no special skills in ethical analysis.' There is a danger, he added,
that doctors are 'making ethical decisions in a haphazard, idiosyncratic way.'

Dr Alex Comfort wrote a book whose title explains its thesis: The Anxiety
Makers. In it, he argues that society has given doctors a special role in
society women's magazines often suggest discussing emotional problems with a GP
for which they have no training, and which gives their own personal beliefs a
spurious authority.

Doctors have always made medical decisions on moral grounds: whether to let a
badly deformed foetus survive with medical treatment, for example. But the
current debate in the medical journals, brought into the public arena by the
Elphick case, is that the spending cuts and curbs on the National Health Service
mean that doctors and surgeons have to be selective about who and what they
treat. This could result in more medical decisions being made from a moral
standpoint, perhaps even by a vote.

If the Wythenshawe principle is established, that a patient's lifestyle can be
used as a criterion for providing or denying treatment, then it could be
extended to any condition with a self-inflicted factor, even if there is nothing
illegal in the patient's behaviour.

Liver transplants are already covertly withheld from former alcoholics who
refuse to give up drinking. If people inflict injury on themselves by bungee
jumping, and a doctor disapproves of bungee jumping, then withholding treatment
would be a good way to persuade them to give up.

Every student of moral philosophy knows the stock question posed by William
Godwin in his Enquiry Concerning Political Justice, first published 200 years
ago. Two people are trapped in a burning building, one is an archbishop the
other is his valet. The rescuer can only save one. Which should it be? Given the
present NHS crisis, and the moral certainty many doctors seem to possess, any
inquiry into medical justice could soon have the rescuer questioning the victims
about their lifestyles.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited


