                              438 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             April 15, 2005 Friday
                                 First Edition

The Vioxx scandal: a lesson in corporate sponsorship

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 454 words


IMAGINE if, as a young scientist in one of our university research laboratories,
you had done the foundation studies that led to the active molecule known as
rofecoxib becoming packaged up in a pill and marketed as Vioxx.

Now you must stand by and watch as the greater part of a life's work is
destroyed in lawsuits, and the nightmare unfolds that your molecule has probably
been responsible for the deaths of thousands.

This current scandal, the story of unbridled corporate sponsorship resulting in
disaster, is going to affect many Victorians.

Some of the side effects will be disadvantageous, but there is a clear
opportunity for vice-chancellors to initiate reforms that will give Victoria's
research base a strong future.

Most research and development now relies on investment. Money will not come from
reputable sources unless we can guarantee the best standard of ethical practice
in our universities.

I have worked for decades as a medical microbiologist in Victoria's public
hospital diagnostic laboratories and have watched the shroud of corporate
sponsorship descend over my tiny corner of the medical world, and over the wider
aspects of medical practice. This parasitic organism of sponsorship has grown
while traditional, ethical practice has been starved. Sure, the brochures are
bright and glossy, but the overwhelming biases injected by sponsorship have
irreversibly perverted much of the medical profession. Now, if a department in a
public hospital needs an essential piece of equipment, and the annual budgets
are exhausted, managers are told to seek corporate sponsorship. This threatens
the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake.

We must ask whether privately funded units are given preferential treatment over
the struggling public branches. Is the intellectual property of all the young
researchers, their experimental data and their access to the publishing mill
dealt with equitably? Is there any risk that the sponsored laboratory might be
able to steal, or appropriate, the results of the publicly funded unit?

The reforms that are taking place around the world suggest our universities
should be preparing to answer questions about the ethical conduct of research.
All vice-chancellors need to consider these questions: does your university have
structures to protect the integrity of scientists, especially the beginners?
Does it support mandatory registration of all clinical trials of candidate
medicines? Does it support mandatory open-access registration of the pecuniary
interests, including gifts received, of all parties to the commercialisation
process? By all means seek funding from the corporate sector, but make sure it
is on an open, transparent and accountable basis.

Trevor Kerr, Blackburn

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


