                              447 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                  Stock Watch

                       October 5, 2015 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Lawsuit accuses Catholic Hospital of Failing to Provide Abortion Services

BYLINE: Diane Hoffman

LENGTH: 312  words


The American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan (ACLU) has filed a lawsuit
against a Catholic health-care provider for failing to provide women with
emergency abortions with pregnancy complications.

Eve Pidgeon, manager of public relations at Trinity Health Corporations, said,
"This case has no merit.  A federal court already dismissed a similar ACLU
claim, and we will seek dismissal of this suit for the same reason".

Trinity Health Corporations is a multi-facility operation headquartered in
Livonia, a Detroit suburb, with more than 80 other hospital locations across
America.

The health group follows the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops'
ethical and religious protocol for medical practice. These practices include the
refusal to perform abortions and tubal ligations within their hospitals.

The ACLU and the ACLU of Michigan are suing Trinity Health over allegations that
pregnant women are being denied emergency health care specifically abortions
when they seek care at their hospitals.

ACLU said that they are taking stand for pregnant women who are denied
potentially life-saving care because doctors are forced to follow religious
directives rather than best medical practices.

In the lawsuit, the ACLU said that catholic bishops are not licensed medical
professionals and they do not have any right to tell doctors how to practice
medicine.

Eve Pidgeon, a spokeswoman for Trinity Health, said the Ethical and Religious
Directives are entirely consistent with high-quality health care. Their
clinicians are determined to provide best care throughout the communities
wherever they serve, said Pidgeon. More than 25,000 licensed physicians work
with Trinity Health.

Topics: Health (http://nycity.today/section/health)Region: Michigan
(http://nycity.today/location/michigan)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


          Copyright 2015 Manas Informatics, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


