                              442 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       Taranaki Daily News (New Zealand)

                           November 20, 2012 Tuesday

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 271 words


Many of the senior doctors at Taranaki Base Hospital are very disappointed at
the implications of the recent article concerning the use of funds obtained from
completion of cremation certificates (''Ghoulish' cremation certificate fees
funds parties, Daily News Nov 3).

We feel that the article unfairly misrepresented the junior doctors as lacking
ethical standards for a practice about which the current junior doctors have
never had any say. It is the Taranaki District Health Board which invoices a
charge for the completion of the certificate and has done so for at least 50
years, as have other DHBs.

The TDHB chooses to pass the funds raised to the junior doctors collectively to
use in funding their projects, which include refurbishment of their after-hours
quarters and an end-of-year social function. A cremation certificate is a
distinct legal document, different from a Death Certificate, and we are not
defending the current practise of accepting a fee for this work.

The junior doctors currently working at Taranaki Base Hospital are dedicated
healthcare professionals with strong moral and ethical standards and to suggest
otherwise fails to recognise the role they play.

The junior doctors deserve the recognition and appreciation of the community.
The senior doctors wish our current team of junior doctors well, as they leave
to continue their professional careers and thank them for the care and
compassion they have shown to the patients of Taranaki.

We also welcome the new young team of doctors about to start within the next few
weeks.

LAIRD D MADISON

Chairman, Medical Staff Association

Taranaki Base Hospital

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved


