                              439 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                             The Malaysian Reserve

                           October 01, 2015 Thursday

Govt to recognise ethical companies

BYLINE: Farah Adilla

SECTION: C - CENTRAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 364 words


The government will formulate a mechanism to recognise companies which are
certified as ethical to attract more foreign investment into the country.

International Trade and Industry Minister II Datuk Seri Ong Ka Chuan said
besides being a testament to their professional practice, it will promote the
companies and make them more appealing as possible partners for foreign
companies.

"National Corporate Ethics Award (NCEA) is the first of its kind award ceremony
in Malaysia and we want to encourage this. Presently, we don't have the
mechanism but the government should look into it," he told reporters at the
Malaysian International Chamber of Commerce and Industry (MICCI) NCEA15 in Kuala
Lumpur on Tuesday.

Ong said the mechanism could incentivise companies with tax incentives to
promote and market their products and services globally.

Meanwhile, MICCI president Datuk Wira Jalilah Baba said the winners of the NCEA
awards enjoy a significant boost in marketing their products.

Meanwhile, MICCI, along with founding partners, Ethical Alliance, and award
sponsors, AIA Group Ltd and Exxon Mobil Corp, announced the recipients of the
NCEA15.

A total of 21 companies, from manufacturing and services industries, were
nominated for the three awards - Exceptional, Excellent and Notable - with the
top performer in the small and medium enterprise (SME) and large enterprise
categories being awarded a challenge trophy.

Kelana Stabil (M) Sdn Bhd, Linde Malaysia Sdn Bhd and Panasonic Industrial
Devices Malaysia Sdn Bhd bagged the Exceptional awards. The Excellent award was
presented to 10 companies including Intel Malaysia, Siemens Malaysia Sdn Bhd,
MEMC Ipoh Sdn Bhd and Pastry Pro Sdn Bhd.

Eight Notable awards were bagged by Citibank Bhd, Ferucci Sdn Bhd, KPJ
Healthcare Bhd, Nestlé (M) Bhd and Texchem Resources Bhd.

MICCI said the criteria included the adoption of the Code of Business Ethics,
clear support from top management for anti-corruption policies and staff
awareness and training to ensure integrity and ethical conduct.

It said the NCEA Technical Committee selected recipients who demonstrated the
necessary high standards of anti- corruption and ethical policies.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2015 Syed Hussain Publications Sdn Bhd
                              All Rights Reserved


