                              48 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             Windsor Star (Ontario)

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday
                                 Early Edition

New hospital ethicist focuses on what patient would want; Abdool hired to help
deal with tough questions

BYLINE: Brian Cross, The Windsor Star

SECTION: WINDSOR &; REGION; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 564 words


Rosalind Abdool's new job involves wading into really difficult hospital
dilemmas - like when an infirm patient's legal decision-maker and the rest of
his family argue over whether he should be discharged to a nursing home or his
home.

"Usually, what we would do from an ethics perspective is we go back to No. 1 -
what would the patient want," said Abdool, describing her role as the first-ever
clinical ethicist at Hotel-Dieu Grace Healthcare.

She started part-time in June after completing a fellowship at the Centre for
Clinical Ethics in Toronto and starts full-time in September as part of a
contract with the centre to provide clinical ethics services.

But she stressed she's not the one who makes these lifeaffecting decisions.

"My job really is to ask some more questions," she said, such as: Have we
involved everyone we need to for difficult situations; have we engaged the right
people; and have we explained all the different options to the patient and
family?

"I will be a support service for staff, for patients, volunteers, family
members, physicians, to help them reflect a little more deeply on the issues
that might come up in everyday health care," she said. Clinical ethics involves
reflecting on what could and should be done when facing a challenging
health-care issue. While Windsor Regional Hospital doesn't have a clinical
ethicist, it has an ethics and credentials committee that works with its
doctors.

"Roz (as she's known) will do consultations, sit in on case planning, case
studies with families and patients, she'll work with our staff when they're
having moral distress, ethical issues in the workplace," said Janice Kaffer,
Hotel-Dieu Grace's incoming CEO. As well, Abdool will work with the hospital's
leadership so when they have to deal with issues such as budget cuts, the
decisions will be made within an "ethical framework."

An example of an ethical issue Abdool could help with is when a patient who has
spent time at the non-acute hospital for rehabilitation or mental health is
being discharged, and staff - from their middle class perspective - are
concerned the patient is going back to a home they consider unsafe.

The home may have pest issues, or the neighbourhood may seem unsafe, or the
patient may not have money to outfit the home with safety devices. Sometimes,
staff get distressed about the patient going home in such circumstances, said
Kaffer.

"If the patient is capable of making that decision, and understands all the
risks, then we need to support the patient in moving home."

Abdool will also help families, patients and staff navigate the waters of
end-of-life issues in the hospital's palliative area. She'll go on rounds with
medical staff, raising ethical issues and facilitating discussions.

And she'll hold staff forums to discuss ethical issues, such as informed consent
and a patient's capacity to make decisions about his care.

Opening up the floor for dialogue, seeing if everyone can come to a consensus
about what the patient would want if he was capable of deciding, is the
essential idea, said Abdool, who is finishing a doctorate in philosophy at the
University of Waterloo.

Dealing each day with such weighty topics can be stressful, she admitted.

"We're dealing with some very important issues that impact patients' lives, and
family members and staff and community members, in very significant ways."

bcross@windsorstar.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tyler Brownbridge, The Windsor Star; Rosalind Abdool is the new
full-time ethicist dealing with some of the difficult issues at Hotel-Dieu Grace
Healthcare.;

