                              449 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      June 16, 1999, Wednesday, Edition 1

HEALTH PROFESSIONALS SET ETHICS GUIDELINES

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 420 words


WINNIPEG (CP) - Open communication between professionals and
 patients and fully informed consent are keys to preventing and
 resolving ethical conflicts over treatment, say Canada's
 hospitals, doctors and nurses.

 But the joint policy statement they issued yesterday likely isn't going to head
off all the heated and emotional disputes that can arise over things like
do-not-resuscitate orders.

''Everything should be communicated very, very clearly and hopefully resolved by
a rational process, but at the end of the day sometimes it can't be,'' said
Sharon Sholzberg-Gray of the Canadian Health Care Association, which represents
hospitals and health authorities.

Two cases last year helped draw attention to the ethical dilemmas that can face
hospitals and health-care professionals when patients or their families do not
agree with what is supposedly a medical decision.

In Winnipeg, Helene Sawatzky had to go to court to get a do-not-resuscitate tag
removed from the wrist of her 79-year-old bedridden husband, Andrew, at the
Riverview Health Centre.

In Montreal, the Jewish General Hospital was criticized by the family of Herman
Krausz, a 76-year-old-man who died after he was taken off a respirator against
his wishes.

''The policy provides a framework,'' said Lynda Kushnir Pekrul, president of the
Canadian Nurses Association.

''It provides a guided step-by-step process. It raises issues for consideration.
It flags points where there could be additional problems or concern, but there
is no simple recipe to fix what are extremely complicated situations.''

The new policy on ethical conflicts starts with the principle that ''the needs,
values and preferences of the person receiving care should be the primary
consideration in the provision of quality health care.''

But it also incorporates a 1995 position on do-not-resuscitate orders that
''there is no obligation to offer a person futile or non-beneficial treatment.
''

It also says care providers shouldn't have to do anything ''contrary to their
professional judgment or personal morals.''

In addition, it notes that ''limited health-care resources and the constraints
of existing organization policies may also make it difficult to satisfy the
person's needs.''

If there is no agreement and mediation doesn't work, the new policy suggests a
patient be moved to another facility where their wishes would be met.

If that's not possible, the courts remain the final option for resolving
disputes.


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


