                              452 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                            October 6, 2015 Tuesday

Raiding hospitals

SECTION: Vol. LXIX No. 274

LENGTH: 426  words


IT is becoming increasingly common, at least in the city of Karachi, to hear of
law-enforcement agencies raiding hospitals and detaining doctors and staff.

These raids are often carried out because suspected militants are thought to be
receiving treatment at the hospital; in other cases, the hospital administration
is believed to be involved in corruption.

A series of raids over the last few days at a number of private hospitals in the
city saw suspected militants being taken into custody; in at least one case, a
doctor and some members of the hospital staff were also detained, allegedly for
administering medical treatment to militants.

Take a look: Doctor, wounded militants held in raids on three Karachi hospitals

In the most recent of such raids, a patient nabbed from a hospital in Karachi's
Bahadurabad locality reportedly gave police information that led to the
detention of suspects from other locations; the law enforcers were also told
that around 100 Taliban fighters wounded in the tribal areas were being treated
in various health facilities in the city.

In this particular case, police claimed to be acting on a tip from intelligence
agencies that some of the staff from the hospital in question was extending
treatment to militant fighters without alerting the authorities that they were
required to do.

In response, police say that they are preparing a set of recommendations on
administering medical treatment to patients whose injuries suggest they may be
linked to militant activity.

This is very sensitive ground, and the agencies preparing these recommendations
must take due care to ensure that they do not put doctors and other medical
practitioners in a position where they have to violate one of the central
pillars and the ethical foundations of the medical profession: their obligation
to extend treatment to anyone who seeks it.

Apprehending suspected militants when they try to flee or seek treatment for
injuries is a necessary part of the ongoing fight against terrorism, but doctors
must not be forced into a position where they have to judge the patient first
before extending medical help.

Such a dilemma also creates a perverse incentive for doctors to look for reasons
to deny treatment on suspicion that the patient may be linked to militant
activity.

The fight against terrorism and extremism must continue, and in times to come it
will undoubtedly take us deeper into uncharted terrain. And yet, the ethical
foundations of other professions, especially medicine, must be respected in the
course of carrying on this fight.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2015 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


