                              448 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            April 23, 2011 Saturday

MCI to consider telemedicine's ethical efficacy

LENGTH: 463  words

DATELINE: New Delhi


New Delhi, April 23 -- With the concept of telemedicine fast catching the fancy
of the healthcare sector, the Medical Council of India (MCI) has decided to look
into its ethical aspects.

Till now, its cost effectiveness and practical ways to deliver services to the
patient's doorstep have only increased popularity, especially in remote areas.

A large number of super-specialty and Government hospitals are opting for
telemedicine facilities, which envisage transfer of a patient's medical data -
demographical information and history, images like X-ray, CT scan and MRI for
diagnosis, treatment as well as clinical consultation - in electronic format.

However, currently, in India there is no law on the e-health and in its absence
there is no check on such facilities in case of any medication errors or medical
violations by them.

Dr SK Sarin, chairman of the MCI board of governors, while underlining the
increasing need for such facilities to reach out to far-flung areas, felt that
one has to ensure that it is not misused.

Expressing similar views, Dr Ranjit Roy Chaudhary, an MCI member, too warned a
word of caution saying that "MCI will soon form a panel to look into ethical
issues relating to the e-healthcare facilities."

Medical information is being provided through mobile phones. For instance, the
Apollo Hospitals group has recently announced major plans to launch Healthcare
India pharmaceutical registry (Hipaar), a drug database for its patients and
doctors for reference.

"Through this process, a person can know whether she or he has been prescribed
the right medicine or not. It also gives information on side effects," said K
Ganapathy, president Apollo Telemedicine Networking Foundation and president of
Telemedicine Society of India.

Taking the concept further, MediAngels, the world's first complete specialised
global eHospital has empanelled over 300 medical experts from 25 countries to
help the patients make informed decisions regarding their health through
internet.

Dr Vinay Aggarwal, President of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) felt the
concept is a boon for the healthcare sector "Patients can have a choice of
doctors without wasting their time and money in trying to reach hospitals unless
it is emergency. Moreover, in this new era of the interconnected world, it will
serve as the future means of delivering healthcare."

Dr Debraj Shome, co-founder of MediAngels, said, "Our company actually satisfies
the toughest US law, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
(HIPAA) Privacy Rule. Hence, there is no question of any violation." Published
by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with respect to
this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


