                              454 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Trans Caucasus Unit
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 13, 2015 Tuesday

Iran media, Facebook users hail top official's "ethical behaviour"

LENGTH: 408 words


Iran's reformist papers, news websites and Facebook users have hailed
Vice-President Ali Akbar Salehi's "ethical behaviour" after he visited his
outspoken critic, hard-line MP Ruhollah Hoseynian in hospital.

During a parliamentary debate on ratifying the 14 July nuclear deal, Hoseynian
told Salehi that "you will be hanged right here [in the parliament], your body
will be thrown into the Arak nuclear reactor, cemented and buried there".

Reportedly, Hoseynian was admitted to a hospital after the parliamentary session
due to chest pains.

On 12 October, hard-line MP Hamid Rasa'i wrote on his Instagram page that
"Hoseynian was hospitalized due to heavy pressure and chest pains".

He also criticized Salehi for his "unethical and demonstrative behaviour" in the
parliament, describing Hoseynian's remarks a "private joke" that was not needed
to be publicized. (http://tinyurl.com/ot7l9vg)

Press and news websites

Newspapers of reformist and centrist ideological inclination have highlighted
Salehi's visit to ailing Hoseynian on their front pages with meaningful
headlines.

Centrist newspaper Qanun reported about the visit with the caption "Salehi's
lesson for opponents; vice-president visits Hoseynian after a threat".

Moderate Arman also hailed Salehi's move as "a praiseworthy" and "ethical
behaviour".

On 13 October, Entekhab news website and Tabnak also praised Salehi for his
behaviour.

Tabnak news agency described Salehi's behaviour as "admirable political
behaviour" and added that his move "was an indication of the fact that political
disagreements does not influence personal relations".

Tabnak also reported Salehi as saying he became "really sad and immediately went
to hospital to see him [Hoseynian]" when he got the news.

According to the report, Salehi said that all political players in the country
back "national interests" and described what happened in the 11 October
parliament session as only "a political discussion".
(http://tinyurl.com/o5t5g2o) and (http://www.entekhab.ir/fa/news/229910)

Facebook users

Facebook user "Jamshid Borairi" wrote that Salehi "taught a lesson as a Muslim"
to a cleric who "does not know basics of the Islamic ethics".
(http://tinyurl.com/na344ja)

Facebook user "Behzad Amiri" wrote that Salehi taught Hoseynian "a lesson of
being a human being ". (http://tinyurl.com/p446w2w)

User "Fahimeh Nosrati" called them both "good showmen" who "ignore people's
rights". (http://tinyurl.com/q3azzyt)

Source as listed:

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


