                              459 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                              May 8, 2008 Thursday
                                  EAST EDITION

EXCELA HEALTH BUYS MERCY HOSPITAL

BYLINE: Amy McConnell Schaarsmith, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: METRO; Pg. EZ-6

LENGTH: 501 words


After struggling financially for years, Mercy Jeannette Hospital has finalized
its sale to Excela Health, in an effort to stem losses while continuing to
provide local hospital care and hundreds of jobs to the Jeannette area.

The hospital, founded in 1959 by the Sisters of Charity of Seton Hill in
Greensburg, lost $6.5 million from its operations last year.

In the sale, finalized last Thursday, the hospital was renamed Excela Health
Westmoreland Hospital at Jeannette.

While some services, such as obstetrics, are moving to other Excela facilities,
the hospital will continue providing emergency care; inpatient care, including
medical, surgical and critical care service; and advanced diagnostics.

Excela plans to keep the hospital's 500 workers and provide training to help
them get used to the new system, according to hospital officials.

"This transaction represents the best solution for our patients, employees and
community because it directly addresses the challenges we could not overcome as
a stand-alone hospital in the region," Julie Hester, president and chief
executive officer of Mercy Jeannette, said in a prepared statement.

"In Excela Health, we found an experienced partner with a proven track record of
preserving access to health-care services throughout the region."

The Jeannette campus, an extension of Westmoreland Hospital, will join Frick
Hospital in Mount Pleasant, Latrobe Hospital and Westmoreland Hospital
(Greensburg) under the Excela name.

Excela was chosen as Mercy Jeannette's successor in November by Catholic Health
East, Pittsburgh Mercy Health System, the Sisters of Charity of Seton Hill --
who still sponsor the hospital -- and Mercy Jeannette officials, in part because
it had pledged to honor the Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health
Care Services.

The ethical and religious directives provide guidance in following Catholic
spirituality and doctrine in providing health care. It includes respecting the
sacredness of human life from birth to natural death, honoring a patient's right
to adequate health care, following the Biblical mandate to care for the poor,
and embracing the psychological, social and spiritual health -- as well as the
physical health -- of a patient.

Excela's pledge also helped it win the Vatican's approval of the sale Feb. 28,
along with approvals from state Attorney General Tom Corbett and the
Westmoreland County Court of Common Pleas, Orphans' Court Division.

All three approvals were necessary for the sale to proceed.

In addition to obstetrics, adult inpatient rehabilitation, behavioral health and
skilled nursing are being relocated to other Excela Health hospitals. Patients
began going to the new locations for those services on April 28.

"As Excela Health fulfills its strategic vision to grow to meet the needs of the
community, we are proud of our combined hospitals' strengths," David S.
Gallatin, chief executive officer of Excela Health, said in a prepared
statement.

"Together, we are stronger than we were apart."

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: WESTMORELAND/ Amy McConnell Schaarsmith can be reached at
aschaarsmith@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1122.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 P.G. Publishing Co.


