                              460 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     The Journal Record (Oklahoma City, OK)

                           October 27, 2016 Thursday

OU to provide reproductive health services

BYLINE: Sarah Terry-Cobo

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 732  words


OKLAHOMA CITY - OU Medicine will create an island for reproductive health
services, as part of a deal to merge with a Catholic-affiliated hospital group.
SSM Health CEO William Thompson said there is some conflict between the church's
teachings and statutory obligations to provide medically necessary health
services.

So St. Anthony's hospital system and the University of Oklahoma's teaching
hospital negotiated a way to separate the religious principles that guide the
St. Anthony hospital system from reproductive services.

Mary Richard Holloway, Phillips Murrah health care attorney, said there is no
established Oklahoma case law on whether a physician can refuse to provide
treatment based on religious beliefs.  Medical ethicist John Banja said it
depends on how one interprets Catholic teachings as to whether a health care
provider violates religious ethics by referring a patient to another provider
for reproductive services.

Saint Louis, Missouri-based SSM Health and OU Medicine signed an agreement
Wednesday to merge the two hospital systems. State and federal regulators must
approve the deal. The transaction could close in the first half of 2017, said OU
Medicine spokesman Paul Sund.

Thompson said negotiations between the two hospital systems, the physicians'
group and the university's hospital authority trust were complex and lasted
nearly two years. The new corporation that will be formed will not be a Catholic
organization, he said.

Procedures that aren't in accordance with Catholic principles won't be performed
within SSM buildings, nor by SSM staff, Thompson said.  His hospital system
won't be involved in any finances related to those services, he said.

Sund said OU Medicine will dedicate a separate building for those services,
which include: medically necessary abortions, long-term birth control implants
and sterilizations for men and women. The location hasn't yet been determined,
he said.

Both parties will share governance duties, except for OU Medicine's reproductive
services center, Thompson said.

OU Medicine's physicians are bound by state statutes to provide abortions for
women in cases of rape, incest, or whose lives are in danger by bringing the
fetus to term. The organization does not provide elective abortions, Sund wrote
in an email to The Journal Record. He declined to provide the number of
emergency abortion procedures, because the figure is so small it could
potentially identify a patient.

In the previous fiscal year, OU Medicine provided 400 sterilization services and
implanted 300 birth control devices. OU Physicians treated patients in more than
650,000 clinic visits in the same time frame.

Richard said there is case law in other states that addresses religious
objections to providing a patient with medical services or birth control.
Physicians have the latitude to decline to provide services, in general.
However, if the physician or pharmacist is the sole provider, and the woman is
seeking the morning-after pill to prevent pregnancy, the health care
professional must provide it.

But courts vary on interpretation in different states.

Banja, Emory University professor and Center for Ethics Director, said it's not
necessarily an ethical conflict for a Catholic physician or nurse to provide a
referral for a patient to receive reproductive services. That depends in part on
whether the person has a liberal or fundamentalist interpretation of Catholic
dogma.

"Is the accuracy of the belief system in congruence with the Vatican?" Banja
said.

But difficult ethical situations are often multifaceted, he said. There could be
a potential ethical conflict in an extreme or traumatic situation, if a woman is
raped and comes to the emergency room for treatment, including the birth control
known as the morning-after pill.

"I think some of the most fundamentalist variety would say you are complicitous
in an immoral act, by virtue of the referral," Banja said.

However, if the two entities spent 24 months negotiating a deal, they should
have the most compelling rationale to separate governance of the reproductive
services center from SSM Health, he said.

"You get the best of both worlds: a good teaching facility and treatment that's
in accordance with Catholic ideology," Banja said.

http://www.journalrecord.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from this
resource.

Copyright © 2016 BridgeTower Media. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

