                              458 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                            February 29, 2016 Monday

'Teaching tools' of medicine

BYLINE: FARHAT MOAZAM

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 60

LENGTH: 1050  words


ACCORDING to Greek physician Hippocrates, whereas life is short, medicine is a
long art. As physicians, for many of us this is as true today as it was then.
And despite the advances in scientific knowledge and biotechnology that have
irrevocably changed the nature of medicine since Hippocratic times, a constant
remains the central role of patients in the education and training of
physicians.

William Osler, a 19th-century physician, stated correctly that while books are
needed to chart the vast sea of medicine he who studies medicine without
patients does not go to sea at all. So when physicians proclaim that it is
patients who need them they tell only half the story. The ignored half is that
the existence and continuation of all aspects of medicine - our education,
experience and skills, clinical practice and biomedical research - would be
impossible without members of the public serving as patients and research
subjects.

However, this symbiotic relationship between two sets of human beings -
physicians and the public - has been reduced to one in which the latter are used
as a mere means to further the ends of the former. Our health systems are
replete with examples of an unethical, callous approach to patients in which the
latter's dignity and rights are trampled upon in multiple ways. Medical language
itself reflects the objectification and dehumanising of patients.

Bioethics continue to elude our doctors in the treatment of patients.

In medical colleges, they are often referred to as teaching 'tools' or
'material' for educating students, terms which disembody and reduce individuals
to biological diseases divorced from human identity. It is not uncommon to hear
medical students and trainees identify patients as the 'case with hot
cholecystitis on bed 3', or the 'huge abdominal mass in ward 2',' or 'bed 10
with amazing arrhythmias of the heart'.

When bara doctors (consultants) with white-coated residents cluster around ward
beds for teaching rounds their discussions are in English, incomprehensible to
many patients. One after the other, students are summoned to demonstrate
'interesting findings' on the patients lying nameless and mute before them. No
effort is made to greet the patients by their names, explain anything, or seek
their assent before laying bare their bodies for scrutiny.

When questioned, physicians generally say 'they (the patients) know this is a
teaching hospital when they come for treatment. After all, we have to train our
doctors'. The irony is that within the private wards of the same 'teaching'
hospitals patients are treated with deference and students' access to them is
restricted.

Patients are also mistreated when used for clinical specialty exams that must be
passed to qualify as medical specialists. In the absence of paid volunteers
trained to serve as 'simulated patients' on whom affluent countries increasingly
rely, in Pakistan real patients are selected from public hospitals and bussed to
examination centres. Speaking with them reveals the extent of deception and
disrespect in this practice.

They aren't told they will be used to assess the training of nervous doctors,
and their permission is not sought for this purpose. In fact, patients are
generally told they are being taken to be examined by a 'big' doctor in another
hospital for their own good. In reality, as the exams extend over many hours
patients suffer rather than benefit.

Technological advances have accelerated the trend among physicians to photograph
and make video recordings of their patients. These are shared with each other
through social media, used in the press and on billboards to raise hospital
donations and zakat, and featured at conferences. No attempt is made to obtain
the patients' consent or to take appropriate steps that ensure dignity and
safeguard privacy and confidentiality. It would not be wrong to say that few if
any of us would allow our family members to be used in this fashion.

Another emerging practice is to invite 'renowned' international surgeons to
undertake dramatic live surgical procedures broadcast to hundreds of
participants in auditoriums. This too raises ethical concerns and the
possibility of causing harm to patients when teaching is combined with patient
care. Last year, a live liver resection demonstration by a Japanese surgeon in a
workshop organised by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in India ended
in the death of the patient. The case made headlines and is under investigation.

Clearly, it is indigent patients from public hospitals who are selected for live
surgery; it remains unclear whether a fully informed, detailed consent is
obtained from them and their family.

With the tremendous physician-patient power differentials in our region indigent
patients are less likely to question or even refuse permission for live
demonstrations in which details of their medical history and bodies will be
broadcast to strangers. The potential for exploitation of patients through this
practice has led the British Medical Association, and others, to constitute
ethical guidelines to which our physicians remain oblivious.

We forget that the practice of medicine is always a moral undertaking. Neither
institutions such as the Pakistan Medical and Dental Council and College of
Physicians and Surgeons, nor the medical community and their professional
organisations appear to understand this. Except for a few medical colleges none
allocate time in their curricula to teach students even the rudiments of medical
ethics.

Ethics guidelines prepared by the National Bioethics Committee of Pakistan to
correct this curricular deficiency have received no attention from PMDC despite
multiple attempts. Workshops for medical trainees continue to focus only on
scientific methodologies of human research seemingly unaware that unethical
research is bad research.

Pakistan has some of the most ethical, caring physicians I know. But many remain
silent spectators, wringing their hands that nothing can be done. This will be a
self-fulfilling prophecy unless physicians realise that their responsibility is
to help produce not only skilled technicians but also ethical healthcare
professionals. Hippocrates also believed that to the love of her/his profession
the physician must also add the love of humanity.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


