                              463 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                            October 13, 2014 Monday

Frere forced 'to play God'

SECTION: OPINION & EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 440 words


THE following lines come from a 1964 version of the Hippocratic Oath: "If it is
given me to save a life, all thanks. But it may also be within my power to take
a life; this awesome responsibility must be faced with great humbleness and
awareness of my own frailty. Above all, I must not play at God".


 It was revised all those years ago by Louis Lasagna, a famed American
pharmacologist.
 Today, the traditional declaration taken by medical graduates comes in various
forms. Some have kept fraternity with the divine while others have forgone all
godly references.
 Laymen understand the oath to be the ethical charter by which physicians
conduct their work.
 It is meant to be a set of guiding moral principles, to help medical
practitioners navigate the complexities that inevitably arise when faced with
matters of life and death.
 Sometimes, though, not even an oath of ancient provenance can counsel the
doctor who must make this excruciating choice.
 At Frere Hospital in East London, it happens every day.
 In the renal unit, it is hospital policy to grant dialysis treatment only to
patients younger than 50. The age threshold drops to 45 for those also living
with diabetes.
 Last week, the Dispatch reported the plight of Nomonde Langa.
 From Mdantsane, she is 54 and in desperate need of dialysis. She was refused
treatment at Frere, based on the hospital's policy.
 "I never knew that our own government hospitals, meant for the poor, would shut
their doors to me when I needed help most," Langa said.
 Unemployed, her financial means are insufficient to pay for medical aid and
thus open the door to private care. Her outlook, and many in her position, is
grim.
 Statistics given to the Dispatch reveal that of the nearly three million
patients potentially referred to Frere, there is capacity to treat only 70 with
renal failure.
 With limited resources available, the hospital has had to "play at God" by
filtering out those deemed to have less hope of survival.
 Langa raises an excellent point because it would be terribly easy to condemn
the medical staff.
 "The situation is impossible. No one wants to make such life and death
decisions but we are forced to," head of the renal unit Dr Alan Gordon said.
"Unfortunately, it does become a death sentence and it's a nightmare."
 The ethical conundrum is a hazard of the job, for which there can never be a
universally acceptable solution.
 If Langa had money, she could access the treatment. If government wasn't so
slovenly, she wouldn't need medical aid.
 Point is, Langa relies on the state and the state is failing her. One imagines
that not even the venerable oath has a remedy in mind.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2014 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


