                              465 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                            March 31, 2007 Saturday

County chefs praised for their cooking

BYLINE:  Lyn Barton

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 368 words


Cornwall continues to cement its reputation as a foodies paradise with the
announcement that two pioneering and very different schemes have won national
recognition.

The highly respected 2007 Food Awards in The Observer Food Monthly heaped
accolades on local projects.

Celebrity chef turned food campaigner, Jamie Oliver's inspired restaurant
Fifteen Cornwall was the winner of the Best Location Award.

Meanwhile, Cornwall NHS Food was runner-up in the Ethical Contribution Judge's
Award.

The OFM poured praise on Fifteen Cornwall saying: "Teetering like a crow's nest
high above the beach, this has to have one of the best sea views in Britain."

It adds: "Students wear white hats, qualified staff are in black ones, all
scurrying around in the open kitchen. Food is sourced locally as much as
possible and great emphasis is placed on recycling."

Fifteen Cornwall was set up along the lines of Jamie Oliver's successful Fifteen
in London.

Each year young people from targeted deprived areas are trained to become chefs.

The restaurant is also proud of the fact that more than 80 per cent of its
produce comes from Cornwall and all profits are reinvested into the Fifteen
Foundation Charity.

The other Cornish winner in the prestigious 2007 OFM Food Awards was,
surprisingly, hospital food.

It is a subject which rarely arouses  enthusiasm amongst culinary  experts.

But the project to bring local produce into Westcountry hospitals has astounded
judges.

The NHS Food Programme, set  up by the Cornwall Partnership Trust, has won
second place in  the Ethical Contribution category, beaten only by  Friends of
the Earth.

The programme pushes forward  the use of local produce in hospitals throughout
Cornwall to  give patients, visitors and staff  healthy meals and support local
businesses at the same time.

The Observer said: "Hospital  food in Cornwall has gone local  - this NHS
programme means  much of it is sustainably  sourced, with Cornish milk,  fish,
eggs, cheese and yoghurt  on the menu, too."

Sandra Benjamin, chairman of  Cornwall Partnership NHS  Trust is thrilled with
the recognition from the Observer.

She said: "We're delighted by  the ongoing success of this programme."

lbarton@ westernmorningnews.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved


