                              466 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            December 26, 2008 Friday

Nursing and med students learn ethics from TV;
House, Grey's Anatomy are their top influences

BYLINE: Stuart Laidlaw, Toronto Star

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. L01

LENGTH: 787 words


Maybe it's natural for a generation raised in front of the television, learning
about counting with Kermit or about sharing with Polkeroo.

A new study suggests today's medical and nursing students are learning about
medical ethics from TV medical dramas.

The top influences are House, for the male students, and Grey's Anatomy, for
female, according to the study in December issue of The American Journal of
Bioethics.

"When you think about the busy lives these students live, you wonder when they
get the time," says Dr. Ruth Faden, director of the Berman Institute of
Bioethics at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore.

The phenomenon is not unique to medical students, Faden says, adding her
daughter liked to watch legal dramas while in law school.

One of the study's authors, Matthew Czarny, is a third year medical student at
Johns Hopkins.

"I used to watch a lot of House," says Czarny, who says his TV viewing has
dropped off since beginning his in-hospital training last spring.

Faden and her colleagues surveyed medical and nursing students at Johns Hopkins
in the fall of 2007, asking them about their TV viewing habits over the previous
year.

They found that 84 per cent of medical students and 81 per cent of nursing
students watched medical dramas regularly, with House and Grey's Anatomy the top
picks.

Grey's had a much more loyal audience, with 49 per cent saying they had seen the
show in the previous week, compared to 31 per cent for House.

The study recommends that medical schools harness the popularity of the shows to
assist in teaching medical ethics. It would help, for instance, to lift an issue
such as organ donation out of the theoretical by giving students a specific case
to discuss.

"A brief clip from a medical drama portraying such an issue could stimulate
students' ethical analysis and allow for faculty guidance," the study says.

Faden says that typical class work involves reading a case study, but there is
"an emotional distance" from the subject with that form of study.

"When you watch a dramatization, you get a sense of the emotional pull," she
says.

Czarny said using dramatization would help him and his fellow students think
more about ethics.

"Actually seeing an interaction can convey a lot more than reading about it," he
says.

Faden says the preferences of students tended to reflect gender lines more than
areas of study. Eighty-three per cent of male students, whether in medicine or
nursing, preferred House, while 81 per cent of women preferred Grey's Anatomy.

House features an aggressive, sarcastic lead character, Dr. Gregory House, while
Grey's features an ensemble cast and places a heavier emphasis on relationships
among the characters.

Both, however, feature ethical issues as central to their weekly plot lines,
something the students said often stimulates discussions among classmates and
families about medical ethics issues. As well, many students reported watching
the shows with groups of other students.

"Such group viewing provides easy opportunities to discuss the ethical issues
that are depicted, either during the viewing or at a later time," the study
says.

Faden and the other study authors are concerned that the TV dramas may be
influencing the ethical attitudes of tomorrow's medical leaders.

"The simulated realism of dramatized cases involving medical ethics issues may
prompt students not only to imagine, but also to shape their responses to such
issues," the study said.

In an interview, however, Faden is quick to add that not all ethical decisions
made in the shows are bad, and that even the bad decisions can be helpful from a
teaching point of view by encouraging discussion about what should have been
done.

When asked how they form their attitudes about medical ethics, only 14 per cent
of the students cited television as "important," with 91 per cent saying their
school was more significant and 81 per cent citing family. Scholarly journals,
such as the one publishing the study, were picked by 79 per cent.

Faden and the other researchers viewed such rankings with some skepticism,
however, given the popularity of the medical dramas with the students.

They recommended a deeper study, looking at students' ethical attitudes before
and after watching the shows in order to better gauge their impact.

The more in-hospital experience a student had, however, the less likely that
student was to regard the ethical issues raised on the shows as accurate.

Among medical students with no clinical experience, 44 per cent rated the
depictions as "mostly adequate," compared with 33 per cent of medical students
with clinical experience. Nurses were slightly more skeptical, with only 31 per
cent saying the dramas did a good job of portraying ethical issues.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

