                              470 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                           November 17, 2012 Saturday
                                 THIRD EDITION

Vatican steps into fray on hospital sale Catholic Church wants Mercy, Little
rock bishop to settle differences before sale gets OK.

BYLINE: By Jim Doyle jdoyle@post-dispatch.com 314-340-8372

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 552 words


Vatican officials in Rome have put the brakes on Mercy Health's plan to sell one
of its Arkansas hospitals.

Tim Johnson, chief executive of Mercy Hospital Hot Springs, told employees in an
email Friday that the Vatican has ordered Mercy executives to sit down with
Bishop Anthony Taylor of Little Rock and try to resolve their differences.

Taylor has opposed the pending hospital sale to Capella Healthcare Inc. and has
accused Mercy chief executive Lynn Britton of pushing the deal forward at the
expense of the nonprofit's century-old charity mission in the Hot Springs area.

In a written statement, Mercy spokeswoman Barb Meyer acknowledged the
Chesterfield-based health system has received new marching orders from the
Vatican.

"Rather than provide approval or denial of our petition at this time," the
statement said, "the Vatican has asked that Mercy engage in further discussions"
with the bishop to address his concerns about "ongoing care for the poor, the
continuation of Ethical and Religious Directives and the impact of the
transition on coworkers."

Last spring, Mercy announced its plan to sell the 309-bed Mercy Hospital Hot
Springs to Capella, the owner of Mercy's crosstown rival, the 166-bed National
Park Medical Center. The sale would leave only one hospital operator in Hot
Springs.

The Federal Trade Commission is looking into the deal's antitrust implications,
including its potential effect on hospital prices and services in the area.

Board members of the Mercy hospital in Hot Springs, who say they were blindsided
by the decision to sell the hospital, have voiced concern that it will result in
higher medical prices, reduced quality of care and less access for the poor.

The decision to sell the hospital also sparked the resignation of Eric Jackson,
who sat on Mercy's national board.

Bishop Taylor, who in late October made his case against the sale to Vatican
officials in Rome, has accused Mercy of abandoning its ministry to the poor and
of failing to advocate aggressively for Catholic principles.

He also has accused Mercy officials of violating canon law by not seeking out a
better - meaning Catholic - buyer for the hospital. And he has voiced concern
that the hospital's new owners may permit abortions after a 5-year period in
which Capella has agreed not to perform the procedure.

Capella, a for-profit health system based in Franklin, Tenn., issued a written
statement on Friday from Mike Wiechart, its chief operating officer, who
indicated that Capella "remains committed to the vision of a united health
system in Hot Springs."

Wiechart also vowed to observe the Catholic traditions of the hospital, which
established an infirmary in Hot Springs in 1888.

"We are deeply committed to honoring the ethical and religious directives of the
Catholic Church at Mercy Hot Springs and to caring for the neediest of
patients," he said. "We look forward to working with Mercy and Bishop Taylor to
clarify any concerns, provide assurances, and together, find a solution that is
best for Hot Springs."

Meanwhile, the Post-Dispatch also learned that Mercy's board chairman, Ronald
Ashworth, resigned recently from the board. Meyer said she was unaware of any
differences that Ashworth might have had with other board members or Britton.
Longtime board member Charles Thoele will replace Ashworth.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


