                              49 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                            February 6, 2009 Friday
                        1 - First with the news Edition

Inquiry ignores nurse's claims

BYLINE: Des Houghton, Anna Caldwell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 431  words


QUEENSLAND Health dismissed serious allegations of assault and negligence at
Bundaberg hospital without speaking to the key witness, it is alleged.

In The Courier-Mail yesterday, Health Minister Stephen Robertson said
allegations a baby had been assaulted and an elderly man left to die on a
trolley in a hallway had been investigated by the Queensland Health Ethical
Standards Unit and ``found not to have been sustained''.

However, the nurse at the centre of the controversy claims she has not been
contacted by the unit.

``No one from the Ethical Standards Unit has ever contacted me -- not ever. Not
by phone or letter or in person,'' she said.

``And never once did a manager at Bundaberg come back to me and say, `Let's look
at your evidence'.''

The highly qualified nurse has made a series of startling allegations against
the hospital, including the falsifying of records, understaffing, bullying, and
gross medical neglect.

Following pressure from Rob Messenger (LNP, Burnett), Mr Robertson confirmed he
had referred the case to the Health Quality and Complaints Commission. He also
said 3000 complaints logged at the hospital in the past three years would be
reviewed by Queensland Health's patient safety centre.

As well, Dr Stephen Ayre, executive medical director of Prince Charles Hospital,
will investigate the 100 complaints by the whistleblower.

Mr Robertson said claims of falsified triage times would be investigated by the
Crime and Misconduct Commission and the Queensland Health Ethical Standards
Unit. The investigations into the hospital's emergency department would be
completed by February 23, with the report to be released publicly.

Mr Robertson rejected the hospital was understaffed and said 33 extra doctors,
114 extra nurses and 127 extra allied health professions had been appointed
since 2005.

The controversy took another strange twist yesterday when the Director-General
of Health, Mick Reid, was reported to his own ethical unit for allegedly using
explicit language.

Mr Messenger, the MLA who raised the allegations, claimed Mr Reid used the
unsavoury language during a meeting in Bundaberg with the whistleblower.

Mr Messenger said that, in a reply to a comment about the whistleblower's career
prospects, the Director-General said, ``If you want to say to me f--- off I'm
going to go and do something else, that's great''.

Mr Reid apologised last night for his choice of language.

``I'm not aware that the nurse or her partner were offended by the language I
used, but I reiterate that I am sorry for any offence I may have inadvertently
caused,'' Mr Reid said.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CML


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


