                              468 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             October 2, 2016 Sunday

Doctor with C-section record under scrutiny

BYLINE: Prabeerkumar Sikdar

SECTION: HYDERABAD

LENGTH: 308 words


HYDERABAD: A decade-old medical feat that involved performing the fastest
emergency C-section delivery on a woman in Warangal, has landed doctor PS
Sugunakar Raju in soup. A complaint was registered against the doctor on ethical
grounds regarding this case and another with the Telangana state medical council
on Thursday.The complainant P Damodhar, a senior geophysicist in ONGC in
Chennai, alleged that it was unethical of Raju to have video-graphed the
C-section performed on one Guda Aruna. On 14 December, 2005, Raju performed the
'C section' in nine minutes and fourteen seconds flat.

The feat earned him a place in Limca Book of Records-2007. However, now,
Damodhar has found fault with the videographing of the woman's delivery. In
fact, Damodhar has sought disciplinary action against Raju for another 'medical
feat' recorded at private hospital at Medipally, Hyderabad, in 2014 on ethical
grounds. The case involved successful C-section delivery on a coma patient B
Rama Devi that got Raju another mention in Limca Book of Records-2016 for the
"first Csection performed on a woman in coma".Dr Sugunakar, for his part,
brushed aside allegations saying he was being maligned by a few people with
vested interests. He clarified he had performed the C-sections on two patients
after ruling out normal delivery option. "In the first case, I videographed the
delivery at Jangaon Area Hospital as the patient remained unattended for 36
hours.Politicians and others landed outside the hospital to stage a protest.
This forced us to videograph the procedure for our own safety and this was done
with the permission of my senior Dr Rajeshwar Rao," he said.In the second case,
he said he had taken video consent of patient's family. "This was done as no
other doctor was willing to take up the procedure," he added.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


