                              481 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday
                                 Early Edition

Assisted dying talks in early stages

BYLINE: Elizabeth Payne, Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: CITY; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 484 words


Meetings are underway to make sure that everyone who is eligible and who
requests it has access to medically-assisted death in the Ottawa region,
according to the head of the Champlain LHIN.

"We will have to ensure there is a contingency plan for the region," said
Chantale LeClerc, CEO of the local health integration network which oversees
healthcare in the region.

That could take some time. LeClerc said it is still too soon to have a complete
picture of how assisted death will be delivered and assessed throughout the
region.

"It is still early days and I think we are all feeling our way through this."

The federal government passed legislation on medically-assisted dying in June.
Last week, the provincial coroner's office reported seven people in Ottawa had
received medical assistance to die since then. The province has yet to produce
regulations or legislation. The Champlain LHIN is involved in the issue because
it co-ordinates medical services among hospitals and health providers, among
other things.

In the Champlain region, the issue is complicated by the fact that two major
hospitals and a number of hospices and long-term care residences will not allow
medically-assisted death to be performed in their institutions for religious or
ethical reasons. Physicians and health providers can also opt out for ethical
reasons.

The Catholic Health Association of Ontario, which oversees Catholic hospitals
and whose members include Pembroke Regional Hospital and Bruyère Continuing Care
in Ottawa, suggests hospitals should not even allow conversations about assisted
death or patients to be assessed within their institutions.

The Ottawa Hospital says a small number of assisted deaths have taken place
there and that its physicians have gone to Bruyère to assess patients who have
requested medical assistance in death. Bruyère has said it would prefer
assessments to take place outside of the hospital but that it would be flexible,
depending on the patient's condition.

It is not clear how the issue will be handled in Pembroke. The hospital does not
yet have a policy and hasn't had any requests for medical assistance in death,
according to its chief executive Pierre Noel.

He said the hospital would, for now, deal with the issue on a case-by-case
basis. "The important part is that we are never going to abandon our patients."

The role of the LHIN is to make sure there are reasonable alternatives for
patients who cannot access assisted dying, although it remains unclear whether
that means some might have to be transferred long distances to receive it
elsewhere. LeClerc said some hospitals are still trying to figure out whether
there are physicians and nurses willing to perform assisted death if it is
requested there.

Meanwhile, the LHIN and health officials are trying to assess what demand will
be like.

epayne@postmedia.com !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights
reserved.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

