                              474 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            August 7, 1980 Thursday

Group gives advice on life-support withdrawal

BYLINE: CP

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: CALGARY AB


CALGARY  (CP) - A newly formed group at Foothills Hospital is helping
 families and their doctors with the ethical decisions concerning so-called
 passive euthanasia - withdrawal of life-support systems when there is no
 hope of a patient recovering.

The Foothills 'consultation committee,' used sparingly since it was
 formed about three months ago, has won the support of the hospital
 administration and stirred interest in medical circles throughout the
 country.

The committee is made up of a doctor, a nurse, a theologian, a
 psychiatrist, a social worker, a chaplain, a lawyer and a philosopher
 specializing in analysing and discussing ethical problems.

As a group, they try to take some of the loneliness out of a decision
 that has traditionally been made by a doctor in consultation with the
 family of the patient.

The decision whether to end or prolong a terminal patient's life,
 especially if that person is in pain, is a difficult one.

As medical technology improves, doctors can prolong a patient's life
 even after his heart stops beating or his lungs fail to take in air.

At some point, however, every doctor treating a terminal patient must
 decide whether to continue life-giving care or to allow a patient to die.

But then there is the risk of lawsuit by relatives who feel the patient
 should have been kept alive as long as possible, not to mention the
 ethical dilemma that no doctor should play God.

Lilas Lysne, one of the founders of the consultation committee, says
 the patient's right to the most humane treatment possible must be upheld
 while at the same time all points of view of those concerned must be
 heard.
    'We want to sensitize everyone to the fact that there are different
 sides to the issue. How do we die and how do we live? This is the ethical
 dilemma.'
    She said the group provides psychological support to those fced with
 tough decisions about other people's lives. But the final decision is
 still up to the doctor and the family - the committee cannot tell anyone
 else what to do, Miss Lysne said.

Dr. Bruce Hatfield, a specialist in internal medicine, says the
 committee is useful.
    'I feel a much less lonely decision-maker,' he said of his experience
 with the committee. 'For me it has been a godsend to see outsiders
 willing to wrestle with the problems we have had to wrestle with for a
 long time.'
    Dr. Hatfield said many doctors are uncomfortably aware of the power
 they hold over patients' lives and welcome help in making some of the
 tough decisions.

He said one dilemma occurs when a doctor has succeeded in keeping a
 patient alive, but the person has no real hope of recovery. If the doctor
 takes measures to discontinue life-support, he may be in conflict with the
 law or relatives who might hold unrealistic hopes that a miracle will
 occur.
    'Also, when you have 20 beds and they are full, and you have one
 person who will not make the grade no matter what you do, and then you
 have one who stands a chance, what do you do? How do you make a choice?'
    Patients, doctors and families who have consulted with the committee
 say they have been able to leave the sessions with a clearer idea of the
 decision they want to make.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1980 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


