                              479 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                            October 12, 2008 Sunday
                                  Mich Edition

BUSINESS PEOPLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 290 words


SOUTH BEND - Patrick Murphy, marketing professor at the University of Notre
Dame, has been recognized by the Emerald Literati Network with the 2008
Outstanding Paper Award for his article, "An Ethical Basis for Relationship
Marketing: A Virtue Ethics Perspective."

Murphy's paper investigates the role of ethics and trust in companies' building
long-term marketing relationships with customers. It was published in the
January 2007 edition of the European Journal of Marketing and was selected for
the award from among about 75 papers published in the Journal during 2007.

Murphy is the co-director of the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide and a
fellow with Notre Dame's Nanovic Institute for European Studies.

LAPORTE - The LaPorte Regional Physician Network welcomes Dr. John Taylor to the
organization.

Taylor specializes in obstetrics and gynecology.

Taylor received his doctor of medicine from the Indiana University School of
Medicine. He completed his internship and residency in obstetrics and gynecology
at the Methodist Hospital Graduate Medical Center at Methodist Hospital in
Indianapolis.

He has practiced in northwest Indiana for more than 23 years.

ST. JOSEPH - The Berrien Community Foundation Board elected its officers for
2008-2009 at its annual trustees meeting.

Greg Vaughn, of Benton Harbor, is the new chairman; Sharon Vargo, of Benton
Harbor, is the vice chairwoman; Tim Passaro, of St. Joseph, is the treasurer;
and Robert Gottlieb, of St. Joseph, is the secretary.

The Berrien Community Foundation was founded by William Vawter and other local
leaders in 1952 to build permanent endowments and other funds, provide donor
services and grants, and to serve as a facilitative community leader in Berrien
County.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2008 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


