                              50 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                            July 29, 2015 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Ethical' hotel plan for old Keelmen's Hospital

BYLINE: Tony Henderson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 530 words


AN at-risk heritage building linked to a colourful part of Tyneside's past may
become one of a new network of "ethical" hotels.

The Keelmen's Hospital, with its domed tower, overlooking the River Tyne on City
Road in Newcastle, is Grade II-star listed, putting it in the top 5% of historic
buildings in the country.

It was built in 1701, when there were 1,600 keelmen in Newcastle, who played a
vital role in the commerce of the river by ferrying loads between ship and
shore.

They paid a levy to build the hospital which offered care for orphans, widows
and infirm beneficiaries.

But the city council-owned building, last used as student accommodation, has
been empty for several years and has been placed on Historic England's At Risk
register. The keelmen had strong links with Methodism, with founder John
Wesley's brother Charles their chaplain. And now, a partnership between the
Methodists and the North of England Civic Trust have been given £10,000 by the
Heritage Lottery Fund to explore options for the re-use of the building.

One of the proposals to be explored is to develop the hospitality and caring
history of the building by turning it into an ethical hotel.

It would follow The Wesley Hotel in London, which has Methodist roots and is the
first social enterprise hotel in the UK.

It is hoped to develop a network of such hotels, of which Newcastle - once a
Methodist stronghold - could be part. It is envisaged that the City Road
building could celebrate the role played in the city's past by Methodism and the
keelmen, who are the subject of one of Tyneside's bestknown folk songs.

Partners in the venture are the North of England Civic Trust, the Wesley Hotel
and the Wesley Orphan House Trustees, which has its origins in an orphanage
built by John Wesley in Northumberland Street in Newcastle in 1743. The site
remains in Methodist ownership.

Trust director Graham Bell said: "This project is a story of revival.

"It aims to revive the fortunes of a building that is hugely symbolic but
vulnerable, raise the historical pro-file of the keelmen as a mainstay of the
economy, society and culture of Newcastle and revive the signifi-cance of the
Wesleys to the keelmen, Newcastle and Britain, reminding people of its important
story of the ethical principles and relationships in society, from almshouses to
the Wesleys to a modern-day approach to hospitality."

Mr Bell said: "The Keelmen's Hospital is one of the few buildings with a direct
link to the times of the keelmen, who have been immortalised in song.

"The hospital was built for hospitality in the traditional sense of ethical
care. The hospitality link could be developed in a building which is a landmark
in the townscape of Newcastle, in the welfare care of the traveller."

Eden Fletcher, Minister at Brunswick Methodist Church off Northumberland Street,
was the first to see how the connections could make something special for the
city.

He said: "The Wesleys had a huge and lasting impact on this city.

"To revive those stories and the values they represent is as relevant as ever.
Both John and Charles were regularly to be found on the streets of Newcastle and
in the thick of society where need was most acute."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Keelmen's Hospital and Rev Eden Fletcher of the Brunswick
Method-<Bist Church and Graham Bell, Director of the North of England Civic
Trust

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TJN


               Copyright 2015 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


