                              480 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                           January 12, 1989 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

ETHICS A GROWTH INDUSTRY OFFERING GOOD PROSPECTS

BYLINE: By ALAN NICHOLS. * Alan Nichols is an Anglican priest and social
analyst. He is a member of the ethics committees of two public hospitals in
Melbourne.

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 825 words


THE study and practice of ethics has become a growth industry in Australia,
starting in the public hospital system. Could there be social advantages to
having ethics committees in industry?

Twenty years ago, there were hardly any ethics comittees in hospitals, or for
examining the ethics of medical research on humans or on animals.

Then the National Health and Medical Research Council began the process which
culminated in detailed guidelines on a range of issues such as medical research
on human embryos and human tissue.

The council's guidelines have no legislative force, but it will not fund
research projects unless they conform to them. Hospital ethics committees now
take them as their "bible" on research.

Around the same time as the in vitro fertilisation techniques were being
developed in Melbourne, Monash University started its Centre for Human
Bioethics, with Professor Peter Singer as director and Dr Helga Kuhse as
associate director.

This centre has had a profound effect. Many accuse it of having a basically
utilitarian philosophy, and certainly in its public seminars the Catholic
Church's stance has been ridiculed.

In response, St Vincent's Hospital in Melbourne, a public hospital run by an
order of nuns, started its own Bioethics Centre with Dr Nicholas
Tonti-Filipinni, one of Peter Singer's top students at Monash University in the
philosophy class, as director and resident philosopher.

Over the past 10 years, all public hospitals and many large private hospitals
have developed their own ethics committees, with detailed protocols for research
projects, patient information and medical accountability.

So great is the interest in "institutional ethics committees" that when Monash
University called a seminar last month, over 300 people turned up. The seminar
focused on the unfortunate experiment where women with cervical cancer became
patients of the National Women's Hospital of New Zealand but received no
treatment. Many died, untreated, and it became a television scandal earlier this
year.

Could it happen again?

The seminar concluded: not within projects approved by ethics committees, but
conceivably where doctors agreed not to disclose what they were doing.

One of the special safeguards of institutional ethics committees is to involve
"outsiders" in certain categories. Some are ministers of religion, some
philosophers, some "community workers" without medical training, some lawyers.

Here are some of the questions faced at a recent Melbourne hospital:

* Is it reasonable to test new pieces of medical equipment on patients without
their knowledge?

* Are the patient consent forms for surgery adequate and in sufficiently basic
language that the patient can give "informed consent"?

* When extra surgery or tests are involved in a research project, are patients
sufficiently informed?

* Is it an ethical use of resources to use very expensive drugs in research?

* Are explanations of possible side-effects of research programmes given to the
subjects?

* Do we need the consent of relatives to engage in research on post-mortem
tissue?

* Can research projects go on indefinitely, or should they be reviewed every 12
months (this would have made a huge difference to the unfortunate experiments in
New Zealand)?

* When patients are seriously ill, how do we inform them of invasive procedures
such as injections, and their possible effects, in research programmes?

* When tests involve radioactive material, how do we ensure the safety of
volunteers and staff?

If public hospitals are accountable for the ethics of detailed procedures and
programmes, why shouldn't public companies be subject to the same scrutiny?

Could the board of a public company appoint an ethics committee to examine
awkward ethical dilemmas affecting the programmes, policies and procedures of
the company?

Could such a committee consider employment practices such as positive
discrimination for disabled employees? And the social impact of change within
industry, including closures and retrenchments?

And what about the whole area of "ethical investment"?

There are some fascinating possibilities here. For there is a doctrine abroad in
industry in Australia that companies are only responsible to their shareholders,
to make the greatest profit, and that they have no wider responsibility to
society other than paying their due proportion of taxes.

I dispute this doctrine. I believe that a company with a plant in a country town
needs to think very carefully before it closes that plant down and throws a
large proportion of the local workforce onto the dole queue. I believe that
companies have social responsibilities in employing disabled people, and
providing child care for working mothers, and some help in learning English for
migrant workers.

The side benefit of these practices is that you finish up with a happier
workforce, and the company sits more comfortably within its community
environment.

There are always advantages in acting ethically.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 1989 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


