                              476 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                             August 29, 2014 Friday
                               Townsville Edition

Bishop honoured for work in health

BYLINE: EMMA CHADWICK emma.chadwick@news.com.au

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 262  words


TOWNSVILLE'S former bishop Michael Putney has been recognised posthumously with
a national award for his work improving ethics in health and aged care.

The Lifetime Achievement Award was given to Bishop Putney at a conference of
health leaders in Brisbane this week.

Bishop Putney died on March 28 after a battle with stomach cancer and was a
highly regarded community leader who spoke with compassion and peace about
living with terminal illness in order to help others.

During his final 12 months, the Bishop was also bestowed with an Order of
Australia medal, and wrote a book.

Townsville's Mater Hospital board member Geraldine O'Brien said Bishop Putney
was a worthy recipient for his work heading a team to draw up a Code of Ethical
Standards for Australia's Catholic hospitals and aged care facilities.

The code, published in 2001, received international recognition and is the
ethical blueprint used by health professionals.

"It is a significant award for people in Catholic Health, there are 70,000
employees engaged in Catholic health sectors in Australia," Mrs O'Brien said.

Townsville diocesan administrator Father Mick Lowcock said Bishop Putney would
be remembered as much for the dignified way he had lived out his last days as
much as for his invaluable life's work.

"(The award) has also raised the profile of the Mater Hospital on a local level
and Catholic Health on a national level," Fr Lowcock said.Catholic Health
Australia's stewardship board chairwoman Rowena McNally said Bishop Putney
played a major role in shaping Catholic Health over the past two decades.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Townsville Bulletin


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


