                              475 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                             July 15, 2008 Tuesday

Ethics the heart of health care;
Good hospital programs raise employee morale, help recruitment and decrease
staff turnover

BYLINE: Stuart Laidlaw, Toronto Star

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. L04

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: HAMILTON


A good ethics program is no frill for a modern hospital, but an essential part
of providing excellent health care, a gathering of hospital ethicists has heard.

"Ethics is the heart of health care," Murray Martin, chief executive of Hamilton
Health Sciences, told the annual Clinical Ethics Summer Institute yesterday.

Speaking as a hospital administrator, Martin said hospitals with good ethics
programs report higher staff morale, easier recruitment and lower staff
turnover. Resources are used more efficiently, he said, and patient satisfaction
is higher.

But the field, which has emerged only in the past decade or so, can be seen by
many in the health care world as an add-on to the real work of curing people,
says Sunnybrook Health Sciences ethicist Karen Faith, who was a presenter at the
institute.

"We work at a certain pace in health care. It's hard to get the space for some
of these considerations," she said in an interview.

But the time needs to be made, she said, however brief. "Ethical issues are
faced every day and everywhere in health care," she said.

The annual summer institute for ethicists began in Toronto two years ago, but
now has a permanent home at Hamilton Health Sciences, allowing the group to
expand the training and support it provides to hospital ethicists at its
week-long courses.

But beyond the practical training provided in sessions such as conflict
resolution and confronting competing ethics, attendees will develop a support
network among the 120 participants, said Andrea Frolic, ethicist at Hamilton
Health Sciences.

"It can be very lonely," she said in an interview.

Several times yesterday, participants were urged to develop "communities of
support" with other ethicists at nearby hospitals or universities to whom they
can turn throughout the year for advice and moral support.

Even within the health-care field, Faith said, few fully appreciate what
ethicists do.

"Ethics is an emerging field; it's not really understood," she said.

As a result, she says, expectations are often imposed on hospital ethicists that
are not appropriate or realistic.

Many people, for instance, expect the ethicist to swoop in at the critical
moment of discussion among doctors, nurses, patients and the family to pronounce
on what the most ethical thing to do would be in any given situation.

And while some ethicists do operate that way, she said, the field is evolving
into more of a consultative role.

"Many people are focused on the outcome, but the process is as important as the
outcome," she said.

The job of the ethicist, she said, is to assist in the conversations taking
place during a patient's care about the treatments available and the best
options for the patient involved.

The ethicist makes make sure all involved understand the moral implications of
whatever they decide.

But what is best, she said, will change from case to case.

"There are no easy answers in the challenges we face every day," she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  toronto star file photo

