                              487 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Australian

                July 10, 2003 Thursday All-round Country Edition

Bijani twins united people everywhere

SOURCE: MATP

SECTION: FEATURES-TYPE- LEADER-COLUMN- LEADER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 344 words


IF the worldwide interest in the fate of the conjoined Bijani twins, Laleh and
Ladan, began its life as prurient curiosity, it became something very different
as soon as the personalities of the two girls shone through. And given their
pluck and their humour, that did not take long. Anyone could list the myriad
ways in which their condition must have limited their lives, but the vividly
simple way they chose to express it -- that while joined they could not even
look into each other's eyes -- touched so many people that it is likely to be
long remembered.

Once they'd put it like that, few observers held to the view that either ethical
considerations, or the huge expense involved, should stand between the twins and
their dream. The distinguished international team, led by Keith Goh, that
finally agreed to operate on them was not some sort of rogue outfit, and at the
renowned Raffles Hospital the doctors were answerable to the highest ethical
standards. Conjoined twins pose ethical problems in surgery. But so do all
patients, especially in neurosurgery, who are not dying, but need risky surgery
to improve their quality of life.

What makes conjoined twins special is that there is not enough case history to
make statistics meaningful in gauging likely success. And each case is unique.
With the Armstrong twins, Tay-Lah and Monique, born in Brisbane in 2000, there
could be no question of not intervening: the girls were joined at the head,
back-to-front and upside down, and could have had no quality of life at all.
(The twins survived the separation, but Tay-Lah died two years later of kidney
problems.) The Bijani twins did have quality of life, but they were grown women
who understood the risk that was carefully explained to them, and knew what they
wanted.

Laleh and Ladan were the opposite of freaks. There was something about them so
personable and human that an area of experience long regarded with fear and
distaste has been emptied of those qualities. They lost their lives but in a
small way they humanised the world.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited


