                              488 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            August 24, 1989 Thursday

Surgeons will use doomed babies   Hospital confronts ethical issues in
transplants

BYLINE: PAUL TAYLOR; GAM

LENGTH: 668 words

DATELINE: Ottawa ONT


BY  PAUL TAYLOR
 The Globe and Mail
  OTTAWA
    A Canadian hospital is planning to start an experimental transplant
program using the organs of doomed babies born without most of their
brains.
   'We are trying to do this completely above board,' said Timothy
Frewen , co-ordinator of the proposed program at the Children's Hospital
of Western Ontario in London, Ont.

Dr. Frewen made the announcement yesterday at an international
conference examining the ethical and legal issues raised by transplants.

The organs for the experimental transplant program will be removed from
the bodies of deceased anencephalics , with the parents' consent.

These are children born without most of their brains. The top of their
skull is also missing.

Most of them die within a week after they are born. Others linger a bit
longer. But the prognosis is always the same - they are doomed to a very
short life, which makes them a potential source of organs for children
needing heart, liver and other transplants.

In fact, doctors in North America and Europe have already used the
organs of anencephalic infants in a limited number of transplant
operations.

But North American hospitals have discontinued the practice because of
the controversy surrounding the tranplants.

For one thing, there has been some dispute about whether the
anencephalic infants were actually dead when their organs were removed.

As well, measures taken to keep the transplantable organs in good
condition may have artificially extended the lives of these severely
deformed children, rather than letting them die a quick and natural death.

At the Loma Linda Medical Centre in California, for instance,
anencephalic infants were placed on respirators as soon as they arrived.
These children appeared to last much longer than usual prior to being
declared brain dead. And in some European countries, the doctors do not
even wait until the children are technically brain dead.

'In Germany, they just take the organs,' Dr. Frewen said in an  interview.

About a year ago, both the Canadian and the American Pediactric
Societies called for a moratorium on the transplants amid growing
controversy about the ethics of using the organs of anence phalic
newborns.

Dr. Frewen, however, hopes that the experimental program at London's
Childrens Hospital can resolve at least some of the ethical issues.

'We are proposing that the babies be allowed to proceed to natural  death - that
is cardiac arrest," he said. Once the heart has stopped, the  baby would be put
on an artificial respirator so that the vital organs  keep receiving oxygen
until they are removed for transplant. He added that  the organs would be
removed only after it can be established that the  infant is indeed brain dead.
Brain death occurs when not only the thinking  functions, but the automatic ones
stop too. In particular, the brain stem,  which regulates breathing and other
basic reflexes, must no longer be  working.

If brain death does not take place within a week, the respirator will
be turned off and the newborn will allowed to die naturally, he said.

Calvin Stiller, head of the multi-organ tranplant program for the
London area, noted that the experiment adheres to all current criteria for
brain death.

The only moral dilemma he see is that the bady is being resusitated for
someone else's benefit.

That view is shared by Abbyann Lynch, director of the Westminster
Institute for Ethics and Human Values, which acts as a consultant to
London-area hospitals.

Putting the infant on the respirator may "kick on' the heart again.
'The baby is alive and you'll have to wait longer for it to die.'
   The added wait could create a lot of extra stress for the infant's
parents.

About 100 anencephalic children are born in Canada each year. Dr.
Frewen said he hopes the experiment, which will involve up to 10
anancephalic cases before stopping for a review, can begin this fall.

He added that it will only proceed if the teaching hospital recieves
the blessing of the research and ethics board of the University of Western
Ontario.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1989 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


