                              486 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                       July 9, 1992, Thursday, 1* EDITION

Doctors defend ethics of billing cap protest

BYLINE: TOM BARRETT; VANSUN

SECTION:  Pg. B3

LENGTH: 415 words


Doctors' protests run counter to their ethical code, two medical ethicists said
Wednesday.

"The Hippocratic Oath, which every doctor takes, has as its leading principle
that the life and health of my patient will be my first consideration," said
Arthur Schafer, director of the University of Manitoba's centre for professional
and applied ethics.

"It's very difficult to avoid the conclusion that physicians have their own
financial health as their first consideration."

Eike Kluge, a University of Victoria lecturer in medical ethics, said in an
interview that the withdrawal of services by physicians for personal benefit
violates the doctors' ethical code.

Doctors closed their offices Wednesday in Burnaby and Vernon, leaving only
emergency services available. Doctors at St. Paul's and Mount Saint Joseph
Hospitals in Vancouver were also off the job.

Despite the walkouts, hospital officials reported no problems.

Today, doctors are scheduled to close their offices in Nanaimo and Duncan.

In Kamloops, doctors met to discuss a controversial plan to close their offices
indefinitely.

B.C. Medical Association president Steve Hardwicke said the 130 doctors in
Kamloops are "totally frustrated," partly because of a reorganization at Royal
Inland Hospital and the provincial government's decision to place a cancer
control clinic in Kelowna despite election promises to locate it in Kamloops.

As the protests against the New Democratic Party government's plans to cap
doctors' incomes continued, attention focused on the ethics of their actions.

"There is a very strong current of philosophical opinion that physicians do not
have the right to go on strike," said UVic's Kluge. He added that the current
protests might not technically qualify as a strike, but said the actions raise
"deep ethical questions."

Doctors have a monopoly on providing medical care and agree to live up to
certain conditions in return for that monopoly, he said.

"Society gives monopolies not for the benefit of a monopoly holder, but for the
benefit of society."

Both Kluge and Schafer said that society clearly cannot afford to allow doctors
unlimited billings.

Hardwicke denied that doctors were doing anything unethical.

"I don't think there's any problem as long as people don't suffer from it," he
said.

Hardwicke acknowledged the public may turn against the doctors and said if it
happens "we'll have to face that. We're forced into this position right now."


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1992 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


