                              489 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             April 27, 2007 Friday

Everyday ethics: Bag search a blow to worker dignity

BYLINE: Randy Cohen

SECTION: RELIGION; Features

LENGTH: 549 words


At the private hospital where I am a medical resident, security guards routinely
ask to check employees' bags when we leave. After working a 24-hour shift, I
just want to get home. Do employers have the right to search our bags without
any probable cause?

- Name Withheld, New York

The expert on workplace law whom I consulted confirms that your boss has the
legal right to search your bag. But ethics sets a higher standard, placing a
value on human dignity, something you need not relinquish on the job. Unless
there has been a rash of thefts of handbag-size items that less-intrusive
measures have failed to curtail, the hospital is acting badly.

To search someone is to treat him as if he were untrustworthy, if not dishonest.
That the hospital searches everyone mitigates this baleful effect slightly,
because no employee is being singled out for special scrutiny. But to mildly
humiliate many does not eradicate the sting to each.

The hospital has a legitimate interest in thwarting crime, but it must do so
appropriately. The heavy-handed tactic you describe should be introduced only if
gentler methods fail. Have small, stealable items been locked up? Has access to
them been limited? Has an effort been made to hire honest workers and treat them
with the respect that encourages honesty? Have technical experts been consulted
to suggest security measures that do not denigrate employees so cavalierly?

Because an employer holds so much power over employees, there is an ethical duty
to wield that power with restraint and to be mindful of the courtesy employees
rightfully expect - that is, not to be bullied. Or, as they put it on the big
plaque over the entrance to the Measure for Measure Hospital: ''It is excellent
to have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous to use it like a giant.''

I am booking a bus to take a group of friends to a political event. The bus
holds 47 people. I'm thinking of confirming, say, 55 people, on the almost
certain assumption that some won't show up at 5:30 on a Saturday morning as they
promised. Is that ethical?

- Name Withheld, Illinois

What you propose affronts both ethics and the English language - the latter
because by ''confirming'' you mean ''not confirming'' and the former because you
are not being truthful to those you promise a seat on the bus.

Reluctant as I am to praise the policy of airlines (seldom have so many been
made so uncomfortable by so few), that industry has devised a nice solution to
the overbooking problem: Offer a reward to any passenger who relinquishes a seat
and keep raising the value of that reward until there are seats for all who
reserved them. If you overbook, you should be prepared to try something similar.
Or to rent a car for the overflow. Another approach would be to confirm only 47
passengers but require a cash deposit from each that would be refunded once they
boarded the bus. Or perhaps some sort of hostage deal could be worked out: A
close relative is released when a passenger takes a seat. Can some stand? Ride
on the roof at a discount? Use Rollerblades and a sturdy towline? With a little
ingenuity you can solve this problem while still being honest with your
potential passengers.

Update: The organizer says he ended up with one extra person: ''I sucked it up
and stood for most of the ride.''

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


