                              485 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                              May 2, 2015 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Nursing stays top of trusted jobs list

BYLINE: LISA WACHSMUTH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 317 words


WOLLONGONG Hospital registered nurse Daniel Graham is glad his chosen job has
topped a list of the nation's most trusted professions.

For the 21st year in a row, Australians surveyed rated nurses as the most
ethical and honest workers in the Roy Morgan Image of Professions survey.

Other professions that rated highly in the annual survey included doctors,
pharmacists, school teachers, engineers and dentists.

Car salesmen again ended up at the bottom of the heap - a position they have
held for 30 years - with real estate agents and advertising executives hot on
their heels.

Pollster Gary Morgan said of the 30 professions surveyed, many recorded ratings
slumps from 2014 with bank managers, accountants, lawyers and university
lecturers the big losers.

Ninety-two per cent of those who took part in the telephone poll, conducted on
April 8 to 10 this year, rated nurses highly for ethics and honesty - their
highest rating for over a decade.

NSW Nurses and Midwives Association general secretary Brett Holmes welcomed the
acknowledgement on behalf of the many thousands of nurses working in hospitals
and other health settings across the country.

"Nurses and midwives are often intertwined into some of the most intimate
moments in a patient's life and as a result take their ethical and professional
responsibilities very seriously," Mr Holmes said.

The results come just ahead of the International Day of the Midwife on Tuesday
and International Nurses Day on May 12.

Mr Graham, a nurse unit manager in the hospital's aged care ward, said it was
good to get some recognition.

"It's great to see that nurses are held in high esteem within the community," he
said.

"We're here 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and we see patients often at some
of the worst of times.

"Nurses are dedicated, they have a lot of empathy and understanding and are
excellent problem solvers - and that's reflected by these results."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dedicated: Wollongong Hospital registered nurse Daniel Graham says
results of a poll of professions recognises the hard work nurses put into their
line of work. Picture: ADAM McLEAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2015 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


