                              483 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                             March 10, 2006 Friday

University Hospital restarts PolyHeme study;
LDS holds off;
Synthetic blood: Further study is needed before LDS rejoins the research;
the U. hospital is satisfied with the manufacturer's assurances

BYLINE: Jason Bergreen , The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: UTAH;  Pg. B8

LENGTH: 445 words


Two weeks after stopping a clinical study involving the transfusion of synthetic
blood in trauma patients, one Salt Lake City hospital has decided to reinstate
the trial while another, citing "scientific and ethical considerations," has
refused to do so.

LDS Hospital's institutional review board voted unanimously Thursday to keep the
PolyHeme trial on administrative hold pending further review, hospital spokesman
Jess Gomez said.

Testing was placed on hold late last month at LDS Hospital and the University
Hospital after the Wall Street Journal reported that the maker of PolyHeme,
Northfield Laboratories, tried to hide crucial details about a 2000
blood-substitute study. The Journal reported that 10 heart surgery patients in
that experiment had heart attacks, while other patients given real blood did
not.

The LDS Hospital review board "believes blood substitute research should be
conducted and the PolyHeme trial to be an important study that should be
completed," read a statement released by Gomez. "However, the LDS Hospital IRB
believes there are scientific and ethical considerations consequent to the prior
[Northfield] trial that need to be explored further before allowing the study to
continue at LDS Hospital."

University Hospital restarted its PolyHeme study March 3. Stephen Morris, the
hospital's trauma director and principal investigator for the trial, said last
week that he is satisfied with Northfield's conclusion "that there are no
specific cardiovascular or other adverse outcomes that would jeopardize the
safety of the [current] study."

Some medical ethicists have argued the study should never have started in the
first place because patients who may receive the experimental substitute might
not be able to give their consent.

The LDS Hospital review board "believes there is clinical and scientific value
in the study and that there is potential benefit to trauma patients, but wants
to ensure that clinical investigators and the general public are well informed
about all known potential risks to patients in the study and are prepared to
manage those risks before the study is reinstated at LDS Hospital," the
institution's press release stated.

PolyHeme is a blood substitute, compatible with all blood types, that can be
given to trauma victims immediately. Thirty-one trauma centers in 18 states are
enrolled in the study. Of the 720 patients expected to participate, as many as
36 will be from Utah.

A meeting will be held at 11:30 a.m. today at the Utah Department of Health
Cannon building, where representatives from both hospitals will review the study
with valley emergency medical system personnel.

jbergreen@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


