                              484 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 28, 1983, Monday, Late City Final Edition

PRESIDENTIAL PANEL SAYS SOCIETY HAS AN 'ETHICAL OBLIGATION' TO PROVIDE EQUITABLE
ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1075 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27


A Presidential commission said today that society had an ''ethical obligation to
insure equitable access to health care'' for all Americans, even at a time of
budget cutbacks and fiscal austerity.

The 11-member commission, headed by Morris B. Abram, former president of
Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass., concluded that the Federal Government had
the ''ultimate responsibility'' for seeing that this obligation was met,
although the Government did not have to be involved in the health care of all
Americans.

In a 223-page report reflecting more than two years of work, the commission said
measures to control medical costs were unacceptable if they widened inequities
in the health care system.

8 Members Named by Reagan

Eight of the panel's members were appointed by President Reagan; Mr. Abram and
two other members were named by President Carter. The report did not explicitly
criticize Mr. Reagan, but there was some implied criticism of his policies.

Cutbacks in Medicaid, including new limits on eligibility, have reduced access
to health care for many poor people, it said.  Proposals to charge Medicaid
recipients a nominal fee, such as $1 for each day in the hospital or each visit
to a doctor's office, may impose a ''substantial burden,'' it said, and they
''appear undesirable from an ethical standpoint.'' Mr. Reagan made such
proposals last year and again this year.

The commission also suggested that the Government was not meeting its ''ethical
obligation'' to families removed from the rolls of the Social Security
disability program. ''The process of 'weeding out' ineligible enrollees appears
to have become one of terminating a substantial number of beneficiaries for the
purpose of budgetary savings,'' it said.

Tax on Health Payments

But the panel said Federal tax subsidies for health insurance could be reduced,
as the President proposed, without any violation of ethical principles. At
present, when an employer pays health insurance premiums for his employees, the
payments are not counted as income for the employees. Mr. Reagan wants to tax
such payments above $175 a month for a family plan and $70 for an individual.

Such a tax, if properly designed, would not ''compromise access to adequate
health care,'' the panel said, because the tax would ''primarily affect
middle-and upper-income families.''

The report was prepared by the President's Commission for the Study of Ethical
Problems in Medicine and Biomedical and Behavioral Research. The panel was
established by statute in 1978 and held its first meeting in 1980. Last week it
issued a separate report saying patients should generally be allowed to halt
medical treatment that keeps them alive without any hope of curing or
ameliorating their condition.

Mr. Abram, the chairman, said the report made public today ''represents the
first attempt by a Presidential commission to state a society's ethical
obligation regarding access to health care, and to do so in a way that is
realistic and achievable, rather than through grandiose rhetoric about rights.''
The commission spoke in terms of ''ethical obligations'' rather than rights, and
it observed that ''neither the Supreme Court nor any appellate court has found a
constitutional right to health or to health care.''

'Adequate Level of Care'

''The commission concludes that society has an ethical obligation to insure
equitable access to health care for all,'' the report said. ''Equitable access
to health care requires that all citizens be able to secure an adequate level of
care without excessive burdens. The cost of achieving equitable access to health
care ought to be shared fairly.''

But, the commission said, ''equity does not require equal access.'' And it
added, ''Equal health status is not a feasible goal since levels of health will
vary among individuals, even if all receive adequate care.''

The report does not specify the medical procedures required to achieve
''adequate'' care. Mr. Abram said some ''advanced procedures,'' such as kidney
dialysis or the use of an artificial heart, were not necessarily required by the
ethical precepts in the report.

One member of the commission, Dr. H. Thomas Ballantine Jr., senior neurosurgeon
at the Massachusetts General Hospital, issued a dissenting statement, saying the
report had been ''politicized to an unacceptable degree.''

Dissenter Opposes Intrusion

He agreed that there was a ''moral imperative'' for society to insure access to
health care, but added, ''I do not agree that the failures of the market, of
charity and of activities at the local and state levels have been so severe as
to warrant at this time increased intrusion of the Federal Government into the
health care sector.''

The commission said it was not proposing any new health policy initiatives, and
it had no estimate of the cost of its recommendations. Mr. Abram said the report
provided an intellectual framework for assessing the ''fairness'' of various
proposals.

The commission estimated that 34 million people were without health insurance
for all or part of the year, and it said many of them were denied equitable
access to adequate care. On the average, it said, poor people now visit
physicians as often as other people, ''but since the poor are acknowledged to
have a greater incidence of ill health, poor individuals have a greater need for
health care and should use health services at higher rates if some measure of
equity is to be achieved.''

The other commission members are Dr. George R. Dunlop, a professor of surgery at
the University of Massachusetts medical school; Dr.  Bruce K. Jacobson, of the
Southwestern Medical School; John J. Moran, of Houston; Dr. Arno G. Motulsky,
professor of medicine at the University of Washington; Dr. Baher B. Rahi, of St.
Clair Shores, Mich.; Seymour Siegel, professor of ethics and theology at the
Jewish Theological Seminary of America; Lynda Smith, of Colorado Springs; Dr.
Kay Toma, of Bell, Calif., and Dr. Charles J. Walker, of Nashville.

Copies of the report, at a cost of $6 each, can be obtained from the Government
Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1983 The New York Times Company


