                              490 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Sunday Tribune (Ireland)

                                 June 24, 2007

Medical council to look at ethics rules after 'cult' suicide

BYLINE: Ali Bracken

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. N08

LENGTH: 573 words


The Irish Medical Council has said it would welcome submissions from the family
of a man who committed suicide and who have called for an urgent overhaul of the
Council's ethical guidelines to prevent further loss of life.

Niall MacMahon (40), from Watling Street, Dublin 8, was killed instantly after
he stepped in front of the Dublin-Belfast train at Harmonstown Dart station on
the evening of 2 March, 2006. He had suffered from depression. His brother and
father told the Sunday Tribune that his involvement with the cult-like
International Church of Christ group, which they claimed had "undue influence"
over him, was a "contributory factor" in his death.

MacMahon had been released from St James' Hospital days before his death
following treatment for depression. He had attempted suicide a few weeks
previously in the Phoenix Park but his family were not informed about this.

Following his death, the hospital told the family that its hands were tied as it
was not allowed to give out such information for reasons of patient
confidentiality, an inquest into his death heard last Tuesday.

The Medical Council's ethical guidelines state that a doctor must not disclose
information to any person without the consent of the patient. "If we'd known, it
would have given us the opportunity to talk him through his problems," said
Niall's brother Declan MacMahon. "We're not saying it would have changed what
happened. The only reason we're speaking out about this is in the hope that
families may be able to avoid a tragedy like this. We can't change what happened
but we want to potentially change what happens to other families." MacMahon
described his brother as "a great brother" and said he had "led an exemplary
life."

Dr Deirdre Madden, chairperson of the ethics committee of the Medical Council,
said when contacted: "The ethical guidelines are about to be revised. The
council would take very seriously the concerns of a bereaved family. If there's
a call by a family, we would consider it. When a family makes a public
statement, the council will pay attention to it." A public consultation process
in relation to the forming of the council's new ethical guidelines will begin in
the next few weeks.

Mike Garde of Dialogue Ireland, which seeks to promote people's freedom to make
informed choices about religions, said he was aware of seven individuals who had
experienced "psychiatric destabilisation" following involvement with the
International Church of Christ. One young man attempted suicide by drinking
Domestos after he was ostracised by the group, he said. "This church had a very
heavy-duty command structure and in many ways it was cult-like in its
activities."

The group collapsed seven years ago due to the disintegration of its leadership,
leaving 100 or so of its members in Ireland lost, Garde continued. "There was a
loss of meaning for people who had been in the group. They had been taught that
if they left this group, they were going to hell." The group kept its members
"controlled" and "believed they were the only Christian church," he added. All
members were also required to hand over 10% of their salaries each year, he
said.

At his inquest, MacMahon's suicide note was read out: it referred to a
successful brain operation he had to cure his lifelong epilepsy. He wrote that
he had made a "hasty decision" to have the operation, and this had "put money
before my own brain. This was a blasphemous thing to do."

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Sunday Tribune plc
                              All Rights Reserved


