                              482 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                            December 31, 2010 Friday

Role of ethics committees

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 298 words


Madam,   The restatement by the Adelaide Hospital Society of its interpretation
of the charter of Tallaght Hospital (Letters, December 29th) is to be welcomed
in the spirit of free speech and collegiality, as long as it is not taken to
imply the assent or formal endorsement of this interpretation by the staff of
the hospital.

However, it is unhelpful for Dr Fergus O Ferrall to portray clinical ethics as
being viewed by me (or anyone in the hospital!) as a situation where  medical
consultants are viewed as the fount of all knowledge . Our clinical ethics
teaching programmes emphasise the importance of moral agency for all involved,
including medical students, and the clear need for ethical formation and
dialogue in, and among, all clinical disciplines at all levels. I am involved,
for example, in ethics teaching with disciplines such as speech and language
therapy and physiotherapy. Not only are we supportive of joint lay involvement
in areas such as the Medical Council, but also encourage the use of the medical
humanities   literature, film, music and theatre   to illuminate personal and
societal perspectives on ethical and practice issues.

Perhaps the largest challenge, as outlined in our papers in the Irish Medical
Journal, is to try to ensure that non-clinician ethicists work wherever possible
with interested clinicians, as otherwise they risk missing out on therapeutic
approaches and opportunities of advances and flexibilities of informed clinical
practice. Without this joint work, non-clinician ethicists may retreat to
artificial dichotomies that make for good debating material but can impoverish
the choices and opportunities for patients and their families.   Yours, etc,

Prof DESMOND O NEILL MA

MD FRCPI AGSF FRCP(Glasg),

Adelaide and Meath Hospital,

Dublin 24.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2010 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


