                              498 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                       San Jose Mercury News (California)

                           September 18, 2006 Monday

Banishing doctors' conflict of interest;
STANFORD WALLS OFF ITS HOSPITAL FROM DRUG INDUSTRY LURES

BYLINE: Mercury News Editorial

SECTION: A; Pg. OP1

LENGTH: 320 words


It's well documented that no one better understands the concept of buying in
bulk than the pharmaceutical industry. Last year it spent a whopping $20 billion
in marketing its products to doctors across the country.

Finally, a major medical institution in California has demonstrated the ethical
fortitude to say enough is enough. Stanford University's Medical Center, which
includes its medical school, Stanford Hospital and Lucile Packard Children's
Hospital, has announced that it will no longer allow staff and students to
receive gifts from drug suppliers.

Lavish spending on doctors and medical students is done in part to influence
physicians' thoughts on the use of certain drugs. It's essential that patients
know that their doctors are basing their decisions on treatment free of
conflicts of interest.

Pharmaceutical companies should still be allowed to maintain their connections
to medical schools, researchers and physicians through research and development.
But imposing potential conflicts of interests on patient care is another matter.

Stanford follows in the footsteps of Yale University and the University of
Pennsylvania in implementing such a policy. Other hospitals, clinics and
physicians in California should follow Stanford's lead.

The pharmaceutical industry argues that its marketing efforts -- including free
trips and a variety of gifts for doctors -- are the best means to keep
physicians informed on the latest products. But it doesn't take eight years of
medical school to determine that pharmaceutical companies have ulterior motives.
Drug companies don't spend billions of dollars without receiving a return on
investment.

Stanford, under the leadership of Medical School Dean Philip Pizzo, should be
applauded for its decision to reinforce the public's trust in health care. The
pharmaceutical industry should take note and limit its efforts to more ethical
means of communication about products.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 San Jose Mercury News
                              All Rights Reserved


