                              495 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                       May 4, 1996 Saturday Final Edition

Hospital's letters warn parents of tainted blood supply problem: 'The ethical
thing to do,' officials decide after debate

SOURCE: CANADIAN PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 569 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


Hundreds of parents across Canada who've received letters from a Toronto
hospital are the latest in a long list of people warned about a lethal brain
virus in the country's blood supply.

Officials at Toronto's Hospital for Sick Children said yesterday letters were
sent to 525 families. They were told their children received blood products made
from blood donated by a man who died last year of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.

Though the risk of getting the disease through transfusion is almost nil, chief
pediatrician Dr. Robert Haslam said the trust of the public is at stake.

"We debated the pros and cons of telling the parents," he said during a news
conference. "Let me tell you, there was a lot of debate."

The hospital decided to warn parents because "it was the ethical thing to do,"
Dr. Haslam said.

"The family advisory committee felt it was our responsibility to tell the
parents, despite the angst it would cause. It's an issue of truth."

The blood products were used at the hospital between 1989 and July 1995, the
same month the Red Cross learned of the donor who had CJD. That prompted the
largest blood recall in the agency's history.

There have been two more recalls since then and almost every hospital in Canada
has been affected.

The Red Cross has been deluged with calls about CJD while it struggles to cope
with the fallout from a federal investigation into how thousands of Canadians
were infected with the AIDS virus and hepatitis C in the 1980s.

Dr. Haslam said other Canadian hospitals have an ethical duty to tell patients
whether they received blood products that might carry CJD.

Many Canadians -- mostly hemophiliacs who must use blood products -- have
already received warning letters from their doctors.

In Alberta, for example, the Calgary Regional Health Authority sent letters last
year to about 1,000 people who received blood products.

A Calgary man who received one of those letters later died of CJD. But officials
stressed they could not link the death with tainted blood products.

Meanwhile, Toronto's Sick Kids hospital has set up a hotline for worried
parents. About 80 have already called.

"They're very angry and they are very anxious," Dr. Haslam said.

The symptoms of Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease -- the human equivalent of mad cow
disease -- include loss of co-ordination and dementia. These signs can take up
to 30 years to develop.

The only way to tell whether someone has CJD is to examine their brian after
they die.

Hospital officials say there has never been a documented case of someone getting
the disease through a blood transfusion.

In March, the British government admitted that people may risk contracting the
disease if they eat beef from cattle infected with bovine spongiform
encephalopathy, or mad cow disease. Britain will slaughter thousands of cattle
as it tries to restore confidence in its beef.

QUICK FACTS

Facts about Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease:

CAUSE: Infectious protein or virus.

INCIDENCE: About one in a million.

TRANSMISSION: Contact with infected brain tissue, corneal transplants or
products produced from the human pituitary gland. Can be passed through
heredity, but very rare.

RISKS: No reported case of CJD caused by transfusion of blood or blood products.

SYMPTOMS: Loss of memory, inability to concentrate, lack of co-ordination.

TEST: CJD can only be diagnosed by examining the brain after death.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 1996 Metroland Media Group Ltd


