                              492 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                             March 18, 2016 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Quebec doctors let suicidal patients die, college says

BYLINE: Graeme Hamilton, National Post

SECTION: CANADA; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 535 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL


Quebec's College of Physicians has issued an ethics bulletin to its members
after learning that some doctors were allowing suicide victims to die when
life-saving treatment was available. The bulletin says the college learned last
fall that, "in some Quebec hospitals, some people who had attempted to end their
lives through poisoning were not resuscitated when, in the opinion of certain
experts, a treatment spread out over a few days could have saved them with no,
or almost no, after-effects."

It goes on to spell out a physician's ethical and legal duty to provide care,
even to patients seeking to end their own lives.

Yves Robert, the college's secretary, said an unspecified number of doctors were
interpreting suicide attempts as an implicit refusal of treatment. They "refused
to provide the antidote that could have saved a life. This was the real ethical
issue," he said.

"If there is a life-threatening situation, you have to do whatever is possible
to save a life, then you treat the underlying cause."

In the bulletin posted on the college's website last week, the professional
order's working group on clinical ethics says obtaining patient consent for
treatment has to be set aside in such situations.

"From a moral point of view, this duty to act to save the patient's life, or to
prevent him from living with the effects of a too-late intervention, rests on
principles of doing good and not doing harm, as well as of solidarity," it
reads. "It would be negligent not to act."

It says treatment should be withheld only in cases where a physician has
"irrefutable proof" of a patient's wishes in the form of an advance medical
directive or a do-not-resuscitate order.

Robert said the Quebec Poison Control Centre, which provides emergency advice to
physicians treating patients who have ingested poisons or pills, alerted the
college to the issue.

"They were concerned by these cases," he said. "It was not a frequent situation,
but it was a situation that raised ethical questions on their part."

He said he didn't know how many cases occurred or in which hospitals. More than
1,000 people die by suicide every year in Quebec.

Maude St-Onge, medical director of the Poison Control Centre, said the centre
found emergency-room doctors weren't always sure how to proceed when treating
people who had attempted suicide.

"We saw doctors at the bedside confronted with problems like this," she said.
"There were treatments, antidotes that could have allowed a patient to recover
relatively easily, but the patient resists treatment, or the family says, 'He
wanted to die. Let him go.' " Robert said that even though withholding
life-saving treatment is an ethical breach, the college has no plan to
investigate the doctors involved.

"We are not in a situation where we can go fishing, trying to see where that
happened," he said.

Bernard Mathieu, president of the 500-member Association of Quebec Emergency
Physicians, was surprised to hear some colleagues were allowing suicidal
patients to die. He made a point of sending the college bulletin to all
association members.

"We didn't want any ambiguity about this necessity to intervene," he said.
!@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

