                              493 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                          September 22, 2016 Thursday

Israel to establish hospital to treat "terrorists"

LENGTH: 452 words


Text of report in English by website of Israeli mass-circulation, free-of-charge
daily Yisra'el Hayom on 22 September

[Report by Itzik Saban, entitled : "State Plans 'Terrorist Hospital' To Keep
Assailants From Victims"]

The Public Security Ministry and the Israel Prison Service announced a tentative
plan on Wednesday [21 September] to use part of the Ayalon Prison as a special
hospital for terrorists, days after an Israeli border policewoman was admitted
to the same trauma unit as the man who stabbed her.

The plan, which is still being finalised, was proposed by Public Security
Minister Gilad Erdan. Once implemented, the hospital facilities will include
some 70 beds spread over three floors.

Erdan told Israel Hayom that such a model exists in many countries and is
preferable, from a security standpoint, to having prisoners admitted to
hospitals outside of prison. He stressed that the care provided in the special
facility would not be inferior to that in regular hospitals.

"I was shocked that the Israel Prison Service has no means of treating an inmate
who goes on a hunger strike or a terrorist [who is detained after an attack],"
he said. "This creates a situation where a terrorist lies on a bed next to the
person he wounded; this immoral situation does not make sense and must be
addressed," Erdan lamented, noting that such facilities will help the
authorities counter prisoners' efforts to receive early parole due to pressure
imposed by "hunger strikers, the justice system and doctors who feel intimidated
by the Israel Medical Association [which sets ethical guidelines for doctors and
has voiced opposition to force-feeding prisoners]."

Erdan said the staff at the planned prison hospital will know how to strike a
balance between their ethical duties and the laws enacted by the Knesset, and
ensure that "we avoid the surreal situation in which terrorists are let back on
the street [on medical grounds] and become a threat to the public once again."

The Israel Prison Service told Israel Hayom that having the necessary medical
facilities to treat hunger-striking prisoners will help streamline operations.
Under the current system, a prisoner on hunger strike must be treated at a
hospital after 28 days, making it harder to watch over them since hospitals may
not have the necessary window bars, security cameras or other measures in place.

"This [system] poses a heavy burden because of the resources used to guard
prisoners outside of prison," Maj. Gen. Asher Vaknin, a senior IPS official,
told Israel Hayom. He said that treating inmates outside of prison often results
in other people trying to contact them and influence them.

Source: Yisra'el Hayom website in English 1146 gmt 22 Sep 16

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2016 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


