                              52 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              June 6, 2016 Monday

National Maternity Hospital

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 851 words


Sir, - I would like to reply to the letter (May 27th) from Drs Benson and
Crowley as to how medical ethical questions would be decided were the National
Maternity Hospital (NMH) to be governed by the board of St Vincent's Hospital
(SVH).

One point concerned the tragic case of a patient who had been in a permanent
vegetative state for 23 years. In 1995 the High Court and the Supreme Court gave
permission for life support to be withdrawn. I specifically did not name the
hospital, because I did not and do not know it. I am sorry if Drs Benson and
Crowley assumed, wrongly, that it was St Vincent's. My original reason for
mentioning the case was to show that a medical institution was not willing to
allow a patient in its care to die, even though permission had been granted by
the courts. That point stands.

The case was held in camera. It emerged in a lengthy article written anonymously
by the patient's mother in The Irish Times in 1996 that the patient was being
cared for by an institution run by an order of nuns in Dublin. The institution
was not willing to carry out the decision of the court, so the family had to
make alternative arrangements. The mother told of the wonderful care provided by
the nurses who had looked after her daughter for such a long time but many of
her experiences of medical institutions and the medical profession were
shocking. Reportedly, the Irish Medical Council decided not to amend their
ethical guidelines and doctors and institutions withdrew offers to help the
family; the patient had to be moved discreetly to the family home (not Tallaght
Hospital as I said) where a doctor and eight nurses volunteered to care for her
in the last eight days of her life, risking "censure by their various medical
ethics bodies".

St Vincent's is governed by a board on behalf of the owners, the Religious
Sisters of Charity. The board undertakes to develop "the hospital and its
services in accordance with the principles and ethics of the Congregation of the
Religious Sisters of Charity". It runs the hospital "subject to such directions,
if any, that may be given from time to time by the Provincial Superior". Its
objectives are qualified by "the continuance and furtherance of the ethos, aims
and purposes of the Congregation of the Religious Sisters of Charity" in
accordance "with the Health Care Philosophy and Ethical Code of the Religious
Sisters of Charity". No one can possibly doubt that St Vincent's is required to
adhere to the medical ethics of the Catholic Church. I wrote that "In the past
newly appointed staff at St Vincent's were required to sign a form, which in
effect required them to adhere to Catholic ethics". I wondered if that was still
the case. Drs Benson and Crowley say they were not asked to sign (in 1993 and
1994), and say that the practice has been ended. It is clearly not necessary -
it is the rule.

I greatly admire SVH. I have been a patient there, so were my mother and
friends, and all have been wonderfully cared for. Friends and colleagues are
members of staff. We can all be proud of SVH and grateful for all who work
there.

But it is more difficult for SVH to maintain its commitment to observe strictly
the medical ethics of the Catholic Church. This will become more difficult if
maternity services are placed under the governance of the Religious Sisters of
Charity. Reproductive medicine and related areas such as medical genetics pose
special difficulties for Catholic medical ethics. I wonder if SVH has carefully
considered the problems that it would face if it absorbs the NMH.

I do not know the ethical rules of the NMH. It is a Catholic foundation of great
distinction and doctors from the NMH have been leaders in their fields. The
Archbishop of Dublin is chairman of the board. It has 84 members, including
three parish priests who are ex-officio. I understand that the governance
structures are under review.

Should the governance of either or both hospitals be decided in discussions
between the hospitals or should there be some guidance on their ethical policies
by the Government? These are matters of national significance, and it might be
opportune for the Government to address them as part of the reorganisation of
maternity services. The Government should consider whether it is appropriate
that the medical ethics of the NMH and SVH be determined by a single religious
denomination, whose medical ethics are likely to be at variance with what is
permitted under law, with medical practice both in Ireland and abroad and with
the opinions and behaviour of a large number of Irish people. In particular they
are not consistent with the widely held principle of personal autonomy according
to which patients take ethical decisions within the law about their own
healthcare - without the direction by a medical ethics committee or any other
third party.

To take the point made by Gary Bury in his letter of June 1st, I am sure that
some of us who do not accept the ethics of St Vincent's (and presumably the NMH)
do feel disadvantaged in using their services. - Yours, etc,

DAVID McCONNELL,

Blackrock, Co Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


