                              53 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Japan News

                           December 25, 2014 Thursday
                                   S Edition

Murky protocol led to fatal surgeries

BYLINE: Yukiko Takanashi and Nozomi Suzuki, Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writers

SECTION: SOCIETY; Pg. 2; No. 23065

LENGTH: 1354 words


Despite the deaths of eight patients who underwent complicated laparoscopic
liver surgery at Gunma University Hospital, the cutting-edge operation continued
to be performed without the necessary ethical investigations or examinations
having been conducted over the fatalities.

In addition, 10 other patients died after having open abdominal liver surgery, a
more common procedure for liver operations, at the hospital's No. 2 surgical
department.

Why did the hospital fail to suspend the operations sooner?

It has also been learned that explanations provided to the patients before the
operations were not sufficient, casting light on various ethical problems.

Lack of awareness

"I doubt the surgeon who performed the operations in question was aware of the
need to examine the cases where patients died after undergoing the procedure,"
Yoshihisa Nojima, head of the hospital, said at a press conference Friday, by
way of explaining why the No. 2 surgical department had not held morbidity and
mortality (M&M) conferences to examine problems or mistakes that occurred during
care in the time since the eight patients died after undergoing the operations.

Even the professor who heads the department did not have enough awareness of the
problem, with the professor reportedly telling the hospital's in-house
investigation team, "My decision was too lenient, and we should have held M&M
conferences."

M&M conferences are held by doctors at relevant departments when patients die
after undergoing operations or other treatments, to examine potential problems
or mistakes in the course of the patients' care. The conferences are meant to
address problems and help doctors learn from the experience to improve future
treatment. University hospitals usually hold the conferences. Gunma University
Hospital said it should have closely examined the details of the eight cases.

Concerning laparoscopic operations performed at the department, of the 92
patients who underwent laparoscopic liver operations from 2010 to 2014, 58 seem
to have undergone complicated operations not covered by public health care
insurance plans. Of the 58, eight died after having the procedures performed by
the same assistant professor. While the causal relations between the operations
and the deaths have not yet been confirmed, the hospital admitted that liver
function tests, or other measures to determine whether a patient could withstand
an operation, were not carried out before the operations, and that the
department's informed consent processes were insufficient.

Cycle of ignorance

While the department had performed abdominal liver operations since before
introducing the laparoscopic surgery, it was recently learned that of 84
patients who had the abdominal procedures over the past five years, 10 died
after having the operations. The same assistant professor had also performed
surgical procedures on all 10 patients, with five out of the 10 patients dying
in fiscal 2009 -- just before laparoscopic surgery was introduced at the
department.

Despite fatal cases involving abdominal liver operations, the department allowed
the assistant professor to perform new, complicated operations, suggesting the
department did not have any oversight system in place.

The laparoscopic liver surgeries that apparently led to the deaths of the eight
patients involved methods whose effectiveness and safety had not been
sufficiently confirmed. The department should have obtained approval from the
hospital's ethical review board before performing the surgeries, but it did not
submit the necessary applications to the board.

An ethical review board is a body tasked with examining potential problems with
new medical research or medical treatment. While there are several ways of
referring a board or a variety of forms of such boards, university hospitals
across the nation have their own ethical review boards. However, deciding
whether to apply for approval from the boards depends on the judgement of
doctors or respective medical departments.

"Unless they make an application to the board, the hospital is unable to know
what is going on," Nojima said.

Furthermore, Gunma University Hospital has a system where any problems that
occur during the care of patients, such as medical accidents, are reported to
the hospital's safety management section. However, in the case of the eight
patients dying, there has been no report to the section, and the hospital only
came to know the situation in June. Until the eight patients died, a surgical
procedure that appeared to be vastly inappropriate had been repeatedly performed
without a second thought. Ultimately, if doctors or other workers have lax
awareness, relevant organizations do not examine problems, leaving patients
exposed to risks.

Unknown results

The hospital has taken measures to improve the situation, such as making clear
what matters are subject to a screening by the ethical review committee.
However, whether to apply for a review remains in the hands of the doctors,
making the effectiveness of the new measures unclear.

A similar problem came to light at Chiba Cancer Center in April. There were a
series of cases in which complicated laparoscopic procedures on the pancreas
were performed on patients without undergoing ethical screenings or providing
sufficient explanations to the patients, apparently resulting in deaths.
Currently, a third-party panel that has been investigating the fatal cases is
reportedly discussing ethical issues.

"Medical science advances through trying new things," said Kozo Tatara, a
professor emeritus at Osaka University who chairs the panel. "However, we must
not put patients at risk."

"Along with carefully obtaining the informed consent of patients, it also is
essential to establish a system that guarantees the safety of patients, such as
instituting a practice of gaining second opinions from other doctors based on a
recognition that patients are always in a vulnerable position," he added.

Hospital promoted new technique without explaining drawbacks

By Kenta Kamimura / Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writer

MAEBASHI -- The Declaration of Lisbon on the Rights of Patients adopted by the
World Medical Association in 1981 says, "The patient has the right to the
information necessary to make his or her decisions."

However, in cases at Gunma University Hospital, factors including those
indicated in documents and testimony by bereaved families make it clear that
informed consent was given only in a perfunctory manner.

A consent form that a now-deceased man approved for his bile duct cancer
operation carries a name and the date of the operation, and only mentions to
some potential complications, including bleeding, bile spillage and failure of
sutures. It does not show any data concerning such things as the frequency of
complications or the mortality rate.

According to his bereaved family, the hospital representative took one to two
hours to explain the operation, including advantages of a laparoscopic operation
-- such as placing less burden on the body -- which they described as "making
only a small cut and contributing to early recovery."

The man's wife, 60, recalled, "We did not hear about the disadvantages [of the
laparoscopic operation], while we had heard about the disadvantages of open
abdominal operations, with which they said the cut takes a long time to heal."

In his operation, the left half of the man's liver was removed, and the liver
was directly connected to the small intestine after removing the bile duct.

A surgeon who knows liver operations well said, "It is difficult even in an open
abdominal operation; doing that all in a laparoscopic operation requires a very
high level of skill."

But the man's family had understood that the operation carried a low risk as the
hospital explained that the laparoscopic operation "needed a small cut and would
cause less burden on the body."

Another bereaved family member said that they had believed there was no other
way but to receive an operation using a laparoscope. Some bereaved family
members do not even have a clear understanding of the patient having undergone a
laparoscopic operation.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


