                              55 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            December 16, 2012 Sunday

AKU Symposium explores Ethical Challenges in Healthcare Organisations

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 477

LENGTH: 289  words


Traditional ethics committees in healthcare organisations are reactive,
addressing only the most visible ethical concerns. They are unable to highlight
deeper organisational factors that influence how a health care organisation
functions, instead focusing on issues related primarily to clinical ethics.
Additionally, ethics committees are not well connected with other functions of
the organisation which results in employees unable to handle ethical issues
effectively.

This was pointed out at a symposium organized by the Aga Khan University
Hospital on Saturday. It was pointed out that addressing these issues often
falls beyond the scope of conventional ethics committees because they may not
pertain to clinical service, research or academics, but to the way the
organisation runs. Thus common norms and standards of ethical conduct need to be
set, communicated and enforced in every function of the institute, explained Dr
Robyna Khan, Assistant Professor, AKU. She was speaking in her capacity as
Chair, Sixth Hospital Ethics Committee Symposium held at Aga Khan University.
In her keynote address, Dr Melissa M Bottrell of the National Centre for Ethics
in Healthcare in the United States identified the major limitations of
traditional ethics committee models and offered an Integrated Ethics model as a
paradigm shift that remedies most of these defects. By envisioning new ways of
looking at ethical concern in health care, she said. Other notable speakers at
the Symposium included Dr Abdul Bari Khan, CEO, Indus Hospital,  Ameena Saiyid,
Managing Director, Oxford University Press, Professor Arif Zaman, former Dean,
Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS) and Dr Nida Bashir, Consultant
Surgeon, Patel Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


