                              61 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                    Copyright (c) 2010 Washington University
                 Washington University Journal of Law & Policy

                                      2010

                 Washington University Journal of Law & Policy

                          32 Wash. U. J.L. & Pol'y 515

LENGTH: 8848 words

Note: Medical Repatriation: Examining the Legal and Ethical Implications of an
Emerging Practice

NAME: Emily R. Zoellner*

BIO: * J.D. (2010), Washington University School of Law; B.A., magna cum laude
(2006), Carleton College. I am grateful to my parents, Bill and Luan Zoellner,
and siblings, Bill, Anne, and Kate Zoellner, for loving and encouraging me in
this and all other endeavors. I also thank my friends for their support, the
many teachers who have inspired me, and the staff of the Washington University
Journal of Law & Policy.

TEXT:
 [*515]

   Introduction

 On July 10, 2003, Luis Alberto Jimenez was taken from the hospital that was
treating him in Stuart, Florida, to an airport, where he was placed on a private
plane and transported to Guatemala. n1 Mr. Jimenez had been hospitalized since
2000, when he sustained traumatic brain injuries as a result of a collision with
an intoxicated Florida driver. n2 His brain injury rendered him completely
incapacitated, and for three years he received twenty-four hour nursing care. n3
Since arriving in Guatemala, though, Mr. Jimenez has not received medical
treatment. n4 His sole caregiver is his seventy-two year-old mother. n5 He
routinely suffers violent seizures, vomits blood, and falls into bouts of
unconsciousness. n6 United States immigration  [*516]  procedures played no role
in Mr. Jimenez's deportation. Instead, the Florida hospital that previously
treated him obtained a court order that allowed it to privately "repatriate"
him. n7 The timing of this trip was not incidental. The hospital transported Mr.
Jimenez on a plane it had chartered a mere three hours before it was required to
file a response to Mr. Jimenez's guardian's motion to stay the court order
allowing for his repatriation. n8 Mr. Jimenez's case is not unique. To be sure,
he has received a level of media attention that few other patients in his
position have attained. n9 However, the underlying factual scenario - a United
States hospital privately deporting a critically ill patient - is increasingly
common. n10

   Medical repatriation results from myriad factors. n11 The incentives for
hospitals to "repatriate" indigent immigrants are largely economic. Federal
Medicare and Medicaid guidelines do not provide health care funding for the
treatment of undocumented immigrants,  [*517]  except in the cases of medical
emergencies, which traditionally have been narrowly defined. n12 However,
hospitals are required by other federal legislation to treat patients suffering
from emergent health care needs. n13 Repatriation often occurs in cases like
that of Mr. Jimenez, in which the patient is originally admitted after a medical
emergency, but then stabilizes to the point that his condition is no longer
deemed emergent. n14 Hospitals see repatriation as a way to avoid the financial
strain of treating patients who are unable to pay and are ineligible for public
medical assistance. n15 While exact numbers are not known, the practice likely
has become more common in recent years as health care costs climb, as does the
number of patients who are ineligible for state medical assistance because of
their immigration status. n16

   Medical repatriation raises substantial legal and ethical questions. The
facts of Mr. Jimenez's ordeal compel an almost universally negative reaction.
Something about his situation and medical  [*518]  repatriation seems
fundamentally wrong. The sense that something about medical repatriation is not
right is rooted in its potential violations of both legal standards for patient
treatment and discharge, n17 as well ethical standards governing the medical
profession. n18

   Because medical repatriation implicates both legal and ethical questions, any
proposal attempting to mitigate its problems must be similarly multifaceted and
address both the legal and ethical issues involved. This Note puts forth two
proposals. The first involves changing the Code of Federal Regulations to create
legal standards limiting the practice of medical repatriation. Additionally, it
would more broadly and clearly define the circumstances in which hospitals can
receive funding for treatment of undocumented immigrants. The second proposal
clarifies the American Medical Association's Principles of Medical Ethics with
respect to the effect of patients' immigration status on the applicability of
medical ethics standards.

   This Note asserts that changes are necessary to both legal regulations on
medical repatriation and medical ethics standards. Part I of the History section
explains the relevance of medical repatriation and anticipates its likely
future, absent new regulations. Part II.A of the History section discusses the
evolution of medical repatriation, focusing on the lack of government funding
available for treatment of undocumented immigrants and the concurrent mandate
that hospitals treat all patients with emergent medical conditions. Part II.B
reviews medical ethical standards and examines the interplay between ethical and
legal standards. Next, this Note analyzes the various factors contributing to
the emergence of medical repatriation and evaluates whether the practice
comports with currently established legal and ethical standards. Finally, this
Note proposes (1) changes to the  [*519]  federal regulations governing
hospitals and (2) clarifications to the ethical standards with which the medical
profession strives to comply.

   History

   I. Medical Repatriation is Important as a Medical Practice, the Legality and
Ethics of which Remain Disputed

 Medical repatriation is a poorly understood phenomenon, and one that is likely
to increase in importance as the number of undocumented immigrants living in the
United States, n19 as well as the cost of health care, continue to rise. n20
Hospitals are unlikely to find quick relief from the financial pressures that
have contributed to their efforts to repatriate patients, particularly when one
takes into account the current economic crisis. While both immigration and
health care are priorities of the Obama administration, n21 it is unclear
whether any current proposals will address the interplay between these two
policy areas. Additionally, despite President Obama's intent to affect policy
changes, n22 it is unclear what impact any changes will have on the ability of
documented and undocumented immigrants to receive publicly funded healthcare.
n23

    [*520]  There is scant information regarding the growth of medical
repatriation's use by hospitals or the number of people affected by its
operation. n24 The very factors that make medical repatriation troubling also
render it difficult to study: it exists in a murky gray area between immigration
law, health care law, and medical ethics. n25 Hospitals are unlikely to
advertise their use of repatriation, and many whom it affects are unable or
unwilling to draw public attention to their plight. n26 The specific cases that
have been brought to light, like that of Mr. Jimenez, illustrate that patients
who challenge hospitals' attempts to repatriate them face uphill battles that
are difficult even with legal assistance and most likely impossible without it.
n27

   Despite the factors that make medical repatriation difficult to quantify,
some people and organizations are attempting to collect data on its practice. In
her 2008 New York Times article that brought Mr. Jimenez national attention,
Deborah Sontag estimates that a Phoenix hospital repatriates nearly one hundred
patients per year, while a Chicago hospital returned ten patients to Honduras in
a recent twelve-month period. n28 Sontag's article also points to the existence
of  [*521]  a company, Mexcare, whose niche is the provision of repatriation
services, as evidence that the practice is fairly common. n29

   Research and anecdotal evidence suggest that undocumented immigrants are not
the only patients affected by hospitals' repatriation efforts. Cases of
hospitals repatriating immigrants who are lawfully living in the United States
abound. n30 Moreover, in at least one instance, a hospital tried to repatriate a
United States citizen - an infant born in its own maternity ward. n31 The range
of people affected by medical repatriation further counsels for an examination
of its legality and compliance with norms of medical ethics.

   Medical repatriation recently has begun to emerge as a topic of interest. The
California Medical Association voiced its opposition to the forced repatriation
of patients after a vote in October 2008. n32 The American Medical Association's
House of Delegates voted in early November 2008 to begin a study of the
practice. n33 The increasing  [*522]  media attention given to medical
repatriation and its specific occurrences is beginning to mirror the media
attention given to patient dumping in the 1980s. n34 Growing public sympathy for
those suffering the effects of medical repatriation increases the chance that
popular pressure will lead to new legislation. n35

   As the number of immigrants living in the United States continues to grow and
the cost of health care continues to rise, n36 the factors that incentivize
medical repatriation will likely persist. Anti-immigrant attitudes play an
important role, too, at least to the extent that hospitals arguably face much
less public outrage when they repatriate Latinos and non-citizens than when they
"dumped" non-Latino U.S. citizens. n37 Unless something changes, hospitals
likely will continue to  [*523]  utilize medical repatriation as a means to rid
themselves of costly patients.

   II. The Emergence of Medical Repatriation

 The combination of three main factors can explain why medical repatriation has
become a common practice. First, indigent undocumented (and some documented)
immigrants are ineligible for public assistance, and hospitals are unable to
receive reimbursement for their care. Second, hospitals have legal duties to
treat all patients with emergent health needs and to discharge patients to
appropriate facilities for further care, but receive no funding to compensate
for treatment of indigent patients who are ineligible for public assistance.
Third, the medical ethical standards arguably violated by medical repatriation
are unenforceable.

   A. Undocumented Immigrants and Government-Funded Healthcare

 Undocumented immigrants are ineligible for publicly funded health care except
in the case of medical emergencies. n38 A hospital that treats an indigent
undocumented immigrant for a non-emergent medical condition will not receive
public reimbursement for its expenses. n39

    [*524]  While non-citizens have long experienced diminished access to
government benefits relative to citizens, n40 the passage of the Personal
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 ("PRWORA" or
"Welfare Reform") marked a new era in their exclusion. n41 Congress enacted
welfare reform in 1996 in an attempt to reduce federal spending and, famously,
to "end welfare as we know it." n42 It not only dramatically changed public
assistance programs such as Aid to Families with Dependent Children ("AFDC"),
n43 but also imposed heightened restrictions on the ability of immigrants to
access public benefits. n44 PRWORA limits eligibility for medical assistance
programs to "qualified aliens" - a new category in the field of immigration
classifications. n45 "Qualified alien" is a term that includes lawful permanent
residents, refugees, asylees, and a few other select groups; it does not include
undocumented immigrants or lawful permanent residents who have maintained this
status for fewer than five years. n46

   There are conflicting opinions regarding PRWORA's goals and the extent to
which these goals have been achieved. n47 For the  [*525]  purposes of this
Note, the most important stated goal of Welfare Reform was to save the federal
government money by cutting funding for immigrants' medical care and narrowly
defining the groups of non-citizens who qualified. Because the general ban on
healthcare funding for immigrants was accompanied by an exception allowing for
treatment of emergency medical conditions, PRWORA did not completely eliminate
funding for the treatment of medical conditions among undocumented immigrants.
n48

   While PRWORA effectively prohibited undocumented immigrants from receiving
most forms of public assistance, n49 an exception allows for coverage of
emergency medical care. n50 An individual who is ineligible for Medicaid due to
his immigration status must receive the medical services necessary to treat an
emergency medical condition if withholding such treatment would be reasonably
expected to seriously jeopardize the patient's health, result in serious
impairment of bodily functions, or damage an organ or body part. n51 To qualify
for this emergency medical coverage, the  [*526]  individual must meet other
eligibility criteria for Medicaid, including income and asset limitations. n52

   It is unclear, though, what constitutes an "emergency medical condition." n53
There is not a consensus on either the definition of an emergency medical
condition or when an emergency medical condition ceases to be an emergency. n54
The narrowest construction of the meaning of emergency medical condition was
adopted by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in Greenery Rehabilitation Group
v. Hammon. n55 The court emphasized that only conditions characterized by acute
symptoms could be classified as emergencies. n56 Chronic conditions, despite
their severity, would not meet this test. n57 Courts considering the Greenery
rule in future cases often took broader approaches to the concept, finding that
emergency medical conditions existed in a more expansive class of cases. n58
These courts reasoned that the language of the emergency medical exception
indicates that an emergency exists when the absence of medical care would
reasonably be expected to result in serious danger to the individual's health or
in injuries to his bodily functions, organs, or body parts. n59  [*527]  The
definition of emergency medical condition is incredibly significant because it
determines a hospital's reimbursement for treatment of a non-citizen. n60
Hospitals will not be reimbursed for treatment of conditions that are not deemed
emergent. n61

   B. Hospitals' Legal Duties to Patients

 Hospitals have legal duties to treat patients with emergency medical conditions
and to discharge patients to appropriate facilities. n62

   1. The Duty to Treat Patients Experiencing Emergency Medical Conditions

 Congress passed the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act ("EMTALA")
in 1986. n63 EMTALA provides that any hospital n64 with an emergency department
must assess each patient that presents himself for treatment. n65 If a patient
presents with an  [*528]  "emergency medical condition," the hospital must treat
him until his condition stabilizes or transfer him to another hospital. n66
EMTALA, widely referred to as the "Patient Dumping Act," n67 was proposed and
enacted in response to public outcry at highly publicized instances of hospitals
denying life-saving treatment to people in need. Hospitals are bound to comply
with the provisions of EMTALA to the extent that they receive federal funding
through participation in the Medicare program. n68

   EMTALA requires hospitals with emergency departments to conduct preliminary
screening examinations on any individual who comes to the emergency department
and requests an exam or treatment. n69 If an emergency medical condition is
found, n70 EMTALA requires that the hospital provide treatment to stabilize the
condition  [*529]  or transfer the individual to another medical facility. n71
EMTALA imposes monetary penalties on both hospitals and doctors who violate its
requirements. n72 Importantly, the requirements EMTALA places on hospitals are
not matched with federal funding to compensate hospitals for the treatment they
are required to provide. When a patient cannot pay and is either ineligible for
or not enrolled in Medicare or Medicaid, a hospital will not be compensated. n73

   2. The Duty to Discharge Patients Appropriately

 A hospital's duties in discharging patients are consequences of its
participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. n74 These duties include
identifying patients who need discharge planning, n75 conducting a discharge
planning evaluation for such patients, n76 creating a discharge plan, n77 and
transferring or referring patients for  [*530]  future care. n78 The language of
these regulations suggests that the rules included are obligations n79 and that
failure to comply will result in significant penalties. n80 For the purposes of
this Note, the most important of these duties is that a hospital "must transfer
or refer patients, along with necessary medical information, to appropriate
facilities, agencies, or outpatient services, as needed, for followup [sic] or
ancillary care." n81

   C. Ethical Norms and Obligations of the Medical Profession

 The American Medical Association's "Principles of Medical Ethics" impose
standards by which medical professionals are obligated to abide. n82 These
include principles such as accepting the rights of patients, providing competent
care, and upholding standards of professionalism. n83 The most recent update to
the Principles of  [*531]  Medical Ethics occurred in 2001 and involved the
addition of two new principles: (1) "A physician shall, while caring for a
patient, regard responsibility to the patient as paramount;" n84 and (2) "A
physician shall support access to medical care for all people." n85 However,
neither version provides language relating to the citizenship or financial
status of a patient. n86

   There are more foundational principles of medical ethics than those adopted
by the American Medical Association. The Hippocratic Oath lies at the root of
these fundamental ethical duties, which include autonomy, non-maleficence,
beneficence, and justice. n87 Even within these well-established and widely
respected ethical tenets, however, it is unclear how the principles should be
handled when they conflict. For example, it is unclear how a doctor should react
[*532]  when a patient refuses treatment that the doctor believes is medically
necessary. n88

   Medical ethical standards, unlike legal standards and regulations, are
generally unenforceable. n89 While violations of legal requirements can result
in civil or criminal liability, violations of ethical standards are not
violations of a strict code of conduct. Instead, they constitute failures to
live up to behavioral ideals. n90 The incentive to comply with ethical standards
is a desire to live up to the aspirations of a noble profession, in contrast to
a desire to avoid civil or criminal liability. n91

   The line between legal standards and ethical ones becomes blurred when
primarily ethical ideals are codified as law. When an ethical ideal is converted
into a legal duty, the legal duty is likely to be a diluted version of the
ethical ideal and create a minimum standard of legally acceptable behavior. n92
Professor Charity Scott has identified the tension inherent in the process of
transforming an ethical ideal into a legal obligation: when a complex ethical
issue requiring careful weighing is incorporated into law, medical professionals
are likely to focus on the legal inquiry rather than the ethical one. n93 In the
process, they may forget that the ethical issue is what gave rise to the legal
requirement in the first place. n94

   Despite the risk that the transformation of ethical ideals into legal
obligations may dilute those ideals, the enactment of ethical standards into law
has the advantage of making such standards enforceable. n95 Absent the threat of
legal liability, Professor Scott argues, medical  [*533]  professionals are not
as likely to comply with ethical ideals. n96 Historically, laws concerning
health care have found their basis in ethical doctrines. n97

   In some cases, though, the issue is not whether there should be a legal duty
where there arguably is an ethical duty, but rather what should be done when
legal and ethical standards conflict. n98 In such cases, hospitals and medical
practitioners must choose whether to comply with legal standards at the cost of
violating the principles of their profession, or to instead comply with ethical
standards while potentially exposing themselves to civil or criminal liability.
This is an untenable choice. n99

   Analysis

 The federal regulatory and legislative scheme imposes huge financial burdens on
hospitals. This creates an incentive to discharge immigrant patients who are
ineligible for public assistance, even when doing so conflicts with ethical
standards of the medical profession. The unenforceability of ethical standards
when compared to the potential liability attached to violations of legal duties
complicates this problem. n100

    [*534]  The federal regulatory system contributes to the growth of medical
repatriation. By requiring hospitals to treat patients experiencing medical
emergencies but denying medical coverage to immigrants, n101 regulations impose
financial burdens on hospitals if they treat immigrants beyond the minimum
necessary to stabilize an emergency. n102 The uncompensated provision of
services creates several financial incentives for hospitals. It encourages
hospitals to enroll as many uninsured patients as possible in medical assistance
programs for which they might be eligible. n103 In the case of uninsured
indigent patients who are ineligible for any government-funded medical
assistance, though, the hospitals' incentive becomes not how to assist the
patient in applying for coverage, but rather how to avoid providing
uncompensated treatment to the patient while complying with the minimum
strictures of EMTALA. Undocumented immigrants rarely are eligible for government
medical assistance programs that would compensate hospitals for their care, and
thus are likely to fall into the category of patients whom a hospital has
incentives not to treat.

   The conflicting obligations imposed on hospitals and the concomitant lack of
federal funding to support compliance creates a situation in which hospitals
face difficult choices. All must comply  [*535]  with EMTALA, n104 but beyond
that, many attempt to rid themselves of immigrant patients through repatriation
or other means. The tension between fulfilling an ethical obligation that
results in enormous financial costs and complying with the minimum requirements
imposed by law results in minimal compliance by some hospitals. n105 Others
choose to fulfill their ethical obligations and comprehensively treat immigrant
patients, despite the resulting financial costs. n106 The different choices made
by hospitals reflect divergent philosophies on the weight that should be
afforded ethical, legal, and financial obligations. Moreover, they reflect
prevalent societal values and the realities of a hospital's financial
circumstances. n107

   It can be argued that hospitals that repatriate patients regularly do so for
a variety of nefarious reasons, n108 but to classify medical repatriation as
simply a rogue action by anti-immigrant hospital executives oversimplifies the
issue. Hospitals should not have to choose between financial solvency and
compliance with fundamental principles of medical ethics. The relationship
between law and ethics may be complex, but at the very least law should not
preclude the exercise of higher ethical standards.

   Proposal

 Medical repatriation highlights serious flaws in two of the most complex and
impenetrable regulatory schemes: health care and immigration. n109 To the extent
that medical repatriation implicates fundamental policy questions in each of
these areas, the questions  [*536]  that it raises are unlikely to be resolved
without complex reform of both systems. However, in the short term, the
government can act in ways that mitigate its potential problems. This Note
offers a twofold proposal. First, changes to the federal regulations concerning
immigrant access to health care can be made to enhance the ability of hospitals
to receive funding for their treatment of undocumented immigrants. Second, a
statement by a reputable voice of the medical community, such as the American
Medical Association, should reaffirm that the ethical standards of the
profession apply regardless of the patient's citizenship and denounce the
practice of forced or coerced medical repatriation.

   The first part of this Note's proposal addresses the major causes of the
growth in medical repatriation: the legal obligations of hospitals to treat
patients in emergent situations and concomitant inability to receive
reimbursement for the care of such individuals when they are ineligible for
state medical assistance and are uninsured. n110 This Note proposes that the
definition of "emergency medical condition," which provides the one exception
under which undocumented immigrants are eligible for public medical assistance,
be expanded to include not only life-threatening medical conditions, but also
those which if left untreated could have deleterious effects on one's health.
n111 Under this broader definition, previously unfunded treatments for patients
such as Mr. Jimenez would be covered, n112 and hospitals no longer would be left
in the untenable position of being required to treat patients with medical
emergencies, but being unable to receive reimbursement for treatment beyond the
initial intervention and stabilization. n113 Such an expansion of the definition
would also  [*537]  recognize that serious but not yet life threatening
conditions, if left untreated, can quickly become life-threatening. n114 It
would encourage immigrants to seek treatment for illnesses at an earlier stage,
when they are more likely to be treated more effectively and at a lower cost.
n115 This Note also proposes revising the language in the Welfare Reform Act
that currently prevents states from providing more expansive medical coverage to
immigrants. n116 States that would choose to adopt a more expansive system of
coverage than the newly broadened but still relatively narrow one in the federal
regulations would have the option to do so. Finally, and perhaps most
importantly, this Note proposes to amend the federal regulations so that they
contain explicit language banning the practice of involuntary or coerced medical
repatriation. This Note does not propose a ban on the practice of repatriation
outright. There are limited but significant instances in which repatriation
would genuinely be in the patient's best interest and might be chosen
voluntarily. n117 Hospitals that wish to repatriate a patient, however, would
have to prove that the action was voluntary. In order to show that a
repatriation action was voluntary, hospitals would be required to take
significant steps to demonstrate their patients' wishes, taking into account
language and other communication barriers. Additionally, even in voluntary
cases, the discharge procedures already included in the federal regulations
should be amended to include a specific set of steps to be followed when
discharging a patient to a facility in another country and set clear standards
for assessing whether that facility can effectively treat the patient. n118

    [*538]  This Note's second proposal requests that a respected medical
organization - for example, the American Medical Association - renounce forced
repatriations and affirm the applicability of its ethical standards to
non-citizens. Such a statement would give doctors who might currently oppose
medical repatriation stronger footing upon which to reply if objecting to
policies in their work environments. This statement would both encourage support
for the regulatory changes envisioned in Part I and provide support to the
medical profession's opposition to the practice until Congress passes a law that
bans its use.

   Conclusion

 Medical repatriation and the legal and ethical questions it raises provide a
lens into two of the most complex and confused aspects of United States law:
immigration and health care. Although medical repatriation has emerged as a
common practice among some health care treatment facilities and particularly
among those located in border states, its legality and ethics have not been
fully assessed. It calls into question the legal duties of hospitals to treat
patients and to discharge them responsibly, the rationale behind restrictive
health care access for immigrants, and the ethical aspirations and obligations
of the medical profession. The proposals advanced in this Note take into account
the legal and ethical aspects of medical repatriation.

   This Note's proposals understand that the underlying causes of medical
repatriation will not be fully remedied until full-scale immigration and health
care reform occur, which is a process that likely will take years. These
proposals are not capable of completely solving the problem. What they can do is
to quickly and effectively limit the practice of medical repatriation until its
legality and ethics can be fully examined.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Immigration LawAdmissionVisasMedical ExaminationsPublic Health & Welfare
LawHealthcareGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
SecurityMedicaidEligibilityGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Montejo v. Martin Mem'l Med. Ctr., Inc. 874 So. 2d 654, 656 (Fla. Dist. Ct.
App. 2004); Deborah Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, N.Y. Times, Aug. 3,
2008, at A1, available at http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/03/us/03deport.html
[hereinafter Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals].





n2.  Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at A1.





n3.  Montejo, 874 So. 2d at 656. Jimenez was hospitalized at Martin Memorial
from the time of the accident in February 2000 through June 2000, when he was
transferred to a nursing facility. Id. Jimenez was readmitted to Martin Memorial
in January 2001 on an emergency basis; he stayed there until July 2003. Id.





n4.  Sontag, Departed, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at 19-20. Guatemala's
National Hospital for Orthopedics and Rehabilitation took in Jimenez upon his
arrival but discharged him a few weeks later. Id. The family members who came to
the hospital to pick him up found Jimenez "lying in the hallway on a stretcher,
covered in his own excrement." Id. at 19.





n5.  Id. at A1.





n6.  Id.





n7.  Montejo, 874 So. 2d at 656. The hospital intervened in guardianship
proceedings, arguing that Jimenez's legal guardian was not acting in his best
interest. Id. It sought and received a court order to transport Jimenez to
Guatemala, where his family lived. Id. The court order was reversed in 2004 on
the basis that: "(1) there was no competent substantial evidence to support
Jimenez's discharge from the hospital, and (2) the trial court lacked subject
matter jurisdiction to authorize the transportation (deportation) of Jimenez to
Guatemala." Id. at 658. By 2004, though, Jimenez already had been transported to
Guatemala. Id. at 656.





n8.  Montejo, 874 So. 2d at 656; Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note
1, at 19. The order that allowed the hospital to transport Jimenez to Guatemala
was entered on June 27, 2003. The guardian's motion for rehearing was denied on
July 9, at which point he filed a notice of appeal and a motion for a stay
pending that appeal. Montejo, 874 So. 2d at 656. The hospital began Jimenez's
transport to Guatemala at 7:30 a.m. the next day. Id. The hospital leased the
air ambulance used for Jimenez's return to Guatemala for $ 30,000. Sontag,
Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at A1. This type of fact pattern is
common in repatriation cases where the patient's family attempted to use the
legal system to prevent a forced repatriation. See Deborah Sontag, Deported in a
Coma, Saved Back in U.S., N.Y. Times, Nov. 9, 2008, at 39, available at
http://www.nytimes.com/2008/11/09/us/09deport.html [hereinafter Sontag, Deported
in a Coma] (describing a case in which a family's lawyer narrowly prevented an
Arizona hospital from transporting an infant American citizen to a hospital in
Mexico).





n9.  Deborah Sontag's piece on Mr. Jimenez's case appeared on the front page of
The New York Times. Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at A1.





n10.  Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at 18 (explaining that
instances of medical repatriation are difficult to quantify, but estimating that
the phenomenon is widespread enough in some areas to support a private company
that caters to hospitals seeking to repatriate patients).





n11.  Medical repatriation is only one of the names used for this practice. It
is more pejoratively deemed "international patient dumping" by some
commentators. This Note will refer to it as medical repatriation because that is
the most commonly used phrase.





n12.  The regulations limiting the availability of state-funded medical care for
non-citizens were published as part of the wide-scale welfare reform legislation
of 1996. Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of
1996, Pub. L. No. 104-193, 110 Stat. 2105 [hereinafter PRWORA]. Courts have
interpreted the emergency medical condition exception included in PRWORA
inconsistently. See Michael J. McKeefery, Comment, A Call to Move Forward:
Pushing Past the Unworkable Standard that Governs undocumented Immigrants'
Access to Health Care Under Medicaid, 10 J. Health Care L. & Pol'y 391, 409
(2007).





n13.  The duty to treat patients in medical emergencies was established by the
passage of the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act in 1986.
Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act, 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd (2000).





n14.  See Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at A1. While
"repatriation" typically occurs only in cases of immigrants or nationals of
another state, hospitals sometimes use other extreme measures to discharge
non-immigrants. For information on patients' rights in discharge situations, see
Olga Cotera-Perez-Perez, Discharge Planning in Acute Care and Long-Term
Facilities, 26 J. Legal Med. 85, 89-90 (2005). For an illustration of the use of
legal processes to effectuate a discharge against a patient's will, see Wyckoff
Heights Med. Ctr. v. Rodriguez, 741 N.Y.S.2d 400 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 2002) (issuing a
mandatory injunction requiring a patient to leave hospital from which he did not
wish to be discharged).





n15.  Sontag, Deported in a Coma, supra note 8, at A1, 38.





n16.  Statistics suggest that there are an estimated 11.9 million undocumented
immigrants living in the United States. Jeffery Passel & D'Vera Cohn, Pew
Hispanic Ctr., Trends in Unauthorized Immigration: Undocumented Inflow Now
Trails Legal Inflow 1 (2008), http://pewhispanic.org/files/reports/94.pdf. The
rise in health care costs in recent years is well-documented. See, e.g., U.S.
Dep't Health & Human Servs., National Health Expenditure Accounts (2008),
http://www.cms.hhs.gov/NationalHealthExpendData/downloads/tables.pdf
[hereinafter Nat'l Health Expenditure Data].





n17.  Legal requirements concerning treatment of patients with emergent health
needs can be found in the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act. 42
U.S.C. § 1395dd. Department of Health and Human Services regulations governing
the procedures with which hospitals must comply when discharging patients can be
found at 42 C.F.R. § 482.43 (2008).





n18.  The American Medical Association has published medical ethical standards.
American Medical Association, Code of medical Ethics, Principles of Medical
Ethics (2001) [hereinafter Principles of Medical Ethics], available at
http://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/physician-resources/medical-ethics/code-medical-
ethics/princples-medical-ethics.shtml.





n19.  There are an estimated 11.9 million undocumented immigrants living in the
United States. Passel & Cohn, supra note 16, at 1. Each year, approximately
500,000 new immigrants enter the United States without documentation. Id. at 2.





n20.  In 2007, United States health care expenditures totaled over $ 2.2
trillion. Nat'l Health Expenditure Accounts, supra note 16, at tbl.1. This
figure represented a 6.1 percent increase over the previous year and constituted
16.2 percent of the Gross Domestic Product. Id.





n21.  The White House Website: Issues, http://www.whitehouse.gov/issues (follow
"Immigration" hyperlink) (last visited Sept. 12, 2009).





n22.  See supra note 21 and accompanying text.





n23.  While the Obama administration has articulated policies in the realms of
both immigration and health care, there is not yet a proposal specifically
linking the two. See supra note 21 and accompanying text. The economic crisis is
another potential barrier to the effectuation of meaningful immigration and
health care reform. See note 21 and accompanying text. In addition,
anti-immigrant sentiment remains an obstacle to the creation of a comprehensive
immigration policy. For an examination of the role of anti-immigrant attitudes
in policy debates surrounding immigrant health care access, see Saby Ghoshray,
Race, Symmetry and False Consciousness: Piercing the Veil of America's
Anti-Immigration Policy, 16 Temp. Pol. & Civ. Rts. L. Rev. 335, 364-65 (2007);
Neda Mahmoudzadeh, Comment, Love Them, Love Them Not: The Reflection of
Anti-Immigrant Attitudes in Undocumented Immigrant Health Care Law, 9 Scholar
465, 486-88 (2007).





n24.  Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at 18.





n25.  For an examination of the interplay between immigration and health care
regulations, see Susan Okie, Immigrants and Health Care - At the Intersection of
Two Broken Systems, 357 New Eng. J. Med. 525 (2007). For an analysis of the
interconnectedness of legal and ethical requirements, see Charity Scott, Why Law
Pervades Medicine: An Essay on Ethics in Health Care, 14 Notre Dame J.L. Ethics
& Pub. Pol'y 245, 247-53 (2000).





n26.  There are a variety of reasons that undocumented immigrants might be
uniquely unlikely to protest the practice of repatriation. They may fear drawing
attention to the immigration status of themselves or their families, or they may
have been told that their only way to receive medical care is through
repatriation. Sontag reports on a mother whose consent was obtained after, as
she describes, "they said we had no rights, the baby neither. They said they
would send the baby with or without me. When Elliott was two weeks, they told me
to gather my things because the baby was leaving in 15 minutes." Id. This case
illustrates the gap in communication between hospital officials and patients,
particularly when language barriers are present. It also illustrates that
determining "consent" in medical repatriation cases is difficult. For more on
the issues of informed consent and its relation to medical ethics and legal
obligations, see Scott, supra note 25, at 263-67. For further analysis of
linguistic barriers and the statutory efforts to remedy them, see Mee Moua,
Fernando Guerra, Jill Moore & Ronaldo Valdiserri, Immigrant Health: Legal
Tools/Legal Barriers, 30 J.L. Med. & Ethics 189, 193 (2002). For more on
barriers affecting immigrant access to healthcare generally, see Okie, supra
note 25, at 526.





n27.  Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1; Sontag, Deported in a
Coma, supra note 8.





n28.  Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at 18. This Note's
focus on issues unique to immigrant access to health care and legal challenges
in avoiding repatriation does not intend to imply that non-immigrants do not
face a myriad of challenges. For a vivid illustration of the use of the legal
process to forcibly discharge a patient, see Wyckoff Heights Med. Ctr. v.
Rodriguez, 741 N.Y.S.2d 400, 401 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 2002).





n29.  Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at 18. This company,
MexCare, has been operating since 2001 and bills itself as "an alternative
choice for the care of the unfunded Latin American national." MexCare Homepage,
http://mexcare.com (last visited Apr. 17, 2010). MexCare operates with a network
of over twenty hospitals and treatment centers in Latin America. MexCare
Locations, http://mexcare.com/locations_MexCare.html (last visited Apr. 17,
2010).





n30.  Sontag, Deported in a Coma, supra note 8, at 38.





n31.  Id. The child suffered from Down syndrome, had a heart defect, and was
born to undocumented immigrant parents. Id. The hospital sought to repatriate
the child on the basis that, from a continuity of care perspective, it would be
better to send him to a Mexican hospital because his parents were Mexican
citizens. Id. The parents averted their child's repatriation only after they
contacted the Mexican consulate, which provided them with an attorney. The
two-week old infant was literally on his way to the airport. Id. His
repatriation was averted only with the threat of police intervention. Id.





n32.  Doctors Study Repatriation of Uninsured, N.Y. Times, Nov. 11, 2008, at
A18. The House of Delegates vote came at least in part as a response to the
publicity brought to the issue by the August New York Times article. Id.





n33.  Id. While the American Medical Association ("AMA") has declined to condemn
medical repatriation outright before conducting this study, it has acknowledged
concern over both the inappropriate discharge of patients and the financial
solvency of hospitals. Id. ""There are conflicting concerns here. On the one
hand, patients shouldn't be dumped. On the other, hospitals need to be solvent.
After all, if the care of these patients were actually paid for by some entity,
these repatriations would not be happening and this would not be an issue.'" Id.
(statement by AMA trustee Dr. Joseph Annis).





n34.  See David A. Hyman, Patient Dumping and EMTALA: Past Imperfect/Future
Shock, 8 Health Matrix 29, 32-43 (1998). Intense media scrutiny surrounding one
particular case of patient dumping and the resulting public outrage at the
dumping of seriously ill indigent persons were among the key factors ultimately
leading to the drafting of the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act
("EMTALA"). Id. Hyman correctly asserts that EMTALA's passage was strongly
affected by public outcry at specific instances of patient dumping. His argument
that this reliance on public outrage is problematic because it can be
manipulated by advocacy groups suggests that he would find reliance on cases
like Mr. Jimenez's similarly problematic. Id. at 43. Both "spin" the facts and
involve "the perfect victim - someone who is genuine, articulate, and
sympathetic." Id. at 43. This argument is not persuasive; it is hard to think of
any attempt to pass legislation that does not rely, to some degree, on extreme
cases or sympathetic victims.





n35.  Medical repatriation has not achieved the same level of notoriety as the
practice of patient dumping in the 1980s. Cf. Hyman, supra note 34, at 33
(explaining the prevalence of anecdotes recounting patient dumping stories in
the 1980s). However, medical repatriation is even more complicated than patient
dumping because of its entanglement with immigration policy. It remains to be
seen whether and to what extent anti-immigrant sentiment will affect the chances
for legislative action. See, e.g., Mahmoudzadeh, supra note 23, at 486-88. If
federal action is not taken on medical repatriation, it is likely that the
practice will persist in states where anti-immigrant sentiment is strongest,
such as Arizona. See generally, Sontag, Deported in a Coma, supra note 8, at 38
(identifying Arizona as an exceptional state with regard to anti-immigrant
sentiment).





n36.  Passel & Cohn, supra note 16, at i (estimating that 500,000 undocumented
immigrants enter the United States yearly, with a total of 11.9 million
undocumented immigrants in the United States as of March 2008); Nat'l Health
Expenditure Data, supra note 16, at tbl.1 (estimating that the United States
spent over $ 2.2 trillion on healthcare in 2007, which amounted to 16.2 percent
of the United States' gross domestic product).





n37.  To the extent that anti-immigrant attitudes are dominant in a given area,
or at least are seen as acceptable, hospitals are more likely to repatriate
foreign patients than they are in areas where support for immigrant communities
is stronger. This explains, at least in part, the particularly extensive use of
medical repatriation in Arizona, a state where anti-immigrant sentiment is
notoriously strong. Sontag, Deported in a Coma, supra note 8, at 38. For more on
the role of anti-immigrant fervor and its impact on immigration policy, see
Ghoshray, supra note 23, at 336-40; Okie, supra note 25, at 528-29.





n38.  The federal regulations governing Medicare and Medicaid define eligibility
for publicly funded health care. See 42 C.F.R. pt. 440 (2008). The limited
circumstances under which an individual may be eligible notwithstanding his
immigration status can be found at 42 C.F.R. § 440.255 (2008). Courts charged
with interpreting the Medicaid regulations have reached vastly differing
conclusions. Compare Greenery Rehab. Group v. Hammon, 150 F.3d 226, 233 (2d Cir.
1998) (holding that once a patient has stabilized, his emergency has ended) with
Scottsdale Healthcare, Inc. v. Ariz. Health Care Cost Containment Sys. Admin.,
75 P.3d 91, 98 (Ariz. 2003) (finding that the proper inquiry is not whether the
patient is stable at one point in time, but rather whether the absence of
medical attention could reasonably be expected to cause him adverse
consequences).





n39.  This has changed somewhat since the enactment of the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 ("MMA"), under which providers
can recoup some costs incurred in treating indigent undocumented immigrants.
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, Pub. L.
No. 108-173, § 1011, 117 Stat. 2066 (codified as amended in scattered sections
of 42 U.S.C.).





n40.  See Ghoshray, supra note 23, at 344-49.





n41.  Moua et al., supra note 26, at 191-93; Seam Park, Note, Substantial
Barriers in Illegal Immigrant Access to Publically-Funded Health Care: Reasons
and Recommendations for Change, 18 Geo. Immigr. L.J. 567, 571-74 (2004); Jeffery
T. Kullgren, Restrictions on Undocumented Immigrants' Access to Health Services:
The Public Health Implications of Welfare Reform, 93 Am. J. Pub. Health 1630,
1630 (2003).





n42.  Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996,
Pub. L. No. 104-193, 110 Stat. 2105. For an account of the intent surrounding
the passage of PRWORA, see Park, supra note 41, at 571-74; Kullgren, supra note
41, at 1630; and The Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act,
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_Responsibility_and_Work_Opportunity_Act
(last visited Apr. 17, 2010).





n43.  The provisions establishing the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families
program, which replaced Aid to Families with Dependent Children, are found in
Title I of PRWORA, 110 Stat. 2105.





n44.  Moua et al., supra note 26, at 191; Park, supra note 41, at 573.





n45.  Moua et al., supra note 26, at 192.





n46.  Id. For the statutory language, see PRWORA § 401, 110 Stat. 2105.





n47.  Kullgren, supra note 41, at 1630-32 (asserting that the immigrant
restrictions in PRWORA have resulted in burdens to health care providers and
threats to public health). See also Park, supra note 41, at 568. Stated goals of
the limitations on immigrant receipt of medical care included creating a
disincentive for immigration to the United States and decreasing federal
spending. Kullgren, supra note 41, at 1360; Park, supra note 41, at 572-73.
Illegal immigration rates are higher now than they were in 2000. See Passel &
Cohn, supra note 16, at 4. Additionally, federal spending on health care has
steadily increased despite the passage of PRWORA. Nat'l Health Expenditure Data,
supra note 16, at tbl.1 (showing that health care costs have increased at rates
between 5.4 percent and 9 percent per year since 1997).





n48.  The exception for emergency medical treatment can be found at PRWORA
section 401. Many have argued that, because preventive care generally is more
cost-effective than emergency care, PRWORA's elimination of funding for routine
and preventive care might actually cost the federal government more money. For
more on the cost-effectiveness of PRWORA, see Kullgren, supra note 41, at
1630-31. In addition to arguing that PRWORA's restrictions on immigrant receipt
of healthcare are not cost effective, some scholars assert that these
restrictions limit the ability of the government to respond to public health
emergencies, undercut policies for healthy children and decreased infant
mortality, and undermine the functioning of the American health system as a
whole. Id. at 1631-32; Janet M. Calvo, The Consequences of Restricted Health
Care Access for Immigrants: Lessons from Medicaid and SCHIP, 17 Annals Health L.
175, 197-204 (2008).





n49.  Kullgren, supra note 41, at 1630.





n50.  The statutory basis for this exception can be found in PRWORA section 401.
The exception also appears in the Code of Federal Regulations. See 42 C.F.R. §
440.255 (2008); see also Sean Elliot, Comment, Staying within the Lines: The
Question of Post-Stabilization Treatment for Illegal Immigrants under Emergency
Medicaid, 24 J. Contemp. Health L. & Pol'y 149, 151 (2007).





n51.  The regulation provides:



   ... aliens who are not lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the
United States or permanently residing in the United States under the color of
law must receive the services necessary to treat the condition defined in
paragraph (1) of this section if - (1) The alien has, after sudden onset, a
medical condition (including emergency labor and delivery) manifesting itself by
acute symptoms of sufficient severity (including severe pain) such that the
absence of immediate medical attention could reasonably be expected to result
in: (i) Placing the patient's health in serious jeopardy; (ii) Serious
impairment to bodily functions; or (iii) Serious dysfunction of any bodily organ
or part, and (2) The alien meets the requirements in§§435.406(c) and 436.406(c)
of this subpart.

 42 C.F.R. § 440.255 (2008).





n52.  Id.





n53.  Elliot, supra note 50, at 152; McKeefery, supra note 12, at 403-04.





n54.  Elliot, supra note 50, at 152. See also McKeefery, supra note 12, at
403-04.





n55.  Greenery Rehab. Group v. Hammon, 150 F.3d 226, 233 (2d Cir. 1998). See
also McKeefery, supra note 12, at 401-03.





n56.  Greenery, 150 F.3d at 232 ("In the medical context, an "emergency' is
generally defined as "a sudden bodily alteration such as is likely to require
immediate medical attention'... emergency medical conditions are sudden, severe,
and short-lived physical injuries or illnesses that require immediate treatment
to prevent further harm.").





n57.  Id. at 232-33 (rejecting a lower court's determination that a patient who
required chronic care for a severe head injury suffered from an emergency
medical condition).





n58.  See Szewczyk v. Dept. of Soc. Servs., 881 A.2d 259, 268-69 (Conn. 2005).
See also Scottsdale Healthcare, Inc. v. Ariz. Health Care Cost Containment Sys.
Admin., 75 P.3d 91, 97-98 (Ariz. 2003).





n59.  Szewczyk, 881 A.2d at 268; Scottsdale Healthcare, Inc., 75 P.3d at 98.
These courts use the regulatory language to find that the likely consequences of
withholding care are determinative. See, e.g., id. For the relevant text of the
regulations, see 42 C.F.R. § 255(c) (2008) (explaining that an emergency medical
condition exists when the patient is in an acute state and "the absence of
immediate medical attention could reasonably be expected to result in: (i)
placing the patient's health in serious jeopardy; (ii) serious impairment to
bodily functions; or (iii) serious dysfunction of any bodily organ or part").





n60.  Elliot, supra note 50, at 161. The degree to which a hospital can expect
to be reimbursed for treatment affects the treatment provided to a patient. Id.
at 161-62.





n61.  See id. at 151-52. This does not mean that a hospital will not receive
reimbursement at all, just that it cannot receive payment through the Medicaid
program if the patient is ineligible for Medicaid and does not fall under the
emergency medical exception. One alternate route for a hospital to receive
reimbursement is available in the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and
Modernization Act of 2003, Pub. L. No. 108-173, § 1011, 117 Stat. 2066, 2432
(2003) (codified as amended in scattered sections of 42 U.S.C.). It is unclear,
however, to what extent this funding is actually accessible to hospitals. See
Robin Mejia, Emergency Care for the Undocumented: Who Bears the Burden and Where
to Draw the Line?, 50 Annals Emergency Med. 445, 446 (2007).





n62.  The duty to treat patients experiencing medical emergencies was
established as part of EMTALA. Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act
("EMTALA"), 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd (2000). The duty to discharge patients to an
appropriate facility emerges from regulations promulgated by the Department of
Health and Human Services's Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. 42 C.F.R.
§ 482.43 (2008).





n63.  42 U.S.C. § 1395dd.





n64.  The regulations set forth in EMTALA can be enforced only against a
"participating hospital." 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(d). Participating hospitals are
those that receive reimbursement for treatment of patients insured through
Medicare. 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(e)(2). Congress has the power to promulgate and
enforce regulations against participating hospitals. 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(d).





n65.  42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(a) provides:



   In the case of a hospital that has a hospital emergency department, if any
individual (whether or not eligible for benefits under this subchapter) comes to
the emergency department and a request is made on the individual's behalf for
examination or treatment for a medical condition, the hospital must provide for
an appropriate medical screening examination ... .

 Id.





n66.  42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(b). Specifically, this section requires that once a
doctor identifies an emergency medical condition, the hospital must either: "(A)
within the staff and facilities available at the hospital, for such further
medical examination and such treatment as may be required to stabilize the
medical condition, or (B) for transfer of the individual to another medical
facility in accordance with subsection (c) of this section." § 13955dd(b).





n67.  Hyman, supra note 34, at 32-33 (explaining the history behind EMTALA's
enactment).





n68.  42 U.S.C. § 1395cc (2000). See also Morgan Greenspon, Introduction, The
Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act and Sources of Funding, 17
Annals Health L. 309, 311-12 (2008) (explaining that the provision is a de facto
requirement of all hospitals because in order to receive federal funding,
hospitals must participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and the
receipt of federal funds is crucial to a hospital's financial viability).





n69.  42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(a)(2000). A medical screening sufficient under EMTALA
is one that is "within the capacity of the hospital's emergency department." §
1395dd(a). The purpose of the screening is to determine whether an emergency
medical condition exists. Id.





n70.  Under section (e)(1) of EMTALA, "emergency medical condition" means:



   (A) a medical condition manifesting itself by acute symptoms of sufficient
severity (including severe pain such that the absence of immediate medical
attention could reasonably be expected to result in -

   (i) placing the health of the individual (or, with respect to a pregnant
woman, the health of the woman or her unborn child) in serious jeopardy, (ii)
serious impairment of bodily functions, or (iii) serious dysfunction of any
bodily organ or part.

 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(e)(1).





n71.  42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(b). EMTALA defines "to stabilize" as "to provide such
medical treatment of the condition as may be necessary to assure, within
reasonable medical probability, that no material deterioration of the condition
is likely to result from or occur during the transfer of the individual from a
facility" and "stabilized" as meaning "that no material deterioration of the
condition is likely, within reasonable medical probability, to result from or
occur." 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(e)(3)(A),(B). The treatment provided need not
continue indefinitely, but it must last either until the patient stabilizes or
until the patient can be transferred to another facility. 42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(c).
EMTALA does not mandate that hospitals provide treatment to patients whose
conditions fall outside the strict definition of emergent, nor does it require
that hospitals treat patients beyond the minimum intervention required to
stabilize their conditions. See § 1395dd.





n72.  42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(d)(1).





n73.  42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(a). See also Greenspon, supra note 68, at 312. There is
some potential for hospitals to receive funding for their treatment of
undocumented immigrants in the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and
Modernization Act of 2003, Pub. L. No. 108-173, § 1011, 117 Stat. 2066 (2003)
(codified as amended in scattered sections of 42 U.S.C.).





n74.  42 C.F.R. § 482.43 (2008). See Greenspon, supra note 68, at 311-12
(explaining that participation in Medicare and Medicaid is a prerequisite for
receipt of federal funds and, as such, is a financial necessity for hospitals).





n75.  42 C.F.R. § 482.43(a) (2008).





n76.  42 C.F.R. § 482.43(b). This discharge planning evaluation must include "an
evaluation of the likelihood of a patient needing post-hospital services and of
the availability of the services" and "an evaluation of the likelihood of a
patient's capacity for self-care or the possibility of the patient being cared
for in the environment from which he or she entered the hospital." 42 C.F.R. §
482.43(b).





n77.  42 C.F.R. § 482.43(c). Notably, this provision requires that "the patient
and family members or interested persons must be counseled to prepare them for
post-hospital care" and that "the hospital must include in the discharge plan a
list of HHAs [Home Health Aide] or SNFs [Skilled Nursing Facilities] that are
available to the patient." § 482.43(c)(5),(6). This section does not articulate
what should be done when there are no facilities available to the patient due to
his ineligibility for Medicaid. See § 482.43(c).





n78.  42 C.F.R. § 482.43(d). Specifically, a hospital is required to "transfer
or refer patients, along with necessary medical information, to appropriate
facilities, agencies, or outpatient services, as needed, for follow up or
ancillary care." Id.





n79.  Each provision in 42 C.F.R. § 482.43 includes the mandatory "must" rather
than a suggestive "should." See § 482.43.





n80.  42 C.F.R. § 482.1 (2008) (detailing requirements that must be met in order
for a hospital to continue to be eligible for the Medicare and Medicaid
programs). It is widely accepted that hospitals must participate in these
programs in order to remain financially solvent. See Greenspon, supra note 68,
at 311.





n81.  42 C.F.R. § 482.43(d).





n82.  Principles of Medical Ethics, supra note 18. The preamble to these
principles makes clear that they "are not laws, but standards of conduct which
define the essentials of honorable behavior for the physician." Id.





n83.  Id. The principles include:



   I. A physician shall be dedicated to providing competent medical care, with
compassion and respect for human dignity and rights.

   II. A physician shall uphold the standards of professionalism, be honest in
all professional interactions, and strive to report physicians deficient in
character or competence, or engaging in fraud or deception, to appropriate
entities.

   III. A physician shall respect the law and also recognize a responsibility to
seek changes in those requirements which are contrary to the best interests of
the patient.

   IV. A physician shall respect the rights of patients, colleagues, and other
health professionals, and shall safeguard patient confidences and privacy within
the constraints of the law.

   V. A physician shall continue to study, apply, and advance scientific
knowledge, maintain a commitment to medical education, make relevant information
available to patients, colleagues, and the public, obtain consultation, and use
the talents of other health professionals when indicated.

   VI. A physician shall, in the provision of appropriate patient care, except
in emergencies, be free to choose whom to serve, with whom to associate, and the
environment in which to provide medical care.

   VII. A physician shall recognize a responsibility to participate in
activities contributing to the improvement of the community and the betterment
of public health.

   VIII. A physician shall, while caring for a patient, regard responsibility to
the patient as paramount.

   IX. A physician shall support access to medical care for all people.

 Id.





n84.  Id.





n85.  Id.





n86.  American Medical Association, Principles of Medical Ethics, in Code of
Medical Ethics (1980), available at
http://www.ama-assn.org/ama1/pub/upload/mm/369/1980_principles.pdf; Principles
of Medical Ethics, supra note 18.





n87.  Robert A. Baldor, Ethical Considerations in Disease Management: A Managed
Care Perspective, 11 Disease Mgmt. & Health Outcomes 71, 72 (2003). These
principles mean, respectively, that medical professionals are bound by the
ethics of their profession to respect a patient's informed decisions, to "do no
harm" by not acting in a way that would cause positive injury to a patient, to
do good for the patient by taking action to help him or her, and to treat each
patient fairly. See id. at 72-75; see also Robert N. Swidler, Terese Seastrum &
Wayne Shelton, Difficult Hospital Inpatient Discharge Decisions: Ethical, Legal
and Clinical Practice Issues, 7 Am. J. Bioethics 23, 24-25 (2007).





n88.  Baldor, supra note 87, at 72-73 (discussing the tension between
utilitarianism and principles of social justice in the field of health care
ethics).





n89.  Scott, supra note 25, at 257-58.





n90.  Id. at 257-58. See also Principles of Medical Ethics, supra note 18 ("The
following Principles adopted by the American Medical Association are not laws,
but standards of conduct that define the essentials of honorable behavior for
the physician.").





n91.  Scott, supra note 25, at 257-58.





n92.  Id. at 259.





n93.  Id. at 261-63.





n94.  Id. at 261-63 ("When law pervades ethical inquiry and backs its
resolutions up with the punch of potential liability, people frequently focus
solely on avoiding the punch ... . When law becomes pervasive, we often forget
about the original ethical questions that prompted the legal resolutions.").





n95.  Id. at 260 (explaining that codifying ethical standards in law tends to
dilute them, but that the creation of enforcement mechanisms has its advantages
as well).





n96.  Id. at 273-74.





n97.  Id. at 248 ("Frequently, the law is a reaction to a perceived ethical
wrongdoing in health care."). The codification of these concepts into
legislation such as EMTALA reflected society's recognition that practices such
as patient dumping were ethically wrong, and that life-saving treatment should
be provided to all who arrive at a hospital in emergent need of care. Id. at
251-53.





n98.  See id. at 253-56. The difference between legal and ethical standards in
such cases is not merely one of degree. With ethical standards requiring more of
physicians than the legal "floors" created by federal legislation like EMTALA,
in some cases, legal requirements actually conflict with ethical standards. Mary
Chris Jaklevic, This Side of the Ethical Border: Hospitals Feel Duty of Keeping
Immigrants Healthy Despite Federal Limits, Mod. Healthcare, Sept. 3, 2001, at
52, 52. For an example of how this has played out, consider the case of Texas.
In 2001, Texas Attorney General John Cornyn issued an opinion that under the
state's interpretation of the 1996 Welfare Reform Act it was illegal to use any
public funds to provide non-emergency care for undocumented immigrants. Id. This
was a case in which the legislation enacted was not merely reflective of a
looser standard than the ethical one, but was actually in conflict with an
ethical norm. Id.





n99.  See Scott, supra note 25, at 273-75; Jaklevic, supra note 98, at 52.





n100.  Scott, supra note 25, at 257-58.





n101.  The requirements that hospitals treat patients with emergent conditions
are found in the Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act ("EMTALA"), 42
U.S.C. § 1395dd (2000). The ineligibility of undocumented immigrants for most
types of federally funded health care was established by the passage of the
Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, Pub. L.
No. 104-193, 110 Stat. 2105.





n102.  Elliot, supra note 50, at 165. The ban on government-funded medical
assistance for immigrants not only creates incentives for hospitals to discharge
or avoid treating immigrants altogether to avoid the financial responsibility of
their care, though; it also has been found to result in racial profiling by
hospitals, create financial burdens on hospitals, cost more money to taxpayers
in the long run, and create significant public health risks. Kullgren, supra
note 41, at 1630-32. For information regarding the potential for racial
profiling as a result of financial burdens, see Sontag, Deported in a Coma,
supra note 8, at 38 (describing the case of a United States citizen child
assumed to be repatraitable as a result of the undocumented status of his
parents). For a discussion of public health implications of failure to treat
undocumented immigrants, see Mejia, supra note 61, at 447; Okie, supra note 25,
at 528-59; Jaklevic, supra note 98, at 52.





n103.  In some states, the incentive to assist uninsured patients in applying
for Medicaid is not just economic; public hospitals are legally obligated to
assist patients in ascertaining eligibility for public aid programs and
completing necessary paperwork. See, e.g., N.Y. City Health & Hosps. Corp.
Goldwater Mem'l Hosp. v. Gorman, 448 N.Y.S.2d 623 (N.Y. Sup. Ct. 1982).





n104.  Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act ("EMTALA"), 42 U.S.C. §
1395dd (2000).





n105.  Id. at 261 ("When law pervades ethical inquiry and backs its resolutions
with the punch of potential liability, people frequently focus solely on
avoiding the punch."); Sontag, Deported in a Coma, supra note 8, at 38
(describing behavior of a hospital in Arizona).





n106.  Sontag, Deported in a Coma, supra note 8, at 38 (describing the behavior
of the facility, El Centro Regional Medical Center, that ultimately treated the
patient discussed in Sontag's article).





n107.  Id. (describing the effect of particularly strong anti-immigrant
sentiment in Arizona on the attitudes taken by hospitals). See also Scott, supra
note 25, at 258.





n108.  See Sontag, Deported in a Coma, supra note 8, at 38 (examining ulterior
motives of some hospitals).





n109.  For a discussion of the "brokenness" of both immigration and health care,
and an analysis of the problems resulting when the two combine, see Okie, supra
note 25.





n110.  For a full discussion of the causes and forces behind the emergence of
medical repatriation, see supra Part II.





n111.  The current definition of "emergency medical condition" may be found at
42 U.S.C. § 1395dd(b). For an analysis advocating a broader definition of
"emergency medical condition," see McKeefery, supra note 12.





n112.  Mr. Jimenez would fit under my proposed broader definition to the extent
that his medical situation is such that if care were discontinued, it would be
expected to result in risks to his health. For proof that his medical condition
was serious at the time of his repatriation, see Montejo v. Martin Mem'l Med.
Ctr., Inc., 874 So. 2d 654, 656 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 2004). For proof that the
discontinuation of treatment has resulted in continued risks to Mr. Jimenez's
health, see Sontag, Deported, by U.S. Hospitals, supra note 1, at 18.





n113.  Because the definition of "emergency medical condition" determines
eligibility under the Medicaid program, an expanded definition would expand the
number of patients and treatments eligible for government funding. This would
alleviate some of the financial pressures on hospitals.





n114.  It is widely accepted that a condition, if left untreated, is more likely
to become life-threatening. See Kullgren, supra note 41, at 1631-32; Park, supra
note 41, at 580-82.





n115.  Kullgren, supra note 41, at 1632; Park, supra note 41, at 581-82.





n116.  Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act
("PRWORA") of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-193, 110 Stat. 2105. PRWORA bans funds from
being provided for health care for immigrants, with few noted exceptions. Id. at
2107.





n117.  Medical repatriation is the term used any time a non-national of a state
is transported to his country of origin for medical treatment. A ban on this
practice would affect anyone from being repatriated for medical treatment - for
example, a Canadian seriously injured in the United States could not repatriate
to Canada for ongoing treatment.





n118.  The discharge requirements with which hospitals must comply are found at
42 C.F.R. § 482.43 (2008).


