                              62 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            October 28, 2013 Monday

Mumbai Underground: 'Pretty ethical'

LENGTH: 493  words


While the public and politicians view BMC chief Sitaram Kunte's ethical training
programme for civic employees at Panchgani with scepticism, senior civic
officials swear by the week-long programme. The chief engineer of a valuable
civic department, recounting his experience, said, "Panchgani is so beautiful
and the ethical programme teachings, set amid breathtaking scenery, are so
relaxing. The trip calms our minds and opens it to new ideas; it is a great
initiative by the commissioner." The engineer said the 'chaos of Mumbai' is no
match for the hill station's beauty. "The minute we get out of Panchgani and
make our way back to Mumbai, the pollution and traffic ruins everything. It is
like going back to life in hell," said the engineer.

Bed 'cover'

The redeveloped Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivali might flaunt new facilities and
equipment, but not many know that the hospital transferred several beds from the
civic-run Siddharth Hospital in Borivali, just before the inauguration, to cover
the dearth of beds. An official from Siddharth Hospital said 65 beds and cots
from the fourth floor ward were transported in an ambulance to Kandivali. "We
were told that the beds would be returned in a few days, but they have not done
that yet," said the official.

Months away from goal

For the past three years, 'one more month' has been the standard answer one got
from Western India Football Association (WIFA) officials, when asked about the
renovation of Cooperage ground. But now, it seems the ever-optimistic officials
of WIFA, headed by Praful Patel, have accepted that red-tape has got the better
of them. They have been made to run from pillar to post to get the necessary
permissions. But they are yet to get the final go-ahead. Consequently, they have
lost an opportunity to host matches of Indian Super League, an IPL-style
football tournament, in 2014. The matches in Mumbai will be held at D Y Patil
Stadium and this has prompted federation officials to point fingers at Patel.
"If Patel wishes, he can get the work sorted out in a week. But he has shown
little interest in Mumbai football despite being WIFA president. FIFA has spent
$2.5 million on this ground, yet we haven't finished the work. I wouldn't be
surprised if the work remains incomplete even after six months," said an
official.

Problem of plenty

AS Diwali is round the corner, several government employees are looking forward
to head home. A long-time MMRDA employee wanted to go to his native place near
Nagpur, but had given up hope as he was unable to get a confirmed train ticket.
He had casually mentioned this to one of his contacts at the Chief Minister's
Office (CMO), when the latter said he could get the train ticket confirmed
through the CMO. Elated, the employee told some of his counterparts about this.
Now, the CMO has several ticket confirmation requests ahead of Diwali and all
the 'hopefuls' are on tenterhooks about whether their tickets are likely to be
confirmed.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


