                              63 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Medical ethical 'challenges' on the rise, report says

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 493  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA -- Canada's health-care system is increasingly gripped by "ethical
challenges" stemming from clashes involving patients or their families who
disagree with the treatment being ordered by medical professionals, says a major
new report.

The report, published Sunday in the British journal BMC Medical Ethics, is an
unprecedented analysis of the "top 10" ethical issues faced by the Canadian
public and health-care professionals today.

It found that the No. 1 ethical problem is the growing occurrence of conflict
over how a patient should be treated -- whether it involves something as simple
as prescribing an antibiotic, or as serious as providing life-sustaining
treatment to a dying patient.

The report says while such disagreements are most common in a hospital's
intensive care unit, they occur virtually everywhere in the system, including
palliative care, rehabilitation, mental health, surgery and family doctors'
offices.

The report was prepared by experts at the University of Toronto's Joint Centre
for Bioethics, a medical ethics think-tank. The authors of the report surveyed
12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto hospitals to rank the most important
ethical challenges facing the health system.

The results -- which cast an ethical lens on everything from wait times to
medical errors -- provide a perceptive look at the complexities of health care.

Dr. Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics and one of the report's
co-authors, said he hopes the report draws public attention to the issue --
particularly disagreements over patient care. "It's floating under the surface
like a shark," said Singer.

THE OTHER ETHICAL CHALLENGES:

Waiting lists: Lengthy waits can harm patients' health and contribute to
'psychological distress.'

Access to care for the elderly, chronically ill or mentally ill: The system has
traditionally marginalized these groups in regards to their priority for
treatment.

Shortage of family physicians: This is a 'significant problem' since our system
is based on the premise that patients deserve 'universal and reasonable access'
to medical services.

Medical error: Ethical considerations include 'under what circumstances and how
medical errors should be disclosed to patients and/or families.'

Palliative treatment for the terminally ill: Doctors may want to reduce or
eliminate pain through drug therapy but fear that overdoing the dose could
hasten death.

Informed consent: Patients may not -- or cannot -- read the forms they must
regarding treatment.

Research: Issues include balancing the need for 'fair compensation' to
participants in medical research without the payments becoming a 'coercive
influence.'

Substitute decision-making: Substitute decision-makers may find the
responsibility onerous.

Surgical innovation and new technologies: Doctors are faced with the question:
Should innovative surgical techniques be considered research and be required to
go through ethics approval before being used on patients?

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

