                              64 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                    The Sunday Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                            January 25, 2009 Sunday
                        2 - State - Main Country Edition

Doctor's CMC call - Bid to settle heart unit rift

BYLINE: Kay Dibben

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 370  words


A SURGEON who was acting director of Townsville Hospital's cardiac unit when it
was shut down for nine months in 2007, still faces allegations of official
misconduct.

Dr Antonio Xabregas has filed a Supreme Court application calling on the Crime
and Misconduct Commission to step in and make a decision on the allegations by
early next month.

In late 2007, Queensland Health temporarily suspended all services in the
hospital's cardiothoracic unit ``in the interest of public safety'', following
disputes between cardiac surgeons.

There had been several internal investigations into claims and counter-claims of
bullying and improper practice within the unit in the previous 12 months.

Although Queensland Health's Ethical Standards Unit has since reviewed more than
5000 documents and conducted many interviews, investigations are continuing into
disputes among the hospital unit's staff.

Dr Xabregas's claim has asked for the CMC, and not the Ethical Standards Unit,
to make a decision over allegations made against him. However the CMC says it is
monitoring the Ethical Standards Unit's investigations.

Dr Xabregas, the hospital's first cardiothoracic surgeon, was acting director of
the unit working with two other cardiac surgeons and another two doctors when
all services were suspended.

He remains an employee of Queensland Health, but it is believed he no longer
works at Townsville Hospital.

Another former cardiac surgeon, Dr Inderjit Virdi, who has returned to India,
had his contract terminated in October and is fighting an unfair dismissal case
with Queensland Health.

A department spokeswoman said more than 60 allegations had been made by staff
against other staff at the time of the shutdown, and there was a longstanding
history of disputes among cardiac surgeons.

The unit has been fully operational without incident since the appointment of Dr
Robert Tam as director and reopening last October.

It now has a cardiothoracic surgeon, a locum surgeon and another surgeon due to
return next month, as well as two principal house officers.

Between its reopening and the end of December, 102 patients underwent heart
operations in Townsville and last week there were 37 patients on the
cardiothoracic surgery waiting list.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SML


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


