                              65 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                           January 20, 2007 Saturday
                                 Travel Edition

Unfair criticism overlooks Catholic Church's proud history

BYLINE: FRANCIS SULLIVAN

SECTION: REVIEW; Health; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 804  words


LAST week the AMA federal president, Mukesh Haikerwal, took aim in The
Australian at Catholic public hospitals because they don't provide termination,
sterilisation and IVF services (''Doctors want beliefs out of state hospitals'',
12/01).

Senators Lyn Allison and Kate Lundy toyed with establishing an inquiry, and
suggested that the church should submit its ethics to those of the public
sector. Apart from igniting yet another ''anti-Catholic'' bashing exercise, all
three have weighed in to paint a picture of a harsh and insensitive service
devoid of compassion and decency. Fortunately, the facts reveal otherwise.

Catholic public hospitals have longstanding funding agreements with state and
territory governments. These are regularly monitored and updated. They are
transparent and respectful of the ethical position of the Catholic Church. The
agreements work.

There is no other non-government provider willing and able to conduct public
hospitals in the interests of the common good. Also, in the cut-throat
environment of private health, it is only the Catholic Church that has the major
presence in obstetrics and paediatric care. And all these services are provided
within an ethos that upholds the dignity of people and safeguards the value of
human life.

Not surprisingly, the Queensland Treasurer Anna Bligh and NSW Health Minister
John Hatzistergos last week publicly endorsed the contribution of the church's
hospitals. They know the economic and social benefits that accrue from the
non-government provision of hospital Medicare. The church's reputation for the
prudent and efficient management of public funds is second to none.

State authorities have always respected the fact that Catholic hospitals will
not provide abortion and sterilisation services. Most other public hospitals
don't. The authorities have the responsibility to provide these services if they
so wish. It should not follow that the church carry the blame for what is a
government task. We don't hear Haikerwal accusing other public hospitals of
failing to provide essential services because local authorities determine they
are best located elsewhere.

Equally, the AMA president is curiously silent when hospital specialists
threaten to withdraw public services over salary disputes.

More telling, however, is the AMA's insistence that publicly funded GPs not be
forced to prescribe the morning-after pill or give referrals to abortion
clinics. They readily support the ethical independence of doctors -- why take
cheap shots at Catholic hospitals?

When it comes to rape victims, the Catholic health response is nothing other
than compassionate. The hospital's first ethical duty is to provide for the
immediate clinical and pastoral care of the woman. Her health and safety are
paramount. There are a number of immediate and pressing issues associated with
her care that require sensitive and respectful attention from expert and
competent staff.

As with most other public hospitals, that expertise is located outside the
hospital in specialist clinics. Ethical protocols set standards for staff as
they help women to choose the specialist services they wish to access.

The furore over IVF has been overblown. In two recent private hospital
acquisitions by Catholic Church providers, the fact that IVF services would need
to relocate was known from the start. In the private sector, hospital services
are primarily commercially organised. Most major private hospital companies
don't offer IVF solely on those grounds alone. If there is a market for IVF
services, then specialists will organise to deliver them. It is not incumbent on
any private hospital to conduct any service in the private sector.

This makes it all the more curious that critics would single out the church when
other companies make similar decisions for more base reasons. Unlike other
private operators, the Catholic Church conducts hospitals to meet community
need, not shareholder greed. Its 74 hospitals are spread over urban and regional
Australia. They are enmeshed in local communities and can be relied on to
bolster those employment and service economies. Apart from state governments, it
is only the Catholic Church that provides excellent obstetric teaching and
research hospitals.

This is the same church that actively supports the victims of domestic violence,
provides migrant women with employment skills, provides sanctuary to refugees
and victims of torture and campaigns on behalf of women exploited in the sex
trade.

The shrill criticism about Catholic hospitals fails to appreciate the consistent
ethic that underpins their respect for human life in all its circumstances. This
ethic has produced a quality of service Australians support. That, ultimately,
is the greatest test.

Francis Sullivan is CEO of the industry umbrella group Catholic Health Australia

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


