                              66 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 12, 2015 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Can I Hire Someone to Write My Résumé and Cover Letter?

BYLINE: By AMY BLOOM, JACK SHAFER and KENJI YOSHINO.

Amy Bloom is a novelist and had a psychotherapy practice for 25 years. Her most
recent book is ''Lucky Us.'' Jack Shafer is the media columnist for Politico.
Kenji Yoshino is an author and the Chief Justice Earl Warren professor of
constitutional law at the N.Y.U. School of Law.

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICISTS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1532 words


I'm looking for a new job in the nonprofit sector and am considering using a
résumé service to write my résumé and cover letter. Part of me feels morally
conflicted about this process. Is it fair to have someone else write the two
materials that show the quality of my writing skills to my future employer? NAME
WITHHELD, WASHINGTON

Kenji Yoshino: To the extent that we are saying this shows the quality of your
writing skills, you are not being transparent or honest about your writing
skills vis-à-vis your future employer if you have somebody else write the
materials that are supposed to reflect those abilities. On the other hand, it's
not obvious to me that résumé writing reflects those skills. So I would actually
drive a wedge between the résumé and the cover letter, if it is a substantive
one.

Amy Bloom: I would have been very grateful earlier in my life to have a résumé
service write my résumé. I don't really consider that to be an example of your
writing skills. It is an example of your organizational skills and probably even
more an example of producing-a-résumé skills, which may or may not be part of
your job. In your own best interest, if you have writing skills, write the cover
letter.

Jack Shafer: As someone who used to sift through hundreds of résumés when I put
jobs up for application, I looked very closely at the quality of a résumé. Are
words spelled correctly? Is the punctuation done intelligently and by the rules?
So I wouldn't dismiss the art and the craft of résumés so quickly.

Bloom: I would certainly rather hire somebody who was smart enough to ask a
friend to proofread a résumé than somebody who turned it in with a bunch of
typos. That's showing common sense.

Yoshino: What if you're not going to have the chance on the job to vet every
single piece that you write with colleagues to make sure that it's perfect? The
principle here is that it's unethical to misrepresent skills relevant to the
potential employer. I think we agree on the principle and disagree only on its
application.

Shafer: No, I don't think so. Who among us has not misrepresented their skills
to an employer when asked, ''How's your French?'' ''My French is pretty good''
-- and you haven't opened a French textbook since high school. The dance of the
employment review in which this résumé is a part is a little bit like poker:
There is ethical leeway.

Yoshino: I don't think it's enough to say we've all done it. The question is,
Have we done it and remained ethical? You've made a case for why you believe
that you can do it and be ethical. I'm less sure.

Bloom: Using a résumé service is entirely ethical. Should somebody come to me
for that kind of help, I am happy to give it. I don't feel that I am helping
them misrepresent themselves; I am helping them produce a better document. I
actually wouldn't do it for somebody who I thought was applying for a job for
which they did not have the skills. A lot of students bring me their résumés and
cover letters, and I am glad to help and feel that I am actually behaving
ethically, because I am giving them assistance, which allows them to approach
gainful employment.

Yoshino: Perhaps I am not giving enough weight here to people's capacity to
learn and grow. You help them with their résumé and their cover letter, then
they go on and do the next one themselves.

Bloom: I like your addition. Maybe it is not unethical to use this service this
time and learn how to do it yourself.

Shafer: That would send it in the direction of, Is it unethical for you to help
your child with their homework? Yes, of course, it's ethical to help them. It's
not ethical -- it's not actually helpful -- for you to complete your children's
homework. The letter writer has enlisted a sort of surrogate parent to help them
complete their homework, and I'm not comfortable with it. I don't think that
behavior is ethical or representational of the skills of the applicant.

My out here would be disclosure: The letter writer would be O.K. saying to the
interviewer, ''Oh, by the way, I had a service write my résumé and also write my
cover letter.'' That would leave everybody with clean hands. But at that point,
the prospective employer would say, ''Take a walk,'' I think.

I am a pediatric intensive-care physician. Recently, a colleague of mine, a very
good doctor, was taking care of an extremely sick child who was expected to
survive at the time of admission but who died. The institution conducted a
root-cause analysis (R.C.A.), which found that the medical team made mistakes in
diagnosis that led to inappropriate treatment and eventual death. The leader of
the team resigned. I feel guilty: I was close to the family and took care of the
child several times; the mother trusted us. After the R.C.A., I thought our
institution had the obligation to tell her the results. I want to tell the
family. I think they will pursue litigation if they get the results of the
R.C.A. I would sue my hospital as well if I found out they made a mistake and my
child died, at least in part because they were not forthright. I think whenever
an R.C.A. is conducted, the results, positive or negative, should be shared with
the family. Many of my colleagues think a physician's ethical obligations to a
child end when the child dies. I argue that this means that whenever there is a
bad, nonfatal outcome because of medical error, logic would mean that the
physician should hope for death in order for self-preservation. I am sure that I
am conflating many pillars of ethics. I want to advocate for my patient even
when she has died. NAME WITHHELD

Shafer: Nowhere in the letter does he allege malpractice. He says mistakes were
made. Mistakes are made everywhere -- are these understandable mistakes? I feel
as if I need some legal advice here.

Yoshino: We would have much more transparency with regard to the results of
R.C.A.s if doctors weren't worried about litigation after they made a mistake --
whether an understandable one or not. In this case, I take it that the mistake
was not ordinary because the team leader resigned. That said, I don't think that
the right remedy is for the letter writer to take justice into his own hands and
notify the parents. Even if a mistake was made by the hospital, the proper step
is to make the strongest case possible internally for disclosure, not to take it
outside the hospital community.

Bloom: I don't think that the letter writer is conflating pillars of ethics but
trying to serve his conscience and be an ethical actor and also see that good is
done. That last goal is where some of the complications arise. One doctor friend
I asked about this said it was probable that if the letter writer went directly
to the family without discussing it further with the hospital, and if that
family did in fact file suit, then it's very possible that that doctor would
never find himself employed again. That also has an impact on all the future
people he would not be able to serve as a doctor.

Because this letter writer was not an actual part of the medical team that
provided the care, there is still some information that he does not have, and so
he may not really be in the best or strongest ethical position to go to the
family and specifically point a finger. His next step should probably be to go
to the hospital's legal counsel or risk-management team or the R.C.A. team and
find out more. He may not be in the best position to assess blame, but he is
certainly in an excellent position to encourage the hospital to share the R.C.A.
findings, for starters.

Yoshino: We have to consider the good-faith reasons that the hospital might not
want to disclose the R.C.A. other than fear of litigation. A famous report from
1999 estimated that 44,000 to 98,000 deaths a year occur because of medical
errors in hospitals, so this is a very widespread phenomenon that they are
obviously trying to minimize. It's quite likely there will be fewer calls for an
R.C.A. if all R.C.A.s are going to be made public. Raising the level of care for
everybody might mean that there has to be a zone of safety for physicians to get
optimal reporting.

In addition, I want to address the letter writer's claim that if you go with the
hospital's reasoning, then logic means that the physician should hope for the
patient's death for the sake of the physician's self-preservation. I can think
of lots of reasons other than the physician's self-preservation for why the
hospital would have greater obligations for disclosure to a surviving patient.
If there's a bad lung and a good lung and you make an error and cut out the good
lung by mistake but the patient survives, then the doctor has an obligation to
go to the patient and say, ''We're sorry we cut out the good lung, not the bad
lung, so therefore you're going to need to take X, Y and Z steps in order to
preserve your health.'' If the patient dies, nondisclosure does not compound the
original mistake in the same way.

This conversation is an edited and condensed version of a podcast in which the
panelists engage in further debate.

Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine
delivered to your inbox every week.




URL:
http://www.nytimes.com/2015/04/12/magazine/can-i-hire-someone-to-write-my-resume
-and-cover-letter.html

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LA TIGRE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 The New York Times Company


