                              67 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                           February 17, 2007 Saturday

NHS investing in booze firms

BYLINE:  natalie murphy

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 726 words


Charity money raised to help Derby hospitals is being invested in drinks brands
such as Smirnoff, Guinness and Dom Pérignon champagne.

Donations totalling £8m have been spent on shares in hundreds of companies
worldwide such as Tesco and Marks and Spencer.

But some of that money has also been invested in companies such as Diageo - a
leading beer, wine and spirits company - and Whitbread - owner of pub chains
Brewers Fayre and Beefeater.

The news has shocked support groups for people with alcohol-related problems.

They believe  it is unwise for hospital charity funds to invest in firms which
make alcoholic drinks.

The company that invests money on behalf of the Derby Hospitals Charity is now
asking whether or not alcohol-related businesses should be excluded as part of
an ethical policy which already bans dealing in arms, tobacco and gambling.

Chris Calkin, the hospitals trust's director of finance, said he thought there
was potentially  a conflict between the aims of the charity and investments in
businesses selling booze.

He said: "We knew that the investment management company invested in
alcohol-related businesses because we have the list of people that they invest
in and they have an ethical policy which we subscribe to.

"The issue came up when they said they were going to review their ethical
policy."

Derby Hospitals Charity receives money through donations, legacies and
fund-raising events and Derby Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust earmarks the money
for projects to benefit patients.

Any charitable funds not  required immediately are invested in the stock market.

The trust's  investment account   stands at £8m,  £2m of which is earmarked for
a new palliative care centre.

The trust aims to spend a minimum of a third of the remaining £6m every year.

Mr Calkin said the policy was to spend and not save but donations were often
made for specific pieces of equipment or wards, which meant that the money could
not be spent straight away.

In the last quarter alone, the £8m investment grew by £250,000 but Mr Calkin
said it was important to balance ethical issues with financial performance.

"There's lots of stuff in the press on binge-drinking and drinking-related liver
disease and we feel that it is important that we have the debate," he said.

"There are two schools of thought.

"One says a glass of red wine a day is good for you, another says it isn't.

"Consultants are debating this issue."

CCLA, the investment management company, buys stocks and shares on behalf of 75
NHS clients which will now be asked to vote on the issue.

Mr Calkin said the trust was   considering which way it would vote.

Whatever it decides, if Derby is in the minority, it is not clear what action it
could take, as it recently signed a five-year deal with CCLA.

"If the vote went against us we would have to consider that and how people felt
around the trustee table,"   said Mr Calkin.

"We have to very carefully balance the responsibility of having an ethical
policy with making sure we get the best return we can."

There were about 2,000 alcohol-related hospital admissions in Derby in 2004-5,
the latest figures available.

These could include anything from a road traffic accident connected to drink to
chronic liver disease.

And, according to the Department of Health, around 16 per cent of  people in
Derby say they binge-drink  - consuming double the daily recommended alcohol
levels in a single session.

Across the East Midlands, alcohol is a factor is an estimated 2,000 deaths
annually.

Nick Tegerdine, executive director of the Alcohol Problems Advisory Service,
was shocked that the hospital had not banned investments in alcohol.

"It seems to me to be totally unwise and, in fact, plain stupid for any
health-related funds to be invested in this way," he said.

Mr Tegerdine added that drinks companies were producing stronger and stronger
products.

"That is contributing to the huge health problems that are being seen in all of
our hospitals," he said.

"People have heard about the problem of binge-drinkers which occur in accident
and emergency on a Friday and Saturday night.

"But there is also the problem of too much, too often,   too long, lifelong
drinking which leads to people seeing the liver and stomach specialists in
hospital.

"Further to that, every week in Derby, there are people who are taken to
hospital as a result of a bottle or glass injury."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 Derby Evening Telegraph
                              All Rights Reserved


