                              68 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 19, 2016 Friday

Doctor calls on Australian government to lift threat of imprisonment from
doctors

LENGTH: 436 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 In The BMJ today, a doctor is calling on the Australian government to stop
constraining doctors in the care of asylum seekers and refugees, and to adopt a
humane stance to people seeking asylum.





 David Berger, a doctor at Broome Hospital in Western Australia and a committee
member of Doctors4Refugees, is making these calls following the high profile
case at The Lady Cilento Hospital in Brisbane.



 Paediatricians are refusing to discharge a baby facing deportation to a
detention camp after the girl, a daughter of asylum seekers, suffered serious
burns at an immigration camp on Nauru island. The Lady Cilento Hospital says the
girl will not be released "until a suitable home environment is identified".



 Dr Berger explains that despite seeking to ensure the safety of their patient
and doing nothing more than following their own ethical code, these doctors risk
facing up to two years imprisonment under the 2015 Border Force Act.



 Doctors have an ethical code since the time of the Hippocractic physicians
nearly 2,500 years ago, he explains, yet this new law "compels them to follow
the instructions of the Australian government, even if they believe this might
be to the detriment of their patients."



 He says this case goes to the heart of the question of 'duty of the physician'
versus 'law of the land', but argues that "compliance with the law can not
inoculate the medical practitioner completely against the need to comply with
their ethical code".



 He highlights the 2012 Derek Keilloh case in the UK that shows the "impossible
ethical and legal position doctors now face in Australia...as they are caught
between the profession's ethical code, which places patient welfare at the heart
of their endeavours, and the law of the country which places unacceptable
obstacles in the way of doing so."



 Dr Berger adds that the actions of the Brisbane doctors "are not simply a piece
of political grandstanding, but the courageous stand of professionals seeking to
do the right thing by their patient and to live up to the standards of an
ethical code by which they are morally and legally bound and which places
patient welfare at its pinnacle."



 "They are behaving according to the very highest standards of their
profession," he adds, and calls on the government to repeal the relevant
provisions of the Border Force Act and to adopt a "humane stance" towards people
seeking asylum.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


