                              71 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                           Western Times (Queensland)

                                  May 7, 2015

Nurses are most ethical

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 280  words


NURSES have been found to be the most ethical and honest professionals and Nicky
McKellar believes it's because they are needed when their patients are the most
vulnerable.

Ms McKellar is the Nurse Unit Manager at the Charleville Hospital and has been
nursing for the past 20 years.

She said the patients were "completely and utterly reliant" on the nurses to do
what's right by them and their families during tough circumstances.

Ms McKellar said she had openly wept with many patients and families.

"I think people see us as honest and ethical because we are there during
vulnerable periods for the patients," Ms McKellar said.

"Nurses are patient advocates "¦ we will go for the best outcomes and treatments
for the patient and family," she said.

A study by Roy Morgan Research revealed nurses have been voted as the most
honest and ethical professionals for 2015.

Nurses have been voted into the top spot for the past 21 years.

The study found pharmacists to be the second most reliable followed by doctors
and school teachers.

Of the 30 professions surveyed, real estate agents, advertising reps and car
sales people were found to be the least honest and ethical.

Ms McKellar started nursing in 1994 when she undertook a one-year hands-on
training program at the Charleville hospital.

She went on to complete her Bachelor of Nursing and later became an enrolled
nurse.

"I'd always aspired to be a jillaroo on my parents' property," Ms McKellar said.

But after spending time in the hospital, Ms McKellar found her passion for
helping people.

"There's such diversity particularly with rural nursing," Ms McKellar said.

"You can see so many different things and you're not restrained to one area."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TWT


                    Copyright 2015 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


