                              72 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                      Western Morning News (Plymouth, UK)

                           December 13, 2012 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MP calls for more ethical hospital food

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 387 words


Hospitals should be forced to serve food that meets higher animal welfare
standards, a Westcountry MP has told ministers. Neil Parish, Conservative MP for
Tiverton and Honiton, said making it mandatory for meals to meet RSPCA
guidelines would end a "postcode lottery" that sees standards vary across the
country. Government buying standards are mandatory only for Whitehall buying
departments, the Ministry of Defence and prisons.

He added that producers who farm to higher welfare standards would be rewarded,
and hospitals would serve food to a level now expected from supermarkets.

Mr Parish cited research published by the RSPCA and the Campaign for Better
Hospital Food that found most eggs, chicken and pork bought by hospitals are
produced from animals that are given just basic welfare standards and live
unhappy lives. The research found that half of eggs bought by hospitals in the
South West are from caged hens.

Mr Parish, a former farmer in Somerset who is also chairman of the parliamentary
group for animal welfare, told MPs: "Our health service does a very good job,
but sometimes - dare I say it - patients might like slightly tastier meals when
in hospital.

It would certainly improve our view of life, even if it does not cure us
instantly. It can have a positive effect."

He added the introduction of mandatory school food standards by the Government
in 2005 led to a dramatic improvement in the quality of school meals.

Mr Parish added: "Hospital food should reflect the ethical concerns of the
British taxpayer.

The introduction of mandatory RSPCA welfare standards for hospital chicken, pork
and cage-free eggs is an affordable way to ensure that chickens, pigs and hens
that have been reared for patients' meals are given a good quality of life."

But in response, Health Minister Daniel Poulter rejected making improved welfare
standards mandatory, arguing it would "stifle" good hospitals that are already
helping raise standards across the NHS.

He said: "The problem with a rigid framework or set of criteria is that it might
stifle local innovation that can improve standards, as we have seen elsewhere in
the NHS."

Dr Poulter also said the Government was looking to link central government
payments to "good, ethical" procurement.

'Patients might like slightly tastier meals when in hospital' Neil Parish, MP

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WMN


                 Copyright 2012 Western Morning News (Plymouth)
                              All Rights Reserved


