                              73 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Japan News

                           November 7, 2015 Saturday
                                   S Edition

Govt to toughen criteria for advanced hospitals

SECTION: SOCIETY; Pg. 2; No. 23374

LENGTH: 481 words


Following a series of fatal medical accidents at advanced treatment hospitals
including Gunma University Hospital, the health ministry decided Thursday to
require such facilities to implement stricter safety management measures. These
include having relevant officials report all fatal cases to a hospital's medical
safety division to share information on such cases throughout the facility.

The Health, Labor and Welfare Ministry will revise the conditions for advanced
treatment hospital certification and make those new conditions obligatory as
early as next year, including for the 84 existing advanced treatment hospitals
across the nation.

Government-authorized advanced treatment hospitals are required to have
high-level techniques and medical safety staff, among other conditions, while
they are given preferential remuneration for medical services. Most advanced
treatment hospitals are university hospitals.

However, when laparoscopic liver operations were performed from 2010 to 2014 at
Gunma University Hospital in Maebashi, which is designated as an advanced
treatment hospital, the operations were not presented to the hospital's ethical
review board in advance. In addition, the deaths of eight patients after the
operations were not reported to senior hospital officials.

With this in mind, the new conditions will require hospitals to report all fatal
cases and present difficult new surgeries to a hospital's ethical review board
before performing them.

Meanwhile, at Tokyo Women's Medical University Hospital in Shinjuku Ward, Tokyo,
a 2-year-old boy died after being given an excessive amount of a sedative
prohibited for children while he was on a ventilator in 2014. The accident
occurred partly because information on drug risks was not shared among hospital
staffers. Consequently, the ministry will require hospitals to appoint a
pharmacist exclusively engaged under a medical safety division as a condition
for certification as an advanced treatment hospital.

Meanwhile, the ministry will also require such hospitals to create an audit
committee comprising external experts and introduce a system under which
advanced treatment hospitals mutually conduct investigations. The ministry
revoked the statuses of Gunma University Hospital and Tokyo Women's Medical
University Hospital as advanced treatment hospital in June this year.

Major safety measures to be made obligatory

Reporting all fatal cases to a hospital's medical safety division

Presenting difficult new surgeries to a hospital's ethical review board before
performing them

Appointing a deputy hospital director in charge of medical safety issues

Appointing doctors, pharmacists and nurses exclusively engaged in medical safety
issues

Creating an audit committee of external experts to check the medical safety
system

Introducing a system under which advanced treatment hospitals mutually conduct
investigations

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


