                              74 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                             June 19, 2006, Monday
                                 First Edition

Ethical ruling due on face transplant

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 383 words


Doctors hoping to perform the world's full face transplant in Britain may move a
step closer to carrying out the procedure this week when ethical experts meet to
decide whether to give the go-ahead.

The ethical committee of the Royal Free Hospital in Hampstead, north London, is
meeting on Wednesday to discuss whether to grant permission for the
groundbreaking operation.

No recipients have yet been selected but several possible patients have been
seen by doctors.

Peter Butler, consultant plastic surgeon at the Royal Free, has spent the past
14 years looking at the possibility of carrying out the procedure.

If approval is granted by the hospital's ethical committee, the process to
identify a suitable patient could begin.

Mr Butler's spokesman stressed that even if permission is granted it would not
mean a transplant was imminent.

The patient selection process could take up to a year he said.

"There is a meeting of the ethical committee that will consider the next stage
in the process.

"What they will be discussing is the form of the operation and whether that
operation is right to go ahead.

"After that we have still got to find a panel of four to five patients, before
an operation can be considered," the spokesman said.

Simon Weston, who suffered terrible burns in the Falklands war, is expected to
accompany the medical team to the meeting to explain why he thinks doctors
should be allowed to perform face transplants in Britain.

Mr Weston was initially against the procedure but later changed his mind and has
now come down in favour of it.

Although it has been technically possible to carry out the operation for several
years, ethical concerns have prevented surgeons from doing so.

For the past five years Mr Butler has been researching tissue rejection and
psychological issues as well as concerns surrounding identity.

Last year he was given permission to identify a patient who meets the selection
criteria by a hospital ethics committee. Mr Butler has already spoken to around
30 potential patients.

Last November the world's first partial face transplant took place in France.

A team of surgeons led by Professor Jean-Michel Dubernard carried out the
operation on 38-year-old Isabelle Dinoire. Ms Dinoire received a section of a
nose, lips and chin after being mauled by her pet Labrador.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


