                              75 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                          September 15, 1994 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

Identification of cancer gene an ethical dilemma

BYLINE: MELISSA SWEET

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 385 words


Isolation of one of the genes responsible for inherited breast cancers had
opened a "Pandora's box" of ethical and medical dilemmas, experts said
yesterday.

They were commenting on reports that American scientists have cloned the gene
BRCA1, paving the way for the development of a blood test to detect it.

The gene, which was first mapped four years ago, causes about 45 per cent of
inherited breast cancers and is also associated with an increased risk of
ovarian and colon cancer.

The latest discovery means that the several thousand Australian women diagnosed
with breast cancer every year are likely to be tested for the gene within a few
years, doctors predict.

But Ms Elaine Henry, executive director of the NSW Cancer Council, said the
test, expected to become available next year, raised huge ethical implications.

"It opens a Pandora's box of ethical issues which haven't even been addressed,
let alone resolved," she said.

"There is the potential to do more harm to the individual and society if we
haven't come to some agreement as a community before we implement genetic
testing."

Ms Henry said she was concerned there would be enormous demand for the test,
although many women might not fully understand the psychological implications of
a positive or negative result.

"It also raises the question of whether it is ethically correct to tell a woman
she is likely to develop breast cancer when there is no appropriate remedy," she
said.

The director of medical oncology at Westmead Hospital, Sydney, Associate
Professor Richard Kefford, said the test raised a "whole host of ethical issues"
and also highlighted the urgent need for more genetic counsellors.

He said he expected women diagnosed with breast cancer would be screened for the
gene, to determine if other women in their family should also be tested. Dr
Katherine Tucker, a clinical geneticist at the Prince of Wales Hospital's
hereditary cancer clinic, said the discovery presented many dilemmas including
whether women with the gene should have their breasts and ovaries removed, and
whether they should be regularly monitored for colon cancer.

Professor Alan Coates, a medical oncologist at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital,
said the test raised an "ethical minefield" about protecting the confidentiality
of test results. -- Sydney Morning Herald.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo Complex keeps centre at the front line of cancer war: The
Premier, Mr Kennett, opens the Peter MacCallum Cancer Institute's new $65
million complex yesterday, saying it would keep the institute at the forefront
of cancer research and treatment. Mr Kennett said the East Melbourne complex had
the most modern equipment in the world. Work on the new complex began in 1991
after the previous State Government approved plans for the institute to relocate
to the old site of St Andrew's Hospital. More than $50 million of the project's
cost was provided by the State Government, with the rest still being raised
through public donations

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1994 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


