                              76 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              June 12, 2006 Monday

C of I group wary of ethical norm of children's hospital

BYLINE: Patsy McGarry, Religious Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: IRELAND; Other Stories; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 396 words


The Government decision to locate a new national children's hospital at the
Mater hospital in Dublin has been described as a "cart-before-the-horse"
approach by the Church of Ireland Archbishop of Dublin, Dr John Neill.

The archbishop and a delegation from Tallaght hospital with a Protestant ethos
attended a meeting last Wednesday with Tánaiste and Minister for Health Mary
Harney, Minister for Children Brian Lenihan, and Health Service Executive chief
executive Brendan Drumm,

Speaking to The Irish Times last night, Dr Neill said the Ministers and Dr Drumm
"admitted the taskforce report [on locating the new children's hospital] had
been a rushed job". He said also "it was very apparent that no real thought at
all had been given to the issue of governance". The archbishop was commenting
following remarks by Mr Lenihan on RTÉ Radio 1's Marian Finucane programme
yesterday.

He said he had assured the archbishop there was no question of a particular
ethical norm being applied at the new hospital, particularly in the context of a
pluralist Ireland. "Doctors who practise there will have full clinical freedom,"
he said.

Last night Dr Neill said he was not satisfied with the outcome. There remained
"a very particular concern" when it came to ethical guidelines and freedom for
treatments, as well as for genetic research at the new hospital. On the
governance issue, he said it had taken years to resolve the matter when it came
to the amalgamation of the Adelaide, Meath and National Children's Hospital of
Harcourt Street at Tallaght.

Accompanying Archbishop Neill at last week's meeting in Government Buildings
were the chairman of Tallaght hospital Alan Gillis; board member and former
archdeacon of Dublin, the Ven Gordon Linney; hospital chief executive Michael
Lyons; and Prof Ian Graham, chairman of the board's paediatric review
subcommittee.

Last October it emerged that the Mater hospital deferred trials of the cancer
drug Tarceta as tests were deemed contrary to its Catholic ethos. It said a
leaflet for patients involved stated female participants would have to agree to
use birth control since the drug could affect an unborn child. It emerged the
leaflet also advised abstinence from sex as a way of preventing pregnancy.

At the time, trials for the drug were under way at hospitals in Cork and Galway,
as well as at Tallaght, Beaumont and St James's in Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


