                              77 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                            January 26, 2016 Tuesday

Kidney racket: Sri Lankan health officials involved

LENGTH: 341  words

DATELINE: HYDERABAD


HYDERABAD, Jan. 26 -- Lacunae in the law related to kidney transplantation in
Sri Lanka helped the kidney racket kingpin Suresh Prajapathi to make fast bucks.

 Suresh, who was arrested by the Nalgonda police after busting the kidney
transplantation racket recently, told his interrogators that gaps in the legal
provisions helped him exploit the kidney donors and recipients. Hailing from
Ahmedabad, the racket mastermind made use of doctors in Ahmedabad and Sri Lanka
to operate the racket by offering money to them.


 As per the law in Sri Lanka, the kidney recipient must convince a three-member
ethical committee of the hospital, where the surgery was to be performed, that
the donor came forward voluntarily to give the organ. The committee comprises a
member from that country's Health Ministry and two doctors from local government
hospital there.
 Investigations by Nalgonda police indicated that the racketeers were paying 500
US dollars (nearly Rs. 33,000 in Indian currency) bribe to the ethical committee
for giving permission to each kidney transplantation surgery. "This comes to
less than one per cent of the money being paid by the kidney recipient to
Suresh," the investigators told The Hindu .
 Many people were going to Sri Lanka for kidney transplantations since the law
was not as strong as in India. Out of Rs. 30 lakh being paid to the conspirator
by the recipient of kidney, nearly Rs. 15 lakh is given to the hospital
management. While Rs. 5 lakh goes to the donor, an equal sum is taken by the
conspirator. Travel expenses of the donors and bribe amounts to the ethical
committee are borne out of the remaining sum.
 A five to ten member team, sent by Suresh Prajapathi to Sri Lanka, roams around
the offices and hospital to find the slots for kidney surgeries in the four
hospitals involved in the racket. The team will provide accommodation to donor
and recipient and will make travel arrangements.
 Enactment of stringent law was the only solution to stop illegal kidney
transplantations in Sri Lanka, the investigators felt.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


