                              78 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                   The Vancouver Province (British Columbia)

                              June 27, 2005 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Medical system wounded by 'challenges': Patient/doctor clashes highlight ethical
woes, study says

BYLINE: Mark Kennedy, CanWest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 460  words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


OTTAWA -- Canada's health-care system is increasingly gripped with "ethical
challenges" stemming from clashes involving patients or their families who
disagree with the treatment being ordered by medical professions, says a new
report.

The report, published yesterday in the British journal BMC Medical Ethics, is an
unprecedented analysis of the "top 10" ethical issues faced by the Canadian
public and health-care professionals.

It found the No. 1 ethical problem is the growing occurrence of conflict over
how a patient should be treated -- whether it in-volves something as simple as
prescribing an antibiotic or as serious as providing life-sustaining treatment.

The report says while such disagreements are most common in a hospital's
intensive-care unit, they occur virtually everywhere in the system, including
palliative care, rehabilitation, mental health, surgery and a family doctor's
office.

The report was prepared by experts at the University of Toronto's Joint Centre
for Bioethics, a medical-ethics think-tank. The authors of the report surveyed
12 full-time bioethicists at Toronto hospitals to rank the most important
ethical challenges facing the health system.

The results -- which cast an ethical lens on everything from wait times to
medical errors -- provide a perceptive look at the complexities of health care.

Dr. Peter Singer, director of the centre for bioethics and one of the report's
co-authors, said in an interview he hopes the report draws more public attention
to the issue -- particularly disagreements over patient care.

"It's floating under the surface like a shark," said Singer.

-- Ottawa Citizen

TOP 10 ETHICAL ISSUES IN CANADIAN HEALTH CARE

1. Patient-care conflict: Examples can range from prescribing an antibiotic to
life-sustaining treatment.

2. Wait lists: Lengthy waits can harm patients' health.

3. Access to care: The system has traditionally marginalized the elderly,
chronically ill or mentally ill.

4. Shortage of family physicians: The Canadian medicare system's based on the
premise that patients deserve "universal and reasonable access."

5. Medical error: Mistakes range from incorrect prescriptions to performing
surgery on the wrong patient.

6. Palliative treatment: Among the ethical issues that doctors grapple with is
appropriate pain medication.

7. Informed consent: Many patients do not -- or cannot -- read the forms they're
asked to sign.

8. Research: Issues include balancing the need for "fair compensation" to
research participants without the payments becoming "coercive."

9. Substitute decision-making: When a patient is incapable of making a decision
about his treatment, professionals will turn to a substitute.

10. Surgical innovations: Should innovative techniques be required to go through
ethics approval?

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

