                              79 of 997 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Medical ethics committee formed to watch over practice, research

                                 June 19, 1994

Ng Wei Joo


THE Health Ministry has formed a national ethics committee with members drawn
from wide-ranging backgrounds to look into ethical issues in medical practice
and research.

Led by Dr Chew Chin Hin, a former deputy director of medical services, and
comprising doctors, lawyers and community leaders, its tasks include:

Drawing up ethical codes of conduct for doctors,

Advising the ministry on potential ethical issues based on trends in developed
countries, and

Identifying prevailing ethical issues and forming sub-committees to deal with
specific issues.

Announcing this yesterday, Health Minister George Yeo said that his ministry was
also planning to empower the Singapore Medical Council to deal with doctors who
misbehaved. He did not give other details.

Speaking to the medical Alumni Association, he said that the committee will also
look into how medical ethics could be taught to medical students.

It would probably recommend too that all private and public hospitals set up a
formal ethics committee.

These would then give detailed guidelines on areas such as life support of
terminally-ill patients and assisted reproduction.

Hospitals such as the National University Hospital, Tan Tock Seng Hospital,
Mount Elizabeth Hospital and Toa Payoh Hospital already have such committees,
made up of medical staff and others.

In his speech, Brig-Gen (NS) Yeo warned against reducing the practice of
medicine to a trade, and the doctor-patient relationship to a "mere commercial
transaction".

He said: "The doctor-patient relationship and the teacher-pupil relationship are
analogous. Both are fundamental to the well-being of society."

Hence to preserve the relationship, he said, there was a need for sanctions and
safeguards by the Health Ministry and a strong ethical code.

But he added that efforts should also come from within the profession.

Urging the Singapore Medical Association and the Alumni Association to take the
lead, he said that no sanction was more effective than professional peer
pressure.

Promoting a spirit of voluntarism among doctors, he added, would also improve
the ethical tone of the profession and increase public respect.

Although many already gave their services in medical and non-medical areas,
fewer doctors were coming forward to serve in constituency grassroots groups.

"The doctor-to-patient relationship is transformed when doctors are also
recognised by the community at large as leaders, mentors and benefactors."

He concluded by challenging doctors to be prepared for the effect of technology
on medicine and for "an age when ideologies and ideals matter little".

Several doctors yesterday welcomed the move to have the national medical ethics
committee.

A general practitioner in Ang Mo Kio said that clear guidelines would help
doctors decide more confidently in a "50-50 situation", such as whether to
resort to costly equipment and procedures to try to repair a deformed or
abnormal foetus.

Another GP, Dr Wong Wee Nam, who was at the lunch held at the Alumni Association
auditorium in College Road, said that the committee should perform more than a
policing role and help doctors grapple with moral dilemmas.

Citing advanced technology that could prolong life but increase costs and even
suffering, he said: "We, as doctors, are not trained to tell patients to die."

WHO'S ON THE COMMITTEE

CHAIRMAN: Dr Chew Chin Hin -Consultant Chest Physician and former Deputy
Director of Medical Services (Hospitals), Ministry of Health.

MEMBERS: Dr Lawrence Chan, Chairman, Medical Board, Kandang Kerbau Hospital; Dr
James Murugasu, surgeon in private practice; Mr Zainul Abidin Rasheed, Editor,
Berita Harian;

Professor Chao Tzee Cheng, Senior Forensic Pathologist and Medical Director,
Institute of Science & Forensic Medicine; Dr Alfred Loh, President, College of
Family Physicians;

Prof Peter Hwang, Head, Department of Physiology, National University of
Singapore; Miss Roselin Liew, former Chief Nursing Officer; Mr Terry Kaan,
Senior Lecturer, Law Faculty, National University of Singapore;

Assoc Prof John Elliott, psychologist, Department of Social Work and Psychology,
NUS; Dr Chen Ai Ju -Deputy Director of Medical Services (Hospitals), Ministry of
Health;

Dr A. N. Rao, part-time tutor, Botany Department, Faculty of Science, NUS, and
former professor in the same department; Prof Edward Tock, Dean, Faculty of
Medicine, NUS.


SECTION: News Focus; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1147 words

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                 Copyright 1994 The Straits Times Press Limited


