                              80 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                Vanguard (Lagos)

                                  May 14, 2013

Doctors React to Alleged Detention of Patients in Hospitals [interview]

BYLINE: Chioma Obinna

LENGTH: 650 words


In recent times, there have been several reports of Nigerian hospitals holding
patients hostage following inability of the latter to settle their treatment
bills. This practice, which has been observed in public and private hospitals
has elicited concern among health watchers and the populace to a far extent.

Good Health Weekly sought views of medical doctors on professional ethics.
Excerpts

A hospital runs as a business and also as a social service, especially private
hospitals are self sustaining. If that hospital hasn't got provision for social
responsibility, it can work out terms and arrangement. If there is a good social
system, or family support, social workers can actually get in touch with the
family of the patient.

It cannot be called detention but it is keeping the patient for sometime hoping
that relatives will bring money. But to keep a patient for two months is
unwarranted and quite abnormal.

It is not unethical -- Dr. Osahon Enabulele, President, Nigeria Medical
Association

This has nothing to do with ethical conduct, if anything all, the bridge of
ethics would have come into place if a patient came into the facility and was
not attended to, especially if it was an emergency. This is certainly ethical
bridge; the first responsibility is to save life.

It does not bother so much on ethical issues. What I expect the professional to
do as a way of sorting out issues like this is to go the extra mile to inform
local authorities or the state government where the patients come from and put
the case before them or even religious bodies and expect them to come to his
aid. I will not put the blame squarely on the professional but he has done his
duty ethically by saving a life.

Is it lawful for a patient to come into the hospital without paying his bills?
Keeping of the patient is the consequence of an action of the patients which is
failure to pay the Bill of the man who has provided services.

People should also put themselves in the shoes of the providers of care
otherwise what you are going to do is to discourage a lot more Nigerian
professionals from offering free services and you will now come back to the era
where people will now want to demand as a matter of compulsion the payment of
certain fees before they can now allow you into their facilities.

It is a social issue. Is it ethical for a hospital to dispense drug to a patient
in need who does not have money? You see, a patient who is dying and you used
what you have to treat the patient and the patient is not able to pay and you
allow the patient to go and then you have another patient that does the same
thing.

Private hospitals are at liberty to operate in terms of charges and payment.
Whatever they have to do to be able to get their money paid to them, they are
entitled to it. There is nothing unethical about asking a patient to pay about
asking a patient to pay for services rendered and if that patient is not able to
pay, keeping that patient in the hospital until payment is made; there is
nothing unethical about it.

Ordinarily when you look at the social services that we render as doctors or
health personnel in the surface of it, it is not right to detain a patient but
what we normally do is to do a quick social economic assessment of those
patients. There are two categories, those who can afford to pay and simply don't
want to pay and those who in the real sense cannot actually afford to pay.

From the assessment you will discover what the reasons are. At that level the
doctor comes in with oath of professionalism to decide. But remember at the end
of the day, the doctor must pay the health workers and other staff of the
hospital apart from paying for the consumables procured to save the life of that
patient. Ordinarily it is not right.

Once you have performed your own duty as a doctor, it is reasonably expected
that patients should pay as a compensation for what you have done.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


