                              82 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2004 Seattle Journal for Social Justice
                       Seattle Journal for Social Justice

                                Fall/Winter 2004

                          3 Seattle J. Soc. Just. 205

LENGTH: 1929 words

CORPORATE ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE IN THE HEALTH CARE MARKETPLACE: Corporate Ethics
and Governance in the Health Care Marketplace: An Introduction

NAME: Annette E. Clark n1

TEXT:
 [*205]  On February 27 and 28, 2004, a distinguished group of scholars,
practitioners, health care providers, industry representatives, and consumer
advocates gathered at Seattle University School of Law to participate in a
conference titled "Corporate Ethics and Governance in the Health Care
Marketplace: An Interdisciplinary Perspective." This conference resulted from a
unique collaboration between the Center on Corporations, Law & Society at
Seattle University School of Law; the University of British Columbia Faculty of
Law; and the Pacific Northwest Center for Health, Law and Policy. n2 The raison
d'etre for the symposium was to explore the intersection of corporate theory and
health care, with a particular focus on issues of health care governance and
ethics in the United States and Canada. By applying the corporate lens to health
care delivery systems, the participants sought to provide an intellectual
framework for understanding such critical and timely issues as access to quality
medical treatment and affordable prescription medicines, the conversion of
hospitals and insurers from nonprofit to for-profit entities, and the growing
problem of Medicare and Medicaid fraud.

   Debacles such as Enron and WorldCom provide a useful background for this
exploration. Scholars within the corporate arena have examined the events that
gave rise to these scandals, and have asserted that they can best be understood
through a careful deconstruction of corporate structure, governance, ethics,
culture, and law. The six articles in this symposium reveal the strength of
corporate governance analytical tools and their  [*206]  relevance across the
full breadth of corporate health care activities--from the relationship between
mission and action in a religiously affiliated hospital to bioethics decision
making within the biotechnology industry, and from corporate governance in the
Canadian health care system to whether a corporate ethic of care can exist
within health care. This symposium is but the beginning of dialogue and
scholarship on the linkage between the critical health care issues of our day
and the corporate form. By asking whether health care might be the next Enron,
we hope to stimulate creative discussion and innovative solutions to ensure that
it is not.

   In Corporate Ethics in the. Health Care Marketplace, n3 Lynne Dallas begins
the work of breaking down the corporate divide. Building on her earlier
scholarship, n4 Professor Dallas focuses on the climate and culture within
organizations that may lead to ethical or unethical decision making. Her thesis
is that individuals who hold positions of leadership within an organization
create, either explicitly or implicitly, an ethical climate and moral tone that
sets the stage for, and determines the outcome of, individual decision making in
the corporate setting. n5 Professor Dallas explores contextual factors within
the work environment that contribute to this ethical climate and emphasizes that
formalistic mechanisms such as ethical codes of conduct are far less important
than more intangible factors such as offering support and encouragement,
modeling, rewarding ethical behavior and decision making, and fostering an
environment that is open to discussing ethical issues within the corporation. n6
By focusing our attention on the importance of corporate ethical climates and
culture, Professor Dallas lays the foundation for the symposium articles that
follow.

   Arthur LaFrance's piece, Merger of Religious and Public Hospitals: Render
unto Caesar..., n7 is a fascinating application of Professor Dallas's thesis.
Although he would undoubtedly agree that leadership sets the moral and ethical
tone for the organization, Professor LaFrance asks unsettling questions about
the potential consequences of importing a private hospital's  [*207]  religious
mission (a particular form of ethical climate) int0 a public hospital through a
de facto merger between the two. n8 In raising these questions, he suggests that
a health care corporation may do everything "right" in Dallas's terms--the
creation of a strong ethical corporate climate that is based on a clearly
articulated and consistently applied set of values--and yet negatively impact
the public good. He does this by focusing particularly on the issue of
governance: to what extent would the Ethical and Religious Directives for Health
Care Services promulgated by the American Catholic Bishops Association dictate
the types of health care services that could (or could not) be provided by the
public hospital should the merger go through? n9 As legal counsel for a group
opposing the merger, Professor LaFrance gives us a bird's-eye view of the
ethical and legal issues raised by a religiously affiliated health care
institution that puts its mission into action. In addition, Professor LaFrance
does us a great service by going beyond theoretical discussions of hospital
corporate governance, ethical climate, and mission to examine the ways in which
a litigator must take legal theories rooted in the First Amendment in order to
develop and prove facts supporting those legal theories. His article shows the
impact on a rural community and its citizens should its public hospital be taken
over by a Catholic health care entity. This kind of scholarship, rooted in
corporate and constitutional theory and grounded in practice and the reality of
people's lives, is precisely what the legal academy needs. n10

   I take a slightly different tack in Ethics2: The Ethics of Bioethics in the
Biotechnology Industry, n11 by utilizing the concept of a corporate ethical
climate to examine whether biotechnology corporations can or should incorporate
bioethics principles and public debate into their decision making regarding the
use of human embryos and stem cells in research. Much of the bioethics
literature assumes that health care decision making takes place at a relational
level--between an individual and his or her health care provider--but the
reality is that health care and the related pharmaceutical and biotechnology
industries operate primarily through the  [*208]  corporate form. If an ethical
climate is at heart the meaning attached by employees to organizational
policies, practices, and procedures, n12 how might a biotechnology company
construct an ethical environment in which its researchers value and take into
account bioethics theories and principles, as well as public views, on
controversial issues such as the use of human embryos and stem cells in
for-profit research? The private ethics advisory board is one such mechanism
that I use as a springboard for discussing the benefits and problems associated
with importing bioethics into the corporate boardroom. n13 The central question
in my article--whether the use of private ethics consultation is either a
genuine corporate effort to bring societal values and concerns to bear on
contested areas of scientific research or an attempt to co-opt bioethicists in
the pursuit of corporate profits--is a microcosm of a much larger question:
whether private, for-profit health care entities have any responsibility to
society or the public good that goes beyond maximizing financial return on
investment.

   Providing a highly informative comparative viewpoint, Janis Sarra in
Contemporary Corporate Theory Applied to the Health Care Sector: A Canadian
Perspective n14 essentially turns on its head the question of whether for-profit
health care entities have a social responsibility. Because the goal of the
Canadian health care system is universal access to essential health care
services (i.e., the public good), Canada publicly funds most health care
services, which are provided primarily by not-for-profit entities. n15 Although
this structure substantially limits profit-maximizing behavior that might harm
the public's interest in obtaining services, it raises governance and
accountability issues precisely because the private market is not operating.
According to Dr. Sarra, whether the health care system in question is public,
private, or something in-between, in a world of scarce resources, we can find
common ground in the need for effective governance. n16 She identifies
disclosure of information, oversight, and accountability as the principal
determinants of effective governance, and she details how these challenges
differ in the contrasting American and Canadian health care systems. n17 By
[*209]  the conclusion of Dr. Sarra's article, the reader is left with a sense
of the push-pull between competing models for the delivery of health care
services; each is far from perfect, and both must operate within the reality of
limited resources and seemingly unlimited health care needs.

   Kimberly Baker and Arissa Peterson pick up the corporate governance thread in
Post-Caremark mplications for Health Care Organization Boards of Directors. n18
Their article focuses on the duty of care in the wake of the Caremark decision,
the demise of Enron, and the passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As health law
practitioners, the authors are uniquely situated to sound the warning that the
duty of care owed to a health care organization by its board of directors will
come under increasing scrutiny as government expands its efforts to root out
health care industry fraud and abuse. n19 In reviewing the recent case law on
the duty of care in the context of alleged illegal corporate acts, Baker and
Peterson caution that the potential clearly exists for individual director
liability for failure to act to prevent, or to at least identify and put a stop
to, corporate health care fraud. n20 Furthermore, the passage of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which applies to publicly held companies, has added another
layer of board responsibility, including reporting obligations, protecting
whistleblowers, and the possibility of criminal liability for failure to comply.
After describing the perilous legal environment that confronts health care
boards of directors today, the authors detail the necessary elements of an
individually tailored corporate-compliance program aimed at reducing health care
fraud and abuse. n21 Their expert advice on implementing and maintaining
corporate compliance is remarkably congruent with Professor Dallas's description
of the guidance and monitoring factors essential to the creation and maintenance
of an ethical corporate climate. n22

   The final article in this symposium, A Corporate Ethic of 'Care' in Health
Care, n23 authored by Professor Mark Hall, is an ideal bookend to Lynne Dallas's
introductory piece. Hall takes on the philosophical, almost existential,
question of whether a health care entity can really care about the  [*210]
individuals that it serves; he concretizes it by examining the means a health
care corporation might use to promote a "caring culture." n24 He looks to profit
status, ethical codes, compliance programs, and market competition on the basis
of a reputation for caring. Professor Hall concludes that in order to promote a
genuine ethic of caring, we must develop mechanisms to measure caring. So
central, so important, and yet so elusive is the concept of care. Professor
Hall's article reminds us that in this age of corporate delivery of health care
services, we must not lose sight of the "care" in health care, which brings us
full circle to Dailas's thesis that this can best be accomplished by the
deliberate and intentional creation of an ethical corporate climate in which
care is a core value.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Business & Corporate LawCorporationsGeneral OverviewLabor & Employment
LawEmployment RelationshipsEmployment at WillEmployeesPublic Health & Welfare
LawHealthcareGeneral Overview 4T050222SW09A01# #040T050222SW10A01#
#055T050222SW16A01# #033T050222SONTA01# #061T050222SLMMA01# #061T050222SLCTA01#
#025T050222SLPBA01# #025T050222SLCTA01# #LS050214LEmartincx# #LS050222LElilesmx#

 #TMSX050222XPX57XNI# #SUMX050222XPX11XNI# #090715PLXC0020018#
#NSIX060124XPX01XNI#  #NSIX080314XPX01XNI# #NSIX090715XPX01XNI#
#TMSX090715XPX57XNI# #TTIX090715XPX01XNI#  #NSIX090727XPX01XNI#
#NSIX101102XPX01XNI#  #NSIX110224XPX01XNI#  #NSIX111222XPX01XNI#
#NSIX150824XPX01XNI# Constitutional LawBill of RightsFundamental FreedomsGeneral
OverviewEducation LawReligion in SchoolsPublic Assistance to Religious
InstitutionsStudent TuitionLabor & Employment LawEmployment
RelationshipsEmployment at WillEmployees

FOOTNOTES:



n1 Annette E. Clark is Professor of Law at Seattle University School of Law.

n2 The Pacific Northwest Center for Health, Law and Policy is a consortium of
the Seattle University, University of Washington, and Lewis & Clark law schools.

n3 Lynne L. Dallas, Corporate Ethics in the Health Care Marketplace, 3 SEATTLE
J. SOC. JUST. 213 (2004).

n4 See, e.g., Lynne L. Dallas, A Preliminary Inquiry into the Responsibility of
Corporations and Their Officers and Directors for Corporate Climate: The
Psychology of Enron's Demise, 35 RUTGERS L.J. 1 (2003).

n5 Dallas, supra note 3, at 214.

n6 Id. at 215.

n7 Arthur B. LaFrance, Merger of Religious and Public Hospitals: Render Unto
Caesar..., 3 SEATTLE J. SOC. JUST. 229 (2004).

n8 Id. at 230.

n9 Id. at 234.

n10 In a creative melding of scholarship and technology, the Seattle Journal for
Social Justice posted Professor LaFrance's work product as legal counsel in this
case (depositions, briefs, etc.) to the Journal's Web site. It can be accessed
at http://www.law.seattleu.edu/sjsj.

n11 Annette E. Clark, Ethics n2: The Ethics of Bioethics in the Biotechnology
Industry, 3 SEATTLE J. SOC. JUST. 311 (2004).

n12 Dallas, supra note 3, at 214.

n13 Clark, supra note 11, at 317.

n14 Janis Sarra, Contemporary Corporate Theory Applied to the Health Care
Sector: A Canadian Perspective, 3 SEATTLE J. SOC. JUST. 345 (2004).

n15 Id. at 347.

n16 Id. at 361.

n17 Id.

n18 Kimberly D. Baker & Arissa M. Peterson, Post-Caremark Implications for
Health Care Organization Boards of Directors, 3 SEATTLE J. SOC. JUST. 387
(2004).

n19 Id.

n20 Id. at 389.

n21 Id. at 398.

n22 See Dallas, supra note 3, at 224.

n23 Mark A. Hall, A Corporate Ethic of 'Care' in Health Care, 3 SEATTLE J. SOC.
JUST. 417 (2004).

n24 Id. at 420.


