                              83 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                  July 7, 2008

AMA meeting: Delegates explore on-call coverage, at-home genetic tests

BYLINE: By Kevin B. O'Reilly, AMNews staff. Jul. 7, 2008

SECTION: PROFESSION; Pg. 28 Vol. 51 No. 25

LENGTH: 881 words



HIGHLIGHT: A shortage of specialists taking call at hospitals sparks debate at
CEJA forum.


  Most hospitals are struggling to find specialists to provide emergency on-call
coverage, and many are paying a stipend to attract them.

But are physicians obligated to take call? Is it OK for hospitals to mandate
medical staff to do so? Should hospitals compensate some doctors for taking call
but not others?

These are some of the questions delegates examined at the Council on Ethical and
Judicial Affairs open forum at the AMA's Annual Meeting in June. Delegates also
discussed the need for guidance from CEJA on ethical issues related to the
explosion of direct-to-consumer genetic testing.

Nearly three-quarters of hospitals say they have inadequate on-call coverage,
according to a 2006 American College of Emergency Physicians report.
Neurosurgeons, orthopedic surgeons, trauma surgeons, ob-gyns, ophthalmologists
and dermatologists are some of the specialists hospitals have trouble getting to
take call. More than a third of hospitals now pay specialists, usually surgeons,
to provide on-call coverage, ACEP says.

Constance Powell, MD, a Portland, Ore., psychiatrist and alternate delegate for
the American Psychiatric Assn., said many physicians used to feel compelled to
take call by the unwritten social contract between doctors and society. In
exchange for working strenuous hours, physicians were rewarded with excellent
pay and high social esteem, Dr. Powell said.

"Now, society has changed the social contract with physicians," she said. "We
feel ambivalent about asking for money for giving care, as though there is
something wrong with that."

Some delegates told CEJA that hospitals often lack the equipment required to
provide specialized care, making it a burden to be on call. Others said that
increasing specialization makes them uncomfortable taking call for other
surgical areas, especially given higher liability risks associated with
emergency care.

Even when doctors taking call get paid, it is often not enough to make up for
the sleepless nights, said Marvin S. Kaplan, MD, a Newport Beach, Calif.,
general surgeon and alternate delegate for the California Medical Assn. The
stipend for physicians in his area turned out to be less than that for on-call
nurses. "Many younger physicians don't feel automatically obliged to be on call
for emergencies and volunteer their services," Dr. Kaplan said."I know when I
address physicians on this subject their minds are made up."

Delegates also examined the ethical implications of direct-to-consumer
mail-order kits that can determine paternity or tell patients whether their DNA
puts them at increased risk of certain diseases.

"Does this constitute a dangerous disturbance of the patient-physician
relationship?" asked Kavita Shah, a medical student member of CEJA. "On one
hand, patients get knowledge. On the other hand, will patients turn to pamphlets
for information rather than their physicians?"

Many delegates said genetic testing often can be misleading and should be
offered only within the context of physician-patient relationships, and when
clinical or family history warrants testing.

The open forum issues CEJA chooses to pursue could be studied for as long as 18
months before the council issues a report on the topic to the House of
Delegates.

Meeting notes: Medical ethics

Issue: To better halt the spread of chlamydia and gonorrhea, the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention recommends expedited partner therapy, in which
doctors give patients antimicrobials for their sex partners. The practice, while
effective, may undermine informed consent and continuity of care, and violate
state laws.

Proposed action: New ethical policy saying doctors should only use EPT if they
believe a patient's partner would otherwise not seek treatment. [ Adopted ]

Issue: Some hospitals have asked medical staff members to provide personal
financial information as part of conflict-of-interest policies apparently aimed
at shutting out doctors who work for competitors.

Proposed action: A Board of Trustees report recommending that only physicians
seeking to serve in a hospital leadership position be required to disclose
employment, ownership or financial interests, or leadership positions at another
hospital. Also, the information requested should be no different from that
requested of nonphysicians. [ Adopted ]

Issue: Treating peer physicians poses special challenges to clinical objectivity
and confidentiality.

Proposed action: New policy saying doctors should not hesitate to treat peers in
emergencies, but should beware of the risk of biased treatment recommendations,
take care to respect privacy, and share decision-making as they would with other
patients. [ Adopted ]

Issue: Drug- and device-maker funding of graduate and continuing medical
education may undermine physicians' professional integrity and subtly bias
doctors' practice patterns in ways that are not in patients' best interest.

Proposed action: A new ethical opinion calling on doctors, medical schools and
organized medicine groups to end industry funding of residency positions and
clinical fellowships, educational programs and physician speakers' bureaus --
except when new diagnostic or therapeutic devices and techniques are introduced,
as industry representatives may be the only experts available to teach doctors
about them. [ Referred ]

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

