                              85 of 997 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2015 American Society of Law, Medicine &
                                     Ethics
                       Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics

                                   Fall, 2015

                      Journal of Law, Medicine and Ethics

                           43 J.L. Med. & Ethics 661

LENGTH: 4597 words

COLUMN: Ethical Integrity in Health Care Organizations: Currents in Contemporary
Bioethics

NAME: Jessica Mantel

BIO: Jessica Mantel, J.D., M.P.P., is an Assistant Professor at the University
of Houston Law Center and Co-Director of the Health Law and Policy Institute.

TEXT:
 [*661]  About This Column

Mark A. Rothstein serves as the section editor for Currents in Contemporary
Bioethics. Professor Rothstein is the Herbert F. Boehl Chair of Law and Medicine
and the Director of the Institute for Bioethics, Health Policy and Law at the
University of Louisville School of Medicine in Kentucky.
(mark.rothstein@louisville.edu)

The rise of managed care initiated a steady decline in solo and small group
physician practices and the emergence of new delivery models built around large
health care organizations (HCOs). Health care reform has only accelerated this
trend as public and private payors shift to new payment methodologies that
reward clinical and financial integration among providers.  n1 As a result,
patients increasingly receive care from physicians and other health
professionals organized into collaborative partnerships with one another and
institutional providers, such as hospitals. As described below, this new
organizational dynamic profoundly influences the clinical judgment of
physicians. No longer can society simply depend on the professionalism of
individual physicians to ensure ethical integrity in the health care setting.
Rather, ethical integrity in the health care setting also requires a strong
foundation of organizational ethics.

   A robust concept of organizational ethics includes two components: (1)
ethical principles that guide the behavior of HCOs, and (2) an ethics
infrastructure that operationalizes principles of organizational ethics.
Regarding the first component, today's health care climate demands that business
considerations such as efficiency and profitability exist alongside patient care
concerns. HCOs therefore find themselves enmeshed in a complex set of
countervailing pressures and expectations. Reconciling these conflicting values
into widely accepted standards of organizational ethics has proven difficult. In
addition, ethicists have struggled to articulate ethical principles for HCOs
beyond vague, highlevel generalizations. Consequently, HCOs have little guidance
on how to resolve ethical issues that arise in specific contexts. For this
reason, it is crucial that an HCO adopt structures and processes that will
facilitate its striking a fair and reasonable balance among competing values and
priorities. This article therefore focuses on the second component of
organizational ethics -- building an ethics infrastructure -- and makes specific
recommendations for structures and processes that will support an HCO's
management of its ethical challenges across all aspects of its operations.

The Importance of Organizational Culture
People do not make decisions in a vacuum but are influenced by situational
variables. Of particular importance is an organization's culture -- its norms,
values, organizational resources, and internal structures. These include an
organization's financial incentive structures, methods of performance
assessment, mission statement, and code of ethics.  n2 No less influential is an
organization's informal culture -- the "taken for granted beliefs, perceptions,
thoughts and feelings."  n3 Together these factors powerfully shape the
attitude, decisions, and actions of an organization's members. The health care
context is no exception. As I have explained in detail in prior work, HCOs'
organizational cultures profoundly influence clinical decision-making and
patient outcomes.  n4

   Physicians often face uncertainty as to the correct diagnosis and best course
of treatment for a patient.  n5 How physicians navigate this uncertainty is
largely shaped by their professional judgment -- how they perceive a patient's
situation and the thought patterns, attitudes, and values applied when making
clinical decisions. While physicians' professional judgment in part reflects
their  [*662]  personal training, experience, and values, it also is strongly
influenced by an HCO's organizational culture.

   First, the words and deeds of an HCO's leadership shape the over-arching
values and norms that guide physicians. Individuals commonly internalize the
values, norms, attitudes, and behaviors promoted by an organization's
leadership, a process that often occurs subconsciously.  n6 This suggests that
if an HCO's leadership demonstrates a commitment to lowing costs, such as by
voicing support for cost-saving initiatives or endorsing clinical protocols that
favor less costly treatment alternatives, physicians will internalize this norm
and adopt a practice pattern of frugality. In contrast, if an HCO's leadership
espouses "being on the cutting-edge" and "doing everything possible" for
patients, physicians will respond by providing more care of higher intensity.
n7

   Second, organizations shape physicians' professional judgments through
various policies that impact physicians' self-interest. Individuals generally
form subconscious, initial judgments that support decisions serving their own
self-interest.  n8 More conscious deliberations then perform the secondary role
of rationalizing the initial, self-serving judgment.  n9 Physicians therefore
may be subconsciously motivated to make clinical decisions consistent with their
personal self-interest, as shaped by an HCO's policies.  n10 If an HCO provides
monetary rewards or greater prestige to those physicians who generate a large
volume or intensity of care, its physicians will be cognitively motivated to
justify providing more care of higher intensity. For example, a physician may
subconsciously invoke heuristics that favor doing just that, such as "better
safe than sorry" or "more care is better care." In contrast, if the HCO rewards
physicians for lowering costs, the physician will be cognitively motivated to
justify less costly care. For example, when choosing between two treatment
alternatives, a physician may be biased to conclude that the potential clinical
benefits of the more costly treatment are outweighed by its risks or that the
two treatments are of similar efficacy.

   Third, physicians' clinical decisions generally reflect the practice style
and philosophy of organizational role models and peers.  n11 Physicians may
model highly successful peers in order to secure for themselves similar prestige
and professional advancement. When facing clinical uncertainty, following the
practices of role models or peers both provides reassurance that the physician
has made the correct decision and eliminates the need to independently evaluate
treatment alternatives. In addition, physicians also may conform to group
practices in order to secure others' approval.  n12 For these reasons,
physicians may embrace with little hesitation the practice guidelines and
treatment protocols promulgated by their peers within the HCO.

   Fourth, physicians adapt their clinical practices to the available
organizational resources. Researchers at Dartmouth have repeatedly documented a
strong correlation between treatment practices among a hospital's affiliated
physicians and the amount and mix of a hospital's available resources. The more
resources available, the more physicians do for their patients. For example, the
more acute care beds available at a hospital, the more frequently physicians
admit patients to the hospital.  n13 Similarly, greater availability of
resources supporting specialized, technology-driven care encourages physicians
to provide their patients with higher intensity care. For example, the
availability of newer, faster, and more sophisticated imaging machines leads
physicians to order more radiological images,  n14 while an increase in the
availability of catheterization laboratories leads to patients receiving
angioplasty and bypass surgery at higher rates.  n15

   In sum, physicians do not make clinical decisions autonomously. Rather, the
dynamics described above promote a shared practice style among an HCO's
physicians that reflects organizational values and norms.
Ensuring Organizational Integrity through an Ethics Infrastructure
The above discussion reveals that clinical decision-making cannot be separated
from an HCO's organizational culture. Consequently, the integrity of patient
care depends on the integrity of the organization's culture, that is, whether
the decisions and behavior at all levels of the organization align with the
HCO's values and fairly balances business and patient welfare concerns.
Maintaining organizational integrity requires a robust ethics infrastructure --
structures and processes that ensure that an HCO's managers, professionals, and
staff adhere to the HCO's mission and values in their daily clinical and
business practices and long-term planning.  n16 Unfortunately, few HCOs have a
comprehensive ethics program.

   With the emergence of managed care in the 1980s and 90s, health ethics
broadened its focus beyond the physician-patient relationship to include the
organization.  n17 Organizational ethics, however, mirrored the patient-centered
focus of the medical profession's ethics,  n18 focusing largely on ethical
issues arising in the care of individual patients. For example, HCOs such as
hospitals established ethics committees that address matters such as termination
of treatment, patient autonomy, informed consent, patient confidentiality, and
human subjects research.  n19 More recently, organizational ethics has expanded
to include compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, with hospitals and
other HCOs establishing formal compliance programs.  n20 HCOs, however,
generally give little attention to the broader question of whether their
organizational cultures promote a clinical care environment consistent with
their overarching mission and values.

   An HCO's failure to take a more global approach to organizational ethics
risks an organizational dynamic that results in poor quality care, inefficient
care, or the under-treatment of patients. Today's HCOs face a complex set of
countervailing forces and expectations. As part of their medical mission, HCOs
owe  [*663]  allegiance to each patient and must respect their individual needs
and personal autonomy. Payment reforms that hold HCOs accountable for costs and
the overall health of patient populations, however, require HCOs to be prudent
stewards of health care resources. In addition, HCOs must ensure their financial
solvency, with for-profit HCOs also owing share-holders an adequate return on
their investment.  n21 While at times it is possible to both increase efficiency
and provide high quality, patient-centered care,  n22 often these diverse values
conflict. An HCO with a limited ethics program risks minimizing or ignoring one
or more of these values in service to competing values. For example, a manager
concerned with fiscal responsibility may make business decisions without fully
considering the decision's impact on the quality of patient care. Or health
professionals may focus on their individual patients' best interests without
taking into account the community's health.

   In contrast to today's narrow approach to organizational ethics, a more
robust approach would openly acknowledge an HCO's divergent values and ensure
"the fulfillment of these values to the extent possible"  n23 (recognizing that
complete harmony is not always possible). In other words, organizational
integrity requires that "the full scope of values" guide an HCOs decisions,
policies, and behaviors, "and that these values are institutionalized throughout
the organization."  n24 Toward that end, all HCOs should adopt an ethics
infrastructure -- structures and processes that support the organization's
articulation of its core values, internalization of those values among its
members, and integration of the values into both daily operations and long-term
planning.  n25
Components of an Ethics Infrastructure
As its first step in adopting a comprehensive ethics infrastructure, an HCO
should articulate a clear statement of its mission, and values. Doing so is
symbolically important, as it illustrates in a visible way the HCO's commitment
to certain principles. More practically, an HCO's mission and values statement
presents a concrete set of ethical principles to guide the conduct of the HCO's
personnel.  n26 Although many HCOs already have mission statements and codes of
ethics, it is important that each HCO re-examine and clarify its mission and
values given the shifting health care environment. The process for doing so
should be participatory and allow for input from across the HCO. This helps to
ensure that the process for adopting a mission and values statement is not
simply a formal exercise, but involves careful reflection on both business and
clinical concerns. In addition, a participatory process promotes acceptance of
an HCO's final mission and values statement by managers, professionals, and
staff across the organization.  n27

   Because mission and value statements "are too easily displayed as window
dressings that are honored only through lip service,"  n28 HCOs also must
institute structural measures designed to foster a culture that truly reflects
its expressed principles. Of crucial importance is an ethics committee
responsible for ensuring the HCO's organizational integrity. Unlike existing
ethics committee that generally focus on patient-specific ethical concerns, this
new ethics committee would operate at a broader level.  n29 Specifically, the
ethics committee would provide guidance for particular situations and identify
gaps between the HCO's espoused values and actual decisions and behaviors.  n30
For example, to ensure consistency between an HCO's mission and values and its
treatment protocols, the ethics committee (or a subcommittee) could develop
ethical guidelines for treatment protocols and monitor compliance with such
guidelines. Similarly, the ethics committee (or a subcommittee) could review an
HCO's performance appraisal and rewards system to ensure its alignment with the
HCO's mission and values. On example of an ethics committee performing this
function is  [*664]  Sisters of Mercy Health System, St. Louis's Corporate
Ethics Committee, which has developed position papers, policies, and guidelines
on a range of issues, including investing, joint ventures, managed care,
downsizing, employer-employee relations, point-of-service payment collection,
and fund-raising.  n31 In performing this role, of particular importance would
be the ethics committee's responsibility for helping to resolve organizational
policies and decisions that work at cross-purposes and create confusion among
the HCO's professionals and staff.

   The ethics committee also could serve as a forum for thoughtful discussion of
specific issues raising important ethical considerations.  n32 For example, when
Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, a staff-model health maintenance organization
(HMO), established its ethics program, it formed an advisory group to consult
with and support managers facing issues raising conflicting ethical concerns.
n33 The group helped a manager identify which values should be preeminent and
craft a resolution that best protected these values.  n34

   An HCO also should appoint an ethics officer "responsible for ensuring that
ethics is a corporate priority and integrated throughout the organization."  n35
Appointing an ethics officer would send a clear signal to all organizational
members of the importance of ethical integrity.  n36 In addition to working with
an HCO's ethics committee, the ethics officer would oversee ethics training of
managers, health professionals, and staff. Ethics training would enhance
awareness among managers, professionals, and staff of the ethical issues that
arise within the organization and clarify for them the HCO's core values and
priorities.  n37 The ethics officer also would oversee a monitoring and feedback
system that assesses whether the HCO is achieving organizational integrity. This
would include ethics audits that assess the extent to which the HCO consistently
adheres to specific ethical principles, such as any ethical guidelines governing
the development of treatment protocols or employee performance appraisals.  n38
Patient and employee surveys similarly would reveal the extent to which an HCO
stays true to its mission and values, as well as identifying specific ethical
challenges requiring the attention of the HCO's leadership or ethics committee.
n39 For example, the Veterans Administration health care system's ethics program
includes a review process that identifies gaps between existing ethical
practices and the organization's ethical standards.  n40 It then identifies the
cause(s) of any ethical quality gaps and develops and executes a strategy for
closing such gaps.  n41

Conclusion
The growing influence of HCOs over the quality, cost, and setting of patient
care necessitates a robust conceptualization of organizational ethics. The HCOs
that successfully maintain organizational integrity in the face of competing
business and patient welfare concerns will be those that adopt a comprehensive
ethics infrastructure -- structures and processes designed to ensure that an HCO
reasonably balances countervailing values and priorities and that it does so
consistently across the organization. Unfortunately, few HCOs have embraced a
broad ethics program, focusing instead on legal compliance matters and ethical
issues that arise at the bedside of individual patients.

   Accreditation organizations and regulators can change the status quo through
various measures that would encourage HCOs to give greater attention to
organizational ethics. For example, the Joint Commission could incorporate into
its accreditation standards for hospitals a requirement that hospitals adopt the
structures and processes outlined in this article.  n42 Regulators similarly
could require far-reaching ethics programs as a condition of participation in
various government health care programs. For example, the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services could condition eligibility for the Shared Savings Program
on an accountable care organization appointing an ethics officer and maintaining
an ethics committee. Regulators also could link an HCO's payments under Medicare
and Medicaid to adoption of an ethics infrastructure, rewarding those that do so
with higher payments.  n43

   The fundamental changes occurring in the organization and delivery of health
care reopens questions about ethical practices in the health care setting. In
the face of such questions, HCOs -- their leaders, professionals, and staffs --
must engage in a thoughtful examination of their underlying missions and values
and whether they are incorporated into the daily life of the organization. The
structures and processes recommended above will help HCOs in their quest to
ensure an ethical culture throughout their organizations.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
EvidencePrivilegesDoctor-Patient PrivilegeWaiverPublic Health & Welfare
LawHealthcareGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
SecurityMedicareProvidersReimbursementGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:





n1  See J. Mantel, "The Myth of the Independent Physician: Implications for
Health Law, Policy and Ethics," Case Western Reserve Law Review 64, no. 2
(2013): 455-520.





n2  See E. Schein, Organizational Culture and Leadership, 4th ed. (San
Francisco: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2010): at 21.





n3  Id., at Figure 2.1.





n4  See Mantel, supra note 1.





n5  See D. M. Eddy, "Variation in Physician Practice: The Role of Uncertainty,"
Health Affairs 3, no. 2 (1984): 74-89.





n6  See Schein, supra note 2, at 235-258.





n7  See J. Mantel, "Spending Medicare's Dollars Wisely: Taking Aim at Hospitals'
Cultures of Overtreatment" Michigan Journal of Law Reform (forthcoming 2015).





n8  See D. M. Kahan, "The Supreme Court 2010 Term: Forward: Neutral Principles,
Motivated Cognition, and Some Problems for Constitutional Law," Harvard Law
Review 125, no. 1 (2011): 1-77. For example, studies have found that individuals
have faster reaction times when generating and endorsing memories and beliefs
consistent with conclusions that promote an individual's self-interest or
desired ends. See Z. Kunda, "The Case for Motivated Reasoning," Psychology
Bulletin 108, no. 3 (1990): 480-498 (summarizing studies on biased memory
search).





n9  See D. Kahneman, Thinking Fast and Slow (New York: Farrar, Straus and
Giroux, 2011): at 105; ?. C. Regan, Jr., "Moral Institutions and Organizational
Culture," St. Louis University Law Journal 51, no. 4 (2007): 941-987. This does
not mean deliberative reasoning cannot override our initial impressions -- it
can -- but doing so requires mobilizing substantial mental focus, something
individuals do infrequently, particularly when their mental capacity is
otherwise taxed by the complexity of the situation or performing other tasks.
See Kahneman, supra at 81; D. Moore and G. Lowenstein, "Self-Interest,
Automaticity, and the Psychology of Conflict of Interest," Social Justice
Research 17, no. 2 (2004): 189-202.





n10  See Mantel, supra note 1; E. C. Grochowski, "Ethical Issues in Managed
Care: Can the Traditional Physician-Patient Relationship Be Preserved in the Era
of Managed Care or Should It Be Replaced by a Group Ethic," University of
Michigan Journal of Lam Reform 32, no. 4 (1998-1999): 619-660.





n11  R. Mano-Negrin and B. Mittman, "Theorising [sic] the Social Within
Physician Decision Making," Journal of Management in Medicine 15, nos. 4-5
(2001): 259-266; C. Borbas et al., "The Role of Clinical Opinion Leaders in
Guideline Implementation and Quality Improvement," Chest 118, no. 2 (2000): at
24S-32S.





n12  See Mantel, supra note 1.





n13  See J. E. Wennberg et al., Tracking the Care of Patients with Severe
Chronic Illness: The Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care, The Dartmouth Institute for
Health Policy and Clinical Practice (2008): at 39, 46-49, 52 (describing the
association between available resources and clinical decision-making). Although
a possible explanation for the positive relationship between supply and
utilization may be that regions with sicker patients acquire more medical
resources because their patients require more care, researchers at the Dartmouth
Atlas Project found that the prevalence and severity of illness accounts for
remarkably little of the variation in utilization rates across hospital regions.
Id., at 9.





n14  See L. Baker et al., "The Relationship between Technology Availability and
Health Care Spending," Health Affairs Web W3-537, W3-542 (2003) (finding that
greater availability of MRIs and CT units is associated with higher use and more
spending). Cf. S. Brownlee, Overtreated (New Toek: Bloomsbury, 2007): at 161-63
(summarizing the comments of a hospital's chair of radiology, who stated that
the availability of newer, faster machines "encourages physician to perform even
more unnecessary tests," thereby bolstering the hospital's revenue).





n15  See Baker, supra note 14.





n16  See generally H. J. Silverman, "Organizational Ethics in Healthcare
Organizations: Proactively Managing the Ethical Climate to Ensure Organizational
Integrity," HEC Forum 12, no. 3 (2000): 202-215; J. Goodstein and R. Lyman
Potter, "Beyond Financial Incentives: Organizational Ethics and Organizational
Integrity," HEC. Forum 11, no. 4 (1999): 293-305; D. O. Renz and W. B. Eddy,
"Organizations, Ethics, and Health Care: Building an Ethics Infrastructure for a
New Era," Bioethics Forum 12, no. 2 (Summer 1996): 29-39.





n17  See C. Zoubul, "Healthcare Institutional I Ethics: Broader than Clinical
Ethics," in Health Care Ethics: Critical Issues for the 21st Century, E. Morris
ed., (Sudbury, Massachusetts: Jones and Bartlett Publishers, 2009): at 237.





n18  See id., at 237-239.





n19  See id.





n20  See D. Guinn, "Corporate Compliance and Integrity Programs: The Uneasy
Alliance between Law and Ethics," HEC Forum 12, no. 4 (2000): 292-302.





n21  See Mantel, supra note 1 (discussing the competing obligations of HCOs).





n22  See J. Mantel, "Accountable Care Organizations: Can We Have Our Cake and
Eat It Too?" Seton Hall Law Review 42, no. 4 (2012): 1392-1442 (explaining the
potential for accountable care organizations to achieve both lower costs and
higher quality care).





n23  Goodstein and Potter, supra note 16, at 298.





n24  Id., at 299.





n25  See Silverman, supra note 16; Renz and Eddy, supra note 16.





n26  See Silverman, supra note 16; Renz and Eddy, supra note 16.





n27  Cf. Renz and Eddy, supra note 16 (stating that building a new ethics
infrastructure should be a "participatory process that involves those who have a
stake in its operation").





n28  . M. A. Hall, "A Corporate Ethic of 'Care' in Health Care," Seattle Journal
for Social Justice 3, no. 1 (2004): 417-428.





n29  Cf. Renz and Eddy, supra note 16 (comparing the narrow focus of hospital
ethics committees to a broader ethics infrastructure).





n30  See Goodstein and Potter, supra note 16; Silverman, supra note 16.





n31  See B. O'Toole, "St. Louis System Has Corporate Ethics Committee," Health
Progress 87, no. 2 (2006): 42-45.





n32  Cf. Silverman, supra note 16 (urging that organizations have "forums that
address ethics issues"); Goodstein and Potter, supra note 16 (same).





n33  See S. D. Pearson et al., No Margin, No Mission: Health Care Organizations
and the Quest for Ethical Excellence (New York: Oxford University Press, 2003):
at 36-37.





n34  See id.





n35  Silverman, supra note 16, at 211.





n36  Silverman, supra note 16.





n37  Id.





n38  Cf. Renz and Eddy, supra note 16 (noting the importance of ethics and
integrity audits that "assess whether the organization has lived up to its
ethical standards").





n39  See Silverman, supra note 16.





n40  See B. Foglia, et al., "Preventive Ethics: Addressing Ethics Quality Gaps
on a Systems Level," The Joint Commission Journal on Quality and Patient Safety
38, no. 3 (2012): 103-111.





n41  See id.





n42  Although current Joint Commission standards for hospitals address
hospitals' organizational culture, they focus on leadership creating "a culture
of safety and quality," ignoring that hospital leaders must balance these
concerns with competing demands. See Joint Commission, 2015 Hospital
Accreditation Standards (Illinois: Joint Commission Resources, Inc., 2015): at
LD-16 to LD-20. The hospital accreditation standards also direct hospital
leadership to address conflicts of interests involving licensed independent
practitioners and/or staff that affects "the safety and quality of care,
treatment, and services" in order to ensure ethical practices at the bedside and
in the hospital's marketing and billing practices. See id., at LD.04.02.03. The
Joint Commission's standards offer few guidelines for hospital leadership on the
specific structures and processes hospitals should adopt in order to ensure
their institution's ethical integrity.





n43  For example, accountable care organizations could be required to adopt an
ethics infrastructure as a condition of participation in the Medicare Shared
Savings Program or analogous state Medicare shared savings programs, and
hospitals and physician groups adopting an ethics infrastructure could be
rewarded with higher payment rates under Medicare and Medicaid value-based
purchasing initiatives.


