                              86 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                             The New Zealand Herald

                            October 28, 2016 Friday

Medical students admit performing operations on themselves

SECTION: NEWS; General

LENGTH: 343 words


Medical students have admitted to performing surgical procedures on themselves
and their peers, according to The New Zealand Medical Journal.

In a survey of 284 students at the Otago University medical school, 15 students
- seven male and eight female - had admitted to performing procedures on
themselves.

Of those procedures 11 were unsupervised and included cyst removal, puncturing
veins, cannulation, arterial blood gas sampling and stitching up wounds.

Students reported that the technical aspect of performing the procedures was the
most difficult part of self-practising, followed by the pain of the procedure
and anxiety performing it.

Ethical issues that were most concerning to students were the use of hospital
supplies and the safety of the procedure.

One student reported no ethical concerns, saying "[the procedure] was done at
home with non-medical instruments outside of the hospital context, with no other
involved, no equipment was taken from the hospital. Thus I see no ethical
issues."

Most students, 92 per cent, had practised medical procedures on their peers.

Peer-practised procedures included intravenous cannulation, puncturing veins,
arterial blood sampling and inserting tubes through the nose, past the throat
and down into the stomach.

Of the 264 students who reported performing on peers, 173 said they were
unsupervised.

Students listed the difficulties they experienced performing on peers as
inflicting unnecessary harm or pain, and a quarter said issues with technique,
equipment and skill as a barrier.

Four per cent said performing on peers was not an authentic experience as young,
healthy individuals with good veins were uncommon on the wards.

Other comments included one student who expressed guilt for pilfering resources.

One student said "we felt bad taking IV lines from a nursing station once. They
had four. We took all four. I"m so sorry."

The study was developed as a result of information gathered from interviews
during a television documentary, Practising Medicine, which followed medical
students at Otago University.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The New Zealand Herald
                              All Rights Reserved


