                              87 of 997 DOCUMENTS



                                 Offaly Express

                               November 24, 2010

Nurses get to grips with Palliative Care

BYLINE: grace o'dea

LENGTH: 474 words



HIGHLIGHT: IN a joint collaboration between the Midlands Regional Hospital,
Tullamore and the Community Specialist Palliative Care Team in Laois/Offaly, a
Palliative Care an End of Life Conference entitled 'Getting to Grips with
Palliative Care - A Nursing Perspective' took place last week in Tullamore.


Over 85 delegates attended, representing mainly nurses from the Acute Hospitals,
Care of the Older Persons and Public Health Services within the region of
Laois/Offaly and Longford/Westmeath.

The purpose of the conference was to provide delegates with a forum in which to
explore best practice initiatives in Palliative and End of Life Care and an
opportunity to enhance greater awareness regarding death and dying together with
the needs of patients and families.

The collaborative nature of the conference also provided the opportunity for
nursing staff from both the Acute Hospital Services and Primary Community and
Continuing Care to network and build on the integration of services as outlined
within the HSE Transformation Programme (2007-2010).

Speakers included Dr Joan McCarthy, Lecturer in Healthcare Ethics from the
School of Nursing and Midwifery, University College Cork who addressed the
conference on developments from an ethical perspective including the recently
published 'Ethical Framework for End-of-Life Care' (www.hospice
friendlyhospitals.net/ethics). Dr McCarthy also discussed the subject of making
good decisions with regard to Palliative and End of Life Care. Ethical
considerations regarding communication with patients and families were very much
apparent from the discussion that followed.

Other speakers and their respective topics included Dr Susan Delaney (Irish
Hospice Foundation) on 'Providing Effective Bereavement Support' and Mervyn
Taylor (Hospice Friendly Hospitals (HfH) Programme Manager, Irish Hospice
Foundation), 'HfH National Audit of End-of-Life Care in Hospitals in Ireland
(2008/9) and Quality Standards for End-of-Life Care in Hospitals'
(www.hospicefriendlyhospitals.net).

From a clinical perspective, Dr Michael Cushen (Consultant in Palliative
Medicine - Laois/Offaly & Longford/Westmeath) and Frances Neville (Clinical
Nurse Specialist in Palliative Care, Laois/Offaly) spoke about Patient
Assessment and Symptom Control. This was followed up by workshops where
delegates worked through clinical scenarios in order to consolidate the
knowledge gained from the lectures.

The conference started with Anne Tan, CNM3 Laois-Offaly Palliative Care Team,
presenting a very moving narrative which demonstrated where good palliative care
can make a difference, and concluded with Christine Moran who spoke about how we
as professionals can use Mindfulness to look after ourselves.

Speaking on the day, Michael Cushen, Consultant in Palliative Medicine -
Laois/Offaly and Longford/Westmeath said, "The conference was very successful.
It is hoped that this knowledge will provide delegates with the opportunity to
return to their respective areas of practice to enhance quality palliative and
end of life care for patients and families alike."

In addition, the feedback from the delegates was very positive.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OFFA


                       Copyright 2010 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


