                              88 of 997 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                            November 2, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Hospital staff bring family to workplace vaccine clinic; 'Do we turn them
away?': Officials confront ethical dilemma

BYLINE: Pauline Tam, The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 969  words


Officially, the weekend vaccination clinic at The Ottawa Hospital was aimed at
the 13,000 staff who work at the region's largest health-care provider -- and
are among those at the front of the line for the H1N1 flu shot.

After all, if the hospital's doctors, nurses, support staff and administrators
fall sick during a pandemic, it could hobble the entire system.

But when word of the weekend clinic got out, some hospital employees brought
along their family members, many of whom had been turned away from long lineups
at the vaccination clinics run by the city's public-health department.

The situation created a dilemma for the hospital.

"We knew ... that we were probably going to be confronted with situations of
people showing up at the door of our clinic, not only with themselves but with
their family members," said Nicolas Ruszkowski, The Ottawa Hospital's
vice-president of communications and outreach.

"The ethical question you ask yourself is: Do we turn them away or do we take
them? And the ethical decision that we made was we're not going to turn anybody
away as long as we know that we're covering our staff."

Ruszkowski said he doesn't know how many of the 8,495 people who got their
pandemic flu shot over the weekend were relatives of hospital staffers. But he
said the hospital carefully weighed the benefits of extending the vaccine to
employees' families before making the decision.

"You can reduce absenteeism among your health-care workforce if they're coming
to work instead of being at home, caring for their sick husband, sick wife, sick
children," said Ruszkowski.

And so while Ottawa's six H1N1 clinics struggled to inoculate 6,800 people on
Saturday, The Ottawa Hospital quietly vaccinated nearly 3,400 -- the result of a
mass effort by up to 600 hospital employees, who volunteered to run a workplace
vaccination clinic at the hospital's Riverside campus.

Among them were nurses giving flu shots, support staff and administrators
handling paperwork and pharmacists loading syringes with vaccine -- all of whom
formed a briskly efficient assembly line.

By Sunday, the hospital had immunized another 5,000 -- a pace that rivals that
of the six public clinics on their better days. "We have a built-in
infrastructure and advantage at the hospital. It's probably not fair to compare
us to public health," said Ruszkowski.

Yet as the public vaccination clinics head into their second week, with little
sign that demand will let up, the city's public-health department is scrambling
to find more people to give the pandemic flu shot.

The long lineups outside clinics that characterized the first week have been a
mixed blessing for officials, who are gratified that people are taking their
flu-prevention message to heart.

But the unexpected surge in demand has also pushed public-health workers to the
limit. Even with almost all of the department's 475 employees reassigned to the
vaccination effort, the clinics are still perpetually short-staffed.

The staffing crunch is one reason health officials say they are hampered from
opening more clinics. In particular, school-based clinics are not considered
practical given that they require more staff than is available, yet target only
a small portion of those considered at high risk of getting swine flu.

"We've already exceeded capacity," Dr. Isra Levy, the city's medical officer of
health, said in a weekend interview. "I mean, we've already redeployed the
entire workforce now, even deeper than the original plan of 70 per cent."

To bulk up the workforce, Levy has hired more temporary nurses and redeployed
"every available vaccinator we have found in the city," including those
paramedics who are, for whatever reason, on leave from frontline duty.

Up to a dozen paramedics have been assigned at each of the bigger clinics to
augment the 15 or so nurses giving the shots. As a result, the city's six
clinics have been vaccinating between 4,200 to 8,550 people a day. On Sunday,
the clinics gave 8,500 vaccinations.

"In order to vaccinate more people, our clinics need more trained professionals
to work as vaccinators," Levy said in a memo to city staff issued on Saturday.

"We have also put out a call for trained personnel to work as vaccinators -- a
call that many have answered. However, we continue to see a lack of capacity
that makes it impossible to vaccinate more people than are already being served
through our clinics."

Since the vaccination program began last Monday, the total number of immunizers
has doubled from 70 to 140. For every frontline nurse, paramedic or doctor
giving the needle, an additional two or three support workers are needed to
triage patients and enter computer data about who is getting the shots.

Over the weekend, dozens of staff from the city's parks and recreation
department were brought in to help manage crowds at the clinics, freeing up more
public-health staff to handle other duties.

But with the clinics running seven days a week and staff needing some days off,
officials are finding it a challenge to set up shift schedules for weeks at a
time, Levy said.

"We only have about a 24-hour ability to predict and forecast staffing. And we
have a lot of holes in our scheduling because there are just so many people
available, many of them are staying late to get as many people vaccinated as
possible and people are starting to get tired."

At the Kanata Recreation Complex, one of the city's busiest clinics, about 16
vaccinators were on hand to inoculate 1,200 people on Sunday. Over the past
week, many of the clinic's staff have stayed until 11 p.m., well past the 8:30
p.m. closing time, to finish their vaccinations.

- - -

Online

Complete guide to H1N1 flu vaccine clinics

Download a vaccine form ahead of your visit

Receive a Twitter feed of the latest on the pandemic

Stay up to date at ottawacitizen.com/flu

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: ;

