                               1 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              July 13, 2015 Monday
                            British Columbia Edition

HEALTH CARE;
Doctors to stop billing procedural fees;
Cardiologists have been charging two hospitals for transesophageal echo tests
they don't physically perform

BYLINE: WENDY STUECK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 702 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


Some cardiologists at two Lower Mainland hospitals have been ordered to stop
billing procedural fees that have cost the provincial health system hundreds of
thousands of dollars in the past two years alone.

The doctors have been charging Vancouver General and St. Paul's Hospital
procedural fees for a test that, in many cases, they do not physically perform.

Over the past two decades, the once-specialized test - known as a
transesophageal echo, or TEE - has become more routine and is now conducted
mostly by anesthesiologists, who bear the risk and liability for the procedure.

But a small group of doctors at Vancouver General and St. Paul's have continued
billing procedural fees for the tests, even though such fees are not charged by
doctors in at least two of the three other cardiac centres in the province.

The change in billing procedures came after management received correspondence
containing complaints about the fees and after The Globe and Mail wrote about
the concerns in a story last month.

"Vancouver Coastal Health ordered this billing practice stopped in early June,"
spokeswoman Anna Marie D'Angelo said in a recent e-mail.

Vancouver Coastal Health is the regional health authority that oversees
Vancouver General Hospital. Providence Health, which oversees St. Paul's, has
also ordered a stop to the billing of procedural fees for the tests, Ms.
D'Angelo said.

Vancouver Coastal Health has also launched an investigation of billing practices
related to the tests. Asked whether there would be any disciplinary measures
taken in relation to the billing practices or whether the health authorities
would try to recoup any of the money involved, Ms.

D'Angelo said any such decisions would be determined through the investigation
and that it would be "premature to suggest there was wrongdoing or inappropriate
behaviour."

The procedural fee involved - $142.76 per test - is small change when viewed in
the context of B.C.'s overall health spending, which is forecast to hit
$17.4-billion this year. But transesophageal echocardiograms are part of nearly
every heart operation, which number in the hundreds every year.

St. Paul's, for example, spent about $120,000 in procedural fees in each of the
past two fiscal years, according to information provided by Vancouver Coastal
Health. Vancouver General Hospital, meanwhile, spent about $70,000 last year and
$80,000 the year before.

The billing practice has been in place since at least 2012, when it caught the
attention of two program directors who had been asked to find potential savings
to make up for the loss of revenue resulting from some heart surgeries shifting
from the Lower Mainland to Kelowna General, which began providing cardiac
surgeries in 2012.

That 2012 review concluded echocardiographers at both St.

Paul's and Vancouver General were billing an "unanticipated" procedural fee per
case, even though the tests were actually being done by anesthesiologists.

That review, a copy of which was provided to The Globe and Mail, featured
several recommendations, including that "when cardiac echocardiographers do not
perform the TEE procedure, they should not be paid the TEE procedure fee."

Victoria's Royal Jubilee Hospital does not pay a procedural fee for the tests.
(Royal Jubilee, along with St. Paul's, Vancouver General, Kelowna General and
Royal Columbian in New Westminster, is one of five cardiac centres in B.C.)
Neither does Royal Columbian.

"Fraser Health's echocardiographers do not bill for procedures they do not
perform," Gerald Simkus, program medical director for Fraser Health, which
oversees Royal Columbian, said in an e-mail.

"In the [operating room] setting and in the Cardiac Surgery Intensive Care Unit,
it is typically the anesthesiologist, who has been trained in the procedure, who
may perform a TEE as an informal real-time guide to care without additional
billing."

Representatives for Interior Health, which oversees Kelowna General Hospital,
were not able to provide billing information immediately.

More than 4,000 heart surgeries were performed in B.C. last year, according to
Cardiac Services B.C. St. Paul's is one of the busiest heart centres in the
province and does more than 1,000 cardiac surgeries per year.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2015 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


