                               2 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                Bowen Independent (North Queensland, Australia)

                            April 6, 2016 Wednesday
                                 Bowen Edition

A second doctor unlikely

BYLINE: Nadine O'Neill

SECTION: CLASSIFIEDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 420 words


IT'S doubtful Collinsville Hospital will get a second doctor despite best
efforts from the Mackay Health and Hospital Service and Member for Burdekin Dale
Last.

Queensland Health Minister Cameron Dick has also weighed in after Mr Last asked
the Minister to get involved, but he cast doubt that a second doctor would be
employed. But he assured in the interim, locum doctors would continue to be
employed to the second position as required.

"Tele-health continues to support the provision of health services and the
application of this technology has seen a 70 per cent increase in usage at
Collinsville over the past year," Mr Dick said.

"Collinsville is a non-procedural hospital and potentially not attractive for
rural generalists with advanced procedural skills.

"I am advised this is despite multiple advertisements and an attractive salary
package, including location, professional development, accommodation and motor
vehicle incentives.

"The rural generalist pathway is now producing doctors with advanced skills, but
that pathway originally focused on procedural skills like obstetrics.

"The pathway is now training doctors with advanced skills in non-procedural
medicine, for example mental health, and those doctors may have an interest in
sites like Collinsville in the future.

"This program will ultimately provide a significant number of these doctors, but
most are still in the pipeline of training," he said.

Collinsville Hospital has been struggling to find a second doctor for more than
a year. Mackay Hospital and Health Service has confirmed it had advertised the
position several times and had been unable to find an appropriate rural
clinician.

"Due to the difficulty of recruiting to the position we are looking at a range
of medical workforce models. That includes working collaboratively with the
North Queensland Primary Health Care Network to ensure future workforce
sustainability," Mackay HHS chief executive Clare Douglas said.

Mr Last said although a second doctor could be employed at the hospital in the
future, Collinsville residents were keen to secure one immediately or in the
near future.

"It has been an issue the community has been raising with me since I was
elected, everyone wants to ensure adequate medical services are provided to the
Collinsville community," Mr Last said.

"I understand their concerns and their wanting to shore up long term security
with regard to health services."It's an issue I will continue to follow and push
for Collinsville and Scottville communities," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Bowen Independent


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


