                               8 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                   TELEGRAPH

                            February 22, 1985 Friday

NSW HOSPITALS NEAR COLLAPSE

SOURCE: QNP

LENGTH: 497 words


Peace ploy not likely to succeed NSW HOSPITALS NEAR COLLAPSE SYDNEY: The NSW
public hospital system today stood on the brink of collapse.

With deep division in the doctors' ranks there appeared little chance that an
11th hour peace call by the Australian Medical Association would be heeded.

From tomorrow, most of the big public hospitals in the state will be without the
services of procedural surgeons.Death fears The result is expected to be growing
delays in the treatment of injured people and a growing backlog of surgery.

There have been warnings that the collapse of the hospital system would lead to
many patient deaths.

Police, meanwhile, are guarding the home and surgery of Dr Bruce Shepherd, the
head of the Council of Procedural Specialists.

Dr Shepherd and Dr Michael Aroney share leadership of the militant specialists
who are, this weekend, resigning en masse from the public hospital system.

The AMA has called for a four-week moratorium and asked NSW doctors to return to
their normal duties while final talks between the president of the AMA, Dr
Lindsay Thompson and the Prime Minister, Mr Hawke, take place.Offer services
State president of the AMA, Dr Tony Buhagiar, said he was confident doctors
would agree to the moratorium.

""I am quite sure they (doctors) will offer their services to hospitals because
even prior to this 11th hour attempt they were doing so."

However, head of the Council of Procedural Specialists, Dr Michael Aroney was
adamant doctors would go ahead with their resignations.

The Premier, Mr Wran, said today the leader of the militant specialists simply
didn't know ""when to put the brakes on.

""The specialists haven't been sold out by the AMA. The AMA is taking a
commonsense attitude to the issue."

Mr Wran said the government would hold off its recruitment advertising campaign
until next week to see how many doctors responded to the AMA call to return.

""The AMA is asking doctors to make personal contact with hospitals. In good
faith, we will wait to see what the response is," he said.

""If there is still a significant gap in numbers next week then we will seek
local recruitment before going overseas for doctors."

State president of the AMA, Dr Tony Buhagiar, said he was confident doctors
would agree to the moratorium.

""I am quite sure they (doctors) will offer their services to hospitals because
even prior to this 11th hour attempt they were doing so."

However, head of the Council of Procedural Specialists, Dr Michael Aroney was
adamant doctors would go ahead with their resignations.

The Premier, Mr Wran, said today the leader of the militant specialists simply
didn't know ""when to put the brakes on.Overseas bid ""The specialists haven't
been sold out by the AMA. The AMA is taking a commonsense attitude to the
issue."

Mr Wran said the government would hold off its recruitment advertising campaign
until next week to see how many doctors responded to the AMA call to return.

""

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: TEL

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


