                               9 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                           November 26, 2015 Thursday

US concludes that human error led to Kunduz hospital attack in Afghanistan

SECTION: HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT; Government and Public Interest

LENGTH: 457 words



HIGHLIGHT: US Army general John Campbell, who leads international forces in
Afghanistan, said that human error, procedural missteps and technical failures
have contributed to the hospital attack in Afghanistan.


US Army general John Campbell, who leads international forces in Afghanistan,
said that human error, procedural missteps and technical failures have
contributed to the hospital attack in Afghanistan.

The hospital was run by Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF), also known as Doctors
Without Borders.

The US carried out an investigation into the incident that killed 30 people and
wounded 37 in Kunduz. It showed the attack on the trauma centre was a direct
result of human error, compounded by systems and procedural failures.

Campbell said: "This was a tragic but avoidable accident caused primarily by
human error.

"The US forces directly involved in this incident did not know the targeted
compound was the [Doctors Without Borders] trauma centre.

"The medical facility was misidentified as a target by US personnel who believed
they were striking a different building several hundred metres away where there
were reports of combatants."

He further noted Afghan troops in Kunduz, which were supported by US special
operations forces, were under heavy Taliban attack for five days and nights.

The report also showed personnel who requested the strike and those who executed
it from the air did not undertake the appropriate measures to verify the
facility was a legitimate military target.

The general noted on 2 October, Afghan special operations forces advised their
US support they intended to conduct a clearing operation that night and one of
the mission objectives was to clear the National Directorate of Security
headquarters building, which was believed to be occupied by insurgents.

Campbell said: "The Afghans requested US close-air support as they conducted
their clearing operation.

"The AC-130 aircraft designated to provide close-air support launched 69 minutes
early in response to a 'troops-in contact situation', an emergency that requires
an immediate response.

"This precluded the crew from receiving their normal mission brief or securing
crucial mission-essential related materials, including the no-strike
designations, which would have identified the location of the trauma center."

It was reported that during the flight, electronic systems onboard the aircraft
malfunctioned, preventing the operation of an essential command and control
capability. It also eliminated the ability of the aircraft to transmit video,
send and receive e-mail or send and receive electronic messages.

The report found the US SOF commander relied primarily on information provided
by Afghan partners and was unable to adequately distinguish between the NDS
headquarters building and the trauma centre.

The investigation showed the approximate cause of this tragedy was a direct
result of avoidable human error compounded by process and equipment failures.

LOAD-DATE: December 08, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


