                              93 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Evening Chronicle

                              June 13, 2016 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Medical 'events' that should never happen;
FOUR CASES OF MEDICS OPERATING ON WRONG PARTS

BYLINE: Katie Dickinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 531 words


THEY'RE called '"never events" - incidents in hospital that are so serious they
should not happen.

However in the 12 months to April, there were nine such incidents in the
region's NHS Trusts, including four of medics operating on the wrong part of the
body.

The figures were released in a report by NHS England Patient Safety. Newcastle
Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (NUHT) and City Hospital Sunderland NHS
Foundation Trust recorded three such events each.

Incidents at NUHT included a nerve block being administered to the wrong eye
before cataract operation surgery, and an incision for spinal surgery being
extended to the next disc, leaving the patient with a longer scar.

An NUHT spokesperson said the figures needed to be viewed in the context "of the
many hundreds of thousands of care/procedural actions taken in a hospital
setting".

The spokesperson added: "Each involved an error by the attending clinical
practitioner and documented accordingly to ensure consistent adherence to
procedural routine reinforced with lessons learnt."

At Sunderland, two "foreign objects" were left inside patients' bodies after
procedures, while in another incident a feeding tube was put down the patient's
windpipe rather than oesophagus. A Trust spokesperson said: "All never events
are reported via our serious incident reporting process and are subject to
detailed investigation so we can determine what went wrong and how we can ensure
this does not happen again.

"The Trust actively encourages staff to report all incidents and has an open and
honest approach to such incidents."

Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust and South Tyneside NHS Foundation Trust
each recorded one case of surgery on the wrong site, while one patient at
Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust had a foreign object left in their
body.

A spokesperson for Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Gateshead said: "These types of
incidents are incredibly rare in Gateshead but it's important to highlight that
in this case no harm came to the patient and the procedure was completed
normally. We carried out a review of the case, in which the anaesthetic was
initially applied to the wrong area, and have put in place new measures to
ensure it won't happen again."

Birju Bartoli, deputy chief executive and executive director of performance and
governance at Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, said: "We take any
level of harm to our patients extremely seriously and any never event is one too
many. Our positive patient safety culture means we have created a supportive
learning environment where staff feel able to openly report any incidents, no
matter how big or small, so that we can learn from them and, as far as possible
prevent them from recurring in the future."

South Tyneside NHS Foundation Trust's Medical Director Dr Shaz Wahid said:
"Fortunately, never events are rare but just one is one too many and our target,
clearly, is to have no such events. Including this latest one, we have had only
two never events in the last decade. When one does occur, we want to make sure
that we learn from it to prevent it ever happening again."

Across England, 316 never events were recorded over the same period.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Gateshead.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NEC


               Copyright 2016 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


