                              10 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 1, 2017 Saturday

Private hospitals mull variable procedural charges

BYLINE: Prithvijit Mitra

SECTION: KOLKATA

LENGTH: 414 words


KOLKATA: Several private hospitals in Kolkata are planning to chalk out a
response to the state's proposal of uniform procedural rate. They plan to
suggest variable rates based on the grade, facilities and infrastructure offered
by them. A uniform charge across hospitals could be unfair and not feasible
since the rates prescribed under the government's Swasthya Sathi scheme were
unreasonably low, the hospitals pointed out.

The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India plans to hold a meeting to discuss
the issue next week.Ever since the West Bengal Health Regulatory Commission
declared that the rates fixed under the Swasthya Sathi scheme - designed to keep
procedural charges within a limit - would be the guideline for 'reasonable
charges', private hospitals have been worried. Most have sought time from the
government to respond. Leading hospitals, which have been looking into the
practicality of the prescribed rates, agreed that they were "too low"."Every
private hospital is not the same. From the doctors and nursing staff to the
facilities on offer, the standard and quality of care is different. So is the
amount of investment which makes it necessary to distinguish between hospitals.
While the rates can be discussed and reviewed, it is imperative to realize that
they can't be the same for all. From the fees of doctors to the quality of
disposables used and the efficiency of the medical staff, everything varies. So
the rates ought to reflect that. Our response will reflect this," said P L
Mehta, president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India.The prescribed
rates were too meagre, felt the director of a hospital off EM Bypass. "We have
been calculating the feasibility of the rates, but they seem impractical. Our
finance department, which does a cost analysis on a regular basis, have been
analyzing the Swasthya Sathi rates. Barring a couple of procedures, none of the
others can be done at such a low cost. But the state has only sought our
suggestions. These are negotiable and we hope to be able to arrive at a mutually
acceptable rate."The CEO of another private hospital said: "While this is a good
opportunity to review the price structure and make it more affordable, our
financial compulsions should also be taken into account. It will be a good idea
to have variable rates instead of a single one across the board. We are looking
ahead to the association meeting to work out a basic joint strategy."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


