                              96 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                             August 30, 2013 Friday

Tighten checks in health care

SECTION: A; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 405 words


Health Minister Ted Flemming and health network CEOs John McGarry and Rino Volpé
have taken significant steps toward the effective reform of health care in New
Brunswick. The disturbing revelation that for 14 years, staff at a regional
hospital did not follow correct sterilization procedure for some surgical
implements illustrates that much more needs to be done.

New Brunswickers can debate whether it should have taken administrators three
months to disclose the information; without knowing how difficult it was to
determine when the errors in question began to occur or which patients might
have been affected, though, we think this is an academic exercise. The more
fundamental question is why it took 14 years for someone to red-flag the fact
that sterilization procedures weren't being followed consistently.

What makes this oversight even more outrageous is that the hospital where it
occurred, Miramichi Regional, has repeatedly been put under the microscope for
procedural and policy violations, ranging from fraud at the highest level in the
former regional hospital corporation to systemic negligence, in the case of a
pathologist who misread biopsy results that potentially affected 15,700
patients.

Despite all the forensic reviews at this facility, and all the claims that what
was wrong had been addressed and that everything else was working smoothly, no
one caught the routine errors taking place in sterilization. This occurred at a
hospital that now stands at the heart of the province's new regional health
network system and which is a critically important part of the Horizon Health
Network, headquartered in Miramichi.

While praising the level of care that New Brunswick hospitals provide, Minister
Flemming has stated that this incident raises questions about whether
performance audits and procedural checks are in place and being carried out. We
agree. In our opinion, this broader issue needs to be dealt with at a level
above the Horizon and Vitalité health network boards.

What can the Department of Health do to ensure consistent high standards are
followed in every provincial hospital? How will services be evaluated, how
often, and by whom, in order to ensure compliance?

These questions need to be answered - and for the sake of ensuring that a high
and consistent level of patient safety is maintained across the province, both
hospital corporations should be asked to meet the same service benchmarks.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2013 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


