                              97 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                            January 21, 2014 Tuesday

Kachkar given risky privileges, court hears

SECTION: GREATER TORONTO; Pg. GT1

LENGTH: 494 words


A man who killed a Toronto police officer was wrongly granted the ability to get
escorted community passes from a psychiatric hospital, a Crown lawyer argued in
Ontario's highest court Monday.

The Crown was "blindsided" by a decision of the Ontario Review Board, which
oversees mentally ill offenders, to allow Richard Kachkar community access at
the discretion of his medical team, court heard.

Crown attorney Eric Siebenmorgen said the decision put the public at "undue
risk."

Kachkar, 47, found not criminally responsible last March in the 2011 snowplow
killing of Sgt. Ryan Russell, has since been detained for treatment at Ontario
Shores Centre for Mental Health Sciences in Whitby.

At his first review board hearing last year, the Crown and defence jointly
recommended granting him supervised hospital grounds privileges.

But the board went a step further in its decision and allowed for escorted trips
into the community.

"It's just premature at this point, given how little we know" about the factors
that led to Kachkar's psychotic break in the first place, Siebenmorgen argued
before a three-member panel of appeal court judges.

The Ontario Review Board has the power to decide whether people found not
criminally responsible should be detained for treatment, released into the
community with various conditions or given an absolute discharge.

In making decisions, the board must balance concern for public safety with a
duty to impose the least onerous restrictions on the forensic patient. Board
members are a mix of retired judges, lawyers with 10 or more years of
experience, psychiatrists, psychologists and miscellaneous members of the
public.

The Crown contends the board made a procedural error in granting community
access because neither the Crown nor the defence were given the opportunity to
argue for or against it.

Peter Copeland, Kachkar's appeal lawyer, argued the review board decision was
reasonable and said there was no procedural breach.

So far, the hospital has not allowed Kachkar the discretionary community access
granted by the review board.However, he has been allowed supervised off-ward
excursions for activities such as physiotherapy, visits to the hospital gym and
grounds walks - all without incident, according to an affidavit sworn by his
doctor.

He has shown no active signs of psychosis since arriving at Ontario Shores, but
is voluntarily taking antipsychotic medication, the doctor said.

If the court decides a procedural error did occur, Copeland said, it should
dismiss the appeal based on fresh evidence of Kachkar's progress since arriving
at Ontario Shores.

"He is a model patient," the defence lawyer said. "He has shown good insight
into his circumstances and his need for treatment."

Copeland said his client's behaviour is not as unpredictable as the Crown made
it seem, pointing out that Kachkar showed clear signs of mental deterioration,
witnessed by friends and family, in the weeks leading up to his snowplow
rampage.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

