                              91 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Caloundra City News (Queensland)

                                  May 14, 2010

Hospital activist insists on funds locked in Patients suffering because of
delays

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 489  words


JAN de Vries has a message for Paul Lucas and the Bligh Government.

"Don't dare let Sunshine Coast residents down again."

Ms de Vries, the chairwoman of the Sunshine Coast University Hospital Action
Group, was commenting on the announcement of a $600 million boost to medical
services before the construction of the new $1.97 billion tertiary health
precinct at Kawana.

The new Sunshine Coast University Hospital will open in 2016 with 450 inpatient
beds, increasing to 738 by 2021.

Queensland Health plans to purchase 70 public bed equivalents of health services
from the proposed co-located private hospital in 2013, growing to 110 by the end
of the following year.

Ms de Vries said promises had been too easily broken in the past.

"The new public hospital at Kawana was originally slated to open in 2014," she
said.

"The government, citing the economic downturn, announced last year that the
hospital would not receive its first patients until 2016.

"Patients have suffered as a result.

"We welcome the new services announced but we will not be quiet until the
promised and much needed new hospital for the Sunshine Coast is built."

The SCUHAG group gathered at the site of the tertiary health precinct earlier
this month to attract attention to their cause.

MEMBERS waved placards to passing traffic and received solid support.

Health Minister Paul Lucas arrived at the Nambour General Hospital with a folder
full of announcements that will boost the local region's medical services prior
to the construction of the hospital.

The services, including a cardiac catheterisation laboratory, vascular surgery
procedural suite and a dedicated endoscopy procedural unit at Nambour, will cost
$600 million.

Construction of these new facilities will begin next year, with services to
commence from late 2011.

Mr Lucas said these services would also help to retain and recruit top-level
specialists to help build up the clinical capacity in the lead-up to the opening
of the SCUH.

"We want to make sure that we can create a critical staff base so that the
emergency department at Sunshine Coast University Hospital will be fully
functional from the first day," Mr Lucas said.

"This is a win for the Sunshine Coast community, building up the skills and
services that will help make the SCUH a reality."

Member for Caloundra and shadow health minister Mark McArdle welcomed the news
the private sector has been asked to bid on the construction of a private
hospital at Kawana.

"I'm very glad to hear the private sector will be involved in developing this
portion of the hospital complex as we can be guaranteed it will be delivered on
time and also on budget," Mr McArdle said.

"The private sector in Queensland has a proven track record in the construction
of health infrastructure and providing excellent service in many parts of this
state."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCC


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


