                              95 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Central Queensland News

                                  May 25, 2011

Training for rural doctors focus of debate

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 336  words


PRESIDENT of the Rural Doctors Association of Queensland, Dr Dan Halliday
thanked the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners for its
contribution to community discussion about training doctors for rural
communities.

"We all know that the one-in-three Australian patients who live outside the
metropolitan centres have poorer access to health care and poorer health
outcomes than their urban cousins," Dr Halliday said.

The RACGP's position statement on Rural General Practice raised concerns with
Queensland Health's Rural Generalist Training Program.

The RGTP has been widely praised by country doctors nationwide for teaching
much-needed procedural skills and providing a well-paid training and career path
in Queensland's country hospitals, and the model may be adopted by other states.

"RDAQ members agree with RACGP that doctors becoming qualified for general
practice cannot be trained solely in hospitals. We believe that all doctors
obtaining GP qualifications such as FRACGP, FARGP or FACRRM do have sufficient
true general practice experience to be safe and effective general practitioners
in any setting. The Australian Medical Council has verified that the curricula
for those qualifications meet that standard," Dr Halliday said.

"RDAQ acknowledges RACGP's concerns that a two-tiered remuneration structure
might develop. Procedural hospital doctors that have advanced skills and work
for Queensland Health could be better rewarded than their office-based general
practitioner colleagues who are funded through Medicare and often self-employed.
Yet both sectors have essential roles in rural communities.

"Our members see this challenge as a call to seek better remuneration through
Medicare rebates for rural doctors in the private sector. RDAQ invites the RACGP
to join us, and the Rural Doctors Association of Australia, in lobbying the
Federal Government to level that particular playing field.

"RDAQ looks forward to a robust debate..."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RCQ


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


