                              94 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Kalgoorlie Miner (Western Australia)

                            October 25, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

Call for training

SECTION: KAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 340  words


A KALGOORLIE-BOULDER general practitioner and obstetrician says any move to
encourage young GPs to get extra training especially in obstetrics and
anaesthetics is applauded and supported.

Goldfields GP Mal Hodsdon's comments come after the Rural Doctors Association of
Australia welcomed a Government announcement country GPs can apply for funding
to help them complete procedural training in obstetrics.

Dr Hodsdon said there was a shortage of procedural general practice,
particularly in Western Australia, with the situation tight in
Kalgoorlie-Boulder.

We have  four GPs in Kalgoorlie-Boulder doing obstetrics, but there is one
planning to leave at the end of the year and we have no GPs doing anaesthetics,
he said.

He said the town did get visits from a Norseman GP to provide anaesthetic cover.
RDAA chief executive Steve Sant said the funding would provide much needed
assistance to rural GPs looking to provide a greater level of service to their
regions.

Procedural skills, such as obstetrics, are very much in need in rural
communities, many of which are at risk of losing their current maternity and
surgical services, he said.

Thousands of country women have no local maternity services available to them.
They must travel several hours from their homes and families to give birth.

Increasing the number of GPs able to deliver babies at local hospitals will make
a huge difference to these rural families. We are encouraged to see the Gillard
Government acting on the findings of their Maternity Services Review report that
highlighted the need for better access to high quality maternity services and
more support for the maternity services workforce in rural and remote Australia.

Mr Sant also said  recognition of Rural Generalists as a specialist area and
providing the necessary training early on would also help address the critical
shortage of highly-trained rural doctors.

We have been advocating for the implementation of a national rural generalist
training pathway to support and train rural doctors of the future, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


