                              99 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly

                          November 11, 2015 Wednesday

Civil practice - Commitment - Notice

BYLINE: Tom Egan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 582  words


Where a respondent who voluntarily admitted himself to a petitioner hospital
moved to dismiss a petition for civil commitment, the motion should have been
allowed because the hospital did not comply with a state regulation regarding
written notice.

"M.C. applied for admission at Beverly Hospital as a conditional voluntary
patient on July 18, 2014, pursuant to G.L.c. 123, §§10 & 11. Having found that
M.C. was competent to apply for a conditional voluntary status, the hospital
admitted M.C. on the same date. On July 31, 2014, the attending psychiatrist for
M.C., without notice to M.C. or a family member, rescinded the conditional
voluntary status of M.C. and filed a petition for the civil commitment of M.C.
M.C. moved to dismiss the petition, asserting that the hospital improperly
rescinded his conditional voluntary status, having failed to adhere to
applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. The motion was denied, and,
after hearing, M.C. was civilly committed on August 14, 2014. Approximately six
weeks later, on September 29, 2014, M.C. was discharged.

"We agree that the clinical finding of the attending psychiatrist as to the
capacity of M.C. to remain on a conditional voluntary status is specific to M.C.
and is unique to this particular case. Inthis context, this case is not capable
of repetition and can have no precedential value; it is moot. ...

"Yet the actual legal issue presented is not unique to M.C. Rather, the issue
affects potentially all individuals who apply for conditional voluntary
admission to a hospital. The rights of the mentally ill are 'classic examples'
of issues that are 'capable of repetition, yet evading review. ' ... Where the
issue is of public importance, very likely to arise again, and is likely not to
obtain appellate review before becoming moot, we will exercise our discretion
and address the issue. ...

"... (W]e find that the record does not support a finding that the hospital
complied with the regulation concerning notice to M.C. of an intent to conduct a
competency evaluation on M.C. 's ability to remain at the hospital on a
conditional voluntary status.

"The Department of Mental Health regulations require a hospital, '(p]rior to the
periodic review,' to 'give reasonable advance written notice' to a patient of
the intended review. ... There is no evidence in the record that M.C. was
provided with written notice. Compliance is both procedural and substantive. It
gives notice and allows an individual, such as M.C., to understand that an
exchange between the individual and a 'senior reviewing clinician' is not merely
for treatment, but may impact the freedom of the individual. The required notice
places the individual on awareness of the seriousness of the evaluation.

"With the hospital having failed to follow its own procedural requirements as
contained in the regulations of the Department of Mental Health, the motion to
dismiss should have been allowed.

"The order of commitment is vacated. "

In the Matter of M.C. (Lawyers Weekly No. 13-045-15) (6 pages) (Coven, J.)
(Appellate Division, Northern District) Appealed from a decision by Lauranzano,
J., in Salem District Court. Richard F. Ready, of Geraghty Hall & Ready, for the
petitioner; Devorah A. Borenstein for the respondent (App. Div. No.
14-ADMS-10033) (Nov. 5, 2015).

Click here to order the full text of the opinion.



http://www.masslawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2015 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

