                              106 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              July 17, 2017 Monday

Govt cancels organ transplant registration of Kochi hospital

SECTION: THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

LENGTH: 433 words


Thiruvananthapuram: The state government temporarily cancelled the organ
transplantation registration of a Kochi hospital in April for not following the
rules stipulated under the Transplantation of Human Organs Act. The government
also constituted an expert committee - headed by joint director of medical
education - to probe a complaint against the hospital.The decision was taken
after a complaint was filed by a doctor from Kollam in the high court in the
first quarter of this year. The doctor pointed out that there was a lapse on the
hospital' part while complying with the norms for organ transplant."The decision
was taken since the government had to ensure before the high court that it took
the safe route.

The complaint was given to the state health department six months ago and no
action was taken till I approached the court," said Dr S Ganapathy, the
complainant.Dr Noble Gracious, state convener of Kerala Network of Organ Sharing
(KNOS), said: "There was only a procedural lapse as norms suggest that a team of
four doctors should conduct a series of tests and sign the report before a
patient is declared brain dead. But in this case, it was certified by only three
doctors. This was the case pointed out by the complainant before the court."
KNOS monitors organ transplant in the stateIn May, the hospital management had
requested the director of medical education to reinstate the registration,
assuring that the hospital would obey all norms. Later, the government appointed
a three-member committee on July 3 to look into the incident and submit a report
within one month.Rules stipulate that a panel of four doctors have to certify
the tests conducted in two-steps within a gap of six hours. However, in this
case four doctors certified the tests in the first step and only three doctors
did so in the next step that was done after six hours. It can be rated as
procedural delay, said Dr Gracious.But, the complainant is arguing that if the
hospital is not obeying stipulated norms, then it should be treated as 'wrong
brain death certification'. "How can you claim a brain death certification when
the hospital is not following set norms? This should be regarded as a serious
lapse on the hospital's part," said Dr Ganapathy.Recently, the government had
announced stricter guidelines and making the presence of a government doctor
mandatory for the certification process in such cases. The objective was to make
organ donation a transparent process and thus ensure that the certification
procedure is in done as per international protocols.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


