                              105 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Warrnambool Standard

                            November 8, 2013 Friday

WHEN Dr John Menzies and his wife Carolyn arrived

BYLINE: CLARE QUIRK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 404 words


WHEN Dr John Menzies and his wife Carolyn arrived in Camperdown 35 years ago
they knew it was for good.

"I always felt like a fish out of water in the city," he said.

"It wasn't my natural environment. I'd always preferred to make the country my
home base."

Dr Menzies has been recognised by the Australian College of Rural and Remote
Medicine (ACRRM) for his outstanding advocacy and medical service to the
Camperdown community.

Dr Menzies, 65, grew up in Terang and said he and his wife were always both very
country oriented.

"We knew we wanted to be up in the country and be a country GP," he said.

He said his work had allowed him do a mixture of clinic and hospital work.

"The hospital in Camperdown is staffed by GPs like myself and visiting
specialists and the work allows you to continually be engaged and extend
yourself," he said.

Dr Menzies said he'd delivered babies who'd he'd seen go on to have babies and
he planned to continue working as long as he stayed "upright".

"The good thing about being a GP is you can modify the work to your capacity,"
he said.

"It looks like we're beginning to get a good number of young doctors coming back
and beginning to take things on."

Dr Menzies began practising in Camperdown in 1978 after working as a junior
doctor in the navy, then training in procedural obstetrics at the Royal Women's
Hospital in Melbourne.

He received the Peter Graham 'Cohuna' Award on Saturday night in Cairns, where
ACRRM president, Professor Richard Murray, described him as "an exemplar of the
rural generalist", providing a wide range of community and hospital services
including obstetrics, anaesthetics and emergency care.

"John has played a key role in ensuring that the people of Camperdown and
surrounding towns have continued to have local access to obstetric and other
procedural service despite the frequent closure of small hospital obstetric
services across rural Victoria over the past three decades," Professor Murray
said.

"It is this commitment to the health and safety of his community, to providing
quality medical services that people in cities take for granted, which qualifies
him for the national honour of the Peter Graham 'Cohuna' Award."

Professor Murray said Dr Menzies has also been a dedicated teacher and mentor of
junior doctors and medical students, and involved in all the major initiatives
in rural medical education over the past two to three decades.

cquirk@fairfaxmedia.com.au

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


