                              104 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                            December 31, 2000 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

GPs threaten to deliver on baby ban

BYLINE: KATHRYN SHINE Medical Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 493 words


COUNTRY doctors who deliver babies are planning to scrap their obstetric
services because medical insurance premiums are too high.

Doctors warn this could lead to a crisis in the bush because people will have to
travel long distances for specialist treatment.

Cowra GP Mark Adamski said he would probably stop obstetric and anaesthetic work
in January.

He is one of four GP obstetricians in the shire, which has a population of
12,000.

Dr Adamski said the other three doctors who worked in his practice were all
considering stopping obstetric work.

He said: "I want to continue providing a service I have been providing for nine
years, and so do my colleagues, but we are between a rock and a hard place and
we hope the government will help us out.

"The [State] minister, Craig Knowles, said it wasn't his problem, but if it
leads to towns like Cowra losing their procedural GPs that will be a disaster on
a mammoth scale.

"There will be no-one to deliver babies, no-one to give anaesthetics and that
means the base hospitals will be choked.

"They won't be able to do any elective surgery because they will be doing all
our emergency cases.

"Women would have to drive an hour to Orange and risk delivering on the way.
It's very frightening for a woman in labour."

Most GPs who do obstetric and other procedural work are facing premiums of up to
$26,000 for 2001.

The fee for 2001 is about $13,000, but doctors who are members of United Medical
Protection insurance company have been asked to pay another year's premium on
top of that.

Dr Adamski said his insurance premium would drop to about $3,000 a year if he
stopped doing procedural work.

The issue is a major concern to the Rural Doctors Association of Australia.

NSW RDAA president Ken Mackey has arranged to meet NSW Health director-general
Mick Reid next month to try to find a solution.

Dr Adamski said he wanted the State Government to cover GP obstetricians for the
work they did on public patients in public hospitals.

He also believed law reform was necessary to curb litigation and high lawsuit
payouts.

"The only reason we are still in this business is that we love our work and we
want to service our community," he said. "It's pretty hard to tell a woman who
is 40 weeks pregnant that you can't do the delivery when you want to and she
wants you to."

Mr Reid said: "Obviously we don't want to lose these services. They are
something the community rightly values."

He said the Government had agreed to cover specialist obstetricians for public
work in public hospitals about two years ago.

It was hoped that that would mean lower premiums, but so far it hadn't happened.

United Medical Protection chairman Richard Tjiong said his company had made a
call for an extra year's premium because claim costs were expected to rise by 30
per cent over the next two years. He said the extra money could be paid in
instalments, over five years.

"Our call is not to do with backfunding," he said. "We are financially healthy."

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: WORRIED: Chris and Sharon Groves and their daughter Charlotte.
Picture: SIMON ALEKNA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


