                              102 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                             June 24, 2006 Saturday
                                 Travel Edition

We must save our small hospitals, for the good of the nation

BYLINE: ROSS MAXWELL

SECTION: FEATURES; Health; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 903  words


SMALL hospitals have been the lifeblood of communities across Australia for more
than a century. They have provided emergency care for victims of farming
accidents, car accidents and heart attacks. They have delivered generations of
babies and often also served as the local nursing home.

They are often the only places in country towns where nursing and allied health
services are available, and where rural patients can receive chronic care for
conditions like a diabetic foot ulcer or rehabilitation.

But in less than 15 years many of these hospitals have closed or lost their
maternity and other procedural services. More than 130 small rural maternity
units have been closed by state governments in the past decade.

The Rural Doctors Association of Australia (RDAA) has welcomed a proposal by the
Deputy Prime Minister and the leader of the Nationals Mark Vaile that the next
Australian Health Care Agreements (AHCAs) between the federal and state
governments should include funding specifically for public hospitals in rural
and regional areas.

Such a measure would help ensure the survival of rural hospitals by requiring
that Commonwealth funding intended for these hospitals is not instead siphoned
into metropolitan hospitals by state governments.

RDAA has been leading the call for dedicated funding for rural and regional
hospitals for many years. Such a measure was also a central element of the Good
Health to Rural Communities 10-point plan that RDAA, together with the National
Farmers' Federation, Country Women's Association of Australia, Australian Local
Government Association and Health Consumers of Rural and Remote Australia,
developed in 2004.

The absence of dedicated funding for rural hospitals in the AHCAs has been a key
contributor to the poor co-ordination between the federal and state governments
in relation to rural healthcare delivery.

For example, while the federal Government has been introducing very useful
support measures to maintain the procedural doctor workforce in rural areas
(doctors who can undertake obstetrics work, administer general anaesthesia and
perform general surgery), state governments have been closing the facilities in
which they can work.

Closing and downgrading small rural hospitals places further pressure on larger
regional hospitals and discourages more doctors from moving to rural areas. It
also diminishes the local capacity to handle emergencies. The loss of emergency
departments in rural hospitals -- and the subsequent delays in patients
receiving hospital-based treatment -- undoubtedly is leading to worse outcomes
for those needing critical care in country areas.

Neglect of many of these emergency departments is exemplified by facilities not
being maintained, capital works not being approved, deteriorating equipment
levels, the healthcare professionals who work in them not being relieved so they
can undertake regular upskilling, and positions not being filled. Similarly, the
loss of rural maternity services has left many women with no option but to
travel hundreds of kilometres to deliver at larger centres, often paying for
accommodation in these centres in the weeks before labour or making a terrifying
trip on lonely country roads in the hours before birth.

Quarantined AHCA funding should be allocated to restore, maintain and expand
maternity and other essential procedural services (such as general surgical and
emergency capability) in rural areas, and to ensure additional locum assistance
and upskilling relief is available to the doctors and other healthcare
professionals.

A first priority will be to track expenditure in rural hospitals and match it
with the level of funding needed to maintain existing services and plan for
service enhancement, in line with current health outcomes data.

Quarantined funding should also be allocated to develop rural and regional
hospitals as centres of training. This will become crucial as the increasing
numbers of medical and other healthcare students in our universities require
more hospital training places than metropolitan hospitals can provide.

Rural and regional hospitals would provide ideal training for students who are
bonded to rural practice, hold rural medical training scholarships, have an
interest in rural practice or are from a rural background. Our country hospitals
would also make excellent centres for upskilling doctors, nurses, midwives and
allied health professionals and for re-training those wishing to resume
healthcare careers.

The next AHCAs should also quarantine funding to help develop sustainable models
of care where hospital or GP services are non-existent or at risk.

While the proposal from the Nationals is a welcome step forward, the measure is
yet to receive a public seal of approval from their federal Coalition partner.
It will also require the agreement of the state governments.

We implore all the major parties, at a federal and state level, to urgently
support the measure. With the next AHCAs due to be introduced in 2008, work must
begin on formulating the specific amount of funding to be quarantined on a
state-by-state basis.

Governments cannot afford to play the political blame game on this issue. Rural
and regional hospitals provide an essential service to country Australia. It is
equally essential that AHCA funding is quarantined to help save, maintain and
expand them.


Ross Maxwell is president of the Rural Doctors Association of Australia

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


