                              103 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           The Advertiser (Australia)

                            March 12, 2011 Saturday
                               1 - State Edition

Careers in Health, Nursing & Medical Call for rural GP training

SECTION: EMPLOYMENT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 257  words


A NEW training pathway needs to be developed to ensure country South Australia
has enough rural general practitioners in coming years, says the Rural Doctors
Association of South Australia.

President Dr Tim Wood says a rural generalist training pathway, based on a
successful Queensland model, will help keep health services in rural areas by
encouraging medical staff to experience work and life in the regions.

``We desperately need to provide more rural SA students with education
opportunities in medicine and other health fields to increase the number of
health professionals choosing to live and work in rural SA,'' he says.

``It is also essential that SA urgently develops a Rural Generalist Training
Program to ensure we have adequate numbers of procedural GPs.

``(They) can provide key services in accident and emergency, obstetrics,
anaesthetics and surgery in rural locations in the future.''

Doctors who do not have the additional procedural skills limit the health
services provided to communities.

Dr Wood says specific funding needs to be assigned to programs that teach and
train rural GP proceduralists in metropolitan and rural hospitals in order to
provide appropriate health services.

``We also need to be giving more medical students, interns, registrars and other
doctors the opportunity to undertake training, not only in metropolitan
hospitals but in key teaching practices and hospitals across rural South
Australia,'' he says.

``This is a key part of the jigsaw in enticing them to consider rural practice
as a career choice.''

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


