                              107 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                            February 11, 1985 Monday

OVERSEAS RECRUITS NEXT MOVE, DOCTORS WARNED

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 310 words


Overseas recruits next move, doctors warned SYDNEY._ The New South Wales
Government may bring in overseas specialists to end the Medicare dispute which
has brought the state public hospital system to the point of collapse. The
Premier, Mr Wran, said yesterday the Government would consider this move. He
said he would meet the Cabinet policy committee soon to discuss the matter.
Government-appointed teams could leave for Europe and New Zealand by the end of
the week to interview doctors interested in working in Australia. Mr Wran said
the Government had held off on such a move, hoping the dispute would be resolved
through negotiations. The refusal of a small group of ""rebels" (the procedural
specialists) to co-operate had forced the Government's hand, he said. It had to
be emphasised there would be no dropping of doctors' or hospital standards by
bringing in overseas specialists. It is believed that specialists in Holland,
Britain and New Zealand are high on the list of people who would be suitable to
work in New South Wales. Mr Wran said the Government could wait no longer for
the procedural specialists to co-operate, and there was no way the Government
would back down. Mr Wran said he was not at all impressed by emergency plans
announced on Saturday by the specialists to maintain emergency medical services.
The specialists' interpretation of emergencies differed from that held by most
people, he said. The Australian Medical Association said it would write to
fellow medical associations overseas warning them not to participate in the NSW
recruitment plan. A spokesman said the AMA did not regard Mr Wran's announcement
as an idle threat, but the move would not bring a settlement or alter the
determination of about 280 procedural surgeons and anaesthetists in the state's
teaching hospitals to resign at the end of the month.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


