                              110 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 THE AUSTRALIAN

                            January 10, 2006 Tuesday
                           All-round Country Edition

Specialist rural GPs to get $15,000 incentive

BYLINE: Patricia Karvelas

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 380  words


RURAL doctors who deliver babies and administer anaesthetics will get a $15,000
annual handout from the federal Government just to continue doing the work they
are already doing.

The Government has doubled incentives to bush general practitioners who carry
out procedures conducted by specialists in the city, in a move that will cost
taxpayers an extra $5.2million each year.

Health Minister Tony Abbott said the Government recognised the higher cost of
delivering services to the bush and wanted to make sure rural doctors performing
additional duties continued their work in remote communities.

''This boost will provide further support to GPs who provide surgical,
anaesthetic and obstetric services to rural and remote communities throughout
Australia,'' he said.

''This is an important measure for rural communities relying on experienced
general practitioners to keep local hospitals running.''

Almost 800 GPs participate in the incentive program.

Rural Doctors Association Australia spokeswoman Sue Page said that the move
would entice ''procedural'' GPs to move to rural communities.

''When you've got a procedural doctor in your practice it's not just the
procedural doctor doing something all by themselves, it actually has an impact
on the practice,'' Dr Page said.

''If you imagine if somebody goes into labour in the middle of a really busy
Monday morning, when the waiting room is full, then obviously there is an
administrative burden and an impact on your colleagues who have to fill the
gaps.

''If you walk out of the building you may not be back for another hour or two,
and there's a cost burden.''

Peter Rischbieth -- a procedural GP who works as an obstetrician and anesthetist
at Murray Bridge, 80km east of Adelaide -- said that the extra money would help
build up the numbers of doctors becoming proceduralists.

''We do 250 deliveries a year with some women travelling up to 200km to access a
delivery,'' he said.

''There's been a huge loss in the number of doctors choosing to be procedural
doctors in rural areas, and the services are so important, so that people do not
have to travel huge distances.

''The doubling of the payment will mean people can continue the work they're
doing and it may attract younger graduates to consider training in procedural
skills.''

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


