                              108 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            August 8, 2015 Saturday

Psychiatric patients feel coerced into hospitalisation

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 448 words


In a study published in the Psychiatry Research Journal, a Trinity College
School of Psychology researcher found a large difference between levels of
coercion reported by people being admitted into psychiatric facilities and their
caregivers, who are usually family members.

Family members reported a higher level of procedural justice and less coercion
than patients who had been admitted.

The research focused on perception of coercion, pressures and procedural justice
relating to psychiatric admissions in five acute in-patient facilities in
south-east Dublin, north Wicklow and Galway.

The study is only the second of its kind to highlight the experiences of the
families of those admitted into psychiatric hospitals as well as patients
themselves.

Of the 66 caregivers who took part in the study, the majority were parents
(56.1%), while 16.7% were spouses or partners.

Nearly half of the service users who agreed to take part in the research had a
diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.

There were 18,457 psychiatric admissions in Ireland in 2013, 2,100 of which were
involuntary.

Researcher Veronica Ranieri said the study points to a need for improved
communication between patients and those who care for them and could have
implications for follow-on care for psychiatric patients who have been
discharged from hospital and have returned to the care of family members.

Our aim is to reduce the rate of relapse. If a plan can be drawn up for
rehospitalisation, that could really help the service users and their
caregivers,  Ms Ranieri said.

Currently, 20% of those admitted involuntarily to a psychiatric facility will be
readmitted within one year, according to research conducted by Ms Ranieri s
colleague, Brian O Donoghue of the University of Melbourne.

Ms Ranieri would like to see her research being used towards creating a  toolkit
for family members and help form a strategy such as drawing up a plan in case of
future readmissions to hospital, as well as helping families to understand why
loved ones are reluctant to be readmitted to hospital.

Caregivers are often an  invisible pillar of support , and have themselves been
traumatised by their experiences, Ms Ranieri said.

If your relative becomes unwell it often reaches crisis point before you seek
help and often there is hospitalisation. Caregivers often don t know what to do
and are very much alone. There is a duty of care there towards the caregivers
themselves, who have no training and very little support,  Ms Ranieri said.

As well an increased need for communication between patients and their families,
Ms Ranieri also called for increased dialogue between psychiatric facilities and
caregivers.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


