                              12 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           October 18, 2003 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

We must stem the crisis in rural health services;
Letters & Opinion

BYLINE: Dr David Campbell

SECTION: INSIGHT; Letters; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 353 words


Recently I attended the Sixth International Rural Health Conference in Santiago,
Spain. A senior health administrator from rural Victoria presented a paper on
research and development of a change management tool, which would provide
administrators with a means to manage a reduction in acute and procedural
services provided by rural hospitals, and sell this change to the community.

Do we want further loss of obstetric, anaesthetic and emergency services to
rural Victoria, on top of the progressive closure of small hospitals over the
past 30 years? Surveys in Australia and overseas have consistently shown that
rural people want a doctor in their town, and a hospital and pharmacy service at
least to support the doctor. Current data demonstrates that the health of rural
Victorians is worse than that of metropolitan people, and this can be linked to
poorer access to services.

Closure of acute services is attractive to government because it removes
expensive and difficult-to-maintain services, such as obstetrics, anaesthetics
and emergency care. The trade-off is an increase in aged-care and community
health services. However, when acute and procedural services are closed, doctors
either leave towns or cease maintaining skills in these aspects of care.

Are mothers-to-be receiving optimal care if they have to travel to regional
hospitals or Melbourne to gain access to obstetric services? Is it appropriate
that emergency care in the bush is often provided by ambulance services alone,
with sometimes unnecessary and difficult transport of patients to regional or
tertiary hospitals?

A keynote speaker at the Santiago conference emphasised the power of rural
doctors and rural communities working together. Rural Victoria is faced with a
policy crisis with regard to support for doctors continuing procedural services.
I urge communities that are concerned about access to acute and procedural
services to work with their local doctors, nurses and other health professionals
to reverse this dangerous trend.

-- Dr David Campbell, Victorian director, Australian College of Rural and Remote
Medicine, Lakes Entrance

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2003 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


