                              109 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Premium Official News

                           February 5, 2015 Thursday

VMO ENT Surgeon

LENGTH: 318  words

DATELINE: Canberra


Department of Employment, The Government of Australia has issued the following
Jobs:

Employment Type:
Position Number:
Facility/Location:  Tamworth

VMO ENT Surgeon
Reference Id: 237512
Sessional
Tamworth Rural Referral Hospital
Tamworth

Position Summary

VMO ENT Surgeon, Tamworth Hospital

An experienced ENT Surgeon is required to provide effective Specialist adult and
paediatric ENT inpatient service to Tamworth Hospital. This position involved
elective and emergency theatre lists and acute on-call work, privately referred
outpatient consultancy/procedural services in private practice in your own
rooms. Work will occur in both the public and private sector and may occur in
Tamworth or other localities in the North West area of Hunter New England Local
Health District.

Tamworth is a vibrant, prosperous and easygoing place where lifestyle means work
doesn't outweight precious family time, sporting activities, creative or
artistic pursuits. Nestled in a valley surrounded by rolling hills and
picturesque landscapes, Tamworth is conveniently located halfway between Sydney
and Brisbane. Lower housing costs and little time spent travelling to and from
work, means less stress and more time to enjoy life!

Tamworth Hospital has 288 beds and is the major Rural Referral Hospital
providing services to the North West of NSW. It services a local community of
55,000 and a referral community of 150,000. It conducts over 8,000 surgical
procedures p.a. It's ED is one of the busiest non-metro ED's in NSW with approx.
48,000 presentations p.a. The University Department of Rural Health in located
onsite, offering excellent opportunities to become involved in teaching and
research activities.

Tamara Private Hospital has 53 beds, 3 operating theatres equipped to undertake
major surgical procedures, large procedural room, and a large day surgery
facility.

For more information please visit: http://www.seek.com.au/

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


