                              113 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             October 5, 2007 Friday
                                 THIRD EDITION

INNOVATING WITH Cynthia Borders VICE PRESIDENT OF CLIENT SERVICES, UNIBASED
SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE INC.

BYLINE: Rachel Melcer | St. Louis Post-Dispatch

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 509 words


The company - Unibased Systems Architecture Inc. develops software for the
health care industry, including products that hospitals use to register patients
and schedule and track procedures. Unibased was rated as the "best overall"
health care information technology company this year by KLAS Enterprises LLC, an
independent research firm in that industry.

The challenge - Hospitals that face staff shortages and tight budgets want to
improve efficiency and attract more customers - doctors and their patients - in
an increasingly competitive health care world. Unibased must convince them that
good information technology services are a means for meeting those goals, said
Cynthia Borders, vice president of client services.

What they did - Unibased developed a scheduling system that links all areas of a
hospital - operating rooms, endoscopy suites, departments such as radiology and
oncology and registration and billing centers. A patient's personal and
insurance information is entered once, eliminating the time-consuming and
frustrating practice of asking for the same data in each department.

Unibased also built in layers of "rules," or requirements that must be met
before a procedure can be scheduled and performed. These include managed care
requirements for payment (is a referral on file?), procedural rules (does test X
need to be completed before operation Y can begin?) and necessary clinical data
(is a patient diabetic, or taking certain medications?).

Borders and her team gleaned this information through detailed document reviews
and interviews with health care providers.

"Much of this was in the heads of the nurses," she said. Hospitals had rooms
full of nurses who were assigned to scheduling and coordinating procedures
"which was a very expensive, labor-intensive process" that Unibased has
automated.

The inspiration - It's simple, Borders said. "We listen to what our clients are
telling us. When we go out and do demonstrations, we listen to their wish
lists."

Progress report - Unibased, which is having its best year ever, is getting a lot
of client interest in a new offering, Borders said. The company added a
"physicians access" software module that allows a hospital to give select
physicians' offices direct access to the scheduling system over an Internet
browser. It asks for all of the same information a hospital staff member would
over the phone, and invokes all of the same procedural rules as the main system
- but it saves time and labor on both ends of the process.

"It's a marketing feature for hospitals to offer to physicians' offices," Border
said. The software also generates a protocol that a doctor's office can give to
a patient on the spot, containing an itinerary and instructions on how to
prepare for each test.

---

Unibased Systems Architecture Inc.

Headquarters: Chesterfield

President: Lawrence V. ­Covington

Employees: 32

Founded: 1986

Website: Chwww.unibased.com

Sales: Does not disclose

---

Contact us

Are you or your company on the cutting edge in your industry or area of
research? We'd like to hear from you.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES:  INNOVATION

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 PHOTO - Cynthia borders

