                              112 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                 The Morning Bulletin (Rockhampton, Queensland)

                            February 6, 2015 Friday

Doctor "~dodging probe'

BYLINE:  Rae Wilson,

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 591  words



HIGHLIGHT: Vega Vega's legal threats stymied review: Queensland Health barrister



QUEENSLAND Health says Central Queensland urologist Antonio Vega Vega threatened
litigation to prevent a review of his patient care amid allegations of botched
surgeries.

Barrister Declan Kelly, acting for Queensland Health and the investigators, said
Dr Vega Vega had thwarted efforts to allow him procedural fairness, declining
four interview requests and avoiding written requests for information.

He told Brisbane Supreme Court there had been a "shift" in correspondence from
wanting to provide answers to wanting to prevent the process going forward to
completion.

"The focus then is not so much on giving information, but "~here are our demands
and if they're not met we're going to court to solve this process'," he said.

Mr Kelly said it might have been an approach Dr Vega Vega thought was reasonable
in protecting his interests globally, but his actions hampered investigators in
their efforts to give him procedural fairness in the review.

"They're operating in a dynamic where litigation is being threatened to prevent
the review proceeding," he said.

Dr Vega Vega, who has worked as a surgeon at Rockhampton and Gladstone
hospitals, hit the headlines last year following allegations he removed the
wrong kidney from a patient during a complicated surgical procedure at
Rockhampton Hospital.

The Central Queensland Hospital and Health Service stood down Dr Vega Vega and
launched an investigation into his care of four patients.

Dr Vega Vega claims those investigations were biased and did not allow natural
justice to take its course.

His barrister, Stephen Keim, told the court that clinical reviews - which he
seeks to have declared invalid - had looked at a narrow band of complex
surgeries Dr Vega Vega had performed to determine he lacked experience to
conduct them.

"I say that is cherry-picking," he said.

"The point I want to make is that it's a very selective quotation of the
evidence.

"Even if at the end of the day the clinical reviewers wanted to and were correct
in saying "~we're not convinced about the experience', they should have referred
to a much broader section of the operations that were carried out."

Mr Keim also argued the doctor was not given enough time to respond to the
issues and that his client was not given reports in his favour, only given
adverse material.

"The applicant should have been given time to find alternative expert witnesses
"¦ and to address the adverse conclusions being drawn," he said.

"To be fair to the two reports, they both say lots of witnesses said good things
about (Dr Vega Vega).

"The only problem is that it is only ever expressed in those general terms, not
in the conclusions that they made."

Mr Kelly argued Dr Vega Vega had made a blanket request for all material from
the investigation despite not being entitled to it all.

Justice Ann Lyons questioned how Dr Vega Vega could weigh the allegations
against him unless he had all the information before him.

Mr Kelly said doctors felt they were more likely to be frank, forthright and
truthful if their submissions were confidential.

"These people work with Dr Vega Vega and they needed to keep going on in a close
environment," he said.

Mr Kelly also pointed the court to cases showing there was a strong basis for
not providing both the beneficial and detrimental evidence to Dr Vega Vega.

"Dr Vega Vega, at the end of the day, was not entitled to see everything that
had been sighted by investigators," he said.

"We suggest the authorities (precedents) are strong for us on that point."

Justice Lyons reserved her decision.

- APN Newsdesk

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RMB


                    Copyright 2015 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


