                              114 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Salem News (Beverly, MA)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              June 8, 2015 Monday

Ex-cop loses appeal of firing

BYLINE: Julie Manganis, The Salem News, Beverly, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 652 words


June 08--PEABODY -- Three years ago, former Peabody police officer George
Sideris was considered so mentally ill that he could not be tried on charges
that he beat his elderly mother unconscious, and his case was dismissed.

But Sideris, 45, who within weeks of the court's decision back in 2012 was moved
from a state hospital to a group home, appears to have taken that dismissal not
as the procedural finding that he was incompetent to stand trial that the judge
intended, but as vindication.

He wants his job as a police officer back.

On Friday, however, the Appeals Court told him no, upholding both the state's
Civil Service Commission and a Middlesex Superior Court judge.

While his criminal case was pending, the city of Peabody fired Sideris in 2007
for conduct unbecoming an officer. He appealed then, but the Civil Service
Commission told him that it would not hear the case until his criminal charges
were resolved.

After a Salem Superior Court judge dismissed the case because Sideris had spent
as much time hospitalized as he likely would have in jail on the charges,
Sideris was eligible to go back to Civil Service for reconsideration of his
appeal.

But he waited too long, the commission and the courts found.

The court's decision cited procedural grounds -- Sideris waited too long, seven
months, after his criminal charges were dismissed, to appeal his firing to Civil
Service, and offered no reason for the delay.

"The plaintiff argues that the commission deprived him of due process of law
when it determined that his motion for reconsideration was not timely because it
was not filed within 30 days after the dismissal of the criminal charges," the
Appeals Court wrote in an unpublished decision. "We discern no error of law or
abuse of discretion."

While the Civil Service decision was based on the procedural delay,
commissioners also questioned whether, even if Sideris had filed his appeal
within 30 days, whether he'd ever be eligible to carry a firearm due to his
history of mental illness -- something that would be a critical factor in
whether he could be re-hired.

Because the Appeals Court ruling was unpublished and based on procedural issues,
Sideris's chances of any further appeals are slim.

Peabody officials, who vigorously challenged Sideris's attempts to appeal his
firing both in 2008 and again in 2013, also argued against the appeal.

Sideris had been working full time as a patrolman for the department for four
years when, on Thanksgiving Day, 2004, he assaulted his elderly mother Melpomeni
Sideris.

His mother subsequently went into a coma, and, after talking to his priest and a
Peabody police lieutenant, Sideris confessed to beating her on that day and on
another occasion, an incident that had also led to her hospitalization.

As his criminal case was pending in the courts, Sideris's mental status
deteriorated. On the day he was originally set to stand trial in 2007, his
attorney at the time told a judge that Sideris was not making any sense, and
Sideris was sent for an evaluation.

He subsequently tried to commit suicide while awaiting trial at home, and was
hospitalized at Bridgewater State Hospital and later at Taunton State Hospital.
After the criminal case was dismissed, he was moved to a group home in
Tewksbury.

Sideris was diagnosed with persecutory type delusional disorder, and believed
that the charges against him were the result of a conspiracy between police and
his priest.

At the time of his arrest, he blamed the stress of working in a police
department where he was mocked for living with his mother, among other factors,
for his abuse of his mother.

Melpomeni Sideris died in 2009.

Courts reporter Julie Manganis can be reached at 978-338-2521, via email at
jmanganis@salemnews.com or on Twitter @SNJulieManganis.

___ (c)2015 The Salem News (Beverly, Mass.) Visit The Salem News (Beverly,
Mass.) at www.salemnews.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150608-ZS-Ex-cop-loses-appeal-of-firing-0608-20150608

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZS


                         Copyright 2015 The Salem News


