                              111 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Herbert River Express (Australia)

                             June 20, 2006 Tuesday

Rural health plan welcomed

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 387  words


THE Rural Doctors Association of Australia (RDAA) has welcomed a proposal by the
Deputy Prime Minister and Leader of The Nationals, Mark Vaile, that the
Australian Government's healthcare funding agreements with the states should
include funding specifically for public hospitals in rural and regional areas.

RDAA president Dr Ross Maxwell said this was a key measure the organisation has
been seeking for many years.

''It was also a central element of the Good Health to Rural Communities ten
point plan that RDAA, together with the National Farmers' Federation, Country
Women's Association of Australia, Australian Local Government Association and
Health Consumers of Rural and Remote Australia, developed in 2004,'' Dr Maxwell
said.

''It is very pleasing to see the National Party coming right behind the idea of
quarantining funding for rural and regional hospitals in the forthcoming
Australian Health Care Agreements.

''It is critical that this occurs if Australia's rural and regional hospitals,
and their maternity and other procedural services, are to be saved from closure
or downgrading and instead maintained and expanded.''

Dr Maxwell said the RDAA urged Federal Health Minister Tony Abbott and his
Coalition colleagues to support the Nationals' proposal to make it a reality.

''The absence of dedicated funding for rural and regional hospitals in the
Australian Health Care Agreements is a key contributor to the poor co-ordination
between the federal and state governments in relation to rural healthcare
delivery,'' Dr Maxwell said.

''For example, while the Federal Government has been introducing very useful
support measures to maintain the procedural workforce in rural areas, state
governments have been closing the hospital facilities in which these
proceduralists can work -- this is illustrated clearly by the fact that 130
small rural maternity units across Australia have been closed in the past 10
years alone.

''Closing and downgrading small rural hospitals places further pressure on
larger regional hospitals, and discourages doctors from moving to rural areas.
It also diminishes the local capacity to handle emergencies, which can have a
critical impact on the ability to cope with serious road and farming accidents.

''In short, small rural hospitals provide an essential service to rural
communities.''

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: HRE


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


