                              115 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                     PR.com

                      January 17, 2016 Sunday 6:30 AM EST

The North American Medical Simulation Market to Reach USD 969.8 Million by 2020

BYLINE: Meticulous Research

LENGTH: 800  words


Wembley, United Kingdom,  January 17, 2016 --(PR.com)-- Meticulous Research
announced the release of a new market research report titled, "North American
Medical Simulation Market Outlook: 2013-2020." The research report analyzes the
major drivers, restraints, opportunities, and challenges that have long and
short-term impact on its growth across the globe. This latest publication from
Meticulous Research states that the North American medical simulation market
would reach $969.8 million by the year 2020 at a CAGR of 15.0% over the period
of 2015 to 2020.

Copy and paste the given link to browse in-depth report-

http://www.meticulousresearch.com/research/north-american-medical-simulation-mar
ket-outlook-2015-2020/

With the full potential of healthcare/ medical simulation has yet to unfold in
the U.S. and Canada, the growth of the North American medical simulation market
will be primarily driven by medical training institutions and hospitals which
are incessantly taking efforts to de-risk the impact of training on live
patients; standardize their teaching practices and increase the time available
for their trainees to practice various medical procedural skills. With the
projected growth in the aging population in the U.S. and Canada, rising waiting
time for healthcare services, growing pressure to curtail healthcare costs,
decreasing subsidies and state funds, healthcare is certainly an attractive
field for scientific exploration using simulation.

The growing pressure to curtail rising healthcare costs and create efficiencies
in the healthcare delivery in the U.S. and Canada, exponential growth in the
complexity of medical devices and procedures due to technological revolution,
increasing adoption of advanced medical simulators and task trainers in the
academic sector due to reduced access to real patients in this sector, and
growing need of patient safety have all heralded the promise of simulation as a
keystone of health profession education and patient safety.

The research report on the North American Medical Simulation Market provides
comprehensive analysis of the market with a country level analysis and helps in
understanding the driving forces for the growth of this market. The report also
provides analysis of major product and service segments such as patient
simulators, task trainers, procedural skills trainers, web-based simulation,
audiovisual solutions, and simulation training services. The procedure skills
trainers market is further sub-segmented into IV simulators, endovascular
trainers, airway management products, arthroscopy trainers, laparoscopy
trainers, dental trainers, and other procedural/surgical trainers. Similarly,
the simulation training services market is categorized into educational
services, hospital services, and other vendor-based services. The major
end-users of the medical simulation products and services are analyzed by
categorizing into healthcare education, hospitals, military, emergency medical
services, and voluntary organizations. Market size estimates and forecasts for
the period 2015 to 2020 has been provided for each segment and its sub-segment,
in terms of USD million, calculating growth rates from 2015 to 2020, considering
2014 as the base year for calculations.

The North American medical simulation market is fragmented with the presence of
various global and local players. The patient simulators and task trainers
market is mainly dominated by Laerdal Medical and CAE Healthcare whereas,
Simbionix USA Corporation (3D Systems Inc.) have noted significant developments
in the recent years. Other notable players in the market are B-Line Medical
(U.S.), 3B Scientific (Germany), Adam, Rouilly Limited (U.K.), Cardionics, Inc
(U.S.), IngMar Medical (U.S.), KaVo Dental GmbH (Germany), Simulaids, Inc.
(U.S.), Surgical Science Sweden Ab (Sweden), Education Management Solutions
(U.S.), Gaumard (U.S.), Medical Simulation Corporation (U.S.), and MedaPhor
North America, Inc.

About Meticulous Research

We are Meticulous. We are one of the leading market research and consulting
company focusing on medical devices, biotechnology, healthcare IT,
pharmaceuticals, food and beverages, and agriculture domains. We provide
solutions to our clients through our market research support, data management
services & advanced analytical skills. With the meticulous primary and secondary
research techniques, we have built strong capabilities in data collection,
interpretation and analysis of data including qualitative and quantitative
research with the finest team of analysts.

We focus on client satisfaction by delivering excellent market research
solutions which help organizations to adapt, sustain, and grow in the changing
business environment.

Contact:

sales@meticulousresearch.com

Visit: http://www.meticulousresearch.com/

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2016 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


