                              116 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Ayr Advocate (Australia)

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                                  1 - Edition

Contribution recognition for doctors

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 378 words


THE Royal Australian College of General Practitioners (RACGP) have been thanked
for their contribution to community discussion about training doctors for rural
communities.

``We all know that the one-in-three Australian patients who live outside the
metropolitan centres have poorer access to health care and poorer health
outcomes than their urban cousins,'' president of the Rural Doctors Association
of Queensland, Dr Dan Halliday, said.

``Our members believe that all options to encourage doctors to train and
practice in the country should be explored.''

The RACGP's Position Statement on Rural General Practice, released last week,
raises concerns with Queensland Health's Rural Generalist Training Program
(RGTP). The RGTP has been widely praised by country doctors nationwide for
teaching much-needed procedural skills and providing a well-paid training and
career path in Queensland's country hospitals, and the model may be adopted by
other States.

``RDAQ members agree with RACGP that doctors becoming qualified for General
Practice cannot be trained solely in hospitals. We believe that all doctors
obtaining GP qualifications such as FRACGP, FARGP or FACRRM do have sufficient
true general practice experience to be safe and effective general practitioners
in any setting. The Australian Medical Council has verified that the curricula
for those qualifications meet that standard,'' Dr Halliday said.

``RDAQ acknowledges RACGP's concerns that a two-tiered remuneration structure
might develop. Procedural hospital doctors that have advanced skills and work
for Queensland Health could be better rewarded than their office-based general
practitioner colleagues who are funded through Medicare and often self-employed.
Yet both sectors have essential roles in rural communities.''

``RDAQ does not agree with RACGP that Rural Generalist roles create
'fragmentation' in the rural medical workforce. Just as cities have specialists
and urban GPs who may work solely in skin cancer or travel medicine, for
example, there are country doctors who may work just in hospitals or just in
private practice. There's plenty of room and plenty of demand for all special
interests, and they will support each other. One-size fits-all just won't
address rural communities' needs.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: TAA


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


