                              121 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            March 10, 2011 Thursday
                                  1 - Edition

Hospital chief's inquiry review

BYLINE: DANIELLE McKAY

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 355  words


THE Health Department is under investigation over allegations an investigator it
employed to examine accusations against ousted Royal Hobart Hospital chief
Michael Pervan was biased and invalidly appointed.

Justice David Porter yesterday ruled the appointment would be examined as part
of a Supreme Court review of the State Service Commissioner's investigation into
the department's internal inquiry into Mr Pervan's conduct.

Justice Porter said he would allow the review to include allegations the
interstate investigator was biased, was invalidly appointed and was unfairly
``enlarging'' the investigation.

The investigator was appointed by Department of Health and Human Services
secretary David Roberts.

Mr Pervan was suddenly removed from his $200,000-a-year position by Mr Roberts
amid allegations of bullying levelled by several senior hospital staff against
the RHH chief in October.

An internal investigation ensued. However, Mr Pervan complained to the Acting
State Service Commissioner, Iain Frawley, that he had been denied a right of
reply and procedural fairness when he was not interviewed as part of the
internal inquiries.

But in January Mr Frawley ruled there had been no miscarriage of justice or
denial of procedural fairness by the department during its initial investigation
of the bullying allegations.

Mr Pervan's lawyer Roland Browne launched an immediate application for the
review of Mr Frawley's actions on his client's behalf.

Mr Browne filed an application for an amendment of the review when concerns over
the appointment of the interstate investigator surfaced.

Justice Porter scheduled the hearing to begin on March 17.

Mr Pervan has not been formally stood down as chief executive, but is working as
executive director of Community Development, Disability and Housing for the
Department of Health and Human Services.

Last month the department announced another RHH acting chief executive, leaving
hospital staff facing a continued wait to find out who their boss may be.

North-West Area health chief executive Jane Holden has started a three-month
stint in the job, following a previous occupant of the role.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MER


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


