                              118 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           August 29, 2002, Thursday

OPS POSTPONED FOLLOWING ERROR'

BYLINE: Sian Harris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 353 words


ALL emergency and planned orthopaedic operations have been suspended at a
Valleys hospital where an investigation is to be carried out following a
procedural error'.

Around 20 patients who were due to have orthopaedic surgery at Prince Charles
Hospital (PCH), Merthyr Tydfil, in the next week have had their operations
postponed due to the two-week suspension.

Director of corporate services at the PCH, Phil Williams, said only those due to
come into hospital this week had been contacted because patients scheduled for
surgery next week would not yet have been informed about the time of their
operations.

He said that all those affected will be given priority once the service is back
in operation.

Meanwhile, emergency patients coming into the casualty department who require an
orthopaedic operation will be transferred to a neighbouring health trust but
will return to the PCH at the appropriate time for rehabilitation.

The suspension, which is expected to last until September 9, when the situation
will be reviewed, was announced by North Glamorgan NHS Trust yesterday.

The announcement followed the withdrawal of an entire theatre team after a
procedural error during an operation.

A staff shortage meant the trust was unable to assemble a replacement team,
meaning there would not have been sufficient cover to ensure patient safety for
furtheroperations. Mr Williams explained that none of the details of the
procedural "checking' error", which resulted in the suspension, would be made
public because of patient confidentiality.

But he emphasised that the error had not been life-threatening.

He added: "The investigation will be carried out by a clinical team from outside
the North Glamorgan Trust.

"We hope the external investigation will happen as quickly as possible and
report quickly because we want to get back in operation."

The orthopaedic team, which includes a consultant surgeon and nursing staff, is
currently working in different areas of the hospital.

All orthopaedic outpatient services and non-orthopaedic other surgery' is
continuing.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2002 Western Mail and Echo Ltd


