                              125 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                              April 4, 2011 Monday

Bligh to sign deals for Coast hospitals Finished hospitals will need 3500 staff

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 488  words


THE state government will finalise a deal with Ramsay Health Care today to
develop the Sunshine Coast's new private hospital at Kawana.

And in a second piece of good news for the region's health facilities, Premier
Anna Bligh has confirmed her government will call for tenders for the Coast's
new $2 billion Sunshine Coast University Hospital within a fortnight.

Hailing the moves as "the green light for a new era in health care for the
Sunshine Coast", Ms Bligh said work would start on the new private hospital in
October.

"When it opens in late 2013 we will begin seeing the first public patients
treated under a service purchase arrangement with Ramsay Health Care," she said.

"We will begin the search for consortia to build the new public hospital this
month with a call of Expressions of Interest for this project on April 13."

Both hospitals will be built on a 20ha site on the corner of Lake Kawana
Boulevard and Kawana Way.

The Premier said the deal with Ramsay Health Care would deliver more beds sooner
for the Coast.

The global hospital group operates 116 hospitals and day surgery facilities
across Australia, the United Kingdom, France and Indonesia.

The Premier said the contract to develop a 200-bed private hospital would
deliver up to 110 extra beds for public patients from 2013.

She also confirmed the government's new $2 billion public hospital would be
delivered as a Public Private Partnership.

THE public hospital will open in 2016 with 450 beds, growing to 738 beds by
2021.

"This will be the biggest hospital building project in the country when
construction gets under way in early 2013," she said.

"And as a result, Sunshine Coast residents will have access locally to services
including a new comprehensive cancer care centre, and a range of complex
surgical services including neurosurgery, cardiothoracic surgery, maxillofacial
surgery and a trauma service.

"That means that approximately 10,000 patients will no longer have to travel to
Brisbane to access these complex services each year."

More than 2000 workers will be involved in construction of the hospitals which
the government says will employ 3500 doctors, nurses and support staff.

The facility will also include a $60.8 million Skills, Academic and Research
Centre to help attract, train and retain clinicians on the Coast.

Ms Bligh said the government was also providing new services and more beds,
ahead of the hospitals opening, by delivering:

A cardiac catheterisation laboratory.

A vascular surgery procedural suite.

A dedicated endoscopy procedural suite.

A radiation oncology service for public patients.

Outpatient neurosurgery service.

"These services will begin this year at Nambour Hospital where they will come on
top of a new 96-bed ward block," she said.

"We will also see an expanded Emergency Department at Caloundra Hospital."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


