                              119 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       TELEGRAM & GAZETTE (Massachusetts)

                            November 20, 2006 Monday
                                  ALL EDITIONS

MEDICAL MEMOS

SECTION: HEALTH; MEDICAL MEMOS; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 256 words


Dr. Lisa Pallini has joined the practice of Dr. Sandra Weakland and Mass.
Associates in Podiatry. She received her medical degree from Barry University
School of Graduate Medical Sciences in Florida and completed a residency in
podiatry at Saint Francis Hospital and Medical Center in Hartford. She is
board-certified in podiatric surgery, and her clinical interests include
reconstructive foot surgery, sports medicine and diabetic foot care and
complications.

Dr. Sunil Matiwala joined Emerson Hospital's medical staff as a hospitalist. Dr.
Matiwala received his medical degree from Government-Medical College in Surat,
India, and completed his residency at Crozer Chester Medical Center in
Pennsylvania. He completed a fellowship in clinical heart failure/cardiomyopathy
and a research fellowship in heart failure at Boston Medical Center. Dr.
Matiwala, who is board-certified in internal medicine, is a hospital-based
internist who treats adult inpatients and does not have a private internal
medicine office practice.

Dr. Benjamin Solky has joined the practice of Adult and Pediatric Dermatology,
PC, with Drs. Sola Choi, Steven Franks and Samuel Goos. He received his medical
degree from the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine in Philadelphia
and completed his residency at Harvard Medical School. Dr. Solky also completed
a fellowship in procedural dermatology from the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.
Dr. Solky is board-certified in dermatology, procedural dermatology and Mohs
micrographic surgery and cutaneous oncology.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS
(1) Dr. Pallini (2) Dr. Matiwala (3) Dr. Solky

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


