                              117 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      August 3, 2017 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

TransEnterix Announces First Senhance U.S. Innovation Center at Florida Hospital
Orlando

LENGTH: 389  words


Aug. 3 -- TransEnterix, Inc. (NYSE MKT: TRXC), a medical device company that is
pioneering the use of robotics to improve minimally invasive surgery, today
announced that it has installed a Senhance Surgical Robot at the Institute for
Surgical Advancement at Florida Hospital Orlando.

The Senhance Robot is placed under a collaboration agreement with Florida
Hospital ISA. Nicholson Center Orlando will be used as a facility to perform
pre-clinical training and procedural development in cooperation with surgical
staff from Florida Hospital. Additionally, surgeons from around the world are
participating in the robotic pre-clinical activities at the innovation center.

"The selection of a U.S. innovation center is a critical milestone in the global
expansion of Senhance," said Todd M. Pope, President and CEO at TransEnterix.
"We are pleased to partner with a leading institution such as Florida Hospital
Orlando and the clinicians at the Institute for Surgical Advancement. Together,
we will continue to usher in an expansion in the use of robotics to advance
minimally invasive surgery."

"We have created a center for the interdisciplinary development of new surgical
approaches utilizing the latest technology," said Dr. Steve Eubanks, Surgeon and
Executive Director for the Institute for Surgical Advancement. "Our team is
excited to be the first U.S. center to explore the clinical and training pathway
for this new surgical robotic platform, and to share these programs with
surgeons from across the globe."

About Florida Hospital Institute for Surgical Advancement

The Institute for Surgical Advancement was developed to facilitate the success
of physicians who have the capabilities and desires to innovate academically and
through procedural and instrumentation development. Through our various
resources, we facilitate and assess the needs of our physicians to help develop
advancements for patient care and innovate new surgical approaches. Combining
physician experience with expertise in engineering improves the early phases of
design and encourages the flow of ideas. We have various resources for this
process, including the brainstorming room, our prototype lab, and Florida
Hospital Nicholson Center, a world leader in surgical training. For more
information, visit https://www.floridahospitalisa.com.

Source: Transenterix

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


