                              120 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 12, 2004, Tuesday

This ruling will impact on the detention of those who lack the capacity to
consent or object

BYLINE: Stephen Cragg

SECTION: Features; Public Agenda 7

LENGTH: 485 words


THE European Court of Human Rights has given a judgment relating to those who
lack the capacity to volunteer their consent to be kept in a particular place.
The ruling is likely to impact on both the Mental Capacity Bill and the Mental
Health Bill, currently being considered by Parliament.

Readers may remember the "Bournewood" case considered by the House of Lords some
years ago. It concerned a patient known as HL, an autistic man, now aged 55, who
was admitted to Bournewood psychiatric hospital after becoming agitated and
starting to harm himself while at a daycare centre. He was admitted informally
because he did not resist the detention and his disabilities meant he was unable
to object. He was kept there for five months with none of the procedural
protections (such as a right to appeal to a tribunal) granted to those formally
detained under the Mental Health Act. The European judges noted that he was
under "continuous supervision and control and could not leave" and to argue
otherwise was a "fairytale". Thousands are in a similar position. The House of
Lords ruled that HL was not, in fact, detained and was being treated in hospital
in "his best interests".

However, the European judges disagreed, saying that his right to liberty and his
right to have the legality of his detention speedily reviewed by a court had
been breached. The court was concerned about the "striking lack of any fixed
procedural rules by which the admission and detention of compliant incapacitated
patients was conducted". They were of the view that the very purpose of
procedural safeguards was to protect individuals against any misjudgment or
professional lapse by healthcare professionals. Such safeguards were missing in
this case, and the common-law approach of acting in a person's best interests
was not sufficiently rigorous to fill this gap in our law.

The judgment is likely to make professionals err on the side of caution and more
often use formal powers of detention in relation to people who lack the capacity
to decide that they want to be in hospital or a nursing home. Many will feel
that to have to use these powers when a patient shows no signs of objecting to
his surroundings is excessively legalistic. Others think that the procedural
safeguards that come with formal detention mean that the patient's situation
will at least be reviewed from time to time by an independent tribunal.

The Government now needs to balance these views while having to accept that the
human rights court in Strasbourg wants to see more formal protection of the
passive patient who lacks capacity. Whatever happens, the prospect of rotting
away in hospital without independent scrutiny as to whether you should be there
has receded as a result of this judgment.

Stephen Cragg is a barrister specialising in public law at Doughty Street
Chambers E-mail: s.cragg@doughtystreet.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited


