                              135 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                     Coffs Coast Advocate (New South Wales)

                            October 18, 2010 Monday

Maternity training boost for rural GPs

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 359  words


IN A boost for mums-to-be along the Mid North Coast, specialist maternity
services are expect to proliferate in the years ahead.

The Federal Government has given the go-ahead for country GPs to apply for
funding to assist them to complete procedural training in obstetrics.

Rural Doctors Association of Australia CEO Steve Sant said this funding would
provide much-needed assistance to rural GPs looking to offer a greater level of
service to their regions.

"Procedural skills, such as obstetrics, are very much in need in rural
communities, many of which are at risk of losing their current maternity and
surgical services," Mr Sant said.

"Thousands of country women have no local maternity services available to them
and must travel several hours from their homes and families to give birth.

"Increasing the number of GPs able to deliver babies at local hospitals will
make a huge difference to these rural families.

"We are encouraged to see the Gillard Government acting on the findings of their
Maternity Services Review report that highlighted the need for better access to
high-quality maternity services and more support for the maternity services
workforce in rural and remote Australia."

Mr Sant said the RDAA was also looking forward to seeing the anaesthetic
training component of this $5 million initiative for country GPs to be delivered
soon.

He said that recognition of Rural Generalists as a specialist area and providing
the necessary training early on would also help address the critical shortage of
highly trained rural doctors.

"We have been advocating for the implementation of a National Rural Generalist
Training Pathway to support and train rural doctors of the future," Mr Sant
said.

"The pathway would provide doctors with the high-level skills needed to serve
rural communities, and recognise and reward them accordingly.

"If we can encourage more doctors into rural practice early on in their careers,
then the need for initiatives such as these training grants will be greatly
reduced," Mr Sant said.

Details: www.ranzcog.edu.au/-gpdiploma/gpptsp.shtml

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CCA


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


