                              133 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                           February 9, 2013 Saturday

89 absentee doctors dismissed: young doctors continue hunger strike

BYLINE:  Recorder Report

SECTION: Vol. XLIX No. 39

LENGTH: 340  words


Young doctors' hunger strike camp continued for the fifth consecutive day here
on Friday amid dismissal of as many as 89 doctors who remained absent from their
duties since last many years. A spokesman of Health department, however, said
that doctors who were dismissed from their service were neither young doctors
nor their dismissal had any link whatsoever with the current hunger strike of
young doctors.

The spokesman said that doctors who were dismissed remained absent since last
many years and action against them was taken after fulfilling all the codal/
procedural formalities including issuance of show cause notices. Sources claimed
that the Health department was also completing procedural formalities for
dismissal of more doctors who were absent from their official duties without any
intimation.

Moreover, protesting young doctors, who were observing hunger strike camp in
front of Services Hospital, had taken a plea that they were ready to end their
hunger strike, if the government released requisite funds for the provision of
free medicines, free medical tests to public and to make functional medical
equipment which were out of order.

YDA representative Dr Nasir Abbas told media that they were also waging a
struggle for service structure but they would get it resolved at a later stage.
He demanded provision of funds for free treatment of patients and repair of
out-of-order machines in government hospitals.

Some of the protesting doctors at the hunger strike camp also announced that
they would attend the inauguration ceremony of Metro Bus Service on Sunday to
press the government to fulfil their demands.

They said Punjab government would be responsible if any unwanted incident
happened if they were stopped to participate in the ceremony. They said they
would end ongoing hunger strike only after provincial government's assurance of
accepting their demands. Furthermore, people from different walks of life
including political activists, lawyers, media men attended the camp to express
solidarity with doctors.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


