                              128 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                            August 17, 2006 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Role changing slightly

BYLINE: Anne Kyle, The Leader-Post

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 426 words


While a relatively high percentage of family doctors in Saskatchewan provide
patient care in hospitals, there has been a slight decline between 1994 and
2003, a new study says.

"It's a small decline -- 74 per cent from 82, but it is also something we see
happening at the national level,'' said Francine Anne Roy, director of health
resource information with the Canadian Institute of Health Information -- the
organization which released the study on Wednesday.

"What we have seen at the national level in the last 10 years is that there are
two trends. Fee-for-service family physicians tend to offer less broad services
or they have narrowed their practice so the participation rate in the services
that they offer is less. The second trend we are seeing for those
fee-for-service family doctors that offer a broader range of services is that
they tend to do more.''

In 2003, 60 per cent of fee-for-service family physicians in Canada provided
office-based assessments, basic procedural skills (such as allergy tests and
stitches) and mental health care services, according to the CIHI report.

"And just over 40 per cent of this group offered in-patient hospital care
services that required advance procedural skills such as setting broken bones
and administering local anesthetic,'' Roy said.

The number of family physicians providing this type of service in hospital in
Saskatchewan and across the country is dwindling, she said.

In Saskatchewan there are fewer family doctors providing surgical and
obstetrical care compared with 10 years ago, according to the study.

In 1994 family physicians were providing 48 per cent of Saskatchewan's
obstetrical services. In 2003 they were providing only 25 per cent of those
services, Roy said.

"So you see there was a good decline in the last 10 years. The role of the
specialist, the role of the midwife and the birth rate in Saskatchewan are all
factors that may have played a role in that decline,'' she said.

Other factors include the closure of hospitals, regionalization of services, the
introductory of the multidisciplinary primary care team -- nurse practitioners,
midwives and other professionals and the role they play in the delivery of
services -- technology and the increase in the number of female family
physicians and the changing needs of the patient population.

"This report only provides one piece of the puzzle that will help
decision-makers understand what is currently happening with the fee-for-service
family physician workforce and what changes need to be made to support these
doctors,'' she said.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

