                              137 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 20, 2015 Thursday

US Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania) Issues Solicitation
for "KLS Martin Cranial and Maxillofacial Procedural Sets"

LENGTH: 575  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations Officer has issued
requirement for "KLS Martin Cranial and Maxillofacial Procedural Sets"

Solicitation no. SPE2DE-15-R-0006

Notice Type: Presolicitation
Posted Date:
August 18, 2015
Response Date:
N/A

Description: The goal of the Manufacturer Direct Program is to establish an
alternative to manual open market purchase activity, re-engineer the business
process with automated e-commerce business solution. The objective of this
solicitation is to establish a Fixed Price (with Economic Price Adjustment)
Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) Contract with KLS Martin for
their Cranial and Maxillofacial "procedural sets". The "procedural sets" include
the following product mix: implants, instruments, auxiliary products, biological
products including distraction devices, biomaterials, power systems, sternal
products, and threadlock device systems.  The product mix that makes up the "
procedural set" varies based on the individual needs of the patient. Other
sole-source KLS Martin product groups may be solicited at a future date under
the forthcoming solicitation.
This solicitation contains an on-site personnel requirement for the contractor
to provide advice and guidance to physician's before, during and after
implantation of the device at the request of the Medical Treatment Facility.
Technical support shall be available twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7)
days a week.
Market Research has revealed that there are no other known manufacturers or
distributors other than KLS Martin who can provide DoD hospitals with the
complete "procedural set" under all three delivery methods and have direct
control over a sales force that is knowledgeable in KLS Martin's products.  The
KLS Martin Sales Representatives are experts on the vendor's products and are a
vital part of helping to ensure that the patient is getting the necessary
treatment.
KLS Martin will have their product line loaded into the DLA Troop Support
Medical Electronic Catalog (ECAT). All Orders, Order Acknowledgements and
Invoice transactions are required to be electronic. Items will be delivered to
various Department of Defense (DoD) research centers, hospitals, and clinics,
and any federal customer participating in this program.
The term of the contract will be a one-year Base Period and four one-year
unilateral Option Periods. This procurement has an estimated value of $2.45
million for the Base Period, $2.47 million for the first option period, $2.49
million for the second option period, $2.5 million for the third option period,
and $2.52 million for the fourth option period, for a total of approximately
$12.4 million over the five-year life of the procurement.  The contract maximum
is $37,356,201 over the 5 year life of the contract.
Solicitation SPE2DE-15-R-0006 is expected to be issued September 3, 2015 and can
be found on the DLA Internet Bid Board System (DIBBS) at
https://www.dibbs.bsm.dla.mil/. The point of contact is Chuck Reimer, DLA Troop
Support-FSCB, 215-737-3829. The solicitation may not become available until the
solicitation issue date.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia,
 Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United States

Point of Contact(s): Charles Reimer Charles.Reimer@dla.mil Phone: 215.737.5495

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


