                              141 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              April 2, 2007 Monday
                                  City Edition

Health: Review shows patient-dumping is uncommon in Oklahoma ;
Hospitals minding the rules;
Complaints and fines decrease under federal law requiring emergency care.

BYLINE: Jeff Raymond, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 632 words


Oklahoma hospitals rarely receive legitimate patient-dumping complaints and face
few federal fines, a review of state and federal data shows.

Violating the law could lead to the financial ruin of a hospital, officials say.

Records at the Oklahoma Department of Health and the U.S. Department of Human
Services Office of Inspector General show the state's hospitals have a good
record of complying with the 1986 Emergency Treatment and Active Labor Act, or
EMTALA.

The law requires hospitals that accept Medicare payments to offer emergency
screening and stabilizing treatment regardless of a person's ability to pay.

Such treatment is whatever it takes to resolve the emergency that brought the
patient to the hospital.

The law, which came about after some hospitals turned away poor women in labor,
does not compel hospitals to provide nonemergency treatment or services they
don't normally offer.

The inspector general's office ultimately can impose fees on wayward hospitals,
whereas the state can put the hospital on a quick track to lose its Medicare
funding eligibility. The biggest fine the inspector general's office has levied
in the past seven years against an Oklahoma hospital was $80,000 in August 2003
against Griffin Memorial Hospital in Norman, records show.

The allegations were that hospital staff failed to screen seven people who came
to the emergency room with psychiatric complaints.

Jeff Dismukes, director of public information for the Oklahoma Department of
Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services, which operates the hospital, said
the agency has a "no-wrong-door policy," and after the fine incorporated
act-related training at its treatment centers and on the Internet.

"Our priority is that anyone who's seeking assistance gets appropriate
services," he said.

Procedural violations

Since 2000, the inspector general's office has imposed only seven fines on
Oklahoma hospitals. Most are more than five years old. Hospitals and treatment
centers run by the state have not logged any complaints since 2003.

In 2006, the state Health Department investigated 21 act-related complaints and
substantiated eight of them.

Most violations are procedural, and state investigators are meticulous. A common
finding is that hospitals do not have a sign in the emergency room notifying
patients they may receive screening and stabilizing care.

Tom Welin, chief of medical facilities for the state Health Department, said
hospital officials understand the importance of obeying the law and the
consequences of violations. Under the most serious circumstances, a hospital can
lose its ability to accept Medicare patients. Given the large percentage of such
patients, their importance to hospital bottom lines is huge.

"The physicians take it seriously because they can also be sanctioned," Welin
said.

When state health officials substantiate a complaint - often anonymously - it
places the hospital on a 90-day "termination track" during which hospital
officials must provide a correction plan.

In serious cases, the state can give hospitals less than a month to comply.

Welin said most complaints come from patients who don't understand the law or
had a poor emergency room experience. For example, hospitals are not required to
provide aid beyond stabilizing care.

Patti Davis, executive vice president of the Oklahoma Hospital Association, said
hospitals take compliance with the act "very seriously" and noted the many other
regulatory requirements hospitals must meet.

Because of staff turnover, "EMTALA is an ongoing education process at every
hospital across the state," she said.

Hospitals also have an added incentive.

"You want an appropriate medical screening because the last thing you want is
for something to be missed and turn out to be an emergency," she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


