                              139 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Central Western Daily

                                August 24, 2016

Doc takes heart

BYLINE: Danielle Cetinski

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 325  words


AFTER hundreds of people backed a respected cardiologist against hospital
management, his supporters have expressed their disappointment following his
failed NSW Supreme Court challenge.

Dr David Amos appealed to the court saying he had been denied procedural
fairness in a dispute with the Western Local Health District, but the court
found none was required unless Dr Amos was suspended.

In a statement, Dr Amos said he hoped to put the situation behind him and return
to work.

"I am disappointed that the court found that I was not entitled to a fair
process,' he said.

'However, I am pleased the judgement is absolutely clear that I have not been
afforded procedural fairness.'

Dr Amos has been on leave during the dispute, which had involved support from
fellow cardiologists, senior nurses, Orange Health Service's Medical Staff
Council and former member for Orange Andrew Gee.

The staff council unanimously voted in support of the cardiology department in
May and 400 people attended a rally in June.

In the wake of Tuesday's judgment, the staff council's executive issued a
statement describing Dr Amos as an excellent cardiologist and an integral member
of the team.

'[The] court decision is profoundly disappointing, as it seems to confirm that
Dr Amos was not afforded procedural fairness at all points in this process,' the
statement said.

'However, the Medical Staff Council expects the Local Health District to respect
the need to offer appropriate procedural fairness to Dr Amos and to work to
quickly resolve the issues in a fair, transparent and appropriate manner.'

The executive noted recent events had been stressful for Dr Amos and his family
and it looked forward to having him back at work and caring for patients.

Mr Gee had asked for Health Minister Jillian Skinner to investigate the claims
as a matter of urgency.

The Western Local Health District declined to comment on the Central Western
Daily's questions on Wednesday.

Judgment page 3.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


