                              15 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Central Western Daily

                            July 12, 2017 Wednesday
                           Print & Internet Editions

GPs on course to alleviate pediatric shortage in regional areas

BYLINE: CENTRAL WESTERN DAILY

LENGTH: 387 words


Orange hospital is the first in the state to offer the latest training course to
address a shortage of paediatricians in the Central West and regional NSW.

Orange Health Service and training provider GP Synergy have formed a partnership
for doctors to learn the necessary skills.

The city's hospital will offer specialised training in child and adolescent
health to registrars training as general practitioners.

In the NSW Health system, registrars are doctors with a minimum of three years
of experience working in public hospitals, they supervise junior doctors and are
training to become a specialist.

The first registrar to start the year-long training course in Orange - which has
been hailed as a "unique opportunity" for GP registrars - is Erica Watson.

Dr Watson feels the time spent in hospital pediatrics will offer valuable skills
and experience as her career progresses.

"Pediatrics is an area that as a GP I'll see a lot of," Dr Watson said.

"Undertaking the post has provided experience that I can apply in general
practice, particularly in more rural areas.

"Smaller district hospitals have opportunities for upskilled GPs and that's the
sort of general practice I want to be involved in."

Orange Health Service's medical services director Peter Thomas said the hospital
had a long tradition of supporting regional GP training.

"Training procedural GPs is another way for Orange Health Service to support
equitable access to health care in regional and rural areas," Dr Thomas said.

"Away from the base hospitals, procedural GPs play an important role in regional
district hospitals given their specialised skills in a particular area of
medicine."

Orange Health Service is the first regional hospital in the state to receive the
accreditation and to offer the training course to prospective general
practitioners.

Another four regional hospitals are set to join Orange in offering the training.

GP Synergy's Western NSW head of education Anna Windsor said the benefits of the
program would be felt in small communities in the Central West and beyond.

"Training GPs with additional procedural skills in child and adolescent health,
will reduce some of the burden that rural families with unwell children often
face in having to travel to seek treatment," Dr Windsor said.

Accreditation for the course comes from GP Synergy.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


