                              144 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                              May 20, 2011 Friday

Medtronic unveils data from CoreValve trials

LENGTH: 1054 words

A Medical Device Daily Staff Report

Medtronic (Minneapolis) released results of clinical data at EuroPCR 2011 that
show the Medtronic CoreValve System, delivered through a new approach beneath
the collarbone, achieved excellent procedural success rates and low in-hospital
complication rates. The new approach, via subclavian access, received CE mark in
December and has been used primarily for people whose femoral arteries are too
narrow or are compromised due to disease.

The multi-center study evaluated 132 consecutive subclavian patients in Italy
and found positive patient outcomes, despite patients in the subclavian group
being sicker than patients in the femoral access group (based on EuroSCORE and
rates of peripheral artery disease, coronary artery disease, prior stroke and
prior heart attacks). Procedural success was obtained in 97.7% of the subclavian
group versus 96.3% of the transfemoral group, with intraprocedural mortality of
1.5% vs. 1.8%, respectively. No serious complications were reported as a result
of accessing the aortic valve through the subclavian artery. Freedom from
cardiac death rates were almost identical (90.6% vs. 90.4%, respectively), and
freedom from major adverse cardiac event rates were 87.6% for the subclavian
group vs. 86.3% for the femoral group.

"The subclavian approach is a feasible and safe option for TAVI, providing
excellent procedural success and low in-hospital complication rates," said Sonia
Petronio, MD, associate professor of Cardiology and Head of the Catheterization
Lab of the Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Pisana, Pisa, Italy. "In our
opinion, this approach should be considered a valid alternative not only in
patients with the impossibility of a femoral approach, but also in patients with
a difficult femoral approach with high risk of vascular complications."

In other conference news:

o Neovasc (Vancouver), a developer of technologies used to treat vascular
disease, reported positive six-month follow-up data for a patient with severe
refractory angina who received the Neovasc Reducer product in a "live case"
procedure broadcast during the 22nd annual Transcatheter Cardiovascular
Therapeutics (TCT) scientific symposium in September 2010.

The results presented at EuroPCR showed a marked improvement in the patient's
angina symptoms six months following implantation of the Reducer device. At the
time of implantation, in spite of multiple prior revascularizations, the patient
was classified as having CCS Class III angina, which included experiencing
substantial limitations due to angina pain interfering with everyday activities,
such as walking a short distance or climbing a flight of stairs. Since
implantation of the Reducer device, her angina classification has improved to
CCS Class I, in which patients typically experience angina symptoms only with
strenuous, rapid, or prolonged exertion.

o OrbusNeich (Hong Kong) said that data from multiple clinical trials supporting
the safety and efficacy of the Genous Stent in cases where prolonged dual
antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) is not advisable were featured during the HEALING
Symposium titled "How to assess and treat patients who are not suitable
candidates for prolonged dual antiplatelet therapy."

Presenters discussed current treatment alternatives to drug eluting stents (DES)
for patients who are contraindicated for prolonged DAPT and the benefits of the
Genous endothelial progenitor cell (EPC) capture technology for addressing these
challenging cases. The symposium also explored the potential for new imaging
tools to assess stent apposition and arterial healing in a clinical setting.

Robbert de Winter, MD, PhD, of the Academic Medical Center (Amsterdam) presented
three-year follow-up data that demonstrated the safety and efficacy of the
Genous Stent in a large real-world patient population with mostly complex
lesions and estimated high risk for restenosis. At three years, the definite
stent thrombosis (ST) in 405 unselected patients treated with the Genous Stent
was 0.5%, which was unchanged from one year, and there was a probable ST in one
patient, which increased the rate of probable ST to 1.% at three years compared
to 0.8% at one year. In addition, the target lesion revascularization (TLR) rate
at three years was 14.2% versus 10.6% at one year.

"These long-term data show no additional cases of definite stent thrombosis
between one and three years attests to the durability and excellent safety
profile of the Genous Stent," said de Winter.

o Cappella (Galway, Ireland), a company developing dynamic solutions for the
treatment of coronary bifurcation disease, reported how its Sideguard coronary
sidebranch technology was featured in several scientific sessions at this week's
EuroPCR Congress in Paris, including a new European survey on the challenges in
treating bifurcation disease.

Developed to protect the ostium of the sidebranch, the Cappella Sideguard
coronary sidebranch technology offers interventional cardiologists a dynamic,
effective, and easy-to-use solution in the treatment of bifurcation disease.
This next generation stent platform preserves the sidebranch of diseased
coronary arteries by protecting the ostium and minimising plaque shift. Cappella
is currently engaged in a large-scale registry of more than 250 patients in
Europe which should further confirm the ease of use and the reduced TVF rate.

A recent survey carried out on behalf of Cappella Medical and published in the
May/June edition of Coronary Heart magazine, invited clinicians across Europe to
share their views on the challenges and opportunities for improvement in the
treatment of bifurcation lesion treatment.

David Blossom, vp of Commercial Operations at Cappella Medical, said of the
results, "It was promising to learn that even though 82% of respondents most
frequently used provisional stenting when treating bifurcation disease and an
additional 13% used a mixture of the provisional and 2-stent approach, 95% of
respondents were open to the idea of treating the sidebranch prior to the main
artery." The survey revealed that clinicians were aware of the limitations of
current practice with 83% reporting that up to 30% of provisionally stented
patient's return for sidebranch treatment at which point they may not be able to
regain access to the sidebranch."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2011 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


