                              143 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          September 18, 2014 Thursday

Montana: Sales Rep Hernia Specialist 10078268

LENGTH: 335  words

DATELINE: Helena


Department of Labor & Industry, The State of Montana has issued the following
job announcement:

10078268
Job Title:  Sales Rep Hernia Specialist
Employer:  Confidential
Location:  MONTANA CITY MT, 59634
Description:  Provide procedural and product expertise to targeted customers and
Key Opinion Leaders (KOL) through field travel, meeting attendance, educational
seminars, and OR case observations.

Manage all aspects of hernia business in the field including, but not limited
to, selling Surgical Device⿿s full line of hernia and mesh products, and
the education of surgeons, hospital personnel, and all sales representatives on
procedures and product applications. Drive revenue to increase hernia and soft
tissue repair business achieving necessary budget targets. Develop and support
clinical relationships. Drive procedural conversions from open procedures to
laparoscopic procedures to meet the overall goal of positioning Surgical Devices
to be the market leader in Hernia repair. Key Responsibilities: 1. Master all
hernia and soft tissue repair related Surgical Devices⿿ products and
applications for hernia repair. 2. Develop procedural knowledge and expertise on
hernia and soft tissue repair procedures. 3. Develop local market strategy to
increase hernia and soft tissue repair market share and create a business plan
to execute on the strategy 4. Attain required objectives designed to increase
hernia and soft tissue repair revenue and increase market share. 5. Act as the
hernia and soft tissue repair expert in the field for internal and external
customers. Covidien is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer and
VEVRAA Federal Contractor. Covidien will make reasonable accommodations to allow
qualified individuals to perform their job duties unless the accommodation
imposes an undue hardship. Please feel free to request a copy of the Covidien
Equal Employment Opportunity and Reasonable Accommodation policies for
additional information. for more information see url
Open

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


