                              142 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Whyalla News

                            February 7, 2012 Tuesday

Need for more rural doctors

BYLINE: Kayleigh Bruce

SECTION: EGN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 457 words


In meeting the demand for more doctors and specialists in rural Australia, the
Whyalla hospital will welcome several new staff members this year.

As part of the Road to Rural General Practice report commissioned by Country
Health SA, a number of recommendations were outlined to achieve an increased
supply of Australian trained GPs for rural South Australia.

Currently, a state-wide implementation committee is being established to
progress these recommendations.

In 2012, the Whyalla hospital will welcome the services of a new physician set
to start in August along with four new salaried medical officers in the coming
months.

As upgrades are carried out at the Whyalla hospital, it is well staffed with six
resident specialists across various fields as well as 16 local GPs to assist in
managing inpatients and the emergency department.

The hospital is further supported by a large array of visiting specialists and
other health providers.

In supporting Whyalla's health care services, Country Health SA has an ongoing
recruitment and retention strategy in place for a range of specialties in
Whyalla.

Some of these specialties may be based in Whyalla while others will practice
across the region on a visiting rotation.

Addressing the need for more doctors in rural Australia, the Australian Medical
Association submitted an extensive practical plan to the senate last month.

AMA president Doctor Steve Hambleton said the plan incorporates clever thinking
and local solutions to attract doctors to rural practice and keep them in local
communities for the long term.

Mr Hambleton said there was a nationwide shortage of doctors but rural and
remote areas are particularly feeling this shortage.

"Rural Australia is highly reliant on international medical graduates (IMGs) to
address these workforce shortages," Mr Hambleton said.

Mr Hambleton said while the contribution made by IMG doctors has been essential
and greatly appreciated by the communities they serve, this strategy was not
sustainable in the long term.

"We need to attract and retain Australian-trained doctors in rural areas," Mr
Hambleton said.

"To do that, rural practice must be an attractive career and lifestyle choice
for doctors."

As part of viable strategies to improve access to health care for people living
in rural and remote Australia, the AMA highlighted two key points of support:

A rural isolation payment to be paid to all rural doctors (including GPs,
specialists and registrars) to reflect the isolation associated with rural
practice and a rural procedural and emergency/on-call loading to better support
rural procedural doctors (including procedural specialists) who provide
obstetric, surgical, anaesthetic or primary emergency on-call services in
regional communities.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2012 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


