                              153 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           September 1, 2016 Thursday

Study: Care providers underestimate pain during pediatric burn dressing change

LENGTH: 389  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 Dressing changes have been identified as one of the major contributors to
perceived pain during burn care, and so it is important that pain be assessed
accurately. But a new study from the Center for Pediatric Trauma Research at
Nationwide Children's Hospital suggests that pediatric burn pain assessment can
vary not only based on patient pain intensity, but also nurse clinical
experience.





 A measurement tool called the Face, Legs, Activity, Cry, Consolability Scale
(FLACC) is widely used by nurses to rate pain in pediatric patients. It can be
applied to pediatric patients of all ages, including the very young, so it
provides a standard assessment for all patients in our pediatric burn center.
This study found that nurses tended to underrate both mild and severe procedural
pain. Nurses who had less nursing experience demonstrated significantly higher
accuracy than those with more experience.



 Jonathan Groner MD is the study's senior author, medical director of the Center
for Pediatric Trauma Research and affiliate faculty of the Center for Injury
Research and Policy at Nationwide Children's Hospital stated, "This is
concerning because it demonstrates that on a well-established burn unit that
specializes in caring for pediatric patients, nurses may too often underrate
children's procedural pain for both mild and severe pain." Dr. Jiabin Shen, the
study's lead author also noted concern that "new" burn nurses (less than 5 years
nursing experience) appeared to be more accurate in FLACC rating than more
experienced nurses.



 This study, available today online and in the September issue of Burns, is the
first study to systematically examine FLACC rating accuracy among care
providers. Developed in 1997, the FLACC scale was originally designed to measure
post-operative pain in pediatric populations. The FLACC utilizes an
easy-to-understand 0-10 metric and exerts a relatively low burden on medical
staff. It has previously demonstrated a high level of inter-rater reliability
and concurrent validity with other existing scales. But much of the previous
research was not in clinical settings.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


