                              154 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 15, 2016 Friday

Racial Disparities Following Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting

LENGTH: 434  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 Study Questions:



 Do black patients have higher observed and risk-adjusted mortality and
morbidity following isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in
contemporary clinical practice? And, if these differences exist, to which degree
are these ascribed to patient characteristics, socioeconomic factors, and
overall differences in hospital and surgeon quality?



 Methods:



 This was a retrospective analysis of data from the Society of Thoracic Surgeons
Adult Cardiac Surgery Database (STS ACSD). The authors evaluated procedural
outcomes on white and black patients undergoing isolated CABG between 2010 and
2011 at 663 participating STS sites. Data were adjusted for patients' clinical
and socioeconomic features, hospital and surgeon effects, and care processes
(internal mammary artery graft and perioperative medication use).

 Results:



 Blacks patients (n = 11,697) constituted 7.9% of the total CABG study
population (148,059 patients). Blacks were more likely to have comorbid
conditions (e.g., hypertension, diabetes, smoking, and peripheral and
cerebrovascular disease); use of immunosuppressive medications; and preoperative
dialysis. Adverse presenting features such as myocardial infarction within 7
days of surgery, congestive heart failure, lower left ventricular ejection
fraction, and moderate to severe mitral regurgitation were also more common
among blacks. Unadjusted mortality and major morbidity rates were higher in
blacks than in whites and persisted after adjusting for surgeon, hospital, and
care processes in addition to patient and socioeconomic factors (odds ratio
[OR], 1.17; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.00-1.36; and OR, 1.26; 95% CI,
1.19-1.34).

 Conclusions:



 Even after accounting for patient comorbidities; socioeconomic status; and
surgeon, hospital, and care factors, the risks of procedural mortality and
morbidity after CABG were higher among black compared with white patients.

 Perspective:



 This is a valuable study that corroborates others' findings that black patients
have higher morbidity and mortality after CABG compared with white patients. A
major contribution from this analysis is that this disparity persists not only
after adjusting for demographic and clinic factors, but also after accounting
for provider- and hospital-related differences. Future studies should explore
factors that may explain differences in CABG outcomes.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolution.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


