                              146 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                            November 21, 2016 Monday

Doctors' admission body meets

SECTION: Vol. 26 No. 258

LENGTH: 386  words


A meeting of an admission committee for postgraduate trainee doctors was held on
Sunday in Civil Secretariat headed by adviser to the chief minister on Health
Khawaja Salman Rafique.

According to a handout, the committee reviewed in details the Policy and
Procedural Manual (PPM) for induction of postgraduate trainee doctors in the
teaching hospitals. The committee approved in principal Policy and Procedural
Manual for the admission. It was decided that the approved draft of PPM would be
sent to the Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif for his final approval.

Secretary Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education Najam Ahmed Shah, Vice
Chancellor Fatima Jinnah Medical University Prof Dr Sardar Fakhar Imam, Pro-Vice
Chancellor Prof Amir Zaman Khan, Pro-Vice Chancellor University of Health
Sciences Prof Junaid Sarfraz Khan, Vice Chancellor King Edward Medical
University Prof Qazi Saeed, Prof Dr Syed Muhammad Owais, Chief Executive Mayo
Hospital Prof Asad Aslam Khan, Additional Secretary Technical Dr Suleman Shahid,
Deputy Secretary Medical Education Dr Nasir Shakir and representatives of Punjab
Information Technology Board Baddar Munir attended the meeting.

lauded: Thousands of doctors having their specialisation completed from Post
Graduate Medical Institute (PGMI) are serving in medical education institutions
and hospitals both in Pakistan and abroad. The Ameer ud Din Medical College
attached with PGMI/Lahore General Hospital (LGH) has also set a new record of
excellence by securing first position in the province in First Professional
results just after a few years of its establishment. LGH has also rendered great
services by providing medical cover to 1.5 million patients during the last
fiscal year.

This was told by PGMI/LGH Principal Prof Ghias un Nabi Tayyab to the 44th Common
trainee officers of Civil Services Academy, who were on a study visit to LGH,
according to a handout issued here on Sunday. LGH Medical Superintendent Dr
Ghulam Sabir and other administrative doctors were also present. Prof Ghias un
Nabi threw light on the ongoing development projects for the hospital and said
that philanthropists were also cooperating with the hospital for the sacred
mission of serving the ailing humanity. Without philanthropists' assistance, the
government cannot deliver effectively, he added.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


