                              149 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 29, 2013 Sunday

OHRH working on nurse staffing balance

BYLINE: Rich Suwanski, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 562 words


Dec. 29--Owensboro Health Regional Hospital is trying to balance its nurse
staffing as the seven-month-old facility faces a variety of health care
variables, causing schedule fluctuations.

Vicki Stogsdill, OHRH vice president of nursing, said some nursing units are
working overtime while others are not scheduled to work as many hours due to a
smaller patient census in certain areas. Stogsdill said managers are working to
distribute staffing more evenly.

"Not just here, but everywhere I've worked, patient numbers have fluctuated,"
Stogsdill said. "So we have to make sure we have enough staff for days when the
hospital is fairly full and balance that with times when we have fewer patients.

"Inherently, nurses are expected to work overtime, and there are times when
they're expected to reduce their hours. It's always a delicate balance."

Stogsdill said daily planning meetings involve discussing the number of patients
staying in the hospital, the number being discharged and the number entering the
hospital.

"Nurses are pretty accustomed to fluctuating schedules," she said.

Currently, critical care nurses are working overtime due to higher patient
volume while nurses in the outpatient procedure department are taking more time
off.

"We over-anticipated the volume we've had in the outpatient procedural
department, where patients have a one-night stay," Stogsdill said. "The managers
are working to correct that. They may increase the scope of patients the nurses
care for, or those nurses may be oriented to other areas of the hospital."

Different patient needs require a different skill set from nurses, and
specialized units and procedural areas require specific skills, so nurses aren't
automatically interchangeable.

Before the new hospital opened in June, a non-surgical care unit was dissolved,
and those nurses deployed to Oncology-Medical and the Joint Center since those
units were becoming larger and needed more staff, Stogsdill said. Oncology went
from 19 to 24 beds, and the Joint Center grew from 10 to 22 beds.

Another factor influencing some scheduling is "soft" patient volume as a
national trend, Stogsdill said. OHRH has seen a 4 percent dip in inpatient
volume compared to previous years, she said.

"It's nationwide and across the state," Stogsdill said. "Ours is about half of
the state's decline. Some hospitals are much higher."

Stogsdill doesn't have any hard evidence to support the reason for the dip, but
thinks it could be due to patients "being more judicious about coming to the
hospital" as some insurance coverage requires higher copays and deductibles.

"Patients are becoming more aware of the cost of care," she said. "And with the
medical technology and specialization we have now, we have more and more
patients having surgery and going home the same day or after an overnight stay."

Stogsdill said the new hospital was built with an eye toward future health care
needs, such as the anticipated wave of baby boomers, so any dip in census could
be followed by a spike.

"We added another physical rehabilitation position and, immediately, patient
volume in our rehab center increased about 30 percent," she said.

Rich Suwanski, 691-7315, or rsuwanski@messenger-inquirer.com

___ (c)2013 the Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Ky.) Visit the Messenger-Inquirer
(Owensboro, Ky.) at www.messenger-inquirer.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131229-OW-OHRH-working-on-nurse-staffing-balance-1229-20131229

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2013 Messenger-Inquirer


