                              161 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             April 23, 2002 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

Patients to pay liability increase

BYLINE: Darren Gray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 557 words


Canberra

Victorian patients face bigger doctors' bills, possibly as soon as July, because
doctors are set to pass on looming rises in their insurance premiums of up to 20
per cent.

Victoria's two biggest medical indemnity funds, which insure all but a few
hundred of Victoria's more than 12,000 doctors, both confirmed yesterday that
their annual charges for the next financial year would rise significantly from
July 1.

Doctors said patients would probably be forced to absorb much of the increase in
insurance costs, because the recent rises in indemnity premiums had been
unsustainable. Public hospitals would also face greater pressure because of the
rises, as patients sought to avoid higher charges from private doctors and chose
the public system, and as doctors dumped some "procedural" work from their
private practice, they warned.

Head of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, Paul Hemming,
said it was inevitable that patients would face higher doctors bills because of
the insurance increases.

Medical indemnity premiums have soared in recent years, forcing some doctors to
leave medicine, or to drop practising the more risky elements of it, such as
delivering babies. In New South Wales the indemnity industry has been in crisis,
with NSW and the nation's biggest insurer, UMP, recently receiving a $35 million
Federal Government guarantee to stay afloat.

Federal Health Minister Kay Patterson today will host a meeting in Canberra to
deal with the medical indemnity crisis. Senator Patterson and Assistant
Treasurer Helen Coonan will represent the Federal Government, while state health
ministers and key doctors and lawyers groups will also attend.

Medical indemnity insurance protects doctors if they are sued by patients who
claim to have been the victim of medical errors or negligence.

Chief executive of Victoria's Medical Indemnity Protection Society, Paul
Nisselle, said his fund would increase premiums by about 20 per cent for
procedural specialists such as obstetricians, and by about 15 per cent for non-
procedural doctors such as general practitioners. The premiums would go up
because of a substantial increase in the group's reinsurance costs, an increase
in the number of claims and an increase in payouts, he said.

Unless the key players involved in the meeting developed a framework to ease the
problems with medical indemnity, premium rises would continue for the next five
years or so in the order of 15-20 per cent, Dr Nisselle said.

He said doctors had little room to manoeuvre when dealing with the increased
premiums.

"There's only two things they (doctors) can do, work harder and see more
patients, or put up their fees," Dr Nisselle said.

Victoria's main medical indemnity fund, the Medical Defence Association of
Victoria, insures about 8500 doctors and is considering premium rises of about
10 per cent. Both funds are not-for-profit organisations owned and operated by
doctors.

COUNTING THE COST

The cost of medical indemnity premiums for Victorian doctors:

· Obstetricians - annual figure is $33,000; likely rise in 2002-03 of $6600.

· Gynaecologists - annual figure is $22,000; likely rise of $4400.

· GPs (base rate) - annual figure is $3400; likely rise of $510.

FIGURES PERTAIN TO THE MEDICAL INDEMNITY PROTECTION SOCIETY, VICTORIA'S
SECOND-BIGGEST MEDICAL INDEMNITY INSURER. FIGURES APPROXIMATE.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2002 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


