                              160 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                            South China Morning Post

                                 April 20, 2004

Nurses 'changed dead patient's records'

BYLINE: Patsy Moy and Mary Ann Benitez

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 305 words


The Hospital Authority has filed a police report after four nurses were accused
of changing the patient records of an elderly man who died in February after
being unconscious for five months.

The Haven of Hope Hospital said in a letter that the nurses would receive
disciplinary action after a preliminary probe showed they replaced a page in
77-year-old Mo Kam-tong's records.

But the hospital did not specify the type of disciplinary action and Mo's family
passed the letter to Democratic Party legislator Fred Li Wah-ming, who released
it.

" We have decided to report the case to the Coroner's Court and the Nursing
Council to give full assistance to the two bodies to carry out independent
investigations.

"We would also like to make our apology to the family for this procedural
wrongdoing ," the letter stated.

The hospital also conceded that the illicit alteration of medical records was
"inappropriate" and a "serious procedural error".

A Hospital Authority spokeswoman confirmed that it had reported the case to
police.

The authority's director of professional services and public affairs also said
the Nursing Council of Hong Kong would investigate the Haven of Hope nurses.

"Our principle is very clear - that all these records must be factual and they
must as far as possible reflect the facts at the time ," Ko Wing-man said.

A probe began after members of Mo's family lodged a complaint with the Haven of
Hope Hospital last month that they believed alarms removed from his bedside had
contributed to his death.

His son, Mo Wai-ming, said his father had written two letters before he lapsed
into a coma complaining that a nurse had removed the alarm button.

The son asked for his father's medical records and discovered that one of the
pages had been replaced.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2004 South China Morning Post Ltd.


