                              156 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday

Medtronic treats first patients in CoreValve Evolut R clinical study

LENGTH: 951 words

Medical Device Daily Staff Writer

Medtronic (Minneapolis) reported the first implants in the CoreValve Evolut R
Clinical Study, which will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the new
Medtronic CoreValve Evolut R Recapturable System.

The company said that this new recapture-enabled valve and delivery system
offers new capabilities that are designed to advance deliverability and valve
performance while providing the option to recapture and reposition the CoreValve
Evolut R valve during deployment, if needed, while performing transcatheter
aortic valve implantation (TAVI).

"The study will be used to seek CE mark approval - the clinical trial sites will
be evaluating about 60 patients outside of the U.S. in Europe and Australia,"
Kathleen Janasz, a spokeswoman for Medtronic, told Medical Device Daily. "And
the CoreValve Evolut R system builds on the procedural success that we've
already seen with the CoreValve system, where more than 98% of the CoreValve
devices are delivered in the correct and proper anatomical position. So when
we're talking about recapture and reposition we're doing this knowing that for
example in the CoreValve advanced study, that 98.7% of those valves are already
positioned correctly in that study. So what we're looking at here is providing
the option to recapture and reposition the valve during deployment if its
needed."

She added, "We believe this will provide increased confidence as procedures are
performed knowing that if that less than 2% . . . need recapturing and
repositioning it is a possibility."

"CoreValve has set a high bar for rates of procedural success, which have been
confirmed in both real-world use and clinical studies such as CoreValve ADVANCE.
We are studying this recapture-enabled valve and low profile delivery system to
provide design enhancements that further increase procedural confidence and,
ultimately, improve patient care," said Ian Meredith, MD, of Monash Medical
Center - Southern Health (Melbourne, Australia), who is a principal investigator
and implanted the first devices in the study.

In addition to Monash Medical Center, the prospective CoreValve Evolut R
Clinical Study will enroll up to 60 patients with severe symptomatic aortic
stenosis who are considered at high risk for open-heart surgical aortic valve
replacement at University Hospital Bonn (Bonn, Germany), St. George's Hospital
(London), and Royal Victoria Hospital (Belfast, Northern Ireland). The primary
endpoints are all-cause mortality and stroke at 30 days, as well as device
success rate at 24 hours to seven days. Secondary endpoints include recapture
success rate, when attempted, and hemodynamic performance.

The new system consists of the CoreValve Evolut R transcatheter valve and the
EnVeo R Recapturable Delivery System. The new valve is anatomically designed to
provide conformability at the annulus for optimal annular fit and sealing, while
maintaining supra-annular valve function for strong hemodynamic performance.

Janasz said that are some differences between this device and previous offerings
from the CoreValve product line.

"There are design differences - the conformability of the valve at the opening
was specifically designed for fit and sealing," she said. "The difference that I
think I would actually emphasize is actually in the delivery system, which is
the equivalent of 14fr. The CoreValve system has a wider range of valve sizes
than any other system available anywhere. [The sizes are] 23 mm, 26 mm, 29 mm,
and 31 mm. So it serves a wider range of valve annulus sizes than any other
system. All of those sizes in the Corevalve system are delivered on an 18 Fr
delivery system. With CoreValve Evolut R the delivery system is the equivalent
of 14fr and the delivery system provides access to the patient and it has a 1 to
1 delivery response. As the physician turns the nob on the delivery system [the
physician] will see accuracy of deployment."

Medtronic gained access to the technology when it completed its acquisition of
CoreValve (Irvine, California) for $700 million (Medical Device Daily, April 13,
2009).

The med-tech giant's acquisition of CoreValve gave it a stronger chance in
staking claim in the TAVI market.

Other competitors developing TAVI systems include: Direct Flow Medical (Santa
Rosa, California); Boston Scientific (Natick, Massachusetts); Colibri Heart
Valve (Broomfield, Colorado); Loma Vista Medical (Burlingame, California); St.
Jude Medical (St. Paul, Minnesota); EdwardsLifesciences (Irvine, California);
and JenaValve Technology (Munich).

Medtronic also reported the U.S. launch of its Export Advance aspiration
catheter, which it said offers greater power and superior deliverability.
Recently cleared by the FDA, the latest addition to Medtronic's portfolio of
thrombectomy devices features a pre-loaded stylet - a core wire that runs
through the middle of the shaft to provide more support during delivery. This
feature increases the deliverability and kink resistance of the new device while
traversing the vasculature to reach the aspiration site.

To further optimize performance, the Export Advance aspiration catheter is also
constructed with full-wall variable braiding technology, which provides variable
degrees of stiffness along the length of the device to enhance flexibility and
pushability while navigating the device through the vasculature.

The Export Advance aspiration catheter received the CE mark in May and has been
introduced in various international markets since then. It is the latest
addition to Medtronic's portfolio of thrombectomy devices, which also includes
the market-leading Export AP aspiration catheter.



Omar Ford, 770-810-3125;


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


          Copyright 2013 Thompson Media Group, LLC d/b/a AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


