                              17 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Queensland Times (Ipswich)

                            December 4, 2009 Friday

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 290  words

More to include in hospital upgrades

SOUTH-EAST:President of the Rural Doctors Association of Queensland, Dr Sheilagh
Cronin, has called on Queensland Health to include procedural facilities when
rural hospitals were upgraded or rebuilt.

Dr Cronin explained that well-equipped procedural rooms which allowed doctors to
deliver a general anaesthetic and perform procedures provided safe, sustainable
and effective delivery of health services to rural and remote Queenslanders.

She said they also contributed to the overall efficiency of the statewide system
by freeing-up busy city emergency departments.

"RDAQ supports refurbishment and renewal of rural hospitals. However, it appears
that facilities such as procedural rooms may be stripped from some communities,"
Dr Cronin said.

"This will discourage doctors and compromise care in affected areas. Country
patients deserve access to certain procedures locally."

Don't buy pets on an impulse for Christmas

SOUTH-EAST:Families have been urged to avoid impulse buying of pets as Christmas
gifts to reduce the number of animals which end up in shelters.

Dr Mark Perissinotto, head vet at online retailer VetShopAustralia, said many
pets that were bought as Christmas presents ended up unwanted in refuges.

"Cute and cuddly puppies or kittens can be hard to resist buying when you see
them in a pet store, but they quickly grow and lose their innocent charm," Dr
Perissinotto said.

"During the first few weeks of the New Year animal shelters are inundated with
cats, dogs and other animals that were given as Christmas presents.

"Pets should be given only to people who can look after them for the lifetime of
that animal, not just on Christmas Day, and taking on a pet shouldn't be an
impulse decision."

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IQT


                    Copyright 2009 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


