                              163 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                              June 5, 2016 Sunday

Organ retrieval: better coordination, training need of the hour

LENGTH: 433  words

DATELINE: VIJAYAWADA


VIJAYAWADA, June 5 -- A cadaver heart transplantation was conducted at a
Government hospital in the new Andhra Pradesh in May which attracted wide
attention. A couple of days later, the heart of a brain dead patient could not
be used because there were no takers.


 A hospital in Chennai placed a request for the heart of 25-year-old K. Suresh,
but backed out. Hospitals in Telangana also said they had no need for the organ.
The Guntur Government General Hospital which had performed the first heart
transplant just a couple of days before that was not prepared for another heart
transplant at such short notice.
 The duration that a heart can be kept intact is less when compared to the other
organs. A heart remains intact for three to six hours, liver six to 12 hours and
kidney up to 48 hours. So the heart lost out to the other organs.
 Organ retrieval from brain dead patients is gaining increased attention as the
waiting list for recipients is exceeding that of donors. Despite a large
population, organs of only two per cent of the brain dead donors could be
harvested, according to a study published in the Indian Journal of Anaesthesia.
The reasons for non-organ donation listed in the 2013 study were - lack of
consent, procedural problems, patients not counselled and organs too unstable
for donation, age and co-morbidities (presence of one or more additional
disorders). Maximal rate of organ donation was fixed at 50 donors per million
population (dpm). In Western Europe it is between 12 and 20 dpm, no data is
available for India.
 End-stage diseases
 Organ transplantation is fast evolving as a mode of treatment for end-stage
diseases.
 After the creation of Jeevandan, systems have been put in place in 25 Organ
Transplant Centres in the 13 districts of Andhra Pradesh to get consent from
relatives, reduce procedural problems and improve counselling.
 Jeevandan Chief Transplant Coordinator G Krishna Murthy said organs too
unstable for donation, age and co-morbidities continued to be reasons for
non-organ donation even now.
 The primary objective of Jeevandan was the wellbeing of organ recipients
compared to the utilisation of cadaver organs, he said. There was however a need
to train the paramedics in providing "inotropic support" to the brain dead donor
to ensure that there was no deterioration in the quality of the vital organs
until they were harvested. Blood pressure and other parameters like blood urea
and serum creatinine had to be monitored and stabilised as part of this
exercise. The paramedics need to be trained in these diagnostic and monitoring
skills, he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


