                              159 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     December 7, 2013 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

UC Irvine's 'Perioperative Surgical Home' Improves Clinical Outcomes while
Reducing Healthcare Costs

LENGTH: 571  words


New Delhi, Dec. 7 -- As healthcare costs rise in this country, the University of
California, Irvine Department of Anesthesiology & Perioperative Care has
initiated an innovative model to reform healthcare from the frontlines that
improves the patient experience while simultaneously reducing costs.
Approximately 60 percent of a traditional hospital's expenses are associated
with surgical and procedural care. The Perioperative Surgical Home model
coordinates a multidisciplinary continuum of care led by the expertise of the
anesthesiologist through the preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative
periods. The new model also relies heavily on evidence-based medicine and novel
patient preparedness education.



"We've created a hub to centralize all the players in the surgical process into
one multidisciplinary team to increase patient satisfaction while driving down
recovery times, complications, lengths of stay in the hospital and overall
costs," said Zeev Kain, M.D., professor and chair of Anesthesiology &
Perioperative Care and associate dean of Clinical Operations at the School of
Medicine. "This is an excellent example of quality care focused on maximizing
our best practices that then have a ripple effect on improving the entire
spectrum of surgical and procedural care given to the patient."

The Perioperative Surgical Home could be likened to a clearinghouse for the
anesthesiologists, surgeons and other patient care providers to coordinate and
optimize the pre-surgery testing and evaluations of patients. The experts
collaborate and draw on this data to determine the safest and most-cost
effective implants and pharmaceuticals. This PSH model decreases the number of
unnecessary tests and consults that must be performed pre-surgery while reducing
the rate of complications after surgery. The end result is reduced hospital
length of stay, less complications and readmissions, which equals an overall
better recovery and patient experience.

In the surgical preparation class, members of the care team meet with the
patients to create a plan for preparing for surgery and recovery. The class
helps clear any fears and unknowns that often plague patients in the days and
hours leading up to surgery. They also equip patients with mind and body
relaxation techniques to cope with stress pre-surgery and also post-surgery. The
class provides a way for the patient to participate as an active member of the
team in ensuring the most optimal outcome for surgery.

UC Irvine Heath and the Department of Anesthesiology & Perioperative Care is
among the first in the country to implement the PSH. Led by Dr. Kain, the Joint
Surgical Home was initiated in 2012 with tremendous success. The Joint Surgical
Home at UC Irvine has reduced surgical cancellations, complications, length of
stay, readmissions and overall costs associated with joint replacement surgery
and the recovery process while dramatically increasing patient satisfaction.

UC Irvine is delighted to announce that the next surgical lines in the PSH
model, two types of urological procedures, were implemented this month.

Moving forward, Dr. Kain feels the Perioperative Surgical Home model can be
replicated and implemented in most surgical areas of care. According to Dr.
Kain, by standardizing the process, coordinating services and managing patients
through the entire surgical process, the PSH model improves the quality of care
while reducing costs.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


