                              158 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                          September 18, 2003 Thursday

Significant new data, product rollouts continue at rapid pace

LENGTH: 1119 words


TCT notebook

Significant new data, product rollouts continue at rapid pace

A Medical Device Daily Staff Report  WASHINGTON - The frenetic pace of discovery
at the 15th annual Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics (TCT) Symposium
continues, with additional important presentations by physicians in the
cardiology field from around the world. The high-energy atmosphere appears ready
to carry on through to tomorrow, when the meeting concludes at the Washington
Convention Center, although participants have their eye on the pending arrival
of Hurricane Isabel along the mid-Atlantic states.

Spectranetics (Colorado Springs, Colorado) unveiled results from the CORAL LAKE
registry, a single-center, retrospective registry that studied the use of its
excimer laser for the treatment of degenerated saphenous vein grafts at the
conference.

The registry yielded an acute procedural success rate of 98% and an acute major
adverse cardiac event (MACE) rate of 5%.

CORAL LAKE included 119 patients treated with the excimer laser at Lakeland
Regional Medical Center (Lakeland, Florida), by Douglas Ebersole, MD, and other
interventional cardiologists at the hospital. The goal of the registry was to
quantify acute outcomes in saphenous vein grafts after excimer laser treatment,
as evidenced by procedural success and MACE events. Procedural success was
defined as having a final residual stenosis less than 50% of the original
stenosis.

Randomized clinical trials have shown that treatment of saphenous vein grafts
with traditional therapies such as balloons and stents result in 30-day MACE
events approaching 20%. The 30-day MACE rate shown in randomized trials with
traditional catheter-based therapies plus embolic protection devices has been
reduced to approximately 10%. A key contributing factor to MACE events is distal
embolization, or the dislodging of plaque, thrombus, or other atherosclerotic
debris that can form blockages elsewhere in the vascular system.

"The findings of Dr. Ebersole's registry further supports our belief that the
excimer laser can benefit patients with blocked bypass grafts," said John
Schulte, president and chief executive officer of Spectranetics. "This is
encouraging, as it supports our multi-center clinical registry that is already
under way at 12 hospitals in the U.S. This larger CORAL [COronary graft Results
following Atherectomy with Laser] registry is a 250 patient study that also will
be documenting the ability of the excimer laser to successfully treat diseased
saphenous vein grafts."

Treating blocked saphenous vein bypass grafts is one of Spectranetics' seven
FDA-approved indications within the coronary vascular system.

In other TCT news:

· Raoul Bonan, MD, an interventional cardiologist at the Montreal Heart
Institute (Montreal, Quebec), will present results of his mild hypothermia
safety and feasibility study today at the conference.

The study was designed to demonstrate the safety and feasibility of rapidly
inducing hypothermia using a non-invasive approach. His lecture, titled
"Non-invasive Surface Cooling to Induce Systemic Hypothermia," will be presented
at 5:55 p.m. EDT in Room 202B of the Washington Convention Center during the
Innovative Devices and Futuristic Therapies Symposium.

Bonan's study was sponsored by Medivance (Louisville, Colorado) and used the
Arctic Sun 2000 Temperature Management System, which Medivance unveiled earlier
in the week.

"The early initiation of mild hypothermia as an adjunctive treatment in heart
attack can be done non-invasively, safely, comfortably and rapidly upon arrival
to the emergency room to potentially reduce damage to the heart muscle," said
Bonan. "I am excited about the success of the feasibility study with this new
non-invasive device and believe it will enable cooling therapy for a significant
patient population."

Based on the initial safety and feasibility results of this study, Medivance
said it plans to initiate a larger U.S.-based feasibility study - the Chill-ER
Study - that begins next month. That five-center study will focus on the safety,
feasibility and potential benefits of the early initiation of cooling.

Medivance is developer of therapeutic temperature management solutions.

· Toshiba America Medical Systems (TAMS; Tustin, California) is showcasing the
company's latest technology advancements for the Infinix Dual Plane i-Series
(DP-i) system on the TCT exhibit floor.

Designed for cardiologists seeking the best technology for interventional
cardiovascular procedures, the Infinix DP-i imaging system offers traditional
cardiac imaging as well as traditional peripheral imaging in one room. The Dual
Plane design allows one C-arm with a 9" image intensifier to be dedicated to
cardiac and the second C-arm with a 16" image intensifier to be dedicated to
peripheral procedures. Both the 9" and 16" image intensifiers can be upgraded to
flat panel detectors. These are field upgrades at the component level.

"We are dedicated to delivering innovative technology that enhances the
usability and accuracy of cardiac and angio procedures," said Don Volz, director
of Toshiba's Vascular X-ray Business Unit. "With the Infinix DP-i system,
cardiologists can obtain extremely high-quality diagnostic information for
quick, accurate diagnosis of cardiac and peripheral vascular diseases and
disorders."

Built on a PC platform with dual Pentium processors that offer subcomponent
communication, the Infinix DP-i system was designed to meet the demands of the
industry by providing greater throughput and productivity. This completely new
system architecture permits real-time processing of fluoro and recorded images
and at the same time background transfers images to the network. The real-time
processing is more sophisticated than its previous system, the company said,
giving the user additional low dose settings without compromising image quality.
With synchronis frame rate selection, dose mod selection and digital zoom
fluoro, users can reduce dose by more than 80%.

The Infinix DP-i system includes a high-performance liquid-metal bearing X-ray
tube designed to meet the toughest clinical demands. The liquid-metal bearing
X-ray tube provides anti-abrasion performance for a long tube life. Its 3.0 MHU
X-ray tube anode heat-capacity rating is the industry's highest, Toshiba said.
This anode rating virtually eliminates overheating and ensures high patient
throughput. Additionally, a triple-focus design provides small focal spot
redundancy for what the company terms "fail-safe cardiac imaging." And the quiet
operating design of the liquid bearing permits clear communication in the
examination room among the physician, staff and patient.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2003 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


