                              169 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Kashmir Monitor (India)

                           February 4, 2012 Saturday

E-prescribing slashes prescription errors

LENGTH: 267 words

DATELINE: Srinagar


Srinagar, Feb. 4 -- Prescribing errors can be slashed by 66 percent with the
introduction of electronic methods in hospitals.

University of New South Wales (UNSW) researchers reviewed 3,291 patient records
and looked at both procedural (incomplete, unclear medication orders) and
clinical (wrong dose, wrong drug) errors, and rated the potential severity of
the errors (minor to serious).

Researchers found that procedural prescribing error rates fell by more than 90
percent, and the most serious prescribing errors declined by 44 percent, the
journal Public Library of Science reports.

"The study provides persuasive evidence of the value of commercial e-prescribing
systems to significantly and substantially reduce a range of prescribing
errors," said study leader Johanna Westbrook, professor from UNSW's Australian
Institute of Health Innovation.

The six percent reduction was far beyond anything anticipated. Previous attempts
to reduce such errors, had resulted in an improvement of only around four
percent, Westbrook said, according to a UNSW statement.

"Prescribing errors are among the top hazards faced in a hospital setting," said
Ric Day, professor of pharmacology, who helped implement a commercial
e-prescribing system at Sydney's St Vincent's Hospital.

"Most of this technology was developed in the US with the big medical centres
designing their own customised systems," Westbrook said. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from The Kashmir Monitor. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Kashmir Monitor
                              All Rights Reserved


