                              171 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                             August 12, 2016 Friday

Professional drivers' health record to be logged online in Dubai

LENGTH: 415 words


Medical centres that treat drivers of heavy trucks, buses and taxis required to
notify Dubai's Roads and Transport Authority

Image Credit: Gulf News Archive Staff Report

Dubai: Accredited hospitals that issue occupational health certificates to the
drivers of heavy trucks, buses and taxis must specify the details of the
treatment they give to the patients online to ensure road safety and minimise
illness-related accidents, a senior official said on Friday.

The Roads and Transport Authority (RTA) has made it mandatory for accredited
hospitals and medical clinics that treat and give drivers of heavy trucks, buses
and taxis the green light to work after an illness to post the treatment
duration in the online system of such driving permits.

"Obliging hospitals to specify the treatment period and the type of treatment is
extremely important prior to the issuance of occupational permits to drivers of
heavy trucks, buses and taxis, which in turn consolidates the governance systems
through setting out procedural controls for the medical test," said Jamal
Assada, Director of Drivers Testing, RTA Licensing Agency.

Professional drivers who are suffering from certain illnesses are required to
take the prescribed medical treatment before appearing for retesting in order to
ensure a safe driving practice for the driver, road users and roads.

"Medical check-ups include measuring diabetes and blood pressure, and detecting
various eyesight-related ailments that constitute a realistic driving hazard.
Adopting the British Medical Standards, the medical testing system in Dubai is
at par with the European Standards, which are among the best in the industry,"
Assada said.

Around 114,000 drivers were tested in Dubai from the fourth quarter of 2013 to
mid-2016, resulting in the suspension of driving licences of more than 1,400
drivers.

"Stating the type and duration of treatment in the doctor's prescription will
generate safe results towards ensuring a sound driving environment. This
requirement is particularly relevant following the introduction of the unified
online system comprising all procedural matters -- starting from medical tests,
test results up to the final issuance of the occupational permit," Assada said.

The tests are conducted in a number of hospitals and clinics all over Dubai, the
names of which are listed on the RTA website (www.rta.ae). For more information,
call RTA's contact centre (8009090).

http://imgs.syndigate.info/34/57/51/147112580950.jpg

Medical test in Dubai

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2016 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


