                              170 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                            August 4, 2012 Saturday

New lab will treat patients locally

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 262  words


A SHORTFALL in cardiac health services in the Sunshine Coast region has been
counteracted with the launch of a new $18.45 million cardiac catheter laboratory
and procedural suites at Nambour General Hospital.

The facility enables heart patients to have treatment on the Coast, rather than
travelling to Brisbane for procedures that require the insertion of a catheter
into a heart chamber or major blood vessel.

"It is the only such facility that exists between Townsville and Brisbane," Mr
Springborg said.

The facility has been open since April, and has resulted in some 262 patients
receiving treatment in the catheter laboratory, while some 1500 patients have
had procedures in the adjacent procedural rooms.

"Treating patients locally not only cuts down on the need to travel or find
accommodation, it also allows them to stay close to family and friends," Mr
Springborg said.

The new suites include the latest technology for the cardiac treatment, and have
enabled an expansion of the hospital's vascular and endoscopy services to
improve treatment and patient diagnoses in that field.

"The new suites are strategically located directly above the coronary care unit
and the cardiac ward, with close links to the emergency department, intensive
care and operating theatres," Mr Springborg said.

"The Sunshine Coast Hospital and Health Services is contin-uing to grow and
expand its capabilities to look after the local community."

The new facility has seen the employment of 43 full-time equivalent staff, with
a further two extra cardiologists due to start work in September.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2012 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


