                              168 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily Nation (Kenya)

                             June 9, 2016 Thursday

Congolese doctor sues after licence is cancelled

BYLINE: MAUREEN KAKAH

LENGTH: 459  words


Dr Djemba argues the verdict was tainted with procedural impropriety, prejudice
and is unlawful.

A foreign doctor accused of causing the death of a woman during a botched birth
operation in a Nairobi hospital three years ago has moved to court to challenge
the cancellation of his practising licence.


Dr Joseph Omeonga Djemba sued the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board
(KMPDB) for cancelling his licence on May 26 over the April 8, 2013 incident.
Through lawyer Wilfred Mutubwa, Dr Djemba claimed that he discharged his duties
accordingly and that Ms Mary Njeri Gichuru died due to sudden uterine rapture as
well as massive bleeding occasioned by circumstances beyond his control.
The DR Congo national accused the board of delivering its verdict on a complaint
on negligence against him by the husband of the deceased, Mr Joshua Gichuru
Gathii, without according him a hearing.
As a result, he said, he was sacked by Fatima Maternity Hospital, a
Catholic-based institution in Ongata Rongai.
"Dr Djemba has been rendered jobless without any other source of income,
together with his family, they have suffered humiliation and untold mental
anguish, unless this matter is heard urgently, they stand to be prejudiced
irreparably," Mr Mutubwa said.
The University of Lubumbashi medicine graduate said he had recommended that the
woman required an emergency caesarean section operation. But just before the
surgery, she became restless and appeared shocked but was rushed to theatre.
Unfortunately, she succumbed to cardio-pulmonary arrest while being resuscitated
as soon as the operation had been done, said Dr Djemba. He alleged that he
removed a stillborn baby though her uterus was destroyed beyond repair as medics
fought to save the mother's life.
COMPILE REPORT
He claimed that he was asked to compile a report of what had transpired by the
hospital administrator but the board relied on a factually incorrect post mortem
report done by a pathologist known to the family of the deceased alone.
He argued that the verdict was therefore tainted with procedural impropriety,
prejudice and is therefore unlawful.
He also alleged that the public health and sanitation ministry officials who
conducted an inspection over the death did not cite negligence on his part.
He now wants the High Court to temporarily stop implementation of the board's
verdict against him and the hospital.
In the verdict, the board ruled that the hospital had failed to put up adequate
patient monitoring systems, was to compensate the family of the deceased Sh
100,000 in a month's time besides cancelling his license.  The Health Regulatory
body was also asked to inspect the hospital which was also ordered to present a
list of its professional health employees.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1144


                       Copyright 2016 Nation Media Group
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


