                              175 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     October 28, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Medtronic Focuses on Preventable Patient Safety Issue: Respiratory Compromise

LENGTH: 986  words


Oct. 28 -- Medtronic plc (NYSE: MDT) today announced findings from two clinical
studies, the first validating the clinical utility of the Integrated Pulmonary
Index(TM) (IPI) in the post anesthesia care unit (PACU) to identify respiratory
adverse events (RAE) and the second, a study on the cost-effectiveness of
capnography in gastrointestinal (GI) sedation. The study results highlight the
need for clinicians to actively monitor for respiratory compromise following
general anesthesia and procedural sedation with both pulse oximetry and
capnography. These data were presented at the ANESTHESIOLOGY 2015 annual meeting
in San Diego.

Respiratory failure is the second-most frequently occurring preventable safety
adverse event[1] causing higher mortality rates, longer hospital and intensive
care unit stays, and billions of additional healthcare dollars spent each
year.[2, 3] It is rapidly becoming the third most costly hospital inpatient
expense in the U.S.2 Respiratory Compromise, which consists of respiratory
insufficiency, failure and arrest, dramatically increases the likelihood of
adverse outcomes and cost of patient care. Currently, 13 million patients use
patient-controlled analgesia each year and up to 678,000 of these patients
experience life-threatening, opioid-induced respiratory depression.[4]

"The findings presented today demonstrate the clinical benefits and potential
cost savings capnography can provide across a broad spectrum of patients," said
Michael Tarnoff, MD, vice president and chief medical officer, Minimally
Invasive Therapies Group at Medtronic. "These studies underscore Medtronic's
commitment to reducing the growing burden of respiratory compromise across
clinical settings to improve the health and care of patients."

Abstract #3024: Integrated Pulmonary Index Can Predict Respiratory Adverse
Events in Postoperative High-Risk Hypoventilation Patients at Post-Anesthesia
Care Unit

A prospective observational study found using Medtronic's IPI in the PACU can
help predict respiratory adverse events, also referred to as respiratory
compromise, more effectively than pulse oximetry alone. The study evaluated 163
patients at high-risk for hypoventilation (breathing at an abnormally slow rate)
in the PACU following general surgery, enrolled at two hospitals in Japan
between October 2014 and February 2015. Patients at high-risk for
hypoventilation were defined as having a body-mass index of more than 28
(considered obese) or were more than 75 years old. At both PACUs, these patients
were monitored with electrocardiography and for blood pressure as well as
Medtronic's Capnostream(TM) 20 patient monitor, which measured pulse oximetry,
pulse rate, respiratory rate and end-tidal carbon dioxide for the IPI. The study
investigated onset of RAE defined as a respiratory event with prolonged stay in
PACUs or transfer to intensive care units due to airway narrowing, hypoxemia,
wheezing and apnea.

Of the 163 patients enrolled in the study, 7 percent (11 patients) had an RAE.
The study found that the initial IPI of the RAE patients was lower compared to
the non-RAE patients (6.5  2.5 vs. 9.1  1.3; p&lt;0.0001) and the initial SpO2
of the RAE patients was lower than the non-RAE patients (96.6  4.4% vs. 98.3
1.9%; p=0.0147). Importantly, the authors concluded that the sensitivity and
specificity of IPI was better than that of SpO2 for onset of RAE.

"It is critical that patients who are administered any type of sedation, from
general anesthesia to procedural sedation, be carefully monitored for signs of
respiratory compromise," said Hiroshi Morimatsu, MD, PhD, director,
Anesthesiology and Resuscitology Department at Okayama University Hospital in
Japan. "Capnography monitoring can detect subtle changes in respiratory status
and provide the earliest indication of airway compromise. The findings from this
study provide further evidence of the necessity to use capnography, along with
the Integrated Pulmonary Index, for postoperative patients, especially those
with high risk of hypoventilation."

To monitor the respiratory status of patients and identify early changes in a
patient's breathing, Medtronic developed the IPI, an algorithm that incorporates
four real-time vital signs (end-tidal CO2, pulse oximetry, respiratory rate and
pulse rate) into a single number. MicrostreamTM capnography plays a critical
role in the PACU to monitor for respiratory compromise, providing the earliest
indication of a change to a patient's breathing by measuring levels of exhaled
carbon dioxide.

Abstract #4163: Modeling the Cost Effectiveness of Capnography Monitoring During
Procedural Sedation for Endoscopy

A cost-efficacy modeling study of capnography during procedural sedation for
endoscopy was also presented at ANESTHESIOLOGY 2015. The study found that
MicrostreamTM capnography was likely to be cost-effective and may have important
applications to patient safety during endoscopy. Based on the cost-efficacy
model assuming 8,000 patients in one year and a capnography cost of $4,000 per
monitor, study researchers found capnography was estimated to prevent nine
procedure terminations, two unplanned hospital admissions and an
anesthesiologist intervention. The study also found the use of capnography for
endoscopy reduced adverse events, resulting in a savings of $123 per procedure
after one year.

"Capnography monitoring is considered the standard of care during deep sedation
administered by anesthesiologists," said John Vargo, MD, MPH, chair,
Gastroenterology Department of the Digestive Disease Institute at the Cleveland
Clinic. "Our study results concluded that capnography can be cost effective when
used during endoscopic sedation practices where a mixture of deep and moderate
sedation is employed."

This document has footnotes and they may be found at:
(http://newsroom.medtronic.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=251324&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=2103
395)

Source: Medtronic

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


