                              174 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            March 31, 2012 Saturday

Cancer control programme facing hurdles in the state

BYLINE: Ashish Gaur

SECTION: INDORE

LENGTH: 440 words


INDORE: Almost two years after rolling out the national programme for prevention
of cancer at five centres, the state is struggling to start cancer screening and
treatment at its district hospitals.

The aim of Union ministry of health and family welfare to strengthen diagnosing
and treating patients in Ratlam in 2010 and subsequently in Dhar, Jhabua,
Hoshangabad and Chhindwara in 2011 failed to come out of paper due to shortage
of trained manpower.

Joint director Dr Sharad Pandit says lack of trained manpower is the biggest
hurdle in starting the screening for different types of cancers, which is
required under the programme.

He said, "Phase-wise screening and chemotherapy facility had to come up in two
district hospitals in Indore division and then extend further. Screening and
early diagnosis facilities were mulled over by the Centre to curb the disease
but there is a lot to be done on the ground." He further said that the
government was trying to implement the programme in the district hospitals but
lack of trained manpower, infrastructure and lack of ground work posed a problem
for its start.

The Union ministry in 2010 had also planned to upgrade Regional Cancer Centers
(RCC) at Gwalior and Bhopal to Tertiary Cancer Centers (TCC) along with
government-run cancer hospital in Indore but the matter too stuck up in
procedural hassles.

Dr Fakruddin, superintendent, cancer hospital, said, "Union government wanted to
upgrade the centers for which a grant of Rs 6 crore had to come. We had applied
for it and report was sent to the higher officials but the matter seems to have
gone in cold baggage."

According to sources, state government is looking for an option to set up linear
accelerator amounting Rs 8-9 crore on PPP model in cancer hospitals, which has
shelved the up gradation scheme of Union government. It is to be noted that
among half a million cancer deaths in the country, the state has a share of
27,214 deaths in the year 2011.

Expressing concerns over the spreading disease, Dr Dilip Acharya, chairman, MP
State Tobacco and Cancer Control Committee said, "State government initiative to
ban tobacco from coming month is appreciable and would put a curb on cancer
menace. We are also hopeful that government would expedite the process of
setting up tertiary cancer centre in the city so that people here and nearby
areas would get treatment facility."

The Union ministry in 2010 had planned to upgrade Regional Cancer Centers at
Gwalior and Bhopal to Tertiary Cancer Centers along with government-run cancer
hospital in Indore but the matter was stuck up in procedural hassles.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


