                              182 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Health Daily Digest

                              May 17, 2016 Tuesday

Clinical Trial: Pilot Study of a New Device (Buzzy(R)) for Procedural Pain
Relief During Needle-Related Procedures in Paediatric Patients

LENGTH: 442 words

DATELINE: U.S.


U.S., May 17 -- ClinicalTrials.gov registry received information related to the
study (NCT02771600) titled 'Pilot Study of a New Device (Buzzy(R)) for
Procedural Pain Relief During Needle-Related Procedures in Paediatric Patients'
on May 9.

Brief Summary: Needle-related procedures are the most important source of pain
and anxiety in pediatric patients. Consequently, needle-phobia and anxiety are
common in children with auto-immune disease and immune deficiency and may be
barriers to adherence in treatment. The use of a non-pharmacological and
easy-to-use approach, like the Buzzy(R) device, could be an alternative or
adjuvant for the management of procedural pain and anxiety of these children
during needle-related procedures.

This study aims to determine the feasibility, acceptability and satisfaction of
the Buzzy(R) device for procedural pain and anxiety relief of
immunology-rheumatology patients undergoing needle-related procedures. The
investigators will compare the Buzzy(R) device with an anaesthetic cream
(Maxilene(R)) during needle-related procedures. The investigators also plan to
assess feasibility outcomes and satisfaction of the nurses and the children with
the use of the Buzzy(R) device. This pilot study should refine or modify the
research methodology and improve the intervention being piloted before it's
efficacy will be verified within a larger scale-study.

The investigators strongly believe that the use of the Buzzy(R) device in
immunology rheumatology department could optimise procedural pain and anxiety
management. Since most of the treatments administered for auto-immune diseases
and immune deficiency diseases are through subcutaneous or intramuscular
injections, pain and anxiety management using non-pharmacological and/or
pharmacological interventions should be prioritized. Given this knowledge, the
investigators feel that this pilot study has the potential to contribute to pain
and anxiety management of children undergoing needle-related procedures.

Study Start Date: October 2016

Study Type: Interventional

Condition: Autoimmune Rheumatologic Disease

Immune Deficiency

Pain Due to Certain Specified Procedures

Child/Adolescent Problems

Intervention: Device: Buzzy

See arm description

Drug: Topical anaesthetic cream

See arm description

Other Name: Maxilene

Recruitment Status: Not yet recruiting

Sponsor: St. Justine's Hospital

Information provided by (Responsible Party): Ariane Ballard, St. Justine's
Hospital

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Health Daily Digest. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


