                              19 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 5, 2014 Friday

NCDR Study Identifies Wide Variation in Rates of Hospital PCI-Related Bleeding
in the US

LENGTH: 474  words

DATELINE: Washington


American College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the following news release:

Seeking to characterize site-level variation in post-percutaneous coronary
intervention (PCI) bleeding and understand the influence of patient and
procedural factors on hospital bleeding performance, a study published Nov. 25
in Circulation: Cardiovascular Quality and Outcomes found that despite
adjustments for patient case-mix, there is wide variation in rates of hospital
PCI-related bleeding in the U.S., and the use of PCI-related bleeding as a site
performance measure should be supported in PCI registries.

Each year over 600,000 PCI procedures are performed in the U.S. Recently,
post-PCI bleeding, an important procedural complication associated with poor
prognosis, has slowly been adopted as a quality of care metric, despite not
being characterized among the majority of hospitals across the country. The
study was spearheaded by principal investigator Connie Hess, MD, Duke Clinical
Research Institute, Durham, NC, and looked at hospital-level bleeding
performance pre- and post-adjustment using ACC's CathPCI Registry.

The investigators examined almost two million PCI procedures performed at 1,292
U.S. hospitals, and results showed that hospital bleeding rates varied from 2.1
percent to 10.3 percent (fifth and 95th percentiles, respectively). Center-level
bleeding variation was shown to persist after a case-mix adjustment (2.8 percent
to 9.5 percent; fifth, 95th percentiles). Although hospitals' observed and
risk-adjusted bleeding ranks were correlated, individual rankings shifted after
risk-adjustment and outlier classification changed post-adjustment for 29.3
percent, 16.1 percent, and 26.5 percent of low-, non-, and high-outlier sites,
respectively.

"From a policy perspective, we found that adjustment for patient clinical
characteristics changed hospital outlier classification for >25 percent of sites
and is necessary for appropriate provider comparisons," the authors note.
"However, wide variation in hospital bleeding rates persisted after
risk-adjustment. Procedural approaches, such as hospital use of bleeding
avoidance strategies, were associated with reduced rates of bleeding, thereby
indicating the potential for provider interventions to mitigate PCI bleeding
complications."

Associated with increased morbidity, mortality and cost, post-PCI bleedings
represents an appropriate hospital performance indicator, according to Hess and
her colleagues. They note that moving forward, quality improvement initiatives
designed to reduce post-PCI bleeding, perhaps through wide implementation of
bleeding avoidance strategies and sharing of practices from best-performing
sites, might result in improved PCI outcomes.


In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


