                              183 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Bond Buyer

                           November 28, 2006 Tuesday

With Suit Settled, California Hospital District Set to Sell

BYLINE: Rich Saskal

SECTION: THE REGIONS; Pg. 3 Vol. 358 No. 32516

LENGTH: 504  words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO


The Silicon Valley-area El Camino Hospital District is preparing to go to

market this week with $148 million of general obligation bonds.

The deal is expected to price Wednesday, according to the bond calendar

published by underwriter Citigroup Investment Banking.

The offering comes more than three years after voters in the Santa Clara

County district passed the bond measure by more than 70%. District officials

originally hoped to issue the debt to finance a new hospital building in 2004

and begin construction in 2005.

Their plans were delayed by a taxpayer lawsuit that the district settled

earlier this year to get on with the project. The suit caused several months

of construction delays, according to Marla Gularte, the district's chief

financial officer.

"Our original start date was November of '05," she said. "We delayed it

to the summer [of 2006] because we could not get that lawsuit resolved."

Aaron Katz, who owns property in the district but lives elsewhere, filed

the lawsuit. It challenged three different voter-approved tax measures in

Santa Clara County with the argument that, as a property owner paying the

tax, he should have the right to vote on the tax.

Though his arguments have not prevailed in court, the Hospital District

and the West Valley-Mission Community College District settled their cases

rather than wait for the legal process to conclude.

The El Camino district reported settling the case in May for $200,000.

West -Valley-Mission reportedly settled for $60,000 late last year. The

college district issued $100 million of GO bonds this April.

The remaining plaintiff in the Katz lawsuit, Campbell Union High School

District, has a voter-approved parcel tax for operations.

A state Superior Court judge ordered the lawsuit against Campbell Union

dismissed on procedural grounds, because the reverse validation action Katz

filed failed to meet statutory requirements.

Katz's legal argument, which would fundamentally reshape local-tax GO

bond and election practices in California, was not addressed.

On Nov. 14, the Sixth District Court of Appeal upheld the lower court's

dismissal of the case.

"Since we affirm for the procedural reasons upon which the trial court

relied, we do not reach the substantive issues," according to the appeal

court opinion.

Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP is bond counsel for the El Camino GO

bond deal, which is expected to carry insurance on top of the district's high

underlying ratings: AA-minus from Standard & Poor's and Aa2 from Moody's

Investors Service.

The bonds are backed with an unlimited property tax pledge.

"The cities in the district's service area form the wealthiest core of

Santa Clara County," according to Moody's.

The new hospital is slated to open in 2009. The district plans to issue

about $250 million of revenue bonds to complete it.

"We should be issuing revenue bonds probably in the early spring of '07,"

Gularte said. The district expects to issue $120 million of revenue bonds

then, followed by $250 million in 2008.

http://www.bondbuyer.com http://www.sourcemedia.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: b


                        Copyright 2006 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


