                              184 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                Central Telegraph and Rural Weekly (Queensland)

                                 June 29, 2012

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 345  words



HIGHLIGHT: Mums want tohave childrenclose to home


LAST Friday, I had the pleasure of opening the Macintyre Maternity, Child and
Family Health Service in Goondiwindi.

Happy mums, toddlers and babies joined me at the event. It reinforced to me the
importance of women being able to give birth close to home, close to their
families and without the need to travel.

I was born at Inglewood Hospital and two of my four children were also born
there. I share the concerns of families and rural mums who want to be able to
give birth and have support services close to home.

The well-documented financial difficulties left by the former State Government
require us to keep a tight rein on expenditure but we remain committed to
improving front-line service delivery.

In rural Queensland, we have increased flying obstetrics and gynaecology
services (FOGS) out of Roma and begun a plan to re-open obstetric and procedural
services at other regional and rural locations.

Currently, the Roma FOGS contract is delivered via the Royal Flying Doctor
Service. The contract will be more than doubled in size as it expands in stages
from the current 400 flying hours a year to up to 1000 flying hours.

Meanwhile, on the ground, obstetric and procedural services at Beaudesert
Hospital will be re-introduced by July, 2014.

The previous Labor Government dropped the ball when it came to front-line
service delivery. In rural Queensland and every other part of the state, decades
of centralism have undermined local priorities and services.

Within the next week, local control of health priorities will be regained when
Hospital and Health Boards take up duty in communities across the state. The
head office of Queensland Health will be restructured.

Together, these initiatives help spell out the future of our statewide health
service. Our health workers deliver services essential to Queenslanders at every
stage of their lives. I am determined to see them valued and encouraged in the
good work they do.

Queensland Minister for Health Lawrence Springborg writes exclusively for Rural
Weekly CQ each week as part of our focus on rural health.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RRW


                    Copyright 2012 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


