                              178 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                          September 11, 2010 Saturday

on Lucas to sack Bob

BYLINE:  Bianca Clare

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 512  words



HIGHLIGHT: 2016: the year of the 'iron clad' promise


WITH hundreds listening, Health Minister Paul Lucas made an "iron clad"
guarantee that patients would be admitted to the new Sunshine Coast hospital in
2016.

His pledge was made at a Property Council lunch at Maroochydore Events Centre
yesterday.

The business community quizzed Mr Lucas about the timeframe of the $2 billion
project and job opportunities.

There has been growing frustration on the Coast at the lack of infrastructure
provisions from state and local governments.

The 450 bed Sunshine Coast University Hospital at Kawana, which will be a jobs
bonanza, should have been delivered in 2014.

And many in the construction industry also blame the amalgamated Sunshine Coast
Regional Council's "green policy" for a lull in development.

During the lunch, one businessman even went as far as telling Deputy Premier Mr
Lucas to use his powers to get rid of the "big fella" Mayor Bob Abbot.

Ken Brownjohn, of Rider Levett Bucknall, said it was understood that the Coast
was closed for business.

"It is like it is summer here but no one else is allowed to enjoy it," he said.

"We need to move forward."

Mr Brownjohn said he did not buy into Mr Abbot's excuse for stopping population
growth and dragging the chain on the Caloundra South development.

"Infrastructure is provided to booming communities," he said.

"You cannot cry about not having infrastructure in place if there is nothing in
place to attract it.

"It does not work the other way around. The Sunshine Coast is never going to
become like the Gold Coast.

"It has its own identity, it has Hastings Street and Twin Waters."

Mr Lucas said while he was concerned about housing affordability and
availability on the Coast, he respected Mr Abbot and would not comment on his
job security.

"Just like the last federal election and the last council election, the public
chose (their leader) democratically," he said. Mr Abbot is a very intelligent
man.

"But it must be said if the Coast does not free up more land, it will not
attract young families or couples."

Construction of the Sunshine Coast University Hospital is set to begin in 2013.

The three-year building phase is expected to provide 2000 jobs. The tenders for
the co-located private hospital will be announced next year. More than 300 jobs
will be on offer during construction. It will open in 2013 with 70 public beds.

Mr Lucas said there was no way Queensland Health could speed up the project.

"Instead we are strengthening health services on the Sunshine Coast," he said.

"This includes opening 90 beds at Nambour General Hospital, introduction of
cardiac catheterisation lab, vascular surgery procedural suite and endoscopy
procedural unit."

He said if the State Government could not find a public-private partnership for
Kawana hospital, they would seek their own funding. Many at the lunch hoped Mr
Lucas's "iron clad" promise would carry more weight than previous politician's
pledges.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


