                              177 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                           September 2, 2014 Tuesday

AstraZeneca reports results from Phase IV ATLANTIC study of Brilinta/Brilique

SECTION: DRUG MANUFACTURING; Product Developments

LENGTH: 728 words



HIGHLIGHT: AstraZeneca has announced the results of the Phase IV ATLANTIC study,
which indicates that the profile of BRILINTA/BRILIQUE (ticagrelor) is comparable
whether administered in a pre-hospital or in-hospital setting to ST segment
elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients.


The data will be presented during the European Society of Cardiology congress1
taking place between 30 August and 3 September 2014 in Barcelona.

ATLANTIC was designed to evaluate pre-hospital administration versus in-hospital
administration of ticagrelor in terms of pre-percutaneous coronary intervention
(PCI) - or angioplasty - procedural effectiveness, bleeding at 24 hours and 30
days and the pre-specified composite endpoint of death, MI, stroke, urgent
revascularisation and definite acute stent thrombosis at 30 days. Research shows
that the effectiveness of PCI may be impacted by delays caused when transferring
patients with acute STEMI to the catheterisation lab in hospital, and that STEMI
patients have a high risk of persistent and total coronary occlusion
(obstruction of blood flow in the coronary artery), resulting in a higher risk
of short-term mortality2.

There was no statistically significant difference between the pre-hospital or
in-hospital study arms in the co-primary endpoints of pre-PCI procedural
effectiveness; percentage of patients not achieving ST segment elevation
resolution [>=]70% before PCI (OR 0.93;95% CI 0.69, 1.25; p=0.632), and
percentage of patients not reaching thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI)
flow grade 3 in the infarct-related - or "culprit" - artery at initial
angiography (OR 0.97; 95% CI 0.75, 1.25; p=0.821).

The ATLANTIC study was not powered to look at clinical outcomes, however there
was no difference between the two arms in terms of composite endpoint. The pre-
hospital administration of ticagrelor indicates a risk reduction of post-PCI
stent thrombosis (a secondary endpoint) both at 24 hours (0% versus 0.8%;
nominal p = 0.0078) and 30 days (0.2% versus 1.2%; nominal p=0.023).

The study results also showed that there was no difference in bleeding events
between the pre-hospital and in-hospital study arms, the primary safety endpoint
of the study. Rates of bleeding events that were not related to coronary-artery
bypass grafting were low during the first 48 hours after the initial dose, and
from 48 hours through to 30 days, and the rates did not differ significantly
between the two study groups, indicating that earlier, pre-hospital
administration of ticagrelor in patients with acute STEMI can be undertaken
without increased bleeding risk3.

"ATLANTIC has indicated that in STEMI patients undergoing primary PCI,
ticagrelor has the flexibility to be used safely in either pre-hospital or in-
hospital settings with a potential benefit on the early occurrence of stent
thrombosis" said Dr. Gilles Montalescot, MD, Professor of Cardiology at
Pitié-Salpétrière Hospital, Paris, France, and Primary Investigator of the
ATLANTIC study. "These results are in line with the new ESC/EACTS 2014
Guidelines on Myocardial Revascularisation that were also presented at this
year's ESC conference, which give a class I recommendation to start dual
antiplatelet therapy in STEMI patients at first medical contact."

Marc Ditmarsch, Global Development Lead for BRILINTA said: "The results from the
ATLANTIC study allow us to better understand the role of BRILINTA in treating
STEMI patients. The data indicates that BRILINTA has the flexibility to be
initiated pre-hospital or in-hospital in STEMI patients with no adverse impact
on bleeding. While not the primary focus of this study, the data indicating a
risk reduction of post-PCI stent thrombosis in those patients who received
BRILINTA before reaching hospital are also encouraging, and warrant further
investigation."

ATLANTIC is a key trial building on the results of the pivotal PLATO study,
which demonstrated that treatment with ticagrelor plus aspirin for 12 months was
associated with a 21% relative risk reduction (RRR) in cardiovascular death (4%
vs. 5.1%; 1.1% ARR; P=0.001) and a 16% RRR in MI compared to clopidogrel plus
aspirin at 12 months (5.8% vs. 6.9%; 1.1% ARR; P<0.005). PLATO was the first
study to report in the global PARTHENON programme, designed to address
unanswered questions in atherothrombotic disease and to investigate the impact
of BRILINTA on reducing atherothrombotic events. PARTHENON is AstraZeneca's
largest ever clinical trial programme, involving more than 80,000 patients
worldwide, and is part of the company's commitment to understanding and
advancing treatments for cardiovascular diseases to improve patient health.

LOAD-DATE: September 03, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


