                              176 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 15, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

TriVascular Technologies Announces First Patients Treated in Europe with Ovation
iX Abdominal Stent Graft System

LENGTH: 434  words


Sept. 15 -- TriVascular Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:TRIV) announced today that
the first European patients have been treated successfully with the Ovation iX
Abdominal Stent Graft System in Germany and England. Building off of the
clinically proven Ovation platform, the Ovation iX System provides physicians
with options for greater procedural consistency and ease of use.

With the new system, contralateral gate access can be achieved either by
retrograde cannulation or through a new, built-in cross-over lumen. Cannulation
of the contra-lateral limb has been a common procedural challenge during EVAR,
especially when treating the growing number of patients with complex aortoiliac
anatomy. TriVascular's patent-pending crossover lumen technology offers
physicians an optional capability designed for easier and more predictable
cannulation of the contralateral limb when they need it. The Ovation iX System
received CE Mark and approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
earlier this year. The first implants in Europe were performed last week at
Herz- und Gefasszentrum Bad Bevensen, Germany and Watford General Hospital,
United Kingdom.

Dr. Thomas Nolte, Head of Vascular Surgery at Herz- und Gefasszentrum Bad
Bevensen, commented, "The Ovation platform, based on its breadth of application
and the strength of its clinical data, is my frontline device. The new Ovation
iX delivery system allows me to deploy the Ovation stent graft with increased
ease and predictability. The iX system is the latest delivery system improvement
from TriVascular in what is now a five year experience with the Ovation platform
in Germany."

Over 1,000 patients, including the first cases completed in Europe, have been
treated with the Ovation Platform in Germany since 2010. The launch of the
Ovation iX Abdominal Stent Graft System demonstrates TriVascular's ongoing
commitment to providing physicians with clinically valuable technologies.

The Ovation iX System will be featured at the annual DGG (Deutschen Gesellschaft
fur Gefasschirurgie und Gefassmedizin) Congress, taking place in Munster,
Germany from 16th - 19th September. Dr. Nolte will be joined by Prof. Eric
Verhoeven, Prof. Omke Teebken and Prof. Gotz Richter for a symposium on 17
September.

The Ovation platform has been used in the successful treatment of over 7,500
patients worldwide. Excellent clinical results have been reported from both the
Ovation global pivotal trial and a 501-patient European Post-Market Registry.
The Ovation Prime and Ovation iX systems are available for sale in over 35
countries.

Source: TriVascular Technologies

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


