                              179 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                             August 12, 2013 Monday
                                 Early Edition

Banff MD loses bid on maternity ward; Closure will stand, judge decides

BYLINE: Cathy Ellis, For The Calgary Herald

SECTION: CITY & REGION; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 599 words

DATELINE: BANFF


The Alberta Court of Queen's Bench has thrown out a Banffdoctor's request for a
judicial review of the closure of the maternity ward at Mineral Springs
Hospital. Dr. Ian MacDonald claimed that Alberta Health Services and Covenant
Health had made the controversial decision without "necessary, appropriate and
meaningful consultation."

But in a 20-page ruling handed down July 17, Madam Justice S.L. Martin dismissed
the application.

She said the hospital's consultation was not perfect and may not stand as a
shining example of best practice, but the multiple steps taken do not fall short
of what is legally required.

Martin said from the point of view of common sense, good management and sound
human relations, it is easy to appreciate why. MacDonald believes the situation
could have been handled differently.

"The issue before me is not what ought to have been done to promote the best or
most inclusive decision possible. Rather, the court's focus is restricted to
what the law establishes as the requirements of procedural fairness," she wrote.

"Under the legal doctrine of legitimate expectations, the applicant must show
that there was a particular promise or representations that a certain process
would be followed and it was not."

The obstetric unit at Mineral Springs Hospital was closed March 25 and moved to
Canmore General Hospital. At the same time, all vascular and cosmetic surgery in
the Bow Valley was moved to Banff.

Babies will be delivered in Banffonly on an emergency basis and low-risk
expecting moms, their physicians and families from Banffhave to go to Canmore
for delivery, just 25 kilometres away.

Moderate and high-risk patients will continue to be sent to Calgary for
delivery, as was the case prior to the March 25 closure of the maternity ward.

The number of babies delivered in Banffhad been decreasing, to a low of 51 in
2012, while there are a growing number of deliveries in Canmore. There were 267
babies born in the Canmore hospital in 2012.

But MacDonald - who has practised general surgery and emergency medicine in
Banfffor 20 years - believes the decision to close the unit is short-sighted.

"The judgment shows clearly that they didn't consult," he said in an interview.

"Obviously its going to make it more difficult for us to look after our patients
in the Bow

Valley. Patients are very put out and are concerned about having to go to
Canmore."

MacDonald's wife and clinic partner is Dr. Jane Fowke, who, after Patti Edgar
went to a new family medical clinic in Canmore with a focus on obstetrics, was
the only doctor in Banffdelivering babies.

Hospital administrators told court that the decision was made in the best
interest of patient care and sustainability of obstetrics in the Bow Valley, not
to save money.

The hospital says that the low volume of births in Banffmeant it was difficult
for nurses to maintain the necessary skills in obstetrics, which is critical to
patient safety.

The hospital was also having trouble filling nursing vacancies because of the
need for the specialized skills in obstetrics. In 2009, obstetrics was suspended
for five months for this reason.

MacDonald claimed there was inadequate consultation before the decision was
made, citing a lack of procedural fairness that may result in safety risks to
mothers and babies.

MacDonald told the court he believes the decision to close the maternity ward
was based on economics alone.

"Removing local maternity services increases maternal and neo-natal risks," he
said in court documents.

With files from Tamara Gignac, Calgary Herald Cathy Ellis is a reporter with the
Rocky Mountain Outlook

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

