                              188 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1986, American Health Lawyers Association,
                             Journal of Health Law

                                 November, 1986

                         Vol. 19, No. 11, HOSPLW Pg. 11

LENGTH: 339 words

TITLE: Medical Records; Missouri Statute Granting Privilege to Peer Review
Records Applied Retroactively

TEXT:

     The Missouri Court of Appeals granted a writ of prohibition relieving a
hospital from the obligation to produce peer review committee documents.  These
records included minutes of hospital meetings and conferences pertaining to the
hospitalization, care and treatment of plaintiffs in an underlying malpractice
suit.

   The hospital had refused to comply with the plaintiffs' request, averring
that the documents sought were privileged. The hospital based its objection on a
recently-enacted Missouri statute which provides that proceedings, finding,
deliberations, reports and minutes of peer review committees concerning the
health care provided any patient are privileged and shall not be subject to
discovery subpoena.  Before the statute's effective date, Missouri law
recognized no peer review privilege for factual statements.  The trial court had
overruled the hospital's objection and ordered it to produce the requested
documents.

   On appeal, the hospital asserted that the documents were privileged in
accordance with the new Missouri statute.  The respondent judge, however, argued
that the hospital was foreclosed from invoking the privilege the statute confers
because the date plaintiffs specified for discovery preceded the statute's
effective date.

   The court of appeals reasoned that procedural statutes, under the general
rule of statutory construction, are applicable to all pending cases.  Statutes
dealing with the discoverability of evidence are procedural.  The underlying
action was also pending in that it had not been reduced to a final, unappealable
judgment.  Thus, the statute applied to plaintiffs' discovery request.

   [Ed. note: Compare Hutchinson v. Smith Laboratories, Supreme Court of Iowa,
No. 86-325, Aug. 20, 1986 (Journal of Health Law, Vol. 19, No. 10, p. 7, Oct.
1986), refusing to grant judicial privilege of immunity to peer review records
since legislation granted privilege to future peer proceedings.  Implicitly, the
court refused to give the statute retroactive effect.]

REFERENCE: (State of Missouri ex rel., St. John's Mercy Medical Center v.
Hoester, Missouri Court of Appeals, Eastern District, Division Four, No. 51104,
April 15, 1986.)


