                              192 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Scottish Express

                             March 14, 2014 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Death of killer mum could halt jail attack case

BYLINE: Tim Bugler

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 278 words


A WOMAN accused of slashing Theresa Riggi may have the case against her dropped
after the death of the killer mother.

Riggi, 50, originally from California, was found dead at Rampton Secure Hospital
in Nottinghamshire earlier this week.

She had been transferred there from Scotland, where she was serving 16 years for
killing her three children in Edinburgh in 2010.

It had been hoped she would give evidence by video link next Thursday at a case
in which Angela Hamilton, 40, is accused of slashing her with a razor blade when
they were both in Cornton Vale Prison in November 2011.

Hamilton, whose address was given as care of Leverndale Hospital, Glasgow, was
due to appear at a procedural hearing at Stirling Sheriff Court yesterday, at
which a pyschiatrist from Rampton would have given evidence about Riggi's
fitness to testify. But the procedural hearing was cancelled before Hamilton
could attend.

Her solicitor, Murray Aitken, referred to Riggi's death simply as "a significant
development".

He told the court: "My hope is that the Crown will take the view that any
further proceeding is unnecessary."

Sheriff Wyllie Robertson continued the case for a week, when Hamilton will be
required to appear.

Riggi stabbed her eight-year-old twins Austin and Gianluca and their
five-year-old sister Cecilia eight times in their Edinburgh home in 2010.

She then tried to cover up their deaths with a gas explosion, before leaping out
of their second-floor flat.

She was originally charged with murder but later admitted culpable homicide on
the grounds of diminished responsibility.

She had been involved in a custody battle with her estranged husband over access
to the children.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXPscot


                       Copyright 2014 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


