                              187 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           The Arizona Capitol Times

                              May 31, 2013 Friday

Mental health contract put on hold in Maricopa County, potentially delaying new
approach to patient care

BYLINE: Jeremy Duda

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 712  words


A multibillion-dollar contract for mental health services in Maricopa County is
on hold while the Arizona Department of Administration sorts through a protest
by the losing bidder.

ADOA issued a stay on a contract awarded by the Arizona Department of Health
Services to Mercy Maricopa Integrated Care. That could delay its implementation
beyond the Oct. 1 start date, with services continuing on a month-to-month
basis.  Still, a mental health advocate said the delay could lead to "dreadful
consequences'' for patients.

The three-year contract, worth $2 billion to $3 billion, depending on whether
Gov. Jan Brewer's Medicaid expansion plan is implemented, would provide mental
and physical health services to about 12,000 seriously mentally ill patients in
Maricopa County.

The stay was issued after Magellan Health Services, which has provided
behavioral health services for the county since 2007, appealed. Magellan alleged
that Mercy Maricopa Integrated Care, a partnership between the county hospital
system and Mercy Care Plan, unfairly received the contract after violating
confidentiality agreements, using Magellan's trade secrets and other
improprieties that the company said effectively rigged the bidding process.

But all parties involved say the stay has nothing to do with the substance of
Magellan's arguments. Jeff Grant, deputy director to ADOA Director Brian McNeil,
wrote in the agency's decision that a stay is appropriate because of the size of
the contract, the scope of the services and the impact of the transition between
the two providers. Grant also said it is unknown whether a lawsuit filed by
Magellan against Maricopa Integrated Health System, the county hospital system,
will affect the appeal of the contract.

In a blog post on the ADHS website, Director Will Humble wrote that stays of
protested contracts are common, and emphasized that it wasn't based on the
merits of Magellan's appeal. Humble described it as a procedural decision to
give ADOA enough time to review the materials submitted by the agency, Magellan
and Mercy Maricopa Integrated Care.

Cory Nelson, ADHS deputy director for behavioral health services, said the stay
"wasn't unexpected. " But it could potentially delay the scheduled Oct. 1
beginning of Mercy Maricopa Integrated Care's contract. If the stay pushes the
official transition back, Nelson said ADHS would continue its contract with
Magellan on a month-to-month basis.

"No matter what, at the end of the day our members are going to receive
services," Nelson said.

Magellan of Arizona CEO Richard Clarke and spokeswoman Mary Ehlert also said the
stay was simply a procedural matter. Ehlert said the stay isn't indicative of
how ADOA will rule on Magellan's appeal.

"It's not really a ruling on our appeal at all. It's really just about the stay.
It's not really an indicator one way or the other," Ehlert said.

Some mental health advocates, however, are concerned about the impact that a
delay in the new contract might have. Charles "Chick" Arnold, an attorney who
won the landmark Arnold v. Sarn ruling on mental health services in Maricopa
County, emphasized that the new contract will provide services that the old one
didn't.

While Magellan's current contract is for behavioral health services only, the
new contract is for integrated services that provide both mental and physical
health treatment. On average, people with serious mental illnesses die 32 years
earlier than other people, Arnold said, and most of the time the cause of death
is physical issues that go untreated such as asthma or diabetes.

Arnold said he fears "dreadful consequences" if such treatment is delayed.

"People were excited about the notion of an integrated system and to suggest
that it might be delayed is going to have a negative impact on the collective
mindset of our mental health community," Arnold said. "The current delivery
system isn't responsive. It's not accessible and needs to move toward an
integrated system. And the state has recognized that in the way the RFP was
drafted. "

In the meantime, ADHS is asking the Department of Administration to reconsider
the stay.

http://www.azcapitoltimes.com/be-the-first-to-know/Click here for more from this
resource.

© 2013 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

