                              193 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Target series

                                  July 6, 2011

New pain relief just what doctor ordered

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 291 words


Patients requiring treatment in the accident and emergency department at
Boston's Pilgrim Hospital are set to benefit from new pain controlling
techniques thanks to the department's latest team member.

A&E Consultant Dr Ravindranath Sant has introduced procedural sedation and plans
to train all the middle-grade doctors in the department in its use.

He told the Target: "Procedural sedation is a technique of using a combination
of a very strong painkillers along with a sedative medication for procedures
such as reduction of dislocated shoulder or fracture-dislocation of ankle. It
can also be used for suturing of facial wounds.

"The College of Emergency Medicine is advocating using this technique by
emergency physicians in the emergency department, as it keeps the patient much
more comfortable, calm and pain-free during these particularly painful
procedures, which otherwise would have required a general anaesthetic.

"This technique, therefore, can avoid unnecessary hospital admissions, as
patients could potentially be discharged following one to two hours of
observation in the department itself or in the observation ward."

Before embarking on a career in emergency medicine, Dr Sant was an anaesthetist.

He worked as a specialist anaesthetist in Saudi Arabia from 1993 to 2000 and
came to the UK in April 2000 and began his career in emergency medicine in 2004.

Dr Sant, who completed registrar training at East of England Deanery in
Cambridge this year, said: "Pilgrim Hospital A&E is a friendly, progressive
department, committed to the best care of its patients.

"The consultants, middle-grade doctors, nursing and allied healthcare
professionals are very supportive, caring and hard working. I am delighted to be
a part of the team here."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 95


                    Copyright 2011 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


