                              20 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              May 1, 2012 Tuesday

SMS hospital 'red tape' kills 16-yr-old;
ICU bed not released to pneumonia patient due to &apos;procedural&apos;
confusion

BYLINE: DNA Correspondent

LENGTH: 578  words


In a glaring incident of "procedural" negligence, a 16-year-old girl died at
Jaipur&apos;s Sawai Man Singh Hospital on Saturday, while waiting for an ICU
bed.

Diksha Sharma, a patient diagnosed with pneumonia, was allegedly kept waiting
for an ICU bed for three hours as the hospital administration could not complete
procedural formalities in time.

Infuriated by the callous attitude of hospital staff, the patient&apos;s
relatives fought with officials on duty and attempted to ransack the medical
superintendent&apos;s office. Dr LC Sharma, the superintendent, later admitted
to the "unfortunate" incident and blamed it on "procedural lapses" even as his
claims were refuted by subordinate doctors attending on the victim.

Diksha, a resident of Ramganj, was brought to the hospital on Sunday after
doctors diagnosed her with pneumonia. Her condition deteriorated on Monday,
following which the attending doctor recommended an ICU bed for her. As the
final call on allotment of ICU bed in SMS Hospital is taken by the
superintendent, the patient&apos;s attendant, Gayatri Agrawal - who is a clerk
with the hospital - requested Dr Sharma to sanction an ICU bed. Dr Sharma
reportedly told them that he would sanction a bed only after receiving a word
from the attending doctor.

When DNA spoke to Gayatri Sharma, she said Dr Sandip Jain, who was attending on
Diksha, was informed about the protocol. "When Dr Jain called Dr Sharma, the
latter told him that there was no bed available in the ICU. But, since I know
the staff and checked the ICU, there were four vacant beds," she said.

Gayatri returned to Sharma&apos;s office to clarify that there was a confusion
about beds, but he had apparently left by then. Relatives alleged they tried to
reach him on phone, but couldn&apos;t. The family members said they went to the
additional medical superintendent and deputy superintendent, but were told that
they were not empowered to sanction an ICU bed.

During this surreal drama, which continued for three hours, Diksha passed away.
When the news of her demise reached her relatives, they went berserk and clashed
with officials. The relatives also tried to break into the medical
superintendent&apos;s office.

As the situation deteriorated, police was called on the spot. Dr Sharma too
returned to the hospital, under police protection. He was confronted by angry
relatives and hospital staff.

When contacted Dr Sharma agreed that ICU beds were vacant,

but claimed he didn&apos;t know the attending doctor, Sandip Jain, who called
him. "Gayatri Sharma (the hospital clerk) came to me for an ICU bed for her
relative. As there&apos;s a huge demand for ICU bed, I can sanction a bed only
on call from the faculty. Dr G Devpura did not inform me and I didn&apos;t know
the doctor who had called me. The girl couldn&apos;t get ICU bed due to this
confusion," said the hospital superintendent.

He blamed the confusion and miscommunication for Diksha&apos;s demise and
shrugged off the responsibility by calling the incident "unfortunate".

His claims, though, were rejected by fellow doctors. "The girl was suffering
from pneumonia, so we decided to shift her to ICU. Dr Sandip Jain called Dr LC
Sharma in my presence. We were told that no ICU bed was vacant," said Dr G
Devpura, professor, medicine department. Dr Sandip Jain too testified that Dr LC
Sharma knew him. "I&apos;ve called Dr Sharma many times in past for an ICU bed.
He informed me that no ICU bed was vacant," he told DNA.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2012 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


