                              191 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 4, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

TriVascular Technologies Receives FDA Approval of Ovation iX Abdominal Stent
Graft System

LENGTH: 458  words


Aug. 4 -- TriVascular Technologies, Inc. (NASDAQ:TRIV) announced today that the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the Ovation iX Abdominal Stent
Graft System. Delivery system enhancements of Ovation iX, which stands for
integrated exchange, are designed to provide physicians with additional
flexibility for even more predictable deployment and greater ease of use. A new,
built-in procedural option is available to replace retrograde cannulation of the
main body device, facilitating placement of the contralateral iliac stent graft.
A low profile, 12-13F integrated sheath is designed to minimize vessel trauma
and reduce procedural steps. At 14F OD, the Ovation iX abdominal stent graft
system remains the lowest profile FDA-approved EVAR device.

"The improvements reflected in the new Ovation iX aortic body set the Ovation
system even further ahead in terms of ease of use and predictability of
deployment. This allows me to treat both straightforward and more challenging
AAA anatomies with confidence," commented Dr. Steve Henao, Vascular Surgeon at
New Mexico Heart Institute. "By providing an alternative to retrograde
cannulation - there when I need it, imperceptible when I don't - the Ovation iX
system offers not only excellent accuracy, but also procedural predictability.
As a result, I am confident in my ability to offer my patients consistent, high
quality clinical outcomes with the Ovation system."

The FDA approval of the Ovation iX Abdominal Stent Graft System marks the sixth
FDA approval related to the Ovation platform since September 2011. This
demonstrates TriVascular's ongoing commitment to quickly providing physicians
with clinically useful products. The ease-of-use enhancements incorporated into
the iX aortic body delivery system, as well as the recently approved iX iliac
limb technology, are a direct result of physician input and indicative of
TriVascular's responsiveness to clinical feedback.

"The launch of the complete Ovation iX system supports our mission to improve
and safely expand EVAR for all and serves as evidence of our commitment to
deliver a strong pipeline of products," said Christopher G. Chavez, Chairman,
CEO and President of TriVascular. "We believe the Ovation iX delivery system
enhancements will complement the broad IFU of the Ovation system and further
enable our physician partners to provide improved, on-label EVAR treatment to
more patients."

The Ovation platform has been used in the successful treatment of over 7,000
patients worldwide. Excellent clinical results have been reported from both the
Ovation global pivotal trial and a 501-patient European Post-Market Registry.
The Ovation platform is available for sale in over 35 countries.

Source: TriVascular Technologies

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


