                              195 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                            April 21, 2016 Thursday
                                  ALL EDITION

COURT REJECTS DOCTORS HOSPITAL APPEAL;
FIGHT OVER COLUMBIA COUNTY PROJECT NOT DONE

BYLINE:  TOM CORWIN  STAFF WRITER

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 687 words


One appeal has been dismissed but another is still pending as Doctors Hospital
of Augusta fights a state license allowing AU Medical Center to build a hospital
in Columbia County. Another court victory and construction on the county's first
hospital complex could be months away, an official with AUMC said.

"We suffered a procedural setback," Doctors spokesman Adam Landau said.

The battle to build a

100-bed hospital in the county, the state's largest without a hospital, has
stretched well over two years and involved two lawsuits from Doctors Hospital.
Three Augusta hospitals - Doctors, AUMC and University Hospital - filed
competing proposals for the required certificate of need to build in Columbia
County using a seldom-used exception to the need standard that would allow for a
facility to be built if the county put up 20 percent of the cost.

The state awarded the permit to AUMC in November

2014, and Doctors and University filed administrative appeals. Before those
appeals were heard in June 2015, Doctors Hospital filed suit against the state,
saying the Department of Community Health could not create the exceptions used
to grant the license, which it termed "loopholes," and that only the Legislature
had that authority.

Noting that Doctors had not exhausted its administrative appeals at the time,
that lawsuit in Fulton County Superior Court was dismissed in October and
Doctors filed notice it would appeal in November, according to a court order.

Meanwhile, a hearing officer decided AUMC was properly awarded the permit,
University decided not to appeal any further but Doctors did, exhausting its
last administrative appeal in November. Doctors Hospital filed a second petition
in Superior Court asking for judicial review of that decision.

In dismissing that appeal, the judge ruled that the "prior pending action
doctrine" should apply, essentially finding that Doctors had two similar suits
with similar causes and the same parties involved, and that because the first
case is still pending, the second has to be dismissed.

"The judge didn't rule on the merits of our case, but on a procedural issue
resulting from another appeal we've filed on the lawfulness of the loophole used
to grant the certificate of need," Landau said.

Doctors Hospital is arguing that the exception is not legal, "but they certainly
did submit an application (for a certificate of need) that tried to take
advantage of the very issues that they are now challenging," said Shawn Vincent,
AUMC's interim chief operating officer.

The other appeal is still pending with the Georgia Court of Appeals, and Vincent
said he expected any hearing on that case would be held in mid- to late July.

"We're reviewing our options, but this isn't nearly the end of our fight for
fairness," Landau said. "Our goal is to get the merits of our case heard."

Should that appeal be denied, Vincent said he believes all that would remain is
a long-shot appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court.

The state has told AUMC it cannot build the hospital until the legal issues are
cleared, but he said the health system believes it will prevail. In the
meantime, it is looking over its plans from two years ago to see whether those
services and levels of demand are still accurate, Vincent said.

There will be more intensive discussions with the Columbia County Commission on
what those "next steps" could be, he said.

Should it get the clearance, construction of the hospital is estimated at

30 to 35 months, but the development is going to be more than a hospital,
Vincent said. Some of those other potential pieces, such as a medical office
building, don't require that same licensing process, he said.

"What we've really talked about is the development of an entire health campus,"
Vincent said. "There could be some other construction that would precede a
hospital. And some that might go along concurrently with a hospital."

If or when that approval comes, AUMC is ready to go, he said.

"We're just incredibly eager to get the project started," Vincent said. "I
believe the community is ready for this."

Reach Tom Corwin at (706) 823-3213

or tom.corwin@augustachronicle.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2016 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


