                              198 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            March 25, 2015 Wednesday

Washington: Naval Hospital Jacksonville Increasing Patient Safety Through
Training

LENGTH: 564  words

DATELINE: Washington


United States Navy, The Government of USA has issued the following news release:

According to the World Health Organization, as many as one in 10 patients are
harmed while receiving hospital care - seven out of 100 hospitalized patients
acquire health care-associated infections.

"Medicine, by its inherent nature, can presents risks on a daily basis," said
Kathleen Davitt, nurse educator assigned to Naval Hospital (NH) Jacksonville's
Staff Education and Training (SEAT) department. "But through hands-on, life-like
training from our simulation equipment, our health care professionals are better
prepared to mitigate those procedural and technical risks to maintain an
increased environment of safety and quality within our facilities."

At NH Jacksonville, health care professionals utilize state-of-the-art low-,
medium-, and high-fidelity human-like simulators to provide evidence-based
simulations to develop and hone already acquired skills of its health care
professionals-nurses, physicians, residents and corpsmen.

The simulators, operated by simulation technicians in the hospital's SEAT
department, are capable of creating a broad range of mock team and individual
training on a number of medical situations - such as childbirth, cardiac arrest
and perioperative complications - to enhance medical education and training, and
most importantly promote safe patient outcomes. And to complement the human-like
simulators, NH Jacksonville uses life-like body parts (medical task trainers) to
simulate medical procedural tactics such as lumbar or epidural punctures,
abdominal ultrasounds, injections and arterial line placements.

For military and civilian staff who may deploy to combat zones or on
humanitarian missions, NH Jacksonville utilizes specialized simulators to
replicate extensive trauma victims - like those that may be encountered while
deployed.

"To make training more realistic, we conduct scenarios in actual patient care
areas, rather than a laboratory setting, to simulate a real environment and
promote proficiency," said Davitt. "This type of training can effectively
reaffirm and fine-tune individual and team strengths, or identify and correct
procedures or tactics - ultimately reducing errors and improving patient
safety."

Everyone in the health care process plays a vital role in delivering safe care,
and NH Jacksonville remains focused on patient safety 24/7/365. The command has
been recognized for its ongoing safety efforts by consistently earning the Joint
Commission Gold Seal of Approval for accreditation in health care quality and
safety, and it was recently awarded the National Committee for Quality Assurance
(NCQA) Level III - the nation's highest level - recognition for its
Patient-Centered Medical Home at the hospital and all five of its branch health
clinics.

NH Jacksonville's priority since its founding in 1941 is to heal the nation's
heroes and their families. The command is comprised of the Navy's third largest
hospital and five branch health clinics across Florida and Georgia. Of its
patient population - about 160,000 active and retired Sailors, Soldiers,
Marines, Airmen, Guardsmen and their families - about 70,000 are enrolled with a
primary care manager and Medical Home Port team at one of its facilities.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com


LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


