                              203 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 April 29, 1999, Thursday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Procedural move defeats bill that would help TGH

BYLINE: DAVID KARP

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 273 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



An attempt to give Tampa General Hospital more power to collect unpaid bills
died in the Legislature on Wednesday.

The House Community Affairs Committee postponed passage of a bill that would put
hospitals in Hillsborough County in a better legal position when attempting to
collect money from patients who do not pay their bills despite winning insurance
settlements in court.

With only a few days left in the legislative session, the procedural move
effectively killed the bill, which was sponsored by state Sen. John Grant,
R-Tampa. The committee won't meet again to reconsider Grant's bill.

Grant could not be reached for comment.

"When all . . . the smoke clears and the dust settles, we are right back where
we were: without a lien, providing major trauma care and not having the ability
to get reimbursed for it," TGH spokesman John Dunn said.

"We're the only major trauma center in the state of Florida in that boat," he
added.

The Hillsborough County Commission could change that with a simple vote.

Last year, the Legislature gave the commission the power to grant hospitals lien
power against insurance settlements, but not the kind of lien power
commissioners want. The current lien power won't leave any money for patients or
lawyers, commissioners say.

Grant's bill would have given lawyers the first bite at an insurance settlement,
then let the hospital take money left over. Tampa General's lobbyists preferred
a version that would give hospitals the first shot at insurance settlements.

TGH officials have said the hospital is losing millions of dollars each year
because it lacks the lien power.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; METRO & STATE; CITY & STATE

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


