                              197 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                August 13, 2016

Kidney Transplant: Doctors demand change of law

BYLINE: Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 458  words


Say they don't want to be held responsible for the process of verifying
documents

Mumbai: The Association of Nephrologists in the city have demanded a change in
the law regarding transplant cases so that they are not held responsible for
verification of the documents regarding organ transplants.

This development has come after the recent arrest of five doctors of Hiranandani
Hospital in Powai after they were found to have violated procedures in approving
kidney transplants. The arrests were made following a report by a three-member
committee set up by the state government and which carried out an inquiry into
this case. Investigations revealed that a female donor was being passed off as
the `wife' of a kidney patient with the intention of giving her kidney to him.

"It is the basic duty of the doctor to provide medical care to the patients and
he should have no role to play in procedural matters like verification of
documents"

According to Dr Umesh Khanna, secretary of the Mumbai Nephrologists Group, they
have decided that they will not carry out any further live, related transplant
till there is a change in the law. "Somehow, the rules mention that the medical
practitioner has to verify the donors, which should not be the case at all," he
said. It is the basic duty of the doctor to provide medical care to the patients
and he should have no role to play in procedural matters like verification of
documents, he added.

This was seconded by Dr Lalit Kapoor of the Association of Medical Consultants
who said that the rules laid down by the state government have mandated that it
is the doctors who are responsible for authenticating the documents. "But this
is the job of the hospital committee to carry out this verification process and
it is highly unfair to hold doctors responsible for this," he pointed out.

Nephrologists have now decided that they will not be part of any transplant
activity after this till this issue is sorted out. "As far as the cases that
have already been cleared, we will definitely complete them. But we will not
take up any new cases after this and we will also communicate this to the
administration," he added. However, this does not relate to cadaver transplants
which will be carried out as usual, sources said.

Police sources said the arrest of the five doctors was based on the report
submitted by the inquiry committee which found procedural lapses in the
verification process. These five doctors are the CEO Dr Sujit Chatterjee,
Managing Director, Dr Anurag Naik, Dr Mukesh Shetye, Dr Mukesh Shah and Dr
Prakash Shetty. The police are currently in the process of investigating if
there are some other doctors involved in this kidney scam and if this also
spreads to any other hospital in the city.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2016 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


