                              199 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1984, American Health Lawyers Association,
                             Journal of Health Law

                                   May, 1984

                          Vol. 17, No. 5, HOSPLW Pg. 3

LENGTH: 327 words

TITLE: Podiatrists should be afforded due process when applying for hospital
staff membership.

TEXT:

     According to the Illinois Attorney General, under a rule of the Illinois
hospital licensing requirements, applicants for medical staff membership,
including podiatrists, must be afforded the following: reasonable notice; the
opportunity to appear and be heard at each level of the application review
process; the opportunity to present evidence and examine the evidence tendered
against them; and the opportunity to present, confront and question witnesses.
The Attorney General added that podiatrists are eligible to apply for membership
on a hospital's staff, and if appointed, become medical staff members.

     However, it was pointed out that a hospital's governing board is not
required to appoint a podiatrist to its medical staff if, in its judgment, such
appointment is not consistent with the hospital's choice of methods to provide
competent health care to patients. Although appointment of podiatrists is a
matter of discretion and judgment, the Attorney General noted that Illinois
hospital licensing requirements mandate that any podiatrist applying for
hospital staff membership be afforded procedural process and a fair hearing.

     Furthermore, the Attorney General pointed out that the procedural due
process guarantee applies to public and private hospitals. While it may be true
that an applicant for staff privileges in a private hospital is not
constitutionally guaranteed the due process safeguards applicable to public
hospitals, the Attorney General explained that Illinois hospital licensing law
and requirements apply to both public and private hospitals. He concluded that,
because the requirement that applicants for hospital medical staff privileges
receive due process and a fair hearing is independent of the general
constitutional rights that might apply, there is no distinction between public
and private hospitals ("Opinion of the Illinois Attorney General," File No
84-004, April 4, 1984).

REFERENCE: "Opinion of the Illinois Attorney General," File No 84-004, April 4,
1984.  The American Academy of Hospital Attorneys was formerly the American
Society of Hospital Attorneys.


