                              194 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                  Sunday Life

                                 July 22, 2007
                                  LIF Edition

LUCKY LEWIS;
FORMULA ONE GRAND PRIX

BYLINE: IAN PARKES

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 347 words


LEWIS Hamilton will race in today's European Grand Prix pending a final medical
examination this morning.

The world championship leader suffered a frightening 175mph smash in qualifying
at the Nurburgring after a faulty airgun led to the front-right wheel working
loose.

Hamilton sustained no injuries, while CT scans taken at a nearby military
hospital have also come back clear.

The 22-year-old will now undergo a procedural, mandatory check this morning to
be conducted by the FIA's medical delegate, Gary Hartstein.

"It was a bit unfortunate, but I am feeling fine," said Hamilton outside the
McLaren garage after being released from hospital.

"I'm very fortunate, very lucky that I haven't got any bruises - although I'm
sure I'll wake up with some.

"But the most important thing is I am okay, and the team are doing a good job to
make sure we have a good car.

"Ron (Dennis) says I have to be signed off in the morning, so we have to wait
and see, but I feel fine for the race, so fingers crossed."

Team boss Dennis added: "He has no bruising, he has no damage anywhere, he is
not sore anywhere.

"He is absolutely fine, all the scans are fine, and at this moment in time there
is no medical reason why he can't race.

"But the procedure is he will have a night's sleep and he will have a final,
mandatory check in the morning with Gary Hartstein. It is a procedural thing."

As soon as Hamilton's accident occurred, the qualifying session was red flagged
and brought to a halt.

It was obvious the Briton was shaken because at one stage, as he tried to steady
himself after climbing out of the cockpit of his car, his legs gave way and he
slumped onto the gravel.

After 13 minutes in which he was attended to by trackside medics, he was
eventually lifted into the back of a waiting ambulance with his neck in a
precautionary brace, while he was also on a drip.

However, Hamilton was able to indicate he was okay as he waved his right arm and
gave a thumbs-up sign.

Dennis, though, conceded he was seriously concerned at one point because the
team were unable to make contact with their young star.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SL


                  Copyright 2007 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


