                              196 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                             May 7, 2008 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Bullying leads to walkout;
Illawarra psychiatric chief resigns post in disgust

BYLINE: ANGELA THOMPSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 584 words


THE head of the Illawarra's psychiatric services has quit in disgust, citing an
administrative culture of bullying, gagging and scapegoating.

Illawarra Health chief psychiatrist Irwin Pakula walked away from 30 years in
the health service yesterday, fed up with an "immoral" staff review system and a
Sydney-centric administration.

His decision came after the health service allegedly attempted to block an email
in which Dr Pakula voiced concerns to other staff and cancelled a meeting at
which he planned to discuss the issues.

The Mercury put Dr Pakula's claims to the health service, but a spokeswoman
declined to comment.

Dr Pakula, who is also the medical superintendent of Shellharbour's psychiatric
inpatient unit, walked away after a staff member was stood down as a result of
an external review.

He said the review system was flawed and saw staff assessed without necessarily
knowing why, denied the right of reply, then stood down if they refused to
comply with disciplinary action.

"I think it's illegal - it's certainly immoral because it lacks any sense of
procedural fairness," he said.

"The health service uses these reviews to cover up its own deficiencies - lack
of resources, staffing - and they take it out on individual staff members."

Dr Pakula had already given notice to leave the hospital last month because he
was frustrated with the administration. The disciplinary action had hastened his
decision.

Dr Pakula said he was gagged after attempting to voice his concerns to Illawarra
and Shoalhaven staff in a May 2 email.

The Mercury obtained a copy of the email, which he confirmed he had written.

In the email Dr Pakula told colleagues three patients were to be sent from
Sydney's Prince of Wales (POW) Hospital to Shellharbour Hospital in spite of his
objections they did not meet two key criteria, relating to their transfer back
to Sydney and a known address.

"I felt that these criteria were reasonable since they are the criteria devised
by POW whenever I have tried to send a patient to POW when our unit is full," he
wrote.

"I have been advised that the three patients will be sent anyway ... this is an
unreasonable directive from our administration."

Later in the email, Dr Pakula said he would like 10 minutes to speak about
unfair procedural processes, the lack of support given to medical staff and
administration bullying, at a planning day on May 6.

He alleged the area health service then attempted to withdraw the message on his
behalf and later cancelled the planning day.

"They sent out this thing called 'withdraw' to some people. (It said) 'Irwin
Pakula withdraws the email'.

"They then closed off my access to my computer and my email address to try and
stop me sending any more emails."

Yesterday, Dr Pakula said hospital administration had become Sydney-centric
after the Illawarra and South Eastern Sydney were amalgamated in 2005. Staff
were not supported and were frequently bullied by administrators, he said.

"We used to have a nurturing service, an administration that would listen to the
staff and negotiate issues," he said.

"The current administration doesn't listen, yet they seem to have a serious lack
of insight into the issues that we face on the Illawarra and Shoalhaven.

"We've got a lot of pressure on us to discharge patients and it sort of just
goes on all day - being told to discharge, discharge, discharge patients.

"Almost on a daily basis I'd be discharging patients who were quite unwell."

Dr Pakula will expand his private psychiatric practice in Warilla.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fed up: Dr Irwin Pakula at Shellharbour Hospital after clearing
out his desk yesterday. The psychiatrist cited bullying, gagging and
scapegoating in the health service for his decision to quit. Picture: DAVE TEASE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2008 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


