                              202 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 17, 2014 Monday

Nurse Manager (GI/GU)

LENGTH: 1562  words

DATELINE: Lansing


National Association of Sales Professionals has issued the following job
announcement:


Nurse Manager (GI/GU)
Job ID:  21278356
Position Title:  Nurse Manager (GI/GU)
Company Name:  Veterans Affairs, Veterans Health Administration
Location(s):  Tampa, Florida, 33601, United States

Posted:  November 16, 2014
Job Function:  RN
Entry Level:  No
APPLY FOR THIS JOB
Apply URL:  http://www.ecentralmetrics.com/url/?u=59523124989%...
Save Job  Email Job  Print Job
Job Description

The James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital and Clinics in Tampa, Florida is seeking a
dynamic, experienced nurse leader to serve as Nurse Manager (NM) for
Perioperative Service GI/GU. The NM demonstrates performance and leadership that
is broad enough to improve patient care with the goal of demonstrating
improvements at an organizational level within the facility, VISN or VACO. The
NM must demonstrate excellence in customer service for both internal and
external customers. The NM is responsible for assessment, planning, provision,
and evaluation of nursing services in a specified client area(s). The NM is also
responsible for directing and organizing the unit specific orientation, training
and development of staff and for directing, supervising, and evaluating their
performance. The NM functions as a role model, educator, practitioner, and
manager and provides leadership to an interdisciplinary team. NM position is a
24/7 available with occasionally flex schedule when needed to meet patient
care/staff needs.

The Nurse Manager reports to the Chief Nurse of Perioperative Service. She/he
executes position responsibilities that demonstrate leadership, experience and
creative approaches to management of complex patient care. This Nurse Manager
(NM):

Keeps staff informed of Clinical/Administrative goals through facilitating both
vertical and horizontal communication in a timely manner.
    Provides leadership in day-to-day operations and input into the strategic
planning process for the attainment of organizational goals.
    Holds the responsibility for implementation of the mission, vision, and
operational goals of the James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital and Clinics within
his/her defined areas of responsibility.
    Demonstrates leadership and mastery of practice in delivering and improving
efficient, comprehensive, and continuous patient-driven holistic care through
active collaboration, communication and coordination of resources.
    Responsible for ensuring patient care is delivered.
    Plays a key role in the ongoing systematic evaluation and improvement of the
quality and effectiveness of nursing care and services as they affect patient
outcomes.
    He/she is accountable for effective operations in this busy procedural unit
providing care to patients undergoing procedures in the GI/GU and Pulmonary
labs. This includes oversight of multiple complex procedural areas including
gastroenterology, urology, and bronchoscopy.
    In addition, the Nurse Manager is responsible for promoting and supporting
evidenced-based practice of staff members to enhance nursing skills, quality
patient care delivery and lead efforts in cultural transformation. Accomplished
candidates will demonstrate a vast knowledge of the various procedural areas of
oversight.

Work Schedule: Varies

Functional Statement: Nurse Manager

BASIC REQUIREMENTS:

* U.S. citizenship. Non-citizens may be appointed when it is not possible to
recruit qualified citizens in accordance with VA Policy.

* Full unrestricted Licensure, Certification, or Registration required

* Graduate of a school of professional nursing approved by the appropriate
State-accrediting agency and accredited by one of the following accrediting
bodies at the time the program was completed by the applicant: The Accreditation
Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN) or The Commission on Collegiate
Nursing Education (CCNE). In cases of graduates of foreign schools of
professional nursing, possession of current, full, active and unrestricted
registration will meet the requirement of graduation from an approved school of
professional nursing. The completion of coursework equivalent to a nursing
degree in a MSN Bridge Program that qualifies for professional nursing
registration constitutes the completion of an approved course of study of
professional nursing. Students should submit the certificate of professional
nursing to sit for the NCLEX to the VA along with a copy of the MSN transcript.
(Reference VA Handbook 5005, Appendix G6)

* Current, full, active, and unrestricted registration as a graduate
professional nurse in a State, Territory or Commonwealth (i.e., Puerto Rico) of
the United States, or the District of Columbia.

Education/Experience Requirements:

* Nurse II- A BSN with approximately 2-3 years of experience, or ADN or Diploma
in Nursing and a bachelor's degree in a related field and approximately 2-3
years' experience or a Master's degree in nursing or related field with a BSN
and approximately 1-2 years' experience, or a Doctoral degree in nursing or
meets basic requirements for appointment and has doctoral degree in a related
field with no experience.

* Nurse III- Master's degree in nursing or related field with BSN and
approximately 2-3 years' experience or Doctoral degree in nursing or related
field and approximately 2-3 years' experience.

Preferred Experience: 3 years of full-time RN experience, 2-3 years of recent RN
experience. Progressive leadership and management experience in a
multidisciplinary setting. Current BLS/ACLS provider card. Demonstrated skill in
interpersonal relations, critical thinking, problem solving and conflict
resolution.

Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done
through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other
organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religions; spiritual;
community; student; social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies,
knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that
translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all
qualifying experience, including volunteer experience.

Grade Determinations: Experience as a RN will be evaluated to determine if the
experience is of an acceptable level of quality with regard to the following
four dimensions of nursing: Practice, Professional Development, Collaboration
and Scientific Inquiry. Each dimension of practice has criteria that demonstrate
essential core competencies for VHA Nursing Personnel. The criteria are as
follows:

* Practice: practice, ethics and resource utilization;

* Professional Development: performance, education/career development;

* Collaboration; collaboration, collegiality;

* Scientific Inquiry: quality of care, research.

Reference: VA Regulations, specifically VA Handbook 5005, Part II, Appendix G-6
Nurse Qualification Standard. This can be found in the local Human Resources
Office.

Physical Requirements: This is a very active position requiring dexterity. Work
might require heavy lifting, carrying (45 pounds and over), reaching above
shoulder, walking, standing, bending, kneeling.

All applicants are required to submit the following supporting document type(s):

*ResumeApplicants may also submit the following supporting document
type(s),which may not be required for all applicants:
*Cover Letter
*DD-214
*OF-306
*Other
*Other Veterans Document
*SF-15
*SF-50
*Transcript

VA Form 10-2850a - Application for Nurses and Nurse Anesthetists (Available
http://www.va.gov/vaforms/medical/pdf/vha-10-2850a-fill.pdf) (required)

Please use this checklist to make sure you have included other documents
required for your application, such as a copy of your transcript (if using
education to qualify), documentation to support Veterans Preference claims, or
ICTAP/CTAP documentation (for displaced Federal employees). You will not be
contacted for additional information.

Veterans' Preference: When applying for Federal Jobs, eligible Veterans should
claim preference on the Occupational Questionnaire in the section provided and
provide a legible copy of your DD214(s) and/or documentation related to your
active duty service which shows dates of service, character of service
(honorable, general, etc.), or dates of impending separation. Additionally,
disabled veterans and others eligible for 10-point preference (such as widows or
mothers of eligible Veterans) must also submit an SF-15 "Application for 10
Point Veterans Preference" with required proof as stated on the form. For more
information, please review the information for disabled Veterans in the
application checklist or visit
http://www.fedshirevets.gov/job/vetpref/index.aspx.

Faxing Applications or Supporting Documents: You are encouraged to apply online.
Applying online will allow you to review and track the status of your
application. If you are unable to apply online or unable to upload your
supporting documents to your online application, follow the directions located
at the following site: Fax Options. The Vacancy ID of the job opportunity
announcement is 1257264.

NOTE: If you applied online and your application is complete, do not fax the
paper application (1203-FX) as this will overwrite your prior online responses
and may result in you being found ineligible.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


