                              209 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 5, 2016 Tuesday
                            British Columbia Edition

HEALTH CARE;
Official blames 'payment process' for disputed doctors' fees

BYLINE: JUSTINE HUNTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 650 words

DATELINE: VICTORIA


A senior hospital administrator is defending a decision to allow payments to a
small group of cardiologists at two Vancouver hospitals for procedures they did
not perform, saying it was an informal arrangement meant to compensate for other
services that the doctors were not adequately paid for.

"It's a payment process that is at issue rather than any wrongdoing by the
cardiologists or anybody else," said Dean Chittock, the senior medical officer
for St. Paul's and Vancouver General Hospitals, the two facilities named in an
internal audit report obtained by The Globe and Mail.

Dr. Chittock said anesthetists routinely perform one procedure that used to be
done by cardiologists, but the fee schedule has not changed to reflect that
development. The doctors do not directly bill for the service, but management
has been aware since at least 2012 that it was being lumped in under an
automated billing system run by the hospitals.

"We didn't keep up to the change in practice where the cardiologist no longer
did the procedure but it was still paid for - it's really our fault," he said.
"Initially the thought was, that kind of compensates for other procedures they
do that they don't get paid for."

However, the opposition health critic said the undocumented arrangement, which
ended only after a whistle-blower complained last year, is disturbing.

"It is pretty shocking," New Democratic Party MLA Judy Darcy said. "It means we
don't actually know and the Ministry of Health does not know what is happening
in health care, they don't have an accurate picture of who is doing what. I
think the bigger question [is] are there other informal agreements like this?"
The Globe reported on Monday that an internal investigation found the doctors
were paid about $1-million for services they did not perform. No discipline was
meted out because the hospital managers tacitly approved the payments, arguing
that the doctors are doing more complex work that is not recognized under the
existing fee structure.

However, the auditors were not able to determine whether the hospitals suffered
an overall financial loss because the documentation provided "lacks sufficient
information to be able to provide meaningful oversight," the audit found.

The investigation was triggered by an anonymous letter in June, 2015, that
alleged a small group of cardiologists at St. Paul's and Vancouver General
hospitals had charged the two facilities nearly $4-million for procedures they
did not actually perform. The audit report, dated Aug. 17, 2015, was obtained by
The Globe through a Freedom of Information request.

The anonymous complaint did not say over what time period those payments had
been made.

But it cited a 2012 report that flagged the issue of "unanticipated procedural
fees" being paid for some procedures and recommended those fees be eliminated.

The procedure, known as a transesophageal echocardiogram, or TEE, involves
inserting a probe into the esophagus to monitor a patient during heart surgery.
TEEs used to be done primarily by echocardiographers.

But over about the past decade, more cardiac anesthetists have been trained in
the procedure.

However, the complainant alleged, "a few cardiologists who may or may not even
be in the hospital at the time of the procedures have been charging the
hospitals for years a procedural fee ... for performing as many as 10 per day of
the above procedures without actually performing or even being present for any
of them as required by the billing code."

Dr. Chittock said the hospital administration has put a stop to the payments to
cardiologists for the TEE procedures, and the team is now trying to figure out
how to address the work that is being provided without pay. "We are trying to
clean up the electronic billing system so that it is more verifiable, and we are
looking at their workload, the procedures where they are not properly being
compensated for."

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2016 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


