                              211 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                            November 8, 1987 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

HOSPITAL BED PHONE-IN A CON, SAY LIBS

BYLINE: JOAN MABBUTT

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 571 words


THE NSW Government's advertising campaign to promote the public health service
was an extravagant con, Opposition health spokesman Mr Peter Collins said
yesterday.

But it has been welcomed by the Doctors' Reform Society as a way of combating a
"conspiracy by some procedural specialists to exaggerate hospital waiting
lists".

The campaign, which starts today, is called "No One Need Wait" and will be run
on television and in newspapers.

It will include a toll-free Healthline so that the public can phone to discuss
their concern about public hospital waiting lists.

But the Opposition claims the campaign will cost $1 million without dealing with
the real problem.

Propaganda

"Having been caught out in Parliament, the Government and the minister (Mr Peter
Anderson) have mounted an expensive propaganda exercise to deliberately con the
public," Deputy Opposition Leader and shadow health minister, Mr Collins, said
yesterday.

Mr Collins has seriously embarrassed the Government by revealing long waiting
lists at St George Hospital.

He claimed that 13 patients had died during a three-month period while waiting
for operations - a figure contested by Mr Anderson.

The Health Minister said said the true figure was four and that none of the
people had died from causes related to the illnesses for which they had needed
operations.

"While we have proven examples of hospitals turning away patients who have
subsequently died, the Government is more concerned with trying to hoodwink the
public than fixing up what is wrong with hospitals," said Mr Collins.

"The minister conceded (in Parliament) that he doesn't have a centralised
hospital waiting list. If he has $1 million to spare he should allocate that
money to establish lists and help pinpoint problems.

"Instead of throwing away a million dollars they should be looking at what is
causing the problem."

A spokesman for Premier Barrie Unsworth said the campaign cost considerably less
than the $1 million amount claimed by the Opposition. It was funded from money
already allocated to the Department of Health's promotions and information
budget.

"It is a campaign and a service which will provide information to the public who
may have concerns about waiting times for particular operations,"the spokesman
said.

"One of the very reasons that we have been prompted to do this is because of a
misleading and politically motivated campaign, which has caused anxiety in the
community.

"We have to respond to the concerns in the community. Our campaign and service
will be pointing out that there is no need to wait for an extensive period for
surgery.

"So if you need some advice about where to go, or what the delays will be for
some specific operation, then we will be providing that information."

The president of the Doctors' Reform Society, Dr Robert Marr, said the society
basically welcomed the program but felt some extra steps might be taken to
reduce waiting lists in NSW.

'Conspiracy'

"We believe that there has been a conspiracy by some procedural specialists to
exaggerate waiting times," he said. "This has resulted in several cases where
patients have not been told that they could have operations done quicker if they
went to another hospital."

Dr Marr said society delegates meeting in Sydney today would be calling on the
State Government to take further action, such as employing further community
nurses to enable earlier discharges from hospital, and more staff specialists.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1987 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


