                              210 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             May 27, 2010 Thursday

Talwar no longer head of cardiology dept, to continue as PGI director

BYLINE: Express News Service

LENGTH: 562  words

DATELINE: Chandigarh


CAT says irregularity committed in grant of extension, but he will remain on
post 'in public interest'

In a significant development, the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT),
Chandigarh, ordered that PGI Director Dr K K Talwar will no longer head the
Department of Cardiology. He will, however, continue to serve as the hospital
director.

The directions were issued on a petition filed by Dr R K Yadav of Bhagwat Dayal
Sharma Medical College, Rohtak, who had challenged Talwar's extension as PGI
director. In its judgment, the Tribunal ruled that there is has been a
procedural irregularity in processing the matter of extension given to Dr Talwar
up to 65 years, but since "there is no illegality in the process, therefore, the
extension cannot be quashed and set aside".

The Tribunal has directed the Centre and PGI authorities to re-advertise the
post of Cardiology HoD and complete the process of selection preferably within a
period of six months. Till then, Dr Talwar will remain incharge of the post.

"The decision given in the present case shall not be treated as a precedent for
any other case," the order reads. CAT has further stated that the Central
government and PGI authorities are directed to strictly adhere to the prevalent
practice of inviting nominations from various institutes in future for the post
of director, PGIMER, or they should adopt proper procedure of inviting
applications from eligible candidates through an appropriate channel by giving
wide publicity in reputed newspapers to invite maximum talent for the institute
of national fame.

"Though there has been procedural irregularity in processing the matter to the
Centre for extension to be given to Dr Talwar, we are of the considered view
that the end of justice would not be achieved by quashing and setting aside the
extension given to him on procedural technicalities depriving PGI of an eminent
and experienced director already running the institute. In view of public
interest at large, the institute cannot be kept without a director for a long
period as the process of selection is time consuming. Therefore, instead of
quashing the order of extension, we dispose of the case with some directions,"
the Tribunal has held.

CAT ruled that being the director of the institute, Talwar should have been more
vigilant and cautious while making such a request directly instead of getting it
routed through the hospital authorities concerned. In a petition filed on July
1, 2009, Dr Yadav had alleged that the Centre had "illegally" granted extension
to Talwar before he could attain the age of superannuation at 62 years.

"The post has already been advertised and the process for finding a suitable
candidate for professor and HoD is underway. Till then, Professor Talwar will
head the post," PGI authorities said.

The post of professor is lying vacant for several years despite senior faculty
members facing the interview panel many times. Resentment had been brewing
against Prof Talwar as some senior teachers alleged that their chances of
promotion had been curtailed on "flimsy" grounds. Two years ago, in the race for
the post of AIIMS head, Talwar had resigned from the post of Head of the
Cardiology department and the charge was given to additional professor Dr Yash
Pal Sharma. Dr Talwar, however, retained the post when his extension orders came
from the Centre last year in April.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


