                              208 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 TOWNSVILLE SUN

                          December 14, 2005 Wednesday

Townsville Health Service District Huge task servicing such a large area

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 317  words


TOWNSVILLE Hospital's Cardiac Services Unit faces the mammoth task of caring for
patients from an area south to Sarina, west to the Northern Territory border,
north to the Torres Strait Islands and coastal and island communities to the
east.

A team of highly qualified medical, nursing, scientific and paramedical staff
look after services in the Coronary Care Unit/Angio suite and are supported by
the Cardiac Catheter Lab, the Cardiac Investigation Unit, Cardiac Clinics, the
Cardiothoracic Ward, Cardiac Surgery, patient education and rehabilitation.

The Coronary Care Unit has eight acute beds and six procedural/non-acute beds
all with monitoring equipment.

The Cardiac Investigations Unit was purpose-built and has seven procedural rooms
and a large waiting area. It also includes state-of-the-art echocardiography
machines, routine thansthoracic echocardiography, transoesphagael
echocardiography, exercise echocardiography, dobutamine stress echocardiography
and intra-operative echocardiography facilities.

Other facilities include exercise stress testing ambulatory ECG monitoring and
tilt table testing.

A comprehensive pacemaker follow-up service including follow-up of patients with
cardiac defibrillators is also undertaken.

Ward/Medical 3 is a 24 to 26-bed cardiac and cardiothoracic surgical ward with
capabilities of 12 telemetry monitoring beds and four roaming haemodynamic
monitors.

There are six outpatients clinics per week at the hospital including one
registrar clinic which is supervised by a consultant.

There is also an outreach service to Mt Isa where 40 patients are seen over two
days.

An outpatient Paediatric Cardiology Service is provided four times a year by Dr
Dorothy Radford, visiting paediatric cardiologist from the Prince Charles
Hospital.

A cardiac rehabilitation service is also functional, imparting information and
education of patients regarding healthy heart lifestyles.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TOW


                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


