                              204 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            April 27, 2016 Wednesday

'Procedural lapse': BMC to probe convict's 4-month stay in Rajawadi Hospital;
He remained admitted even after being declared fit: Kurla corporator.

BYLINE: Express News Service

LENGTH: 303  words


He remained admitted even after being declared fit: Kurla corporator.

THE BRIHANMUMBAI Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday ordered an inquiry into
whether there was any procedural lapse or irregularity in permitting a convict,
Shekhar Chandrashekhar, to remain admitted in the civic-run Rajawadi Hospital in
Ghatkopar for nearly four months.

At a meeting of the BMC's health committee, elected corporators raised the issue
and forced an adjournment after their demand for the suspension of chief of
BMC-run peripheral hospitals Dr M Wadiwala and Superintendent of Rajawadi
Hospital Dr Vidya Thakur was not met.

Kurla corporator Dr Saida Khan raised the issue and pointed out that the convict
remained admitted even after he was declared fit by the civic hospital's
doctors.

She said as per accepted rules, criminals must be admitted only in state-run JJ
Hospital for treatment. In this case, however, Chandrashekhar was admitted in
Rajawadi Hospital where his discharge date was repeatedly extended due to
alleged backache, chest pain and giddiness.

Khan also alleged possible involvement of doctors in the hospital to aid
Chandrashekhar's stay at the hospital.

According to BMC Director of Medical Education and Tertiary Hospitals Dr Avinash
Supe, an inquiry will be ordered into the convict's hospital admission.

"We have not yet decided who will head the probe. We cannot suspend our doctors
before the inquiry is over," said Supe.

Chandrashekhar was admitted to Rajawadi Hospital in December last year after he
was first taken to JJ Hospital.

On April 23, Chandrashekhar was finally taken back to Arthur Road Jail.

In the health committee meeting, Wadiwala, who heads city's peripheral
hospitals, admitted that he was aware of Chandrashekhar's admission while Supe
claimed he was not aware until he read the newspaper reports.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


