                              207 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Network World

                     September 8, 2015 Tuesday 08:38 AM EST

Light-based networks could replace wires for hospital patients

BYLINE: Patrick Nelson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 557  words


Click for image

Interference has been a major issue when hospitals have tried to replace the
cluttered, bulky wiring used to monitor patients' conditions-those are the wires
protruding from a body, along with the associated beeps, as seen in the hospital
TV drama procedurals we know and love.

Hard-wiring, though, has never been an ideal solution for biomedical signals-it
prevents patients from moving around, for one thing. That ties up expensive
hospital beds.

Interference

RF interference can not only interfere with other signals, but it can apparently
damage hospital equipment, say some researchers in South Korea.

Those researchers, from Pukyong National University in Busan, reckon that they
have a better solution. They want to use light instead.

Visible light

Li-Fi, or visible-light communications (VLC), could be a better solution if it
can be made to work accurately. The researchers say they've gotten it to
transmit signals from an electroencephalograph (EEG) over 50 centimeters. Their
findings were published in IEEE Sensors Journal.

An EEG measures brain activity along the scalp. Voltage fluctuations are
monitored from the neurons of the brain.

RGB LEDs

The team used LEDs' line of sight to communicate the EEG signals.

The transmitter consisted of RGB LEDs, and the receiver used three photodiodes
with red, green, and blue filters.

Photodiodes are semiconductors that convert light into current-photons are
absorbed by the diodes.

"It's a very much friendlier means of transmitting biomedical signals in a
hospital," Yeon Ho Chung, an engineer at the university, said in an IEEE
Spectrum report.

Weak signals

The EEG signals were relatively weak, Chung said in the IEEE article. Power
ranged from one half to 100 millivolts, and frequencies between one half and 45
hertz. So the signals had to be amplified.

Distortion was also an issue, according to the article. That's where the filters
came in. The group used them to match each of the three LED colors, thus
eliminating bit errors.

"You have to be very accurate. You can't make any mistakes in transmitting,"
Chung said, according to the report.

Other hospital monitoring

Brain monitoring with EEGs isn't the only successful demonstration of Li-Fi in a
hospital environment, the publication says. Electrocardiogram (EKG) readings
have also been obtained with light by fellow scientists of the EEG team.

EKGs measure electrical activity in the heart and are used for finding health
problems. The instrument displays results as spikes and dips in line tracings.

Communications for paralyzed patients

Electrooculography (EOG), a measurement of differences between the back and
front of the eye, could also potentially use the same visible light
communication technique.

It's used for eye diagnosis, but can also be used for detecting eye movement.
Thus, it could conceivably be used by paralyzed individuals for
communication-without hindering wires, IEEE Spectrum says.

What happens to our TV shows?

But the big question, obviously, and without wanting to sound too facetious
about this important and potentially life-changing invention for some, is what's
going to happen to the TV procedural's dramatic effect, when there aren't any
wires sticking out of the patients and they're nonchalantly walking around the
ward?

There's the drip still. And, hopefully, we'll still have the dramatic beeps.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 International Data Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


