                              206 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     Kamloops Daily News (British Columbia)

                             July 14, 2012 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Roaming the halls with Michael Shanks; Kamloops-raised actor enjoying new role
as Charlie on CTV's hit series Saving Hope

BYLINE: Jason Hewlett, The Daily News

SECTION: SPOTLIGHT; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 681 words


Most actors consider themselves lucky to have a starring role in one hit TV
series, which is why Michael Shanks thinks himself blessed to have lightning
strike twice.

Best known for his role as Daniel Jackson on the long-running sci-fiseries
Stargate SG-1, Shanks has found another hit as a doctor trapped between the
world of the living and the realm of the dead on CTV's Saving Hope.

Raised in Kamloops and a graduate of Kam High, he never intended to make his
mark as an actor in genre TV. But Shank's is thankful for the success that has
come his way.

"You set out to work and make a living doing what you love doing and I've been
very fortunate to have a lot of success in that area," he told The Daily News.

Saving Hope is just six episodes into its 13-episode run and it's already the
fifth most popular show in Canada, drawing 1.6-million viewers a week.

Although more of a character piece than Stargate, Saving Hope is still fantasy
based as Shanks's character, Dr. Charlie Harris, is a car accident survivor
trapped in a coma.

He spends the episodes wandering the halls of a Hope Zion Hospital helping other
souls trapped in the same purgatory. Meanwhile, his fiancee, Dr. Alex, played by
Erica Durance, is attempting to revive him.

The series is shot in Toronto. Shanks admits that, upon first

hearing the premise, Saving Hope sounds a little out there.

But he said it puts a new and interesting spin on the medical procedural. And,
at its core, it's about the relationship between Charlie and Alex.

"It's a way to bring another layer to the hospital procedural. You have life and
death situations and you sort of have after-life situations. Charlie walks this
line of the in-between world interacting with people who are in comas or who
have passed on," he said.

"Charlie is kind of a psychologist to the dead, if you will."

In a recent episode titled The Great Randall, a hypnotist is called to the
hospital to aid a severely injured man with no memory of his identity. In the
process, he is able to put Charlie and Alex in contact with each other.

Every actor desires to work on a drama and Shanks is enjoying the work, saying
it's a nice change from the physicality that came with Stargate. But he still
looks back at that series with fondness.

"Science fiction is a great thing to do when you're doing a show for 10 seasons.
It's always different. It leaves stuff up to the imagination. There's action and
costumes," said Shanks. "You can have a lot of fun doing it."

The Lower Mainland's film industry was just beginning to take off when Shanks,
who took acting classes at Cariboo College (now Thompson Rivers University)
under instructor Dave Edwards, set out to make a career for himself.

He had roles in shows like Highlander and The Commish before landing Stargate.
That show wrapped up in 2007 after a decade on the air, but Shanks did star in
the direct-to-DVD movies Stargate: Ark of Truth and Stargate: Continuum.

He also appeared on the series Andromeda, where he met his wife, actress Lexa
Doig, and a three-episode arc of the wildly successful Fox show 24.

With his family now moved to Maple Ridge, Shanks doesn't get to return to his
hometown very often. He was last here in 2008 to film the TV movie Lost Treasure
of the Grand Canyon.

But the city will always have a soft spot in his heart. He still keeps in touch
with his hockey buddy, Mayor Peter Milobar, and owes his former high school
teacher, Rhonda Diaper, a class visit.

"The town has grown up. There were 20,000 more people than when I was growing
up. Businesses are booming and the town is looking fantastic," he said.

There's no word yet on whether Saving Hope will be back for a second season, but
the cast and crew are hopeful, he said.

No matter what happens, Shanks will keep doing the job he loves.

"There's half of the one per cent of the population of actors who work and then
there's the one per cent of those people who have the ability to pick and choose
their projects," he said. "In the meantime, the rest of us are just working."

Saving Hope is televised Thursdays at 9 p.m. on CTV.

jhewlett@kamloopsnews.ca

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Michael Shanks, actor;
Colour Photo: Michael  Shanks played Daniel Jackson for 10 seasons on Stargate
Atlantis  SG1.;
Colour Photo: Studio Handout; "Businesses are booming and the  town is looking
fantastic," says actor Michael Shanks, who still  visits Kamloops.;

