                              221 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 19, 2004, Tuesday

Breach in detention of patient

SECTION: Features; 71

LENGTH: 1564 words


EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS. Published October 19, 2004. L v United Kingdom
(Application No 45508/99). Before M. Pellonpaa, President and Judges Sir Nicolas
Bratza, E. Palm, V. Straznicka, J. Casadevall, S. Pavlovschi and L. Garlicki.
Section Registrar M. O'Boyle. Judgment October 5, 2004

The absence of procedural safeguards to protect an applicant against arbitrary
deprivation of liberty on the ground of necessity after he had been compulsorily
detained breached his right to liberty guaranteed by article 5.1 of the European
Convention on Human Rights.

The European Court of Human Rights also held unanimously that article 5.4 had
been breached in that the applicant's right to have the legality of his
detention reviewed by a court had not been ensured.

L was a United Kingdom national, born in 1949 and lived in Surrey. He was
autistic, unable to speak and his level of understanding was limited. He was
frequently agitated and had a history of self-harming behaviour. He lacked the
capacity to consent or object to medical treatment.

For over 30 years he was cared for in Bournewood Hospital, a National Health
Service Trust hospital. He was an in-patient at the hospital's intensive
behavioural unit from around 1987 until March 1994, when he was discharged on a
trial basis to paid carers, with whom he successfully stayed until July 22,
1997.

In 1995 he started attending a day-care centre on a weekly basis. On July 22,
1997, while at the day centre, he became particularly agitated, hitting himself
on the head with his fists and banging his head against the wall. Staff could
not contact his carers, so called a local doctor, who gave him a sedative. L
remained agitated and, on the recommendation of his social worker, was taken to
hospital.

A consultant psychiatrist diagnosed him as requiring in-patient treatment. With
the help of two nurses, he was tansferred to the hospital's intensive unit as an
"informal patient". Dr M, the medical officer responsible for L since 1977,
considered detaining him compulsorily under the Mental Health Act 1983, but
concluded that it was not necessary, as he was compliant and had not resisted
admission or tried to run away.

In or around September 1997 L sought leave to apply for judicial review of the
hospital's decision to admit him. The High Court rejected his application,
finding that he had not been detained but had been informally admitted in
accordance with the common law doctrine of necessity.

The applicant appealed. Following an indication from the Court of Appeal, on
October 29, 1997, that the appeal would be decided in his favour, L was admitted
for treatment as an involuntary patient under the 1983 Act.

On December 2, 1997 the Court of Appeal found that L had been detained in July
1997 and that, as a patient could only be lawfully detained for the treatment of
a mental disorder under the 1983 Act, he had been unlawfully detained: R v
Bournewood Community and Mental Health NHS Trust, Ex parte L (The Times December
8, 1997; (1998) 2 WLR 764). The relevant health-care authorities appealed.

L had applied, in the meantime, to the Mental Health Review Tribunal for a
review of his detention. An independent psychiatric report was prepared,
recommending his discharge. He was released from the hospital on December 5, and
officially discharged to his carers on December 12, 1997.

The House of Lords ruled, by a majority, that L had not been detained and that
he had been lawfully admitted as an informal patient on the basis of the common
law doctrine of necessity: R v Bournewood Community and Mental Health NHS Trust,
Ex parte L (The Times June 30, 1998; (1999) AC 458).

In its judgment, the European Court of Human Rights held:

The applicant mainly alleged that his treatment as an informal patient in a
psychiatric institution amounted to detention and that that detention was
unlawful, in violation of article 5.1 and that the procedures available to him
for a review of the legality of his detention did not satisfy article 5.4.

In addition, relying on the prohibition of discrimination in article 14, he
alleged that he was discriminated against as an informal patient.

I Alleged violation of article 5.1 A Was the applicant deprived of his liberty?

The Court observed that, between July 22 to October 29, 1997, the applicant was
under continuous supervision and control and was not free to leave. It made no
difference whether the ward in which he was being treated was locked or
lockable.

The Court therefore concluded that the applicant was deprived of his liberty,
within article 5.1, during that period.

B Was his detention lawful under article 5.1(e)?

Article 5.1 provides: "1 Everyone has the right to liberty ... save in the
following cases and in accordance with ... law ... (e) the lawful detention ...
of persons of unsound mind..."

The Court noted that it was not disputed that the applicant was suffering from a
mental disorder on July 22, 1997, that he was agitated, self-harming and
controllable with sedation only while in the day-care centre or that he had
given rise to an emergency situation on that day.

Having regard to the detailed consideration of the matter by Dr M and by the
other health care professionals on that day, together with the day-care centre's
report, the Court considered there was adequate evidence justifying the initial
decision to detain the applicant on July 22, 1997.

The Court further found that the applicant had been reliably shown to have been
suffering from a mental disorder of a kind or degree warranting compulsory
confinement which persisted during his detention between July 22, and December
5, 1997.

In determining whether the applicant's detention was lawful, the Court
considered it clear that the domestic legal basis for the applicant's detention
between July 22 and October 29, 1997 was the common law doctrine of necessity.
That doctrine, in particular the test of what was in the applicant's best
interests, was still developing at the time of his detention.

Whether or not the applicant, with appropriate advice, could reasonably have
forseen his detention, the Court found that a further requirement for lawfulness
under article 5.1, namely that any deprivation of liberty should not be
arbitrary, had not been met.

The Court found striking the lack of any fixed procedural rules by which the
admission and detention of compliant incapacitated patients was conducted.

The contrast between that dearth of regulation and the extensive network of
safeguards applicable to psychiatric committals covered by the 1983 Act was, in
the Court's view, significant. In particular and most obviously, the Court noted
the lack of any formalised admission procedures indicating who could propose
admission, for what reasons and on the basis of what kind of medical and other
assessments and conclusions.

There was no requirement to fix the exact purpose of admission, for example, for
assessment or for treatment, and, consistently, no limits in terms of time,
treatment or care attached to that admission. Nor was there any specific
provision requiring a continuing clinical assessment of the persistence of a
disorder warranting detention.

The nomination of a representative of a patient who could make certain
objections and applications on his or her behalf was a procedural protection
accorded to those committed involuntarily under the 1983 Act and which would be
of equal importance for legally incapacitated patients with, as in the
applicant's case, extremely limited communication abilities. As a result of the
lack of procedural regulation and limits, the Court observed that the hospital's
health care professionals assumed full control of the liberty and treatment of a
vulnerable incapacitated individual solely on the basis of their own clinical
assessments completed as and when they considered fit.

While the Court did not question the good faith of those professionals or that
they acted in what they considered to be the applicant's best interests, the
very purpose of procedural safeguards was to protect individuals against any
misjudgment or professional lapse.

The Court therefore found that such absence of procedural safeguards failed to
protect against arbitrary deprivations of liberty on the ground of necessity
and, consequently, to comply with the essential purpose of article 5.1.

The Court therefore held, unanimously, that there had been a violation of
article 5.1.

II Alleged violation of article 5.4 Finding that it had not been demonstrated
that the applicant had available to him a procedure to have the lawfulness of
his detention reviewed speedily by a court, the Court held, unanimously, that
there had been a violation of article 5.4.

III Alleged violation of article 14 The Court considered that the applicant's
complaint that he was discriminated against as an informal patient did not give
rise to any separate issue not already examined under article 5.1 and 5.4.

IV Application of article 41 The Court held, unanimously, that the finding of a
violation of article 5.1 and 5.4 constituted sufficient just satisfaction for
any non-pecuniary damage sustained.

The Court awarded Euro 29,500 for costs and expenses, less Euro 2,677.57
received in legal aid from the Council of Europe.


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2004 Times Newspapers Limited


