                              220 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday

Rhode Island Superior Courts Case Summaries: October 6, 2011

BYLINE: Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 2740  words


Administrative OHIC - Blue Cross contracts Where the defendant Rhode Island
Office of the Health Commission abrogated certain provisions contained within
contracts between the plaintiffs and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Rhode Island
and also imposed upon Blue Cross an administrative penalty of $5,000, the
defendant was acting within its statutory authority and did not commit a due
process violation. Background "Before the Court is Plaintiffs Care New England
Health System, Women & Infants Hospital of Rhode Island, Butler Hospital, Kent
County Memorial Hospital, and Kent County Visiting Nurse Association d/b/a VNA
of Care New England's (collectively, CNE) Partial Motion for Summary Judgment.1
Also before the Court is Defendants The Rhode Island Office of the Health
Commission and Health Insurance Commissioner Christopher F. Koller's
(Commissioner Koller) (collectively, OHIC) Motion for Summary Judgment. The
instant matter arises out of OHIC's November 16, 2010 Final Order (OHIC-2010-5)
(Final Order) -- following an examination pursuant to G.L. 1956 §§27-13.1-1, et
seq. (Examinations Statute) -- which abrogated certain provisions contained
within contracts between CNE and Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Rhode Island
(Blue Cross) and imposed upon Blue Cross an administrative penalty of $5,000.
... "CNE's challenge of OHIC's Final Order is essentially three-fold.

CNE contends: (1) OHIC exceeded its statutory authority by abrogating a contract
provision entered between CNE and Blue Cross; (2) OHIC failed to comply with the
procedural requirements of the Administrative Procedures Act (APA), G.L. 1956
§42-35-1, et seq.; and (3) OHIC abridged a property interest without affording
adequate due process. For its part, OHIC seeks summary judgment as to all counts
of CNE's Verified Complaint and asserts: (1) its actions were not ultra vires in
light of its broad enforcement authority; (2) CNE was afforded the requisite due
process; (3) OHIC complied with the provisions of the Examinations Statute and
APA; and (4) CNE's claim for tortious interference with contract must fail as a
matter of law. " Valid agency action "[B]ased on the plain and unambiguous
language of titles 27 and 42, as well as Regulation 2, the Court finds no basis
for CNE's assertion that Commissioner Koller did not have the statutory
authority to conduct an examination or issue an order nullifying the Challenged
Provision and ordering the parties to renegotiate. OHIC conducted an examination
to address concerns over the Challenged Provision's effect on Blue Cross's
financial condition and the potential impact on health insurance affordability,
accessibility, provider fairness, and other regulatory objectives; thus, it was
free to order Blue Cross, based on its findings, to undertake those actions
deemed necessary and appropriate to remedy the violation. For that reason, the
Court: (1) finds that OHIC's actions were not in excess of its statutory
authority; (2) rejects CNE's attempt to read the language of OHIC's enabling
statute and the Examinations Statute in a manner nullifying the Final Order; and
(3) grants OHIC's motion for summary judgment as to this claim. ... "According
to CNE, OHIC's Final Order violated a protected interest arising under the APA.
In particular, CNE asserts that the APA's statutory scheme, requiring OHIC to
provide notice and an opportunity to be heard before issuing final orders in
contested cases, forms the basis for its due process claim. For its part, OHIC
maintains that the APA's procedural requirements relating to 'contested cases'
are inapplicable to the instant matter and directs the Court to the procedural
requirements set forth in the Examinations Statute itself. ... "Here, however,
CNE's claim of entitlement arising under the APA fails for two reasons. First,
in order to implicate the procedural protections of §42-35-9 -- and claim a
protected interest thereunder -- CNE must have been a party to a 'contested
case. ' ... To qualify as 'contested case,' the APA provides that a hearing be
required by law before a party's legal rights are affected. ... Given that CNE
was not a party to OHIC's examination and that the Examinations Statute does not
require a hearing where an examination report has been adopted, the Court finds
as a matter of law that the instant matter cannot possibly qualify as a
contested case. "Second, CNE's claim of entitlement under the APA is simply
inconsistent with the plain language of the Examinations Statute. Indeed, when
conducting an examination, adopting an examination report, or issuing a final
order, the Examinations Statute itself -- not the APA -- dictates the requisite
procedural safeguards owed to a party. ... It is only upon the issuance of a
final order by the health insurance commissioner, that a party's right to invoke
the APA is even implicated. ... Moreover, the procedural safeguards of the
Examinations Statute are only afforded to the examined company, and CNE -- a
nonparty to the examination -- may not now claim any entitlements to due
process. ... Consequently, in light of the foregoing, the Court finds as a
matter of law that CNE is not entitled to the procedural protections of either
the Examinations Statute or §45-35-9 of the APA, and for that reason, the Court
denies its claim for due process thereunder. ... "The second basis for CNE's due
process claim is premised on its alleged vested property interest arising under
the Blue Cross Agreements. CNE contends that OHIC issued the Final Order without
providing it with adequate notice or a hearing, and consequently divested CNE of
its vested contractual rights without due process of law. OHIC maintains,
however, that Blue Cross lacked the statutory authority to enter into the
Challenged Provision, and as a result, the Blue Cross Agreements are void ab
initio. Moreover, OHIC asserts that even assuming the existence of a valid
contract, CNE was afforded the requisite notice and opportunity to be heard. ...
"OHIC, however, has previously determined that the Challenged Provision was an
illegal insurance obligation and that Blue Cross exceeded its statutory
authority by entering into the Blue Cross Agreements. In view of those
determinations, the Court finds that the Blue Cross Agreements are ultra vires
contracts -- having been made in violation of Blue Cross's well-defined and
limited statutory powers -- and therefore, are void ab initio. ... Accordingly,
CNE can assert no rights or entitlements under the Blue Cross Agreements and
thus, its due process claim must fail. ... "Moreover, CNE can point to no other
legitimate claims of entitlement or protectable interests that were deprived by
the Final Order. Rather, without the benefit of the Blue Cross Agreements to
serve as the basis of its due process claim, the terms of the Letter Agreement
must consequently govern CNE's entitlement, if any, to notice and an opportunity
to be heard. Under the Letter Agreement, CNE had a legitimate expectation that
it would be provided with: (1) an opportunity to address the Blue Cross
Agreements before the preparation of any report resulting from the examination;
(2) a copy of any portion of the examination report to be made public following
the entry of an order adopting the report; and (3) the right to attend any
public hearing related to the examination and to participate in any portion of
the hearing related to the Blue Cross Agreements. ... A review of the evidence,
however, indicates that CNE was afforded all the procedural protections
previously agreed to and more. "Indeed, on January 28, 2009, CNE was initially
invited to a meeting with Blue Cross and OHIC to explain the purpose of the
examination, describe the examination process, and to address CNE's concerns.
... During the examination, OHIC organized a teleconference with CNE to discuss
the Blue Cross Agreements and obtain information and CNE's perspective on: (1)
the process by which CNE determines payment rates; (2) the factors that led to
the inclusion of the Challenged Provision; and (3) how the provisions and rates
agreed to by Blue Cross compared to those negotiated by CNE with other insurers.
... Finally, at the conclusion of the examination, both the Examination Report
and Final Order were sent to CNE, and Commissioner Koller instructed CNE to
contact him with any questions regarding the documents or anything else
addressed in his cover letter. ... Therefore, having been afforded all the
procedural protections agreed to, the Court finds as a matter of law that CNE
was not been divested of any contractual rights, and accordingly, due process
was not implicated. "In light of the foregoing, the Court finds as a matter of
law that CNE did not possess a protected interest under the APA or the Blue
Cross Agreements, and for that reason, the entry of the Final Order was not a
violation of its due process rights. Moreover, the Court is of the opinion that
any obligation to provide CNE with notice and an opportunity to be heard arose
solely from the Letter Agreement; and based on the proffered evidence, the Court
finds those obligations to have been adequately satisfied. " Care New England
Health System, et al. v. The Rhode Island Office of the Health Insurance
Commissioner, et al. (Lawyers Weekly No. 61-127-11) (26 pages) (Silverstein, J.)
(Providence Superior Court) (C.A. No. PC 10-6984) (Sept. 28, 2011). Retirement
Municipal pension benefits - Reduction Where the Retirement Board of the
Employees' Retirement System of the City of Providence brought a "Miscellaneous
Petition" seeking a judicial confirmation of its determination that a reduction
of the defendant's municipal pension benefits was warranted, the board's
decision should be afforded deference and accordingly it will be upheld.
Background "On April 2, 2001, following a federal investigation known as
'Operation Plunder Dome,' the United States Attorney filed a Superseding
Indictment against [defendant Frank E.] Corrente and five others. ... On June
24, 2002, a jury in the United States District Court for the District of Rhode
Island found Mr. Corrente guilty on seven of the counts charged in the
indictment. ... An Amended Judgment was entered against Mr. Corrente on: (1)
Count I, conspiracy to violate the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations statute (RICO); (2) Count II, a substantive RICO violation; (3)
Count V, conspiracy to commit federal bribery; (4) Count XIX, conspiracy to
commit extortion; and (5) Counts XVII and XVIII, attempted extortion. ... Mr.
Corrente was sentenced to (1) a total of fifty-six months of imprisonment, with
a credit for time served; (2) a $75,000 fine; (3) a $600 assessment; and (4) two
years of supervised release for each count, to be served concurrently. ...
"Following his indictment and conviction, the Retirement Board suspended --
effective as of October 2002 -- Mr. Corrente's pension benefits, pending a
hearing to determine whether the benefits should be revoked or reduced pursuant
to the Honorable Service Ordinance. ... In that connection, on April 23, 2003,
the Retirement Board appointed Larry J. Ritchie (Professor Ritchie), a Professor
of Law at Roger Williams University School of Law, to serve as an independent
hearing officer. ... "In his Report & Recommendation, Professor Ritchie advised
the Retirement Board to: "(1) Revoke all retirement benefits attributable to Mr.
Corrente's second term of employment by the City of Providence as Director of
Administration, "(2) Pay a reduced retirement pension to Mr. Corrente based on
his first term of service to the City when he worked in the Controller's office,
"(3) Return any contributions that Mr. Corrente paid into the retirement system
during his years as Director of Administration, without interest, and "(4)
Offset any retirement benefits and interest due on benefits that were suspended
in October of 2002 with the excessive payments made to Mr. Corrente during the
three years and three months following his retirement as Director of
Administration, including interest on those payments. A lump sum payment, if any
is due, could then be made for payments from the time of suspension of payments
until the resumption of payments at the reduced amount. ... "On August 13, 2008,
following a series of hearings, the Retirement Board voted to accept and adopt
Professor Ritchie's Report & Recommendation in full. ..." Judge's analysis "In
the instant matter, Professor Ritchie's Report & Recommendation was both
rational and appropriate in light of the evidence presented, and
correspondingly, the Retirement Board's determination was unequivocally
supported by competent evidence. Indeed, Professor Ritchie advised the
Retirement Board that '[t]he specific acts of which [Mr. Corrente] was
convicted, the power of his position, and the public trust placed in his office
are sufficient reasons to deny any retirement benefits for, at a minimum, Mr.
Corrente's entire second term of service ... as the Director of Administration.
Even if ... his criminal acts did not span his entire term as Director of
Administration, his breach of the employment contract was substantial enough to
disallow any retirement benefits for the entire second term of service to the
City. ' ... Notwithstanding the nature of Mr. Corrente's crimes, Professor
Ritchie further recommended that 'Mr. Corrente's case [was] a clear example of
the underlying rationale for the HSO and [the Rhode Island Public Employee
Pension Revocation and Reduction Act, G.L. 1956 §35-10.1-1, et seq.] -- the
allowance of a reduction of retirement benefits rather than a complete
revocation. ' ... "Central to Professor Ritchie's determination was the fact
that '[Mr. Corrente's] 20-year, first term of employment in the City
Controller's office [] ceased nearly four years before he began working as
Director of Administration. Id. For that reason, he proposed that '[t]he break
between the two terms of City employment, the drawing of retirement benefits
before taking on the second term, and the confinement of any alleged
dishonorable service to the second term of employment with the City suggests a
division that should be recognized under the ordinance. ' ... In that
connection, the record reflects that prior to accepting and adopting Professor
Ritchie's recommendation, the Retirement Board considered and deliberated over
the materials supporting his conclusion, its prior determinations, and the plain
language of the HSO. ... In the end, the members of the Retirement Board had
before them the basis for Professor Ritchie's recommendation, and while they
were free to reject it, they voted and agreed that a reduction of Mr. Corrente's
pension was warranted based on the circumstances before them. ... "The
Intervenors now argue that the Retirement Board's action was arbitrary and
capricious in light of its prior determinations to revoke, or effectively
revoke, the pensions of several other former City employees. The Intervenors,
however, miss the mark. "Despite their assertions, the Retirement Board is not
strictly bound by its prior determinations, but rather, is limited only by the
confines of its own regulations. ... Here, the Retirement Board unquestionably
had the authority to revoke or reduce Mr. Corrente's pension benefits based on
the facts and circumstances before it. To hold otherwise would simply reduce the
Retirement Board's procedures to a rubberstamp of revocation and render them
inconsequential. ... "Furthermore, although a presumption exists that an agency
will adhere to its settled rules or explain its decision to depart from its
prior norms, the Retirement Board's prior actions did not constitute a settled
rule or strictly binding precedent. ... Assuming, arguendo, that the Retirement
Board was required to conform to its prior revocations, the Court finds that
Professor Ritchie's Report & Recommendation, and the Retirement Board's adoption
thereof, adequately justify the departure. ... Indeed, while the Retirement
Board was concerned with the consistency of its determinations, it nevertheless
approved, in its entirety, Professor Ritchie's findings as to the division of
Mr. Corrente's terms of employment and thereby accepted his recommendations as
to the pension. " Retirement Board of the Employees' Retirement System of the
City of Providence v. Corrente (Lawyers Weekly No. 61-128-11) (13 pages)
(Silverstein, J.) (Providence Superior Court) (C.A. No. PB 08-6508) (Sept. 28,
2011).

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

