                              219 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            August 23, 2012 Thursday

Police delay 'kills' youth

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: .Indore


.Indore, Aug. 23 -- Insensitivity of the Indore police cost the life of a youth
in the city on Tuesday.According to reports, the deceased, identified as Ravi
Dangi, a resident of Chatrapati Nagar, had been stabbed by some youths, while he
along with his friend, Ankit was standing near a temple near his house on
Tuesday afternoon.

Following the incident, the victim rushed to the nearby Rajendra Nagar police
station where the cops instead of providing prompt medical aid to him, kept him
waiting to complete the procedural formalities. By the time he was rushed to the
MY Hospital, it was too late and he succumbed to his injuries.

The insensitive approach of the police has come in for widespread condemnation
with the state home minister Umashankar Gupta taking serious note of the
incident and ordering a probe into the matter.

On the other hand, Indore IG Anuradha Shankar has denied that there was any
lethargy on the part of the police and refuted the allegation that the youth
died on account of delay in completing official formalities.

Talking to The Pioneer, Ms Shankar asserted that there was absolutely no truth
in the allegation that the youth died on account of delay on the part of the
police.

Ankit, who was a witness to the incident, said that Ravi, a student of B. Com
(first year), had a tiff with some youths over eve-teasing as the they had
passed some lewd remarks at his (Ravi) sister. Following resistance by Ravi, the
accused left only to return later with arms. Seeing Ravi standing near the
temple, the accused attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon and fled.

Ankit said that Ravi who sustained severe injuries, immediately rushed to the
Rajendra Nagar police station, but the jawans there instead of rushing him to a
hospital, made him wait in the police station to complete the procedural
formalities and it was only after completion of the formalities that the victim
was rushed to MY Hospital. However, by then it was too late and he succumbed to
his injuries. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


