                              217 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      November 7, 2014 Friday 6:30 AM EST

ECA Medical Instruments, Intelligent Implant Systems Unveil World's First
Pre-Sterile, Single-Procedure Spinal Fusion Kit

LENGTH: 735  words


Nov. 7 -- US-based ECA Medical Instruments issued the following news release:

ECA Medical Instruments, the leading designer and manufacturer of
single-procedure torque-limiting and fixed-driver surgical instruments and
procedural kits, has developed in partnership with Intelligent Implant Systems
(I2S) the industry's first complete spinal implant instrument fixation kit that
is 100% disposable. The sterile packed kit features the full complement of
fixation instruments including the industry's first single-procedure cannulated
torque limiters, ratchets and fixed drivers needed by orthopaedic surgeons to
perform both open and minimally invasive surgeries (MIS) that offer potential
for the best surgical outcomes at the best value.

The I2S Revolution system is a pre-sterilized, single-use posterior spinal
fixation procedural system providing hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers
(ASCs) a novel delivery method to increase productivity and reduce operational
costs as well as curb risk of surgical site infection. The fusion implants and
instruments are packaged as a bundled solution. The Revolution Spinal Fixation
System is intended to provide immobilization and stabilization of spinal
segments in skeletally mature patients as an adjunct to fusion in the treatment
of acute and chronic instabilities or deformities of the thoracic, lumbar and
sacral spine.

All ECA instruments for the Revolution spinal fusion kit are single-procedure
and disposable, simplifying workflow by eliminating the need to clean and
reprocess instruments prior to every procedure. Single-procedure instruments
minimize the risk of infection due to cross contamination, ensuring pristine out
of the box instruments are used to support every patient procedure. The kit
contains 100% disposable fixation tools including awls, pedicle probes, driver
shafts and industry first cannulated torque-limiting handles, ratchet and fixed
driver making them ideal for MIS procedures.

"We're helping transform healthcare economics by providing our OEM implant
customers with robust and tailored disposable instruments and fixation kits as
alternatives to traditional and costly reusable tools," said John Nino, ECA's
president & CEO. "Adoption of disposable kits across the orthopaedic market is
saving hospitals and ASCs on inventory and operating costs, improving patient
safety, reducing risk of surgical site infection and increasing OR efficiency
levels," he said.

"The focus in healthcare is on gaining the best possible outpatient outcomes at
the best price point or value," said James Schultz, ECA's executive vice
president. "Our single-procedure instruments and kits allow OEMs like I2S to
offer cost savings, OR efficiency gains and increased patient safety to
hospitals and ASCs as every torque-limiter used to secure an implant is sterile
and 100% calibrated."

ECA Medical Instruments estimates hospitals and ASCs with an average number of
surgical cases can save over $1,200 per procedure using the disposable
instrument set with the I2S Revolution kit and the healthcare industry several
billion dollars a year by converting to single-use instrumentation.

"We are pleased to have partnered with ECA for developing single-use and
disposable instrumentation kits for our new Revolution System," said Marc
Richelsoph, president and CEO of Intelligent Implant Systems. "The future of
spinal implants will be cost effective sterile implant and instrument systems,
and I2S is leading the way with the help of ECA, the market leader in single-use
instrumentation."

Commercial launch of the new I2S Revolution system featuring ECA's disposable
instrument set is under 510(k) review and not currently available for sale. Once
approved by FDA it will be available via distributors throughout North America.
Focus will be on serving ASCs as well as hospitals. All the kits are fully
disposable, biodegradable and recyclable.

ECA Medical and I2S are showcasing the Revolution kit solution at the North
American Spine Society (NASS) conference in San Francisco, CA. November 12
through 15. Surgeons and healthcare professionals may see the Revolution
single-use implant and fixation kit at ECA Medial booth #2245 and at Intelligent
Implant Systems booth #719. ECA Medical will also be displaying its complete
line of single-procedure instruments and operational samples of spine &
orthopaedic procedural kits.

Source: ECA Medical Instruments

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


