                              214 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             August 5, 2016 Friday

Task force on health policy to facilitate training of doctors, students

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: BENGALURU


BENGALURU, Aug. 5 -- A task force on Karnataka Public Health Policy has begun
work on plugging the vacancies in hospitals, by facilitating training for
resident doctors and students in rural areas.

The Karnataka Knowledge Commission had constituted the 16-member task force
comprising doctors, academics, representatives of government agencies and
industry experts to come out with a comprehensive report on the policy and
recommend steps for positioning health ombudsmen for enhancing transparency,
redressal of complaints and accessibility of health services in the state.

Various sub-committees were formed and each looked at strengthening of primary
health centres, human resources, medical technology, training, electronic
medical records, health ombudsmen and procedural costs, quality systems and
access to affordable medicines.

The task force has approached the National Board of Examinations to train
resident doctors in rural areas and students. So far, eight district hospitals
have agreed to apply.

The doctors will have to clear a common entrance test to avail of training of
four years across specialities like orthopaedics, paediatrics, gynaecology and
general surgery.

"We will also tie up with the Healthcare Sector Skill Council to train people in
other areas," Dr Alex Thomas, executive director of Association of Health
Practitioners of India, who is the member secretary of the task force, said.

"There are vacancies across specialities in hospitals. The number of PG seats in
medical colleges should be increased. We found MBBS graduates prepare for PG
exams for at least three years appearing for exams again, or taking classes from
coaching institutes. Every year, 1,50,000 MBBS doctors are sitting at home when
we have dearth of doctors," Thomas said.

The sub-committee on procedural costing will compare costs of commonly done
procedures that are covered under government schemes and see what the government
pays. "Be it a CABG (coronary artery bypass grafting) or knee replacement, the
rates are very high. The National Accreditation Board of Hospitals, CMC-Vellore,
IIM-Bangalore, medical wing of ISRO and other specialty associations will look
into costs of various procedures and apprise the government on what it pays
under various schemes," he said.

Sometimes, the government schemes subsidies are too little for procedures that
cost a lot more. This scientific research by the task force will give the
government a fair idea on how much a procedure actually costs.

"We are also looking at a policy in geriatric care, technology in health,
integrating various systems of medicine, maintaining electronic medical records
and strengthening primary health care centres," he said.

Dr Devi Shetty, chairperson, Narayana Hrudayalaya, is chairing the task force
that includes prominent names like Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Chairman and managing
director, Biocon.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


