                              224 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 10, 2017 Wednesday

Thirty-Day Readmissions After Endovascular or Surgical Therapy for Critical Limb
Ischemia

LENGTH: 478  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: American College of Cardiology has issued the following news
release:
What are the incidence, predictors, causes, and expense of all-cause 30-day
readmission after hospitalization for critical limb ischemia (CLI) treated with
endovascular or surgical therapy?


 Methods:
The authors reviewed hospitalizations for a primary diagnosis of CLI during
which patients underwent endovascular or surgical therapy (revascularization
and/or amputation) and were discharged alive and were within the 2013-2014
Nationwide Readmissions Databases. Incidence, reasons, and costs of 30-day
unplanned readmissions were determined. Hierarchical logistic regression models
were used to identify independent predictors of 30-day readmissions.
 Results:
There were 60,998 index CLI hospitalizations (mean age, 68.9 ± 11.9 years; 40.8%
women; 24.6% for rest pain, 37.2% for ulcer, and 38.2% for gangrene). Thirty-day
readmission rate was 20.4%. Presentation with ulcer or gangrene, age [>=]65
years, female sex, large hospital size, teaching hospital status, known coronary
artery disease, heart failure, diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease,
anemia, coagulopathy, obesity, major bleeding, acute myocardial infarction,
vascular complications, and sepsis were identified as independent predictors of
30-day readmission. Mode of revascularization was not independently associated
with readmissions. Infections (23.5%), persistent or recurrent manifestations of
PAD (22.2%), cardiac conditions (11.4%), procedural complications (11.0%), and
endocrine issues (5.7%) were the most common reasons for readmission. The
inflation-adjusted aggregate costs of 30-day readmissions for CLI during the
study period were $624 million.
 Conclusions:
Approximately one in five patients hospitalized for CLI and undergoing
revascularization is readmitted within 30 days. Risk of readmission is
influenced by CLI presentation, patient demographics, comorbidities, and in-
hospital complications, but not by the mode of revascularization.
 Perspective:
CLI was defined as chronic ([>=]2 weeks) ischemic rest pain, nonhealing
wound/ulcers, or gangrene in one or both legs attributable to objectively proven
occlusive PAD. The cost of all-cause 30-day re-hospitalization following
treatment for CLI was over $10,000 per patient. The authors suggested that
implementation of multidisciplinary CLI teams and wound teams, remote monitoring
of wound healing and limb perfusion, and measures aimed at reducing procedural
complications and infections may represent potential strategies to decrease
readmissions and lower healthcare costs. Among the limitation of the design is
not including deaths within the index hospitalization, patients may have had a
prior procedure on the same limb >30 days prior to index admission, and that the
sickest of patients were referred to the high-volume teaching hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


