                              227 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                     Coolum & North Shore News (Queensland)

                               December 17, 2010

High-need patients to be fast tracked

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 475  words



HIGHLIGHT: New emergency area a shot in the arm for Nambour General Hospital


NAMBOUR hospital's emergency department waiting times should be reduced, thanks
to a new fast-track area due to open on Monday.

The $520,000 project has seen the department's triage and waiting area
redesigned to treat high-need patients more quickly and streamlined treatment
for less-urgent patients.

The department will have five fast-track assessment areas staffed by a doctor,
nurse practitioner and senior nurse, an eye treatment room, an additional
consultation room and two patient bays.

Emergency department acting nurse unit manager Rob McDonald said the
redevelopment would allow medical staff to quickly assess and treat waiting-room
patients.

"They can then be moved on to the next stage of care, whether that's undergoing
further tests or treatment, being admitted, going home or transferring back to
their GP," Mr McDonald said.

"Patients will always be seen on a priority basis, meaning the sickest patients
will be seen first. However, every patient who presents to the emergency
department is important."

He said better signage and a more open environment would make it easier for
staff and patients to communicate with each other.

Mr McDonald said a dedicated paediatric unit would also be established in the
emergency department.

Decorated in bright colours, it will be staffed by nurses trained in paediatric
care.

"We recognise the need for children not to be exposed to some of the things that
happen in the emergency department, hence this separate unit," he said.

The paediatric project is funded by the hospital's health foundation, Wishlist,
and is due for completion in the new year.

About 35,000 people attend Nambour hospital's busy emergency department each
year, more than 9000 in the three months to September.

In September, 48% of category-four patients were seen within the national
benchmark of 60 minutes, the average wait being 89 minutes.

About 80% of category-five patients were seen within the national benchmark
guidelines of 120 minutes, averaging a 72-minute wait time.

The emergency department redesign follows the opening of the $150 million 96-bed
ward block at Nambour General Hospital in August.

The redevelopment includes an expanded specialist outpatient clinic, acute
geriatrics, acute stroke/neurology and acute medicine, new antenatal and
paediatric clinics, a relocated special-care nursery and paediatric ward and a
respiratory ward.

As well as the redesigned emergency department, new works being undertaken in
the old ward block include a 12-bed medical assessment planning unit and
expanded medical imaging, pathology and pharmacy services.

Construction of a cardiac catheterisation laboratory, a vascular procedural
suite and dedicated endoscopy procedural unit will start next year, with
services from late 2011.

All areas are expected to be operational in 2012.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCW


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


