                              228 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                            April 18, 2009 Saturday
                                  1 - Edition

stocked to the rafters

SECTION: CAREERONE; Pg. 202

LENGTH: 418  words


AFTER finishing high school, Raymond Thain went looking for any job he could
find, but was lucky enough to secure a position that he would really grow to
enjoy.

Now 16 years on, the procedural area purchasing assistant and chemical
management officer at the Mater Hospital in Pimlico knows his stores and stock
like the back of his hand.

``On a daily basis my job entails unloading trucks, checking procedural areas
for stock requirements, chasing up stock through various suppliers, placing
orders for implantable items such as heart valves and knee and hip joints,
conducting training throughout the hospital in chemical management and I also
supervise four staff within the department,'' Mr Thain said.

``When I started 16 years ago, I only had my high school certificate, but with
the help of the Mater I have studied for my Diploma of Business Frontline
Management at TAFE and Chemical Management Certificate from the National Safety
Council of Australia.''

Mostly Mr Thain enjoys the variety his job offers.

``Every day is different,'' he said.

``You really have to be able to prioritise so you help meet surgeons'
requirements.

``Communication plays a key part of my job as you need to communicate with
nurses, surgeons, suppliers, couriers and allied health professionals as to
their specific product requirements.

``Also, the health industry is always changing with improvements to technology,
so products can become virtually obsolete overnight . . . that's always a
challenge.''

But these changes keep Mr Thain on his toes.

``I enjoy the constant pace, as I don't enjoy sitting around at a desk all
day,'' he said.

``Although there is the paperwork that needs attending to, and then I get to sit
and catch my breath.

``When I first started, at my interview, I was told that I would not be bored .
. . never have truer words been spoken.''

Mr Thain said the hardest part was keeping accurate stock levels on hand to
fulfil all surgeons' requirements and with companies putting stock on back
order, or delays in freight, this could prove frustrating.

``But as part of a professional team, you try and minimise this from happening
and implement strategies to overcome these sorts of problems,'' he said.

Mr Thain said most people only thought of doctors and nurses when they thought
of hospitals, but he said there were other, just as important jobs within the
hospital, and his was one of them.

``My advice would be don't be put off by the job title, because it's the duties
that make the job interesting,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BUL


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


