                              223 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Columbian (Vancouver, Washington)

                            December 24, 2007 Monday

Survey finds issues at medical center

BYLINE: PAUL CRAIG, Columbian staff writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. E1

LENGTH: 733 words


The Washington Department of Health found procedural problems at Southwest
Washington Medical Center that could potentially cost the hospital Medicare and
Medicaid funding in the worst-case scenario.
Hospital officials, however, "have no intention of letting that happen,"
according to Alden Roberts, vice president of quality and medical affairs for
the hospital.

In a recent unannounced survey of the hospital, inspectors cited Southwest for
not properly documenting the use of restraints on patients, failing to promptly
process patient grievances and for not having a system properly set up for
reporting alleged abuse to local law enforcement.
The citations were issued at the end of October and the medical center was
given 45 days to correct the deficiencies. That period ended last week and the
state will now make another announced visit to check on conditions.
State officials based in Olympia served as an agent for the federal Center for
Medicare and Medicaid Services in Seattle in conducting the survey.
"We could have a surprise visit from the Center for Medicare and Medicaid
Services at anytime, but I also think we're ready for it and we'll do well on
the visit," Roberts said.
The investigation of the hospital was prompted by patient complaints to the
state. The state determined that Southwest was not properly documenting the use
of restraints on patients, which must be done by a registered nurse. Southwest
had certified nursing assistants performing assessments of patients in
restraints, while some restraint usage went undocumented, according to the
state's report.
The hospital was not reprimanded for the actual use of restraints, which are
administered for potentially dangerous patients or those who are a threat to
themselves, such as someone trying to remove a ventilator tube.
"There are very legitimate reasons for needing to have this type of restraint,
but if you're going to use it, you have to document it well and it has to be
documented by the right people," Roberts said.

Slow resolution
The hospital was also admonished because it was not prompt enough in closing
out all cases involving complaints. The state found that three of eight patient
grievances that were reviewed were not being resolved promptly and one was not
being processed through the grievance system. The personal privacy of one
patient with a grievance was also not protected, according to the document.
The next federal review will not only look at the areas of concern, but all of
the hospital.
"We'll look at the entire facility this time," said Byron Plan, executive
manager of the state's Office of Health Survey.
The hospital has administered in-house mock surveys and brought in an
independent contractor with experience in conducting hospital surveys to gauge
its performance. Roberts is confident the next official inspection will lead to
a clean slate and the whole experience will lead to better operating
procedures.
If it doesn't, the hospital could again be given a set amount of time to
resolve issues before another investigation. The biggest threat is losing
Medicare and Medicaid funding, which accounted for $180 million in payments to
the hospital in 2006, or 48 percent of the hospital's total intake for that
fiscal year. Medicare and Medicaid totals for fiscal year 2007 won't be
available until January. Roberts said that kind of loss would be "devastating."
Such a sanction "could be the final step, but there would be other things
in-between," said Linda Foss, manager of survey and investigation for the
Office of Health Care Survey. "But, that would be the worst-case scenario."


Update
*  Previously: Southwest Washington Medical Center was cited by the Washington
Department of Health for procedural problems involving documenting the use of
patient restraints and resolving patient complaints.
*  What's new: The hospital had 45 days to address the issues, which expired
last week, before state officials would return for another unannounced review.
*  What's next: The hospital will either be found to comply with regulations
issued by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid services or investigators will
give another set amount of time for more work to be done. Worst-case scenario
would be losing Medicare and Medicaid funding.

Paul Craig covers the health care industry for The Columbian. He can be reached
at 360-759-8072 or via e-mail at
paul.craig@columbian.com
  .


LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 The Columbian Publishing Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


