                              229 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                            November 13, 2016 Sunday
                                Bangalore Mirror

State's pioneering Good Samaritan Act

SECTION: STATE

LENGTH: 442 words


Karnataka is set to become the first state in the country to enact a Good
Samaritan law with the state cabinet giving its approval for "Karnataka Good
Samaritan and Medical Professional (Protection and Regulation during Emergency
Situations) Bill".

The Bill, drafting of which was supported by SaveLIFE Foundation, aims to
provide protection to Good Samaritans who come to the aid of victims of road
accident and other emergency situations, from ensuing legal and procedural
hassles. This was announced by chief minister Siddaramaiah in a Tweet on
Wednesday.

"Cabinet has approved Karnataka Good Samaritan and Medical Professional bill-
2016 seeking to incentivize by standers to help accident victims," the CM
tweeted. The bill is likely to be tabled in the next assembly session starting
November 21.

Once passed, the bill will give legislative backing to the landmark judgment of
the Supreme Court dated March 30, 2016 (SaveLIFE Foundation versus Union of
India) in which the apex court gave "force of law" to the guidelines and
Standard Operating Procedures issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and
Highways.

In the absence of an efficient Emergency Medical Services system in India,
bystanders can play a crucial role in providing assistance to victims within the
first one hour.

In fact, the Law Commission of India had noted in its 201st report that over 50
per cent of road accident deaths can be averted with timely medical care within
the first hour. Considering that Karnataka is one of the top five states in road
accidents deaths in India with over 10,800 people being killed in 2015 alone,
the proposed

legislation will potentially save over 5000 lives annually.

Piyush Tewari, founder and CEO of SaveLIFE Foundation, said, "This law will
strengthen the framework outlined by the Supreme Court to protect Good
Samaritans from legal and procedural hassles and provides a path for its
effective implementation. We hope that other states will follow Karnataka's lead
and enact the law."

BILL OF GOOD

The Bill aims to provide protection to Good Samaritans, who come to the aid of
victims of road accident and other emergency situations, from ensuing legal and
procedural hassles.

Besides protecting a Good Samaritan from any criminal or civil liability which
may arise out of helping an injured victim, the Bill addresses key issues that
make bystanders refrain from coming forward to help- detention at hospitals,
harassment by police, repeated court appearances, and to be compelled to be a
witness in the matter. The Bill also provides protection to medical
professionals during their examination as a witness.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


