                              231 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

                             March 23, 2012 Friday

Operation melodrama;
Plots involving surgeons, policemen and lovers provide twists aplenty in this
week's crop of serials

BYLINE: foong woei wan, telemad

SECTION: LIFE!; Life Home Entertainment

LENGTH: 688 words


When the going gets tough, the tough fall back on formulas.

For leading Hong Kong network TVB, which is being bled of talent by new
free-to-air players and is in a siege mode, it has meant safe programming such
as procedurals and sequels. In the past year, the network has wheeled out legal
procedurals (Ghetto Justice and The Other Truth), and sequels to police
procedurals (Forensic Heroes III and Lives Of Omission).

Safe isn't necessarily bad, however.

The new TVB hospital drama, The Hippocratic Crush, provides proof that an
above-average medical procedural, pulled off with finesse, can be a pleasure.

The series revolves around trainee surgeons (Tavia Yeung and Kenneth Ma) and
housemen (Mandy Wong and Him Law) - as well as their acquaintances and family
members who are episodes away from ill health and melodrama - and it is not
quite revolutionary.

Nor is it exactly revelatory when Ma, misunderstood as a cold careerist, turns
out to be a good guy and Yeung soon has the hots for him. Or when the aggressive
Wong turns out to be the long-lost sister of the assertive Yeung. Or when Law's
antagonism towards Ma softens into admiration.

But there is such a nice hum as the drama shifts smoothly between light comedy,
heavy-duty drama and friendly explanations of surgery (neurosurgery is just like
gently fishing for a peanut in soft soya beancurd without breaking the surface,
apparently).

The series has a convivial tone which brings another crowd-pleaser, Ghetto
Justice, to mind.

And in Ma, The Hippocratic Crush has an agreeable leading man.

No, he isn't as cute as Law and he doesn't have the effortless charisma of his
Ghetto Justice counterpart Kevin Cheng. But Ma has an aching sincerity which
works in scenes of anguish. He is adequate, and it isn't bad.

Playing it safe is the one thing you can't accuse Channel 8 police drama
Unriddle 2 of.

Would you attempt a psychodrama about a policewoman (Rui En) going off the
rails, knowing it could be a tortured mess'

Would you kill off your stronger actors (Tay Ping Hui, as a twitching detective
with a brain ailment, and Desmond Shen, as a scar-faced criminal) and leave your
viewers at the mercy of a weaker actor (Elvin Ng, as a lollipop-sucking police
whiz-kid)'

Would you risk your actors' dignity in an amateurish shoot-out scene, knowing
they could look like they all have two left hands and two left feet'

MediaCorp does all of the above, and it sure seems to like living dangerously.
It isn't entirely inept though.

In its first season, the series packed an emotional punch whenever it placed its
everywoman (Chen Liping, as a reluctant informant of Rui En's) in peril.

In its second season, it drags her adopted family members into trouble too and
puts her in the painful position of deciding whom to save.

They are an ordinary bunch who help out at her coffee shop but they are also
heroic, believable heartlanders you can root for, even as the drama goes
haywire.

Finally, a confession: I am not sure where the Taiwanese urban drama Love
Forward is going, but I am following it nonetheless.

It is a ride I have hopped on because a few of the characters of Time Story, the
long-running family series I love, are on board. They may have different names
and hairstyles now, like refugees in a witness protection programme, but I
recognise them.

Love Forward's money-mad protagonist, Zeng Aixing (Tammy Chen), is a shrewder
version of Time Story's gleeful Sun Yimei (Chen), and Zeng's boss (Weber Yang)
is a sexier and more predatory version of Sun's childhood crush (Yang).

Three episodes in, Love Forward is looking like a run-of-the-mill romance built
on a false dichotomy between love and money (why can't women have both'). But
the drama is rich in chatty banter, which has a way of making long road trips to
nowhere new bearable - and even enjoyable.

woeiwan@sph.com.sg

view it

THE HIPPOCRATIC CRUSH

StarHub Demand TV, Anytime On Demand

*** 1/2

UNRIDDLE 2

Channel 8, Mondays to Fridays, 9pm

** 1/2

LOVE FORWARD

StarHub Demand TV, Anytime On Demand E City (StarHub Channel 825), Saturdays,
8pm from April 28

***

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In The Hippocratic Crush, Kenneth Ma and Tavis Yeung (both above) play
doctors turned lovers; and Weber Yang and Tammy Chen mix money and romance in
Love Forward. -- PHOTOS: STARHUB, MEDIACORP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 Singapore Press Holdings Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


