                              234 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                            March 5, 2015, Thursday

City planning panel revisits alley closure

BYLINE: Rachel Molenda, Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P5A

LENGTH: 676 words


Charleston's Municipal Planning Commission had to revisit a decision made last
month to close an alley on the West Side, because of a procedural error,
Planning Director Dan Vriendt said.

"We notified everyone in the block, but we didn't do a 250-foot radius, Vriendt
said on Wednesday. "Today is just fixing that procedural error and allowing
anyone to speak who wasn't able to last week.

The commission voted last month and again on Wednesday to close a portion of an
alley behind the Staats Hospital building so it can be developed as part of a
rear entrance to the building and a parking lot.

The Charleston Urban Renewal Authority submitted the application because it owns
the parking lot. Crawford Holdings, now the owner and developer of Staats,
leases the lot from the agency.

There was also an issue with one of the commission's voting members, Teresa
Moore, who said she was asked not to attend last month's meeting.

"I was told I couldn't be present at the last meeting, Moore said on Wednesday.

Moore's brother David Arthur owns the Grille, a restaurant next to the Staats
building, and spoke against the alley closure on Wednesday.

Vriendt told the Gazette after the meeting that he asked the city attorney's
office last month if Moore had a conflict of interest in the matter.

"They came back and said, Yeah, she can't vote on it and she shouldn't even be
there.' So I called and told her that so she wouldn't give the appearance of
impropriety, Vriendt said.

Just before February's meeting started, the office called Vriendt to tell him
that because a brother or sister isn't immediate family, Moore could attend but
had to abstain from the vote.

"The meeting was literally starting in one minute and she wouldn't have had time
to get down here, Vriendt said. "Nothing was done maliciously. & It was done for
her best interest.

Vriednt added that, "The planning commission's practice is if you have a
perceived or real conflict of interest you don't participate in the discussion.

"I told her on the advice of the city attorney that she shouldn't participate in
the discussion today, Vriendt said.

Moore and other members of the planning commission had a tense and lengthy
discussion related to the alley closure.

Neighboring business owners reiterated concerns about how delivery trucks would
get to their buildings and congested traffic potentially created by more cars
entering and exiting the parking lot on either Lee Street or another neighboring
alley.

Skip Carson, a West Side property owner who spoke against the measure last
month, said his tenants and other business owners have been driving over the
parking lot as a way to make sharp turns in the alleyways for years.

"[Previous building owners] Dr. Adi and Dr. Staats never stopped any of us from
cutting that corner and making the turn, Carson said.

Planned parking lot development would fence off the lot from the street. If a
car was parked on the lot, Commissioner and City Councilwoman Mary Jean Davis
said trucks still wouldn't be able to make those turns.

"If I park my car on the corner where the semi-trucks or whatever you all are
talking about turn, you're going to go overtop of my car. I guess I don't
understand it unless there are personality issues here, Davis said. "That
happens sometimes with this committee that there are personality issues with an
owner, and you can't overcome that.

Business owners also want Crawford Holdings and its president Tighe Bullock to
meet with them to discuss their concerns about the project's effect on their
businesses.

"I'm against the closure, but I think a compromise could have been worked out
that would have kept our access through it and allowed them to have a safe and
secure exit at the back of the property, Carson said.

Crawford Holding Vice President Dusta Tanner said she would arrange that.

The alley closure isn't yet final.

The request will be heard next by City Council's Planning Committee and then
voted upon by a full council.

Reach Rachel Molenda

at rachel.molenda@wvgazette.com, 304-348-5102 or follow

@rachelmolenda on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 Charleston Newspapers


