                              240 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 28, 1991, Monday, Final Edition

Aid to Disabled Children Still in Dispute;
Despite New Rules, Mistakes Deny Benefits for Many, Advocate Says

Spencer Rich, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A19; THE FEDERAL PAGE

LENGTH: 778 words


In February 1990, the Supreme Court made it easier for disabled children to
qualify for federal cash assistance under the Supplemental Security Income
program.

Hundreds of thousands of children who could not have qualified earlier became
potentially eligible not only for cash assistance of up to $ 407 a month, but
also for Medicaid, which normally goes automatically to anyone on SSI.

But 18 months later, the Social Security Administration, which administers the
SSI program, and Community Legal Services of Philadelphia, which won the case
after a seven-year battle with the government, are still squabbling.

Jonathan Stein, Community Legal Services counsel, said Social Security's figures
show that state disability examiners are making so many mistakes in applying the
new rules that "tens of thousands of children" may end up with no benefits,
despite the ruling in Zebley v. Sullivan. He is asking for a series of remedial
steps to reduce the error rate.

Social Security's sampling of denied cases, Stein said, showed that in 20
percent of the cases, procedural errors were made, from failure to document
findings properly to failure to follow the new rules.

While improvements in collecting data would reinforce the denial of benefits in
some cases, Stein contended that "large numbers [of cases] would be reversed and
the children would get the benefits."

However, the Social Security Administration disputes Stein's contention. Without
providing specific numbers, it said that in the vast majority of the cases,
experience has shown that correcting procedural errors would not change the
final decision.

Commissioner Gwendolyn S. King said that she is trying to hold the states up to
the highest standards and reviewers have been instructed to report even
minuscule procedural errors.

"I have made it a personal commitment that all children applying for SSI
benefits be fairly treated . . . . When we have determined a problem exists we
have conducted additional training wherever it is warranted."

In the Zebley v. Sullivan case, the Supreme Court ruled that even if a child did
not meet any one specific mental or physical disability test used by the Social
Security Administration as a criterion of eligibility, the agency should not
simply rule out benefits, as it had been doing.

Instead, it must give the child an individualized assessment to determine
whether the child's ability to function normally for his or her age was severely
impaired. In many cases, evaluations would find that a child has several
disabilities, and while no one of them might be severe enough to establish
eligibility, their combined impact could.

Under the Supreme Court decision, the government is required to use the new
rules for all those applying from 1990 on. It also must reexamine up to 452,000
children denied under the old rules from 1980 to 1990 if they so request.

Stein said that from February through September 1991 about 146,000 cases, mostly
involving new applicants, had been handled under the new rules by state
disability agencies. Of these, 56,000 requests for benefits were denied and
90,000 allowed. The sampling process, he said, indicated one-fifth of the
denials involved some procedural error.

Stein cited the case of 16-year-old Brandy Edwards, who has been ill for six
years, as an example of how incomplete reviews had led to a rejection of
benefits. Edwards, of Cheraw, S.C., applied for SSI under the new rules on June
23 and was denied aid on Oct. 2.

"She's a brittle diabetic," said Edwards's mother, Frances, in a telephone
interview, and "has been in the hospital three times in the last 9 1/2 months."

Her illness, which brings on headaches, blurred vision and nausea, caused Brandy
Edwards to miss 78 days of school last year. She is treated, her mother said,
with "two different kinds of insulin -- two shots of each kind a day." Her
mother said Social Security officials told her the girl can function reasonably
normally for a child her age.

Although Brandy Edwards's father has health insurance through his $
18,000-a-year job, it doesn't cover all doctor and hospital bills. Their
daughter has been hospitalized this year, Frances Edwards said, and "we have a $
550 bill left over from the hospital in June [and] we'll have to pay $ 225 plus
other hospital bills" from a stay this month.

The dispute over the rules has attracted the attention of a number of groups
concerned with disability issues. Senate Minority Leader Robert J.  Dole
(R-Kan.) is sending an inquiry to the Social Security Administration on the
Zebley process, although an aide emphasized that he is reserving judgment on the
matter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: NATIONAL NEWS

                       Copyright 1991 The Washington Post


