                              236 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD.)

                          November 8, 1995, Wednesday

CSA Upholds Procedures Used To Drug State Mental Patients Intermediate Appeals
Court Rejects Claims by Disability Rights Lawyers That Maryland's Forced
Medication Law Violates Due-Process Clause

BYLINE: By Gregory C. Baumann; Daily Record Opinions Editor

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 646 words


A push by disability rights lawyers for new procedural protections against the
forced medication of patients in mental hospitals failed yesterday in the Court
of Special Appeals.

The court refused Arlena Beeman's claim that the state law controlling forced
medication violated her constitutional rights to due process.

"We conclude that additional protections are not required to be judicially
engrafted to the already hybridized vine and protecting leaves of the statute,"
wrote Judge Glenn T. Harrell for a three-judge panel.

In ruling against Beeman, the court buttressed a statute that disability rights
activists criticized as not protecting adequately the rights of patients put in
mental hospitals against their will.

According to court documents, the state's Mental Hygiene Administration
hospitals approved forced medication in 175 cases each year for the last four
years.

On average, 73 patients appealed the panel's decisions each year.

The first version of the Maryland law controlling involuntary medication was
passed in 1991 after the Court of Appeals declared its predecessor
unconstitutional. That prior statute lacked procedural protections such as
advance notice that an institution would be deciding whether to medicate them
against their will.

The old law also failed to guarantee that patients could be present during a
panel's deliberations on involuntary medication, nor did it mandate any help
from advisors for patients facing forced drugging.

After the Court of Appeals rejected that law, psychiatric hospitals in Maryland
were not able to administer antipsychotic medication to patients against their
will unless a court declared a patient incompetent.

The General Assembly in 1991 revised the involuntary medication statute,
purportedly to provide better due process protections to patients.

Two years later -- as the 1991 statute faced a fight for reestablishment in the
legislature -- the Maryland Disability Law Center and the Legal Aid Bureau
argued that the law's protections should be extended.

The groups were primarily concerned with a patient's competency to understand
the process that could result in their being involuntarily drugged.

Under the terms of the 1991 law -- which still control forced drugging -- a
review panel must approve courses of involuntary medication that may not last
more than 90 days.

Patients are entitled to notice that a panel will be deciding their case and
they have the right to attend the meeting. They may present information
supporting their position and request assistance from a lay advisor.

If a panel decides to approve involuntary medication, a patient has 48 hours to
appeal the decision to an administrative law judge.

In 1993, a panel at the Thomas B. Finan Center in Cumberland decided to
involuntarily medicate Beeman to mitigate her mental condition, diagnosed as
schizoaffective disorder.

Beeman failed to appeal that decision within 48 hours, but one day later she
handed a letter to a Finan Center staffer indicating she wished to appeal the
panel's decision.

The Department of Health and Mental Hygiene moved to dismiss her appeal because
she did not file it on time. The ALJ assigned to Beeman's case granted that
motion.

An Allegany County circuit court affirmed the decision of the ALJ.

On appeal, Beeman argued that in order to satisfy due process, the court should
construe the law to require a determination of a patient's mental capacity.

That determination should assess the patient's ability to understand his or her
administrative appeal at the same time the patient is given notice of a forced
medication hearing, Beeman maintained.

The court disagreed. "There is not separate need for a specialized
administrative competency determination, unless the legislature expresses a
desire to care a broader assumption to the presumption of competency."


LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1995 The Daily Record Co.


