                              241 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                               May 9, 2008 Friday
                                   1 Edition

Maternal care spans generations;
Dona Walker and her daughter Jennifer work in Hoag Hospital's Maternal Child
Health Department.

BYLINE: By NIYAZ PIRANI; THE ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER

SECTION: CURRENTCM; Pg. Spotlight

LENGTH: 469 words


Like father, like son may be the standard cliche, but the story of Jennifer and
Dona Walker is one of a daughter truly following in her mother's footsteps.

For the last three years, Dona, 57, and Jennifer, 34, have worked together at
Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian in the Newport Beach hospital's Maternal
Child Health Department.

Dona, a 25-year field veteran who formerly worked as a nurse in a gynecology
office, came to Hoag three years ago as a clerical coordinator in the Neonatal
Intensive Care Unit. Her daughter, who was inspired at a young age by her mom's
profession, had already been working for a year as a nurse in the Mother/Baby
Unit.

"My Jennifer worked here so I decided that I wanted to come and be a part of the
team," Dona said.

"She's done this as long as I can remember," Jennifer added. "She always loved
her job and I loved going to visit her. ... It's all I ever wanted to do."

While the two have different jobs on separate floors -- Dona places procedural
orders including echocardiograms, ultrasounds, lab orders and answering phones
and Jennifer tends to newborns and new parents -- both say they love their work
because of its rewarding nature.

"I have the best job in the whole world, I love my job," Jennifer said. "It's
one of the few places in the hospital where you want to be here because you plan
to be here. It's so neat teaching new parents how to do everything."

Dona's glee echoes that sentiment.

"I just love being around the babies," she said. "I usually make my rounds in
the morning and check them out. They're just so cute."

The joy of helping mothers and their babies doesn't stop after they are
patients, Jennifer said. In many cases, the bond stays strong years later
because of the ordeals nurses help patients with or because some women have more
than one baby at the hospital.

"I've been to first birthday parties before that parents will invite me to. I've
kept in touch with a lot of moms because you really, really bond with them,"
Jennifer said. "You're with them for days and you're helping them with the most
important thing in their entire life. ... It's so amazing, it really is."

The neighbors -- the pair lives 2 miles apart from each other in Mission Viejo
-- also spend time together having lunch or shopping with friends they've made
at work. Dona even helps her daughter when it comes to babysitting Jennifer's
6-year-old daughter, Annie.

And if Annie follows the career path of Mommy and Grandma, there may just be
another Walker at Hoag in the future.

"Right now her career goal is to be a babysitter," Jennifer said. "Sometimes she
says she'd like to be a nurse, too."

FAMILY TIES:Dona Walker places procedural orders and daughter Jennifer tends to
newborns and their parents in Hoag Hospital's maternity department.

714-445-6689 or   npirani@ocregister.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

