                              235 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                     XPRESS

                                October 31, 2013

Unclaimed dead bodies piling up in Abu Dhabi mortuaries

LENGTH: 386 words


Abu Dhabi: Bodies have been languishing in hospital morgues for months and even
years, with authorities blaming it on procedural delays and tardy response from
embassies.

A case in point is Indian expat Kumar Vihara's body which is lying in Shaikh
Khalifa Medical Hospital (SKMC) mortuary since June 2012.

While the Indian Embassy told XPRESS they have no information about the case,
mortuary authorities claim they always contact embassies for despatch of dead
bodies.

Non-cooperation

"But when we call some embassies, they do not cooperate.  We send letters and
still they do not respond. This is a major problem we face in despatching dead
bodies kept in mortuaries,"  said Dr Jamal Al Mutawa, Manager of Community
Services, Health Authority of Abu Dhabi.

Without divulging details about specifics of the Vihara case, Mutawa said they
have already been in touch with various authorities, including the Indian
Embassy to arrange for cremation, but there was an exceptional delay in the
case.

Details of the deceased could not be verified except the date of demise entered
as June 9, 2012 in the mortuary records. Vihara was born on May 6, 1976, as per
records.

Vihara's is not an isolated case.  "We have many cases where dead bodies are
kept in mortuaries for long periods due to procedural delays," said Mutawa.

There are five mortuaries in Abu Dhabi - two in the city, one in Al Ain and two
in the Western region. SKMC's mortuary is the biggest with capacity of 75 units.
Mafraq Hospital has 12 units and Al Ain 20.

In cases of unnatural death, bodies are kept in the mortuary till police
clearance is obtained. Once the clearance is issued, families, friends or the
employer of the deceased is contacted.

The concerned people have to finish documentation  if the body has to be sent
back to the deceased's home country.

The Health Authority said problems arise when the identity of the deceased
cannot be verified or when no relatives claim the body. "That is when we have to
get in touch with the respective embassies and other external agencies,
including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs," said Mutawa.

He added the Health Authority has the right to cremate bodies 30 days after
police clearance, if no party comes forward to claim the body. "But we take such
a decision only after exhausting all other sources," he added.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 58


                  Copyright 2013 XPRESS - Al Nisr Media FZ LLC
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


