                              25 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Sunday Tasmanian

                             March 12, 2006 Sunday

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 719  words


Cardiologists' heavy workload

Retired cardiologist Robert Cutforth's comments (''Easy Money'', Sunday
Tasmanian, March 5) reminded me of one of Bradman's Invincibles commenting on
modern-day cricketers.

I'm sure the point Robert was quite correctly trying to make was that medical
procedures and diagnostic tests are reimbursed at a disproportionately high rate
compared to patient consultations. As a procedural cardiologist I would agree
with this.

The examples quoted, though, were wildly exaggerated and misleading. The concept
that a procedural specialist can work half a day a week for exorbitant rates is
simply not real life.

He/she is more likely working 60 hours per week. Much, if not most of that work
will be non-procedural, that is, consulting, post-operative care, teaching,
paperwork, administration and so on.

Modern technology does not replace the need for high-level training, and the
skills necessary cannot be passed on to the untrained in a few hours, at least
not at a level our society would accept.

Procedural specialists are well paid and this is a factor in the difficulties
recruiting public hospital staff, but so are the generally repressive conditions
of the public system.

Luke Galligan, Procedural Cardiologist, Hobart

American-style greed

The word ''greed'' comes to mind after reading last Sunday Tasmanian's
front-page article about ''Easy money'' for some of our physicians.

An international comparison provided by Economic Research Associates puts US
hospital doctors at the top at $A365,000 pa, Australia $277,000, Netherlands
$238,000, UK $173,000, France $158,000, Italy $110,000, Denmark $99,000, Spain
$91,000 and Germany $76,000.

What on earth has happened to the concept of ''a fair day's pay for a fair day's
work'' in Australia, or are we just blindly copying whatever the Americans do?

I wonder if those visiting doctors working half a day a week for that colossal
money are just saving up to join the Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without
Borders) organisation, to treat the poor in Africa and other countries, for just
their keep? A friend of ours is doing that for no reward.

The medical profession is not alone in this. The remunerations of company
executives come in the same bracket of greed, with salaries well over the
million mark besides the perks of millions in bonuses.

Bert van Ommen, Cambridge

Cross-party endorsements

We shouldn't hear so much as a grunt from Paul Lennon over Harry Quick's ringing
endorsement of the Greens member for Franklin Nick McKim (''Quick jab nicks
Lennon'', Sunday Tasmanian, March 5).

Lennon knows only too well that he hasn't got a leg to stand on while the memory
lingers of his own ringing endorsement of John Howard's pro-woodchipping
policies prior to the last Federal poll.

Many believe Paul Lennon and the state branch of the Construction, Forestry,
Mining and Energy Union virtually delivered Howard's election victory on a
platter.

Now we have a Coalition Senate majority and the Prime Minister's draconian
industrial relation laws that will sting working people so hard.

What goes around comes around, Mr Lennon, and the consequences of State Labor's
shameless and ongoing betrayal of its constituency means no thinking voter
should reach for the tissues on your behalf.

Neil Cremasco, Judbury

God save the Queen

Can the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra really spare all that time for eight whole
bars of God Save the Queen at the opening of the Commonwealth Games?

If they have a problem, I am happy to lend them my CD of a glorious version of
God Save the Queen arranged by Benjamin Britten, with the London Symphony
Orchestra and Chorus. It takes a whole 2.42 minutes.

Had it not been for the British, there would be no British Empire Games, now
called the Commonwealth Games.

These Games are, in my humble opinion, of more value than excessively expensive
Opening and Closing Nights and all the rest of the hoo-ha of the Olympics.

It is those athletes from so many parts of the world entering the arena that's
marvellous; each nation is ''one of us'', there's nothing like it in the world
and when the Games are over, linking arms not with strangers, but brothers and
sisters, members of a huge family . . . the Commonwealth of Nations.

God bless them all and keep them safe and God save the Queen!

Joy McEldowney, Peirsons Point, Tinderbox

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


