                              232 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 3, 2014 Wednesday

Montana: Sales Rep Hernia Specialist / Wyoming 10094530

LENGTH: 686  words

DATELINE: Helena


Department of Labor & Industry, The State of Montana has issued the following
job announcement:

10094530
Job Title:  Sales Rep Hernia Specialist / Wyoming
Location:  MONTANA CITY, MT, 59634
Description:

JOB DESCRIPTION

Provide procedural and product expertise to targeted customers and Key Opinion
Leaders KOL through field travel, meeting attendance, educational seminars, and
OR case observations. Manage all aspects of hernia business in the field
including, but not limited to, selling Surgical Device s full line of hernia and
mesh products, and the education of surgeons, hospital personnel, and all sales
representatives on procedures and product applications. Drive revenue to
increase hernia and soft tissue repair business achieving necessary budget
targets. Develop and support clinical relationships. Drive procedural
conversions from open procedures to laparoscopic procedures to meet the overall
goal of positioning Surgical Devices to be the market leader in Hernia repair.

Key Responsibilities:

1. Master all hernia and soft tissue repair related Surgical Devices  products
and applications for hernia repair.

2. Develop procedural knowledge and expertise on hernia and soft tissue repair
procedures.

3. Develop local market strategy to increase hernia and soft tissue repair
market share and create a business plan to execute on the strategy

4. Attain required objectives designed to increase hernia and soft tissue repair
revenue and increase market share.

5. Act as the hernia and soft tissue repair expert in the field for internal and
external customers.

6. Create effective selling strategies and tools to assist entire region in
converting hernia and soft tissue repair business

7. Develop business by creation of educational programs to increase surgeon s
safe and effective use of Surgical Devices hernia and soft tissue repair
products in collaboration with Marketing and Sales Training.

8. Increase overall satisfaction levels at Surgical Devices  accounts through
support of product and procedural applications

9. Continually increase technical/industry knowledge through appropriate
training opportunities.

10. Participate in Divisional and Regional meetings.

11. Other duties as assigned with or without accommodation.

QUALIFICATIONS

Bachelor s Degree

Experience: Minimum five years successful professional sales experience in a
hospital setting; medical device or soft tissue sales experience preferred
Preferred Skills/Qualifications: Proven success in Medical Device Sales;
Marketing experience; Skills/Competencies: Excellent written and verbal
communication skills and proficiency in MS Office applications

Covidien is an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer and VEVRAA Federal
Contractor. Covidien will make reasonable accommodations to allow qualified
individuals to perform their job duties unless the accommodation imposes an
undue hardship. Please feel free to request a copy of the Covidien Equal
Employment Opportunity and Reasonable Accommodation policies for additional
information.

This employer participates in the federal E-Verify program to confirm the
identity and employment authorization of all newly hired employees. For further
information about the E-Verify program, please click here:  company's website

Please note that the  Essential Job Functions  are listed under the sections
titled  What is the work I will be doing*  and  Are you able and willing to work
under these conditions* .

DISCLAIMER

The above statements are intended to describe the general nature and level of
work being performed by employees assigned to this classification. They are not
intended to be construed as an exhaustive list of all responsibilities, duties
and skills required of employees assigned to this position.

Company  is an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will
receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, protected veteran status, disability status or any other
characteristic protected by law.

Employer's Job# 1400041M

Please visit job URL for more information about this opening and to view EOE
statement..


Open

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


