                              238 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        May 3, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Ischemix Announces Results of Its Phase 2 CARIN Trial

LENGTH: 622  words


May 3 -- Ischemix, Inc., a privately-held pharmaceutical company that has
developed a portfolio of novel, safe and potent cytoprotective compounds for the
prevention and treatment of serious diseases and conditions, today announced the
results of the Company's recently completed Phase 2 CARIN trial. The CARIN trial
(NCT02103959) was a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled 361-subject
Phase 2 study in which Ischemix' lead compound, CMX-2043, was studied for its
ability to protect patients undergoing cardiac catheterization procedures
against contrast-induced kidney injury (CI-AKI) and peri-procedural cardiac
injury. The subjects in the trial received either placebo or CMX-2043
administered in one of three dose arms.

CMX-2043 was shown to be safe in this broad pool of patients and there were no
drug-related serious adverse events. Although the trial did not meet the
pre-specified endpoints of prevention of CI-AKI or peri-procedural injury, the
Company is reviewing post hoc analyses of certain patient subgroups for evidence
of potential benefit of the drug.

Ischemix' Chairman and Chief Scientific Officer, Reinier Beeuwkes, Ph.D., noted
that "The results of the CARIN trial were disappointing given that in an
previous Phase 2 trial in patients undergoing cardiac catheterization
procedures, CMX-2043 demonstrated an ability to prevent peri-procedural cardiac
injury. The compound had also shown efficacy in the prevention of CI-AKI in
pre-clinical models. One possible limitation to the study was the dosing of
CMX-2043. While the specific doses and regimens studied by the researchers did
not yield any significant kidney protection, smaller, larger or more frequent
doses may show such benefits."

Dr. Deepak L. Bhatt, Professor of Medicine, Harvard Medical School and Executive
Director of Interventional Cardiovascular Programs, Brigham and Women's Hospital
Heart and Vascular Center, and the lead investigator for the trial, presented
the results of the trial on April 4, 2016 at the annual meeting of the American
College of Cardiology in Chicago, IL.

David A. DeWahl, Jr. President and CEO said, "We are continuing to analyze the
results of the trial and are conducting additional pre-clinical studies to
better understand the dosing dynamics that may have occurred in the CARIN trial.
In addition, we are considering further pre-clinical study of CMX-2043 in
indications in which it has previously shown signs of efficacy in pre-clinical
models, which are prevention of drug-induced nephrotoxicity, prevention of
delayed graft function in connection with kidney transplants and treatment of
traumatic brain injury, stroke and shock."

The randomized, double-blinded clinical trial recruited 361 patients from 31
medical centers in the United States and Canada. Recruited subjects were
previously scheduled for an angiogram with a high likelihood that they would
need angioplasty because of a poor stress test or acute coronary syndrome. The
subjects also had either a severe loss of kidney function or mild-to-moderate
loss of kidney function and another risk factor such as diabetes, low blood
pressure or being more than 75 years old. Patients experiencing a heart attack,
life-threatening arrhythmia or total kidney failure were excluded.

Patients were split into four groups and intravenously given a small dose, a
large dose or two small doses of CMX-2043 or a placebo before receiving contrast
agent. Researchers followed the subjects over a period of 90 days, the primary
endpoint being a reduction in kidney injury. The researchers also examined the
incidence of major adverse cardiac and kidney events, reduction in heart damage
and heart attacks, and major side effects of CMX-2043.

Source: Ischemix

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


