                              237 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                            July 27, 2016 Wednesday
                                Bangalore Mirror

Task force to review health policy

BYLINE: Vandana Kamath

SECTION: OTHERS

LENGTH: 612 words


On the lines of Bengaluru Vision Group, the state government has now formulated
a task force to review public health policy.

The team of 16 members (doctors, representatives from alternative medicine,
knowledge commission etc) will be looking at reducing infant and maternal
mortality rates in the state followed by lack of human resource in the health
sector.

Several sub-committees (headed by doctors and specialists) have been appointed
under the task force which is being chaired by Dr Devi Shetty of Narayana Health
City.

Dr Alexander Thomas, executive director, Association of Health Care Providers of
India (AHPI), and also a member secretary of the task force told Mirror, "We are
focusing on reviving the public health policy and two main focus areas would be
increasing specialists in public hospitals. On Monday, we had a meeting with the
National Board who will provide training to doctors in the rural areas, both
in-service MBBS doctors and students. We have also received representations from
eight district hospitals who have agreed to send in the applications. There will
be a common entrance test which the doctors have to clear and then the training
will be provided accordingly. After training for four years that would include
teaching as well, the doctors would then be able to teach others in the hospital
as well."

This is one of the main recommendations of the task force with general surgery,
gynaecology, orthopaedics, anaesthesia, and paediatrics as their focus areas.

"This is the only way out to meet the huge shortage of specialists in rural
areas and creating people with experience and expertise. The state of Infant and
maternal mortality rate is very poor in the state and this is largely associated
with less human resources. Another area that we are focusing on is analysing the
procedural costs of surgeries and comparing with the prices fixed by the
government. As of now this area is very cumbersome and we are planning to do
this jointly with IIM-Bangalore, National Accreditation of Board for Hospitals,
insurance companies and CMC, Vellore," Dr Thomas said.

Several representatives from the public health foundation of India (PHFI) and
Knowledge Commission are also a part of the task force.

Dr Giridhar Babu, additional professor, Public Health Foundation of India who is
a part of the sub-committee overlooking strengthening primary health care says,
"Until now seven committees have recommended implementing public health cadre
but no implementation has occurred. Now with the public health task force, there
has to be an implementation committee that could overlook the working of the
various recommendations. It is not enough if the committees are formed but there
has to be an implementation of the committee."

KEY AREAS

Following are the sub committees in the Karnataka Task Force on Public Health
Policy

1. Strengthening of PHC's

2. Human Resource

3. Technology

4. Training

5. IT

6. Electronic Medical Records

7. Alternate Medicines

8. Health Ombudsman

9. Procedural Costs for Different Schemes

10. Quality Systems

11. Access to Affordable Medicines

12. Elder Care

PROMINENT NAMES IN THE COMMITTEE

Dr Devi Shetty,

Narayana Health-Chairman

Kiran Mazumdar

Shaw-chairman, Biocon

Dr Isaac Mathai

chairman, Soukya Holistic Centre

Dr C N Manjunath

Director, Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology

Dr Srinath Reddy

Public Health Policy Institute

Dr Mukund Rai

Member Secretary, Karnataka Knowledge CommissionPrincipal Secretary

Health and Family Welfare Department, Government of Karnataka

Dr Devadasan

director, Public Health Institute, Bengaluru

Dr Alexander Thomas

executive director, of Association of Health Care Providers of India (AHPI

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


