                              248 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Examiner Newspaper

                            January 5, 2017 Thursday
                           Print & Internet Editions

LGH training grade lowered

BYLINE: Tamara McDonald

SECTION: REAL ESTATE

LENGTH: 377 words


A training accreditation downgrade at the Launceston General Hospital will
render it a "pretty unattractive" destination for trainees, says LGH Medical
Staff Association chairman Dr Scott Parkes.

The hospital's accreditation for adult internal medicine training was downgraded
from a level three to a level two by the Royal Australasian College of
Physicians, sparking concerns that recruitment difficulties will now be
worsened.

Dr Parkes said this would lessen the hospital's chances of attracting trainees,
who will now train at the LGH for two years, rather than completing a three-year
module.

"Our registrars are the ... heart-and-soul of the hospital," Dr Parkes said.

The Tasmanian Health Service is appealing the decision "on the basis that it was
based on incorrect information," a THS spokesman said.

He said the "decision by the college's accreditors does not impact patient care
or safety at the LGH, and relates only to the training of physicians".

"The THS is confident its appeal will be upheld and this decision will be
overturned," the spokesman said.

Dr Parkes said the decision was the result of the college's belief that the
hospital was not equipped to provide both clinical care and adequate teaching
training.

The training was for physicians who were procedural and non-procedural
specialists in general medicine and some specialties, Dr Parkes said.

He said the downgrade would lead to retention issues, decreased registrars and
an increased reliance on expensive locums.

"It's far from ideal because you're getting an itinerant workforce that really
don't have the commitment to the hospital and the community," he said.

Dr Parkes said the college felt the hospital did not have sufficient staffing in
some disciplines for training, particularly endocrinology.

Health Minister Michael Ferguson in December told Fairfax Tasmania an
endocrinologist was being recruited for Launceston.

Dr Parkes said the downgrade occurred after the RACP visited the hospital in
December.

Mr Ferguson said there was no link between the training accreditation downgrade
and the high-profile spate of departures from the emergency department in
mid-2016. The LGH emergency department retained its training accreditation from
the Australasian College of Emergency Medicine.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


