                              242 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Pioneer Press Newspapers, Suburban Chicago

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           February 16, 2016 Tuesday

When crisis hits, Park Ridge cops lean on new mental health training

BYLINE: Jennifer Johnson, Pioneer Press Newspapers, Suburban Chicago

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1072 words


Feb. 16--The man climbing up the steep highway embankment on a chilly January
morning was looking to end his life.

He was clear about that in the 911 call he'd made, Park Ridge Police Sgt. Eric
Hilderbrant recalled.

"He was saying he was going to jump off the 294 overpass onto Dempster and kill
himself," Hilderbrant said. "We found him trying to climb up the embankment and
it was evident he had already tried to climb up once and slid down."

Responding to calls of distraught citizens, some intent on harming themselves or
others, is nothing new in Hilderbrant's line of work. But how police officers
are equipped to respond to tense situations, particularly when a mental-health
issue is at the root, is getting a new focus.

Last year, a U.S. Justice Department grant secured by the Park Ridge Police
Department allowed for officers to take crisis intervention training, a program
that aims to prepare officers to deal with citizens struggling with a broad
spectrum of mental health disorders, said Deputy Police Chief Duane Mellema.

The training, Mellema said, is largely aimed at de-escalating tense or
potentially dangerous situations through communication techniques. Some of the
things officers are taught include showing empathy, speaking slowly and calmly,
and taking time with the individual.

"If a person thinks you are bothered or in a hurry, you'll have a hard time
communicating with them," Mellema said.

Out of 39 incidents last year that involved police response to a situation
involving mental illness, all but one was handled without the use of force,
Mellema said. The single incident in which force was used involved an
intoxicated man who was subdued with a taser because he was walking in traffic
on Dempster Street and attempting to get into cars that were stopped in traffic,
Mellema said.

In the case of the man threatening to jump from the Dempster Street overpass,
communication and taking things slowly were key to getting him to come down and
agree to go to a hospital, Hilderbrant said.

"We started engaging him, telling him, 'Hey, it's not a big deal. We'll get you
some help, everything will be fine,'" Hilderbrant said. "He was pretty agitated
when we got there."

Hilderbrant, with fellow officers Jodi Broderick and Jason Doucet, learned the
man's name and spoke directly to him, not at him, in an effort to calm him down,
Hilderbrant said. They developed a rapport with him and explained that they were
there to help him, not arrest him.

Eventually, the man, who was also intoxicated, agreed to come down and go with
paramedics to the hospital, Hilderbrant said.

"What [crisis intervention training] does is slowing it down," he said. "A lot
of times, in law enforcement, we want to solve the problem as quickly as
possible. But sometimes, trying to rush it won't get the best outcome."

Park Ridge Police Officer John Dorner says police have already been using many
crisis intervention components in an effort to diffuse situations, but the new
training has provided "more nuances and insight" into what people who are
mentally ill, intoxicated or both are dealing with.

"It teaches the officer to get on their level and put yourself in a situation
where you're trying to get in tune with what they're going through and being a
little more empathetic to whatever situation is happening," he said.

Dorner recalled responding to a home where officers were told a girl, about 12
years old, who had been diagnosed with "multiple mental-health issues" and was
acting out and refusing to go to the hospital.

"Basically, Officer [Greg] Orta and I sat down next to her on the couch and we
just talked for a good 15, 20 minutes," Dorner said. "Gone are the days when an
officer would go in and say, 'You're going to go to the hospital.' You can talk
your way out of a lot of things just by taking time. Time's on our side,
especially when there's no safety [issue] involved."

If someone in distress can see that an officer is willing to listen to him or
her and is concerned and empathetic, the situation is more likely to be resolved
without the officer needing to use force, Dorner added.

And though safety remains an officer's top priority, "as long as [the citizen
is] contained and they aren't a harm to themselves or to us or anybody around
us, it's OK to let them vent a little bit and let them know you are here to
listen to their concerns," Dorner said.

The training has also taught officers how to better identify when a
mental-health issue is at play, Mellema said.

Park Ridge Police Chief Frank Kaminski led the effort to obtain funding for
crisis intervention training in light of what he believed to be a growing number
of interactions between police and citizens with mental-health issues.

"I think it's going extremely well," Kaminski said of the training, noting that
a class of 14 officers wrapped up on Feb. 12. "I went through it myself and
found it beneficial."

In late December, in the wake of Chicago police shooting and killing a
19-year-old man and his neighbor, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel called for officers
to undergo more training in de-escalation techniques to make situations "less
confrontational and more conversational," the Chicago Tribune reported.

"We were first," Kaminski said.

De-escalation techniques will also come into play when officers undergo
procedural justice training this spring, Mellema said. The U.S. Department of
Justice defines procedural justice as techniques that "resolve disputes" and
involve communication, fairness, transparency and impartial decision-making.

"The real key for procedural justice is to acknowledge the person's point of
views, and express to them and allow them to know they are valued just as
themselves and that their point of view has a value," Mellema said.

Kaminski said procedural justice training has been touched upon in the past, but
this is the first time that a certified, eight-hour training program will be
required of the officers.

"I think we'll be ahead of the curve with all the things we've been doing here,"
he said. "I feel good about that. We're moving the organization forward in the
right direction prior to legislators requiring [procedural justice training]."

Mellema acknowledges that de-escalation techniques will not work in all cases.

___ (c)2016 Pioneer Press Newspapers (Suburban Chicago, Ill.) Visit Pioneer
Press Newspapers (Suburban Chicago, Ill.) at www.chicagotribune.com/suburbs
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20160216-PIO-When-crisis-hits-Park-Ridge-cops-lean-on-new-mental-health-training
-0216-20160216

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PIO


                          Copyright 2016 Pioneer Press


