                              243 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Should this doctor still be working at our hospital?

BYLINE: DAVE BLACKHURST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 886 words


THE work of a doctor which was described by an expert as 'negligent' is being
investigated in connection with the treatment of three patients who died at the
University Hospital of North Staffordshire.

Dr Changez Jadun has not been suspended and is still working as a diagnostic
consultant although he has been banned from carrying out certain other
treatments.

Three of his fellow consultants raised the alarm late last year when they made
formal complaints about Dr Jadun's treatment of four patients. Three of the
patients died.

But documents obtained by The Sentinel show managers at UHNS were first warned
that Dr Jadun's work might be negligent as long ago as 2009.

In July 2009 a senior consultant from outside of UHNS warned hospital managers
he had "serious reservations" about Dr Jadun's "...decision-making, risk
assessments and assessments of his own abilities".

The consultant was called in by the hospital to review 25 examples of Dr Jadun's
work in North Staffordshire. He discovered that one in four showed "procedural
complications".

In a report to hospital managers the consultant warned that: ¦ Dr Jadun's
treatment of one patient showed "... unequivocal evidence of negligence"; ¦ The
doctor's handling of a second patient "...would be found to be negligent in a
court of law"; ¦ In the case of a third patient, "...there can be no doubt that
had this case reached court, the doctor would have been found to be negligent".

The consultant reported that Dr Jadun had ignored the advice of senior
colleagues and used potentially-dangerous drugs unnecessarily. He also reported
that Dr Jadun had carried out too many risky procedures and didn't keep patients
sufficiently infor med.

The consultant added: "It isn't so much the complications that worry me, but
rather the lack of understanding that he has shown in the disease processes he
treats, his lack of insight and the apparent lack of risk assessment and
procedural planning." Despite these warnings, Dr Jadun was allowed to carry on
working at UHNS, although under some restrictions.

Dr Jadun also declined a formal offer of more training.

In September 2010, a follow-up review by two outside consultants reported
"demonstrable improvements" in Dr Jadun's work.

However, the consultants were "extremely concerned" to see a high number of
amended reports in Dr Jadun's files. They said they could not tell if the
changes to Dr Jadun's notes had been made at the time of the operations or at a
later date, to alter the outcome of their review.

The consultants also reported that Dr Jadun's working relationships with a
fellow doctor were so bad they were harming patient care.

In addition, they discovered Dr Jadun was using new devices and procedures at
"massive financial cost" to the hospital when cheap alternatives were available.
But Dr Jadun carried on working.

It was only after the latest complaints over the treatment of four patients last
November, that managers at UHNS ordered Dr Jadun to stop performing operations.

The hospital has now asked the Royal College of Radiologists to recommend an
expert to carry out an independent review into the cases.

When The Sentinel approached UHNS to ask about Dr Jadun, UHNS medical director
Robert Courteney-Harris issued a statement after a briefing with one of our
reporters on April 28. This statement is published in full (below). Despite
issuing us with the statement, The Sentinel then received a letter from the
hospital's London solicitor Hempsons, threatening to obtain an injunction to
prevent us publishing the story. Since April 29 we have fought to publish this
story.

Dr Jadun was first appointed as a radiologist at UHNS in 2003, focusing on the
diagnosis of problems in a patient's head, neck and central nervous system.

In 2007 he set-up a new specialist department at the hospital to not only
diagnose the reason for an illness, but also to use radio waves to treat illness
using keyhole surgery techniques.

Before this, North Staffordshire patients needing such specialist treatment
travelled to an established centre in Birmingham.

Some local patients are now being transferred south again while the issues in
his department are resolved Since the most recent complaints about Dr Jadun, he
has been banned from operating on patients but has been allowed to continue to
diagnose illnesses while his future is decided.

In a separate development, hundreds of patient scans on which Dr Jadun gave a
medical opinion will have to be re-examined after his manager accused him of
making his diagnoses too quickly.

Documents obtained by The Sentinel show he claimed £16,000 in out-ofhours
payments over a single Bank Holiday weekend last August, when he claimed to have
scrutinised 640 MRI and CT scans.

His payment claim was based on examining some scans at a rate of 11 every five
minutes, or 121 an hour.

His clinical director told him that in the interests of safe diagnosis, the
scans should have been examined at a maximum rate of eight every hour.

Now UHNS chief executive Julia Bridgewater has ordered an urgent audit of all
the scans.

Dr Jadun has declined to speak to The Sentinel despite many attempts to contact
him including phoning him on a number of occasions, going to his house to ask
for a comment and writing a personal letter to him.

What do you think? Email us at letters@thesentinel.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2011 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


