                              250 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            December 9, 2013 Monday

New law essential for kidney patients' woes: Eknath Khadse

BYLINE: Prafulla Marpakwar

SECTION: MUMBAI

LENGTH: 535 words


Opposition leader Eknath Khadse, who recently travelled to Sri Lanka for a
kidney transplant to avoid red tape back home, said a new legislation was
essential to halt the harassment of patients. Khadse, encountered several
procedural delays here though his wife was the donor.

Khadse, a chronic hypertension and diabetes patient, was diagnosed with a kidney
problem over a month back. Against the normal creatinin level of 0.7 to 1.5,
Khadse had a level of 5.5. "I was advised dialysis every alternate day. After
two rounds, I found it was very tiring and I was completely exhausted," he said.
A month and several dialysis rounds later, Khadse began to explore other
treatment options. "I was told I could lead a near-normal life if I underwent a
kidney transplant," he said.

"We found after medical examination that my wife's kidney was the best match,"
he added. But he was shocked by the procedural wrangles. "The minimum time
required to complete formalities ranged between one to three months. At times,
the state-level authorisation committee didn't meet for a month, so there was no
decision. I also learnt of several patients dying due to the failure of the
committee to take a decision," he said. Doctors advised him to perform the
procedure abroad. "I was told if all documents were in order, the transplant
could be over in less than three days," he said.

Khadse was told the procedural wrangles were owing to a Supreme Court order. "I
feel officials are misleading people. My information is that the apex court
prescribed stringent guidelines to curb the illegal kidney trade, it never
wanted transplants to be halted. The CM should bring in a legislation, may be an
ordinance, to simplify the procedure for kidney transplant and halt harassment
of genuine patients and donors," he said.

Moreover, he found that the state-run JJ Hospital didn't even have a department
of nephrology. "I am told the Centre has granted Rs 120 crore for the
modernisation of JJ Hospital. It is unfortunate that it does not have basic
facilities for kidney patients. I have taken it up with the chief minister," he
said.

But Satish Pawar, director of health services, denied kidney transplant
approvals took a long time. He said if the donor was a relative, then a decision
is taken by a committee at the hospital's level. If the donor is not a relative,
then the state-level authorisation committee decides on the issue. "It depends
on documentation. If a specific case is brought to our notice, it will be
probed," Pawar said.

* Eknath Khadse, BJP leader and leader of opposition, in the Assembly, was told
his creatinine level had increased to 5.5 against the normal value of 0.7 to 1.5

* He had the option of either regular dialysis or a kidney transplant

* His brother, nephew, wife and 100 villagers were ready to donate their kidney

* His wife Mandakini (50) finally donated her kidney, but the procedure was
performed in Sri Lanka

* The entire procedure, including documentation and transplant, was completed in
three days and he was discharged from the hospital on the fourth day

* In Mumbai, a transplant from a relative takes seven to 10 days and from other
takes 15 days to three months

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


