                              253 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                             April 19, 2016 Tuesday

Interpace Diagnostics' PancraGen test assigned new current procedural
terminology code

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY; Product Developments

LENGTH: 256 words



HIGHLIGHT: US-based Interpace Diagnostics has announced its medicare
administrative carrier (MAC), Novitas Solutions has assigned a new molecular
current procedural terminology (CPT) code, 81479 to its PancraGen test.


US-based Interpace Diagnostics has announced its medicare administrative carrier
(MAC), Novitas Solutions has assigned a new molecular current procedural
terminology (CPT) code, 81479 to its PancraGen test.

Previously, the PancraGen test was covered under the miscellaneous chemistry
code 84999, which is used to bill a range of tests across the laboratory
industry and does not differentiate between technologies with different
features.

Interpace Diagnostics interim CEO Jack Stover said: "The CPT coding change
represents further confirmation from payers that PancraGen is a clinically
comprehensive and robust molecular test that provides novel insights to
physicians and patients dealing with this life altering disease.

"The new coding enables both Interpace Diagnostics and those hospitals that bill
Medicare directly to use a molecular code when billing for PancraGen, which
could result in incremental reimbursement above the established
Diagnosis-Related Group (DRG) payment for this condition."

The new code will have a positive impact on the way claims are submitted and
remittances are received from both Medicare and commercial payers.

PancraGen is an integrated molecular pathology test to determine the risk of
cancer in pancreatic cysts by using a small sample of a thick or viscous
pancreatic cyst fluid.

According to clinical studies, PancraGen is claimed to be 90% accurate, enabling
effective risk stratification of patients.

Image: A diagnostic image of pancreatic pseudocyst. Photo: courtesy of James
Heilman, MD / Wikipedia.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


