                              251 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                             June 26, 2008 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

New hospital boss left last job under cloud

BYLINE: CanWest News Service

SECTION: LIFESTYLES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 771  words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


VANCOUVER -- The new president of B.C. Children's Hospital resigned his
nine-year CEO post at a Connecticut hospital after a scathing indictment of
hospital management and policies by the state government's public health
commissioner.

Larry Gold, who succeeds the retired Sharon Toohey, was chosen by a selection
panel headed by Lynda Cranston, CEO of the Provincial Health Services Authority
(PHSA), the governing authority over B.C. Children's Hospital and Sunny Hill
Health Centre, both of which Gold will lead.

Cranston said in an interview that Gold was honest and straightforward about the
events in Connecticut and the actions he took to prevent further occurrences.

Upon his resignation, Gold was praised by his colleagues as a down-to-earth,
energetic leader, revered for his fundraising abilities and interpersonal
skills.

Gold, 55, is a social worker turned hospital executive who will be paid $238,000
a year.

In 2005, Connecticut health commissioner Dr. Robert Galvin fined Gold's former
hospital, Connecticut Children's Medical Center (CCMC), $250,000 after multiple
unannounced inspections and investigations found numerous problems. The hospital
was placed on two years' probation during which time it was ordered to fix
problems that violated state regulations.

In May 2005, Gold signed a legal "consent agreement" to do that while not
admitting to wrongdoing.

In an interview, Gold said he thought his former hospital met and even exceeded
all standards but the findings were accepted and he resigned because, with
leaders, "the buck stops here."

The problems, over the course of about two years, had to do with care lapses in
the hospital's radiology and emergency departments, security, and trauma
services. The Vancouver Sun obtained a 100-page report detailing the procedural
lapses which may have caused the deaths of three children and jeopardized other
patients' safety.

Gold is not named specifically nor accused of being responsible for the
problems. He resigned seven months later and has spent the last two years as a
consultant.

In one case cited by Galvin, a 15-year-old car accident victim died after it
took a radiologist in the emergency room an hour and a half to read a diagnostic
exam that revealed a heart injury. The boy bled internally and died before
surgery to repair his torn aorta.

Another fatality was caused by a child, visiting a patient, who wandered
unsupervised and unnoticed by hospital staff into another patient's room, picked
up a baby, dropped it and caused its death.

In another security lapse, a drug-addicted mother wrongfully removed her baby in
state custody from the hospital and emergency abduction protocols were not used.

In a case of misdiagnosis, a child with sickle cell disease died because of gaps
in emergency department diagnostic delays. The report also details numerous
other lapses including medications not being stored in locked carts, an
operation being done on the wrong side of the body, and fridges that weren't
kept cold enough.

Galvin, still the health commissioner, declined to be interviewed but had a
hospital spokesman send this e-mail statement: "During Mr. Gold's time with
CCMC, he was known as a strong advocate for the hospital and (Galvin) wishes Mr.
Gold success in his new position."

Before listing off situations in Toronto and Winnipeg where children died
because of procedural flaws and negligent care, Lynda Cranston said, "We have to
recognize there are no perfect hospitals out there."

She was reminded that a decade ago, when she was president of B.C. Children's
Hospital, she offered a tearful public apology to the parents of a
seven-year-old cancer patient who died after a doctor mistakenly injected a
chemotherapy drug into her spine, instead of her veins. It was not the first
time a drug had been incorrectly administered but previous cases had not
resulted in deaths.

At a news conference at the time, Cranston admitted the hospital was
responsible.

She said: "There are no words that can adequately communicate our apologies or
regret to this girl's family. There is nothing that can bring their child back
to them, and we are devastated by that knowledge."

Cranston said she can relate to what Gold went through and hospital leaders have
to accept the ultimate blame when things go wrong.

"That's right, I had my own experience. So I am someone who has walked through
the fire and tried to make significant changes so that we came out better at the
other end," she said.

"There are 10,000 employees at PHSA and any day of the week untoward things can
happen in a highly labour-intensive business because of the human factor," she
added.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

