                              256 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                             March 7, 1985 Thursday

'CONFUSION' ON BID TO RECRUIT DOCTORS

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 346 words


"Confusion' on bid to recruit doctors SYDNEY._ Administrators at major hospitals
were surprised and confused by State Government newspaper advertisements seeking
doctors, hospital officials said yesterday. They said they did not know what the
Government meant by ""genuine" vacancies in the 25 hospitals listed in the
advertisements, and were not sure how they would deal with any applications. The
Australian Medical Association, its NSW branch and the Council of Procedural
Surgeons criticised the Government for running the advertisements. But a
spokesman for the State Health Minister, Mr Mulock, said he did not feel the
advertisements would affect negotiations with the AMA over the crippling
Medicare dispute which has led to mass resignations from the public hospital
system. The advertisements call for salaried staff specialists and visiting
medical practitioners who are resident in Australia to fill ""selected genuine
vacancies" at hospitals in the Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong areas. The AMA
federal president, Dr Lindsay Thompson, said the timing of the advertisements
was most unfortunate and had inflamed the situation. But Dr Thompson said the
AMA would continue negotiations with the Federal and State Governments today.
Council of Procedural Specialists spokesman Dr Michael Aroney said: ""The only
right thing for Dr Thompson to do is to discontinue negotiations at this time."
He said the advertisements ""may be the final trigger for other States to take
action in sympathy with NSW surgeons". In Victoria, doctors have threatened to
take industrial action from next week over the NSW Government attempt to recruit
""scab" doctors for 25 hospitals. They said yesterday they would begin a
graduated withdrawal of services from public hospitals unless the NSW Premier,
Mr Wran, withdrew the advertisements for staff specialists and visiting medical
officers for hospitals in Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong. The AMA Victorian
president, Dr Paul Nisselle, said the placement of the advertisements was
""grossly provocative and inflammatory".

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


