                              254 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                            February 22, 1985 Friday

AMA DISOWNS SPECIALISTS WHO RESIGNED

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: BROWN W

LENGTH: 450 words


AMA disowns specialists who resigned From WALLACE BROWN in Canberra THE
Australian Medical Association yesterday disowned the specialist surgeons who
have resigned from the New South Wales public hospitals system over Medicare.
This dramatic development came as the medical profession split openly and
surgeons threatened to spread the dispute nationally. The AMA, in an attempt to
cool the issue, agreed to negotiate with the Prime Minister, Mr Hawke, the
Federal Health Minister, Dr Blewett, and the NSW Premier, Mr Wran. The AMA
president, Dr Lindsay Thompson, called on the procedural specialists to resume
normal services to patients and warned that otherwise people could die. But the
specialists' leader, Dr Bruce Shepherd, said last night the AMA did not speak
for his group and he would be surprised if the resignations did not proceed. Dr
Thompson said the leaders of the surgeons, Dr Bruce Shepherd and Dr Michael
Aroney, would not be invited to join the negotiating team because this would not
be productive. Dr Thompson said: ""Their belligerent and divisive posturing and
unrealistic demands have failed to achieve a resolution of the dispute. ""It is
time for constructive negotiations to begin before the potential for harm to
patients spreads to other States. ""I share the frustration and anger of the
profession regarding the damage that has been done to private practice in NSW
hospitals by actions of the NSW Government and by Medicare. ""Nevertheless, I
believe with the strongest conviction that the path down which the profession
has been proceeding will lead to disaster." He accepted the assurance of Mr
Hawke that the negotiations he proposed would be conducted in good faith. Dr
Thompson said all this would also be stated in an advertisement inserted by the
AMA in NSW daily newspapers today. Mr Hawke said after conferring with Dr
Thompson that there was now a basis for settlement of the 17-week-old dispute.
In a joint statement, Mr Hawke and Mr Wran urged the NSW surgeons to ""respond
positively to the responsible and reasonable recommendations made by Dr
Thompson". Mr Wran agreed to defer advertising for doctors to replace the
specialists until the end of next week. Dr Thompson came to Canberra to see Mr
Hawke after talks between the Federal Government and the procedural specialists
collapsed on Wednesday night. In Sydney, the NSW Labor Council directed its
affiliated unions yesterday not to provide services to doctors who refused to
treat patients in public hospitals. Earlier, a Council of Procedural
Specialists' spokesman, Dr Michael Aroney, said if the union movement acted
against the doctors, doctors would refuse to treat union officials.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


