                              255 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         North Carolina Lawyers Weekly

                               September 17, 2007

U.S. District Court Eastern District Case Summaries: September 17, 2007

BYLINE: North Carolina Lawyers Weekly Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1884  words


Civil Rights

Constitutional - Due Process & Equal Protection - Contract - Fairground Concert
- Municipal - Noise Ordinance Violation

Bennett v. Monette. (Lawyers Weekly No. 07-02-1096, 12 pp.) (James C. Dever III,
J. - Order) E.D.N.C.

Even though the county noise ordinance requires permission or a court order for
enforcement on private property, since plaintiff had hired two sheriff's
deputies to provide security for his concert at the Jaycees' fairgrounds,
plaintiff had granted permission to the sheriff himself to enter the
fairgrounds.

Summary judgment for defendants.

Plaintiff leased the Craven County Fairgrounds from the local Jaycees. He held a
rap contest before rapper Fatman Scoop was scheduled to perform. Plaintiff hired
two Craven County deputy sheriffs to provide security for the event.

The defendant-sheriff received several calls about the noise and profanity
coming from the fairgrounds. At 11 p.m., the sheriff went to the fairgrounds,
noted the noise level and the size of the crowd, and shut down the contest,
sending patrons home. Plaintiff contends the sheriff thereby violated
plaintiff's constitutional rights.

Although due process generally requires an opportunity to be heard prior to the
deprivation of property interest, a pre-deprivation hearing is not always
required. Where a government must act quickly, or where it would be impractical
to provide pre-deprivation process, post-deprivation process satisfies the
requirements of the Due Process Clause.

For purposes of their summary judgment motion, defendants assume plaintiff had a
contract right stemming from his contract with the Jaycees. A mere breach of a
contractual right is not a deprivation of property without constitutional due
process of law.

The sole basis for plaintiff's procedural due process claim is that the sheriff
entered the fairgrounds without plaintiff's permission and without a court
order. The Craven County noise ordinance makes it a misdemeanor for any person
to "make, continue, or cause to be made or continued, any noise disturbance....
" The ordinance also provides, "In order to implement and enforce this article
effectively, the sheriff of the county or his deputies shall have, in addition
to any other authority vested in him, the power to conduct inspections: (1) Upon
presentation of credentials, enter and inspect any private property or place,
... at any reasonable time when granted permission by the owner, or by some
other person with apparent authority to act for the owner. When permission is
refused or cannot be obtained, a search warrant or other court order may be
sought by the officer from a court of competent jurisdiction upon showing of
probable cause to believe that a violation of this article may exist. "

The sheriff is authorized to enforce the noise ordinance. Given that plaintiff
hired two deputy sheriffs, who were present at the fairgrounds, plaintiff had
granted the sheriff permission to enter the fairgrounds. Accordingly, the
sheriff acted in accordance with the ordinance, and defendants did not violate
plaintiff's right to procedural due process.

Assuming the sheriff entered the fairgrounds without plaintiff's permission,
plaintiff's remedy is not a 42 U.S.C. 1983 procedural due process claim. Rather,
his remedy is a state tort claim for tortious interference with contract.

To violate plaintiff's right to substantive due process, the sheriff's actions
must be so arbitrary and irrational as to be incapable of avoidance by any
pre-deprivation procedural protections or of an adequate rectification by any
post-deprivation state remedies.

The sheriff had received several complaints over several hours regarding the
level of noise and profanity emanating from the fairgrounds. The complaints
alleged "extremely profane language" and that "children were unable to sleep. "
The purpose of the noise ordinance is to shield "every person" within the county
from "noise levels ... which are ... detrimental for life, health, and enjoyment
of property and that is unusually excessive and unreasonable ... and is a menace
to the public health, safety, and welfare and the comfort to the people of the
county. "

The ordinance declares as "unreasonably loud," inter alia, the use of sound
amplifiers and musical instruments between the hours of 11 p.m and 7 a.m. which
create a noise disturbance. Based on the complaints, the sheriff investigated
the noise and determined that a noise ordinance violation was in progress and
instructed officers present to begin shutting down the concert and directing
patrons to leave the premises. In light of the purpose of the ordinance, the
number of complaints, the extended time frame over which the complaints were
received, and that the sheriff enforced the ordinance after 11 p.m., the
sheriff's actions were not so arbitrary and irrational as to violate substantive
due process.

Where plaintiff forecasts no evidence that he was treated differently than
others similarly situated or that the sheriff's enforcement of the noise
ordinance was motivated by an illegal animus, plaintiff has not made out an
equal protection claim.

Even if plaintiff had established a constitutional violation, the sheriff, in
his individual capacity, would be entitled to qualified immunity because he
acted reasonably.

Even if plaintiff had established a constitutional violation, the sheriff, in
his official capacity, would be entitled to summary judgment because plaintiff
has forecast no evidence that the sheriff acted pursuant to an unconstitutional
policy or custom in enforcing the noise ordinance.

Motion granted.

Labor & Employment

Civil Rights - Color of Law - Hospital Privileges - Private Hospital - County
Involvement

Philips v. Pitt County Memorial Hospital, Inc. (Lawyers Weekly No. 07-02-1095,
14 pp.) (James C. Fox, Sr.J. - Order) E.D.N.C.

Even though the county appoints many of the hospital's directors, since the
county is not involved in the hospital's day-to-day activities or staffing
decisions, the hospital's suspension of the plaintiff-doctor's privileges did
not constitute government action.

Judgment on the pleadings for defendants on plaintiff's federal law claims.
Plaintiff's state law claims are dismissed for lack of subject matter
jurisdiction.

The defendant-hospital was once owned by the county. The county sold the
hospital to private nonprofit corporation, but the county maintained some
control over the hospital. After the hospital temporarily suspended the
plaintiff-doctor's privileges, the doctor filed this suit, claiming the hospital
had violated his civil rights.

To prevail on a claim under 42 U.S.C. 1983, a plaintiff must establish that (1)
he has been deprived of a right, privilege or immunity secured by the laws or
Constitution of the U.S. and (2) the conduct complained of was committed by a
person acting under color of state law. In determining whether a defendant acted
under color of state law, a court must examine the relevant facts and
circumstances to determine whether there is a sufficiently close nexus between
the state and the challenged action of the regulated entity such that the action
of the latter may fairly be treated as that of the state itself.

A state becomes responsible for a private party's act if the private party acts
(1) in an exclusively state capacity, (2) for the state's direct benefit, or (3)
at the state's specific behest. Modaber v. Culpeper Memorial Hospital, 674 F.2d
1023 (4th Cir. 1982).

First, a private entity acts in an exclusively state capacity when it exercises
powers traditionally exclusively reserved to the state. Health care does not
involve the exercise by a private entity of powers traditionally exclusively
reserved to the state.

Second, a private entity acts for the state's direct benefit when it shares the
rewards and responsibilities of a private venture with the state. Even though a
private hospital may be within a legislative design to provide better health
care to the public and may be subject to extensive regulation, if a private
entity remains solely entitled to the profits therefrom, the hospital does not
act for the state's direct benefit.

The U.S. Supreme Court and the Fourth Circuit have expressly rejected the
argument that receipt of state and federal funding transforms a private
hospital's conduct into state action.

Nor is the regulation of the hospital by the county and various N.C. laws
indicative of state action in this case. Constitutional standards are invoked
only when it can be said that the state is responsible for the specific conduct
of which plaintiff complains.

The state laws that the doctor has identified have no relation to the hospital's
procedure in reprimanding him. County officials are not involved in the
hospital's day-to-day operation, and the doctor has not alleged that county
officials, or any government actors, were involved in the suspension of his
hospital privileges.

The court finds that there is not a nexus between the challenged actions -
defendant's suspension of the doctor's hospital privileges - and the limited
government involvement alleged to prove the basis for a finding of state action.

Third, a private entity acts at the state's specific behest when it does a
particular act which the state has directed or encouraged.

The fact that the hospital's board of trustees is appointed by the county
commissioners and the Board of Governors of the Eastern Carolina University
School of Medicine would be significant only if their involvement makes the
county capable of influencing board decisions, which the doctor has not alleged.

Nor has the doctor alleged that his suspension was the result of any specific
act, policy or practice of the county. Rather, the decision to suspend the
doctor's medical privileges was based on an internal investigation concerning
the doctor's conduct in performing his job at the hospital. This decision
ultimately turned on the medical judgments made by private parties according to
professional standards that are not established by the state and was not
dictated by any regulation or rule of the county. The court concludes that
defendants did not act at the county's, or any government entity's, specific
behest in suspending the doctor's hospital privileges.

Where the government creates a corporation by special law, for the furtherance
of government objectives, and retains for itself permanent authority to appoint
a majority of the directors of that corporation, the corporation is part of the
government for the purposes of the First Amendment. However, the hospital was
not created by special statute. The complaint does not describe facts that
indicate a sufficient level of interdependence between the county and the
hospital such that the hospital can be considered an agency or instrumentality
of the county.

The court concludes that defendants' conduct in suspending the doctor's medical
privileges is not fairly attributable to the county. Accordingly, the court
concludes that defendants did not act under color of state law in suspending the
doctor's medical privileges.

Where discrimination based on national origin is not cognizable under 42 U.S.C.
1981, and where plaintiff alleges defendants discriminated against him because
he is Egyptian, plaintiff has failed to state a state a claim under Sec. 1981.

Motion granted.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

