                              257 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     November 2, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Boston Scientific Announces Initial US Commercial Performance of WATCHMAN Left
Atrial Appendage Closure Device

LENGTH: 590  words


Nov. 2 -- Boston Scientific (NYSE: BSX) announced initial U.S. commercial
performance results of the WATCHMAN Left Atrial Appendage Closure (LAAC) Device
today during a late-breaking clinical trial session at the 28th Transcatheter
Cardiovascular Therapeutics (TCT), the annual scientific symposium of the
Cardiovascular Research Foundation, in Washington, D.C. Data demonstrated a high
rate of procedural success and low rate of complications for the device which
offers stroke risk reduction for patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation
(AF) who are seeking an alternative to long-term warfarin therapy. The study was
also published online today in the Journal of the American College of
Cardiology.

In advance of a formal national clinical registry becoming available, procedural
data were collected via WATCHMAN clinical specialists during 3,822 consecutive
LAAC procedures performed between March 2015 and May 2016 by 382 operating
physicians at 169 U.S. medical centers. In this case series, there was a 95.6%
implant success rate with a median procedure time of 50 minutes.

Half of the procedures were performed by new implanting physicians without
previous experience with the device. Nevertheless, the overall rate of
complications evaluated within these data was low at 1.63%, and compared
favorably to the clinical trial data leading to device approval, validating the
rigorous process for selecting and training new operators. Pericardial tamponade
requiring intervention was the most frequent major procedural complication,
which was seen in 1.02% of patients. In an additional 0.29% of patients, a
hemodynamically insignificant pericardial effusion was observed that did not
require intervention. Device embolization, procedure-related stroke and
mortality rates also remained low at 0.24%, 0.08% and 0.08%, respectively.

"The 'real-world' data collected from this study indicate high procedural
success, even with the large number of new implanting physicians performing
one-half of the procedures," said Vivek Reddy, M.D., co-principal investigator
and director of Cardiac Arrhythmia Services for The Mount Sinai Hospital and the
Mount Sinai Health System. "More importantly, we confirmed the safety of this
therapy as evidenced by the low rate of complications."

"This evaluation includes the largest WATCHMAN device patient population studied
to date and demonstrated low and consistent complication rates compared to those
seen in previous clinical trials," said David R. Holmes, M.D., co-principal
investigator and professor of medicine at Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and a
consultant in the Division of Cardiovascular Diseases and the Department of
Internal Medicine at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota. "This provides
important procedural insights in the absence of an official Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services registry being available to collect data immediately
following device approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in March,
2015."

The formal national registry capturing data on left atrial appendage occlusion
(LAAO) procedures - the LAAO Registry, sponsored by the American College of
Cardiology - was approved in August, 2016 by the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services. Participation in the registry is a condition of coverage as
outlined in the LAAC National Coverage Determination (NCD). The NCD was
effective February 8, 2016 and fully implemented nationwide on October 3, 2016.

For more information on the WATCHMAN Device, visit www.watchman.com.

Source: Boston Scientific

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


