                              267 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Virginia Lawyers Weekly

                              May 23, 2016 Monday

Hospitals Must Bargain with Nurses' Union

BYLINE: Deborah Elkins

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 828  words


The 4th Circuit grants enforcement of a National Labor Relations Board order
re­quiring two West Virginia hospitals to bar­gain with the duly elected
representatives of the National Nurses Organizing Com­mittee representing their
employees; nei­ther the board's lack of a quorum during a portion of these
proceedings, nor the hos­pitals' procedural objections to the order, require the
court to overturn the order.

While the unfair labor practice proceed­ings were ongoing, the U.S. Court of
Ap­peals for the District of Columbia issued its decision in NLRB v. Noel
Canning, 705 F.3d 490 (D.C. Cir. 2013), holding that the President's recess
appointment of the three board members on Jan. 2, 2012, was unlawful and the
board as then constitut­ed lacked a quorum. The hospitals filed an amended
answer citing the Noel Canning decision.

Upon confirmation of new members by the U.S. Senate, the board regained a
quo­rum on Aug. 5, 2013. Almost a year later, the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed
NLRB v. Noel Canning, 134 S.Ct. 2550 (2014), al­beit on different grounds. The
hospitals again raised this decision, along with oth­er affirmative defenses,
and argued that the regional director lacked authority to approve the agreements
about the elec­tions or issue the election certifications when the board lacked
a quorum.

The board granted summary judgment to the acting general counsel, finding that
the hospitals' refusal to bargain with the union violated Sections 8(a)(1) and
(5) of the National Labor Relations Act. The board now brings an action for
enforce­ment pursuant to 29 U.S.C. § 160(e).

The hospitals promptly raised before the board the Supreme Court's Noel Can­ning
decision, handed down 22 months af­ter the representation elections took place,
and, contrary to petitioner's argument, we find no waiver.

The hospitals' main argument is that the authority of the regional director
lapsed during any period in which the board lacked a quorum. We find the
hospi­tals' argument wanting in view of the def­erence under Chevron USA Inc. v.
Natural Resources Defense Council Inc., 467 U.S. 837 (1984), owed the board's
interpreta­tion of the Act regarding the authority of regional directors during
the absence of a board quorum.

Only one other appeals court, the D.C. Circuit, has addressed this precise
issue. We find that court's reasoning persuasive and agree that the board's
interpretation is imminently reasonable.

Consent agreements

The parties in this case signed Consent Election Agreements, which vested in the
regional director final authority to over­see the representation elections and
cer­tify their results, and it foreclosed board review over representation
proceedings. Agreement by contract is among the ways to relinquish the right to
plenary board review and confer on the regional director final authority over
representation pro­ceedings. The hospitals are bound by that contract just as
they are bound b other contracts.

We give deference to the board's inter­pretation and conclude the regional
direc­tor's authority to act was not abrogated during the period when the board
lacked a quorum.

The hospitals also urge the court to hold that the regional director was not
validly appointed because the acting gen­eral counsel was without authority to
act at the time of the regional director's ap­pointment. We do not find this
argument persuasive because it is the board, not the general counsel, which has
final authori­ty to appoint a regional director. And the board did, in fact,
approve the regional director. We also are bound by the board's factual finding
that the regional director's appointment became final on Dec. 22, 2011,
approximately one week before the board lost its quorum.

Turning to the merits of the dispute, the hospitals admit they refused to
bargain with the union, but contend the board erred in its decision to uphold
the results of the representation elections because the regional director should
not have over­ruled their objections to the election re­sults on procedural
grounds.

The hospitals admit they were aware that their supporting evidence for the filed
objections was to be submitted in the re­spective cases no later than Sept. 12
and 13, 2012. They admit they declined to sub­mit any evidence and made no
request for an extension of time to submit evidence. The regional director
overruled their ob­jections well after the seven-day deadline had passed. The
regional director was well within his authority to overrule the objec­tions and
rescind the hearings notices; the board's rules directed him to do so.

Application for enforcement of the board's order is granted.

NLRB v. National Nurses Organizing Committee (Agee) No. 15-1203, May 6, 2016; On
Application for Enforcement; Mi­cah P. S. Jost, NLRB, for petitioner; Kaitlin A.
Kaseta for respondents. VLW 016-2-081, 27 pp.

http://www.valawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2016 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

