                              28 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1985, American Health Lawyers Association,
                             Journal of Health Law

                                   June, 1985

                          Vol. 18, No. 6, HOSPLW Pg. 5

LENGTH: 312 words

TITLE: Hospital's belated offering of procedural due process does not remove
earlier tortious conduct.

TEXT:

     The Kentucky appellate court has reversed the summary judgment of a lower
court dismissing a lawsuit brought by a neurosurgeon against a hospital for
wrongful termination of his hospital privileges, stating that the hospital had
violated the neurosurgeon's contractual and administrative due process rights
and that the hospital's belated offering of procedural due process did not
remove its earlier tortious conduct.

     When a neurosurgeon requested a change from courtesy staff status to active
full-time staff status at a hospital, the hospital terminated the physician
without extending procedural due process rights.  An appointed committee
recommended reinstatement and he was reinstated retroactive to the date of his
original unilateral termination.  Thereafter, the hospital instituted corrective
action against the neurosurgeon and he resigned.  The physician brought suit
seeking compensatory and punitive damages against the hospital.  The
neurosurgeon alleged that his termination of privileges at the hospital,
communicated to a county medical society, prevented his acceptance on the active
staff of another hospital.  The trial court granted summary judgment against the
physician, reasoning that, while the hospital bypassed all due process
protections afforded to member physicians when it originally terminated the
physician, the neurosurgeon failed to exhaust his contractual and administrative
remedies prior to filing suit when he resigned from the hospital's staff.

     The appellate court said that the neurosurgeon did exhaust his
administrative remedies by seeking reinstatement of his privileges via hospital
procedures and reversed the summary judgment dismissing the physician's lawsuit.
Smiley v Humana of Kentucky, Inc, d/b/a Audobon Hospital, Kentucky Court of
Appeals, No 84-CA-1708-MR, May 17, 1985.

REFERENCE: Smiley v Humana of Kentucky, Inc, d/b/a Audobon Hospital, Kentucky
Court of Appeals, No 84-CA-1708-MR, May 17, 1985.


