                              266 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily the Pak Banker

                            December 19, 2010 Sunday

AEP Ohio Withdraws from Resolution of 2009 Significantly Excessive Earnings Test

LENGTH: 490  words

DATELINE: Karachi


Karachi, Dec. 19 -- AEP Ohio, a unit of American Electric Power (NYSE: AEP), has
withdrawn an agreement reached in late November with several parties that would
have resolved pending cases in front of the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
(PUCO), including the company's Significantly Excessive Earnings Test (SEET),
Fuel Adjustment Clause (FAC) audit cases, and the merger application for
Columbus Southern Power (CSP) and Ohio Power.

"After careful and thorough consideration of the effects created by the delayed
procedural schedule for the AEP Ohio SEET settlement, the company has decided to
withdraw from the agreement," said Joe Hamrock, president and chief operating
officer for AEP Ohio. "The agreement would have provided immediate value to our
customers; however, in light of the delays and lingering uncertainty regarding
implementation, we found it impractical to continue."

The agreement, signed by the Staff of the PUCO, the Ohio Manufacturing
Association (OMA), the Ohio Hospital Association (OHA), the Kroger Company,
Ormet Corporation, and AEP Ohio, included an expedited procedural schedule that
would provide for a Commission's decision by the end of 2010. This original
schedule was set in order to implement key provisions in the resolution starting
in early 2011, including changing the rate cap for CSP customers to 0 percent
from 6 percent, avoidance of $18 million in environmental costs, additional
customer savings through avoided carrying charges on fuel costs to be recovered
in future regulatory proceedings, and the customers' benefit from the sale of a
coal reserve asset owned by AEP shareholders.

Based on the objections of non-signatory parties, the Commission substantially
modified that timeline and established an open-ended procedural schedule that
more than likely will result in a decision on this agreement sometime in the
second quarter of 2011.

"AEP Ohio and the parties that contributed to this resolution felt strongly that
this agreement provided a critical balance for all parties involved, including
the State of Ohio, our customers and our investors," said Hamrock. "However,
delays in this proceeding have modified several of the provisions. Since all the
evidence has been presented, all the testimony has been heard and many of the
issues around these cases have been fully litigated before the PUCO, we now will
await the Commission's final decision."

AEP Ohio provides electricity to nearly 1.5 million customers of major AEP
subsidiaries Columbus Southern Power Company and Ohio Power Company in Ohio, and
Wheeling Power Company in the northern panhandle of West Virginia. AEP Ohio is
based in Gahanna, Ohio. The company serves all or part of 61 counties in Ohio
and two in West Virginia. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily
Pak Banker. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


