                              274 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 22, 2016 Monday

ACC Publishes Lifelong Learning Competencies For General Cardiologists

LENGTH: 468 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 The ACC has published new lifelong learning competencies for general
cardiologists, defining the knowledge, skills and behaviors expected throughout
the span of their careers, while also identifying certain aspects of
cardiovascular medicine that exceed core expectations. The document, published
Feb. 19 in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology, aims to ensure the
highest levels of quality and service for patients, and complements the Core
Cardiology Training Statement (COCATS 4), released in March 2015. Together the
documents cover the spectrum of a practicing cardiologist from training through
their career.





 The competencies are organized using the six competency domains developed by
the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education and American Board of
Medical Specialties, and endorsed by the American Board of Internal Medicine.
These include medical knowledge, patient care and procedural skill,
systems-based practice, practice-based learning and improvement, interpersonal
and communication skills, and professionalism. The document also includes
leadership and administrative competencies such as organizational skills,
professional identity, interaction with governmental and health care systems,
and personal balance. A key feature is adherence to appropriate use and
guideline-driven criteria for patient care and resource utilization.



 Assessment tools are available for physicians to expand lifelong learning and
maintain competency, as well as to assess their professional needs for education
and performance improvement. The tools include certified continuing medical
education activities relevant to an individual's practice, review of practice or
hospital data, performance assessment and improvement programs, and facilitated
self-reflection. For procedural or diagnostic laboratory activities, assessment
tools may include registry or hospital data, appropriate use criteria and
metrics developed by national organizations.



 "These lifelong learning competencies serve as the underpinning of all ACC
education activities and are a mechanism for needs assessment and personalized
or focused education for physicians," says Eric S. Williams, MD, MACC, chair of
the writing committee.



 In a recent article in Cardiology magazine, Williams and Jonathan L. Halperin,
MD, FACC, note that "what makes this document truly unique is that it attempts
to define those competencies that every cardiologist should maintain no matter
what their career focus, while identifying those skills or activities that
reflect a more specific practice focus."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


