                              270 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Lawyers Weekly USA

                            March 16, 2011 Wednesday

New York considers med-mal caps

BYLINE: Sylvia Hsieh

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 385  words


New York is weighing tort reform measures that include capping non-economic
damages in medical malpractice cases at $250,000.

The proposal was part of recommendations sent to Governor Andrew Cuomo by a task
force on Medicaid reforms. Gov. Cuomo adopted the recommendations in his budget.

The state legislature is split over the caps: the assembly has not included the
caps in its budget, but the senate has.

New York State Bar Association president Stephen Younger said his organization
has long opposed caps and has specific concerns about the way these caps were
proposed.

"This was the hospitals and hospital unions in a room coming up with what they
wanted out of Medicaid, and malpractice doesn't have anything to do with
Medicaid. There was nobody at the table representing patient safety, and it led
to a process we think is very skewed," said Younger, a commercial litigator at
Patterson Belknap Webb & Tyler in New York.

He also said the caps that apply to non-economic damages will exclude some tort
victims from the court system and discriminate against others.

"These caps are set so low that it will mean a lot of cases just won't get
brought at all. ... A homemaker or child who doesn't have an income is not going
to recover more than $250,000, whereas a wealthy Wall Street executive who has a
major earning stream will get a fairly sizeable award," Younger said.

Other tort reform measures included in the recommendations would create a
compensation fund for neurologically impaired babies and make certain procedural
changes to med-mal litigation.

Under the compensation fund, a plaintiff could still sue, but the health care
award would shift to a new state insurance fund that will only cover care that
Medicaid would otherwise cover.

As for procedural changes, one recommendation is to allow depositions of expert
witnesses, something New York currently doesn't allow, which would increase
litigation costs, Younger said.

The state bar has not taken an official position on those provisions, he added.

His organization is in negotiations with the governor's office and is "hopeful"
that at least the caps will not be in the final resolution.

If passed, Younger expects there to be legal challenges based on the lack of
process as well as constitutional challenges for violating the right to jury
trial.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

