                              283 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            January 18, 2010 Monday

Hospitals will need to change their business models in order to survive

LENGTH: 1321 words

Medical Device Daily Managing Editor

SAN FRANCISCO -- After hearing in a keynote presentation from former CMS
administrator Tom Scully that the pain of healthcare reform would be delayed for
some time () and that hospitals would be the chief winners in the new healthcare
bill, it was an interesting contrast to hear Chas Roades, chief research officer
of the performance improvement firm Advisory Board (Washington) discuss what he
sees as the potentially bleak times ahead for the hospital industry in the
coming years during a late afternoon presentation, particularly with the
prospect of a jobless economy.

Roades said a survey done by his members shows that "there's still a lot of
uncertainty as to future growth, future margins and future strategy, and a lot
of our members, particularly large multi-hospital systems, are undergoing fairly
dramatic rethinking of their strategic plans for the next five to 10 years given
the impact both of the economy and the recession through last year, and most
importantly, the impact of potential healthcare reform in just a few weeks now."

Despite the tough economy, Roades reported that many of his members, especially
in the large systems, had a relatively good year because they "pulled hard on a
lot of the key suspect levers to try and improve margin performance." Some of
these larger hospital groups reported that it was "one of their best year's
ever, in terms of market share growth and margin growth."

Looking forward to 2010 and beyond, Roades said hospitals are concerned that the
traditional surgical growth engine that they have relied upon for the past
decade or more is in jeopardy. He noted that the commercial revenue that comes
from surgical procedures accounts for roughly 30% of the hospitals profits, and
the other 70%  comes from Medicare/Medicaid patients as well as other "low pay
and no pay patients." That 30% figure subsidizes all the other investment that a
hospital wants to make. This revenue growth stream has now been muddied by the
economy and pending healthcare reforms.

"The last three or four years, cost growth has been outpacing revenue growth for
most of our members so even though they've been getting relatively good pricing
on the commercial side, costs (including for labor and technology) have just
been skyrocketing," said Roades.

Now the question becomes where will revenue growth come from in the future?
Especially with surgical volume decreasing due to increasing unemployment among
prospective formerly insured patients. Many of these patients are what Roades
called "preference-sensitive," or elective, meaning that there are non-surgical
alternatives available on both the inpatient and outpatient side that can
substitute for the more expensive surgery.

Also contributing to the lower revenues for the hospitals is the fact that the
"healthcare plans have had their thumbs on the scale as well," Roades said. He
noted that all of the major health plans have been putting in place some sort of
utilization management plan for the larger employers, "such that they can be
able to get a handle on some of these expensive procedural cases." Essentially a
patient who has been tapped as a candidate for surgery is contacted by the
insurers and is informed of potential side effects and risks associated with a
given surgical procedure. The patient is informed of non-surgical - and cheaper
- alternatives.

A second area of concern for hospitals has been the tightening of the credit
markets. The hospitals have been able until recently to take advantage of cheap
capital to invest in very expensive market share and service line growth
strategy. This represents "a lot of expensive clinical capital equipment, a lot
of facility renovation and expansion." He noted that philanthropy, another key
area of cash for hospitals, is way down. While credit at affordable rates
appears to be making a resurgence, Roades noted that a lot of hospital boards
have become "spooked," and have become  "a lot more conservative about going
back and borrowing money in order to fund growth plans, particularly if there's
going to be this volatility in the traditional procedural growth strategies that
many hospitals have pursued."

The net result of the procedural cuts and the lack of cheap capital have
resulted in a 43% decline in profitability in dollar terms for hospitals over
the past five years. Roades said that his members have now decided that
"purchased growth is no longer a viable strategy or no longer a fundamental
pillar of growth strategy." What that means, he said, "is that for most
hospitals, they'll be relying more heavily on operating income to fund future
growth strategy which means that they'll have to get much more serious about
operating efficiency in a hurry." What this means, he said, is that there
appears to be an era of austerity headed our way and a big focus on cost control
for most hospitals," which means less money for equipment purchases among other
things.

The final pillar that will impact the hospitals, according to Roades, is
healthcare reform. He said that most of his constituents aren't afraid of the
short-term implications of the pending bill, but rather, what is going to happen
with Medicare in the future. "Medicare is the 800 pound gorilla for most
hospitals," as it accounts for on average of between 40% and 50% of patient
admissions. The picture of what is likely to happen to the Medicare program over
the next five to ten years is that there's almost complete certainty that prices
will go down via payment cuts.

While it is good news that most patients coming in will now have some form of
coverage due to the mandates in the healthcare bill that should help lessen the
bad debt problem, the question will be how is coverage expansion done? The bad
news there is that much of this new coverage will come in the form of new
Medicaid patients. Medicare/Medicaid patients only pay about 60 cents on the
dollar.

Ironically, the Baby Boomers, who have helped fuel the elective procedure boom
of the last decade, are about to severely tax the system as they move into their
Medicare/Medicaid years. They become medicine consumers as opposed to surgical
consumers. "As more and more Baby Boomers move into Medicare program, they're
going to swamp hospitals with these unprofitable cases," said Roades. "Our
estimate is that 80% to 90% of all hospital growth over the next ten years is
going to come from Medicare growth," he added.

The picture that emerges is that the commercial hospital as we know it today
will go away and most hospitals will probably follow the public model. The trick
in this case, Roades said, will be to find a way to shift patients from the
acute care setting to a more efficient delivery model for the Medicare business.
This Medicare patient group often present with four or more chronic diseases in
addition to whatever condition they present with when admitted to the hospital.

To pay for this coming onslaught of elderly, one thing that will absolutely
happen over the next 10 years, according to Roades is that Congress will have to
cut Medicare rates. Additionally the care model will move away from a
fee-for-service model to a more total cost-focused payment system in which
payments are bundled.

Ultimately, the aim of the new healthcare system will be to shift patients away
from surgical sub-specialties and towards primary care physicians. This would
serve to "gate keep patients out of the expensive high end centers of care by
having some infrastructure that manages chronic disease."

"Providers will be looking to build more accountability into their organizations
and ultimately reduce costs and improve quality by reallocating and reinvesting
to keep patients out of hospitals, particularly these Medicare chronic disease
sufferers," concluded Roades.

Holland Johnson, 404-262-5540;


LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2010 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


