                              284 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            August 28, 2014 Thursday

Applying international law to the Israel-Hamas conflict

LENGTH: 1531  words


Now that the latest Israel-Hamas conflict has come to a close--should the 12th
attempted cease-fire hold--the battlefield moves from Gaza to the court of
public opinion.
Although both sides are invoking violations of international law in the
conflict, the United Nations--by virtue of its stature--is the main vehicle
propelling such allegations. A full month before the conflict ended, the U.N. in
late July had already announced an investigation into alleged Israeli "war
crimes" in Gaza, and in mid-August the international body named the members of a
three-person panel that will conduct the probe.
How should a scrupulous application of international law treat Israel's
Operation Protective Edge and Hamas's actions in the conflict? That is no small
question, because the outcome of the U.N. investigation will be the commonly
accepted verdict on the matter.


The international humanitarian laws regulating conduct of armed conflicts are
the 1949 Geneva Conventions, along with their official commentaries. Three
additional Protocols that purport to clarify and add various provisions were
instituted in 1977. Since not all nations have ratified the Protocols--notably
including the U.S., Israel, and the U.N. non-member observer state
"Palestine"--the protocols' application falls outside the scope of the
investigative committee.


As the issue at hand pertains to the protection of civilians in wartime, the
Fourth Geneva Convention and its derivative commentaries are predominantly
pertinent.
Procedural considerations
Article 149 of the Fourth Geneva Convention institutes a procedure by which an
inquiry into a violation of the Convention is to be carried out. Any
investigation into an alleged violation must be conducted through an agreement
between the parties--either via negotiated procedures or an appointment of a
mutually agreed-upon umpire. The process to appoint an investigative
three-person panel is palpably specific.
The panel's members must be drawn from a list of eight "neutral" and "qualified"
nominees--four from each opponent. Each side appoints one member to the panel.
The third, should the parties disagree, is appointed by the International Court
of Justice. The Convention certainly prohibits one party to the conflict, or
even a third party, to unilaterally determine the members of an investigative
panel.
Severe doubt is cast on the neutrality of the Gaza probe's nominees. Commission
head and Canadian academic William Schabas, for example, has publicly stated
that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu should be indicted on the basis
of the Goldstone Report, an investigation into the 2008-9 Gaza war that was
eventually retracted by its author. Inconveniently, Ehud Olmert--not
Netanyahu--was calling the shots as Israel's prime minister during that
conflict.  The three-member panel, as currently constructed, fails to comply
with most procedural requirements of the Fourth Geneva Convention.
Legal considerations
Despite the procedural failings, it is worthwhile to ask whether the U.N.'s case
against Israel works on its merits. The shelling of Gaza hospitals, the most
damning of allegations, is also the most instructive. Hospitals are explicitly
off-limits, according to Article 18 of the Convention, and are recommended to be
"situated as far as possible from [military] objectives." A hospital
encapsulates all claims of civilian harm--it may board women, children, and the
sick or wounded.
The Convention's Articles, however, also explicitly mention the positive
obligation of all parties in the conflict to "respect" and "protect" the
hospitals. The Convention makes clear that "the presence of a protected person
may not be used to render certain points or areas immune from military
operations." Acts of "belligerents" that compel "civilians to remain... to serve
as a protective screen for the fighting troops" are considered "shocking." These
acts are condemned as "cruel and barbaric" and are deemed to fall outside the
"ruses of war."
Particularly instructive is Article 19, which overtly discontinues the
protection afforded to hospitals in the event that "they are used to commit...
acts harmful to the enemy." Examples of harmful acts include utilizing a
hospital as a military observation post, to harbor able-bodied combatants, to
store arms or ammunitions or as a center from which to coordinate fighting
troops.


Although cessation of protection must be mitigated with warnings and reasonable
time to evacuate, perpetuation of acts harmful to the enemy from a hospital is
condemned because "such acts may lessen the protective value of the Convention,"
causing the "life and security of the patients" to be "very seriously affected
by its consequences."


Application of the legal considerations
The Palestinian death toll during Operation Protective Edge surpassed 2,000,
according to the Palestinian Health Ministry, with civilians accounting for
30-50 percent of the casualties--giving rise to widespread allegations of war
crimes by Israel, whose death toll was 70. Despite that disparity and the
harrowing imagery from Gaza, it would appear that Israel is not in violation of
international humanitarian law as outlined by the Geneva Conventions.
The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) has been tasked with ending the rocket threat
emanating out of Gaza. The rocket attacks, according to the U.N., constitute a
war crime due to their professed indiscriminate nature. Although the U.N.
generally views those crimes as nominal, Hamas's exploits in Gaza are quite
dispositive. Extensive reporting from Gaza has made it apparent that Hamas has
deliberately utilized the civilian population in order either gain the
protection of the Geneva Conventions or implicate Israeli soldiers as violators
thereof.
In July, nearly 3,000 rockets were fired into Israel from among the civilian
populace, including from residential areas and hospital zones. Hamas utilizes
schools as weapons depots, mosques as fortified military outposts, and
residential homes as hideouts and launch sites. It fails to carry military
insignia into combat and uses ambulances for transportation. It appears to
skillfully use the dense construct of civilian residences as a collective
fortress from which to carry out its military objectives. Hamas insists on
civilians remaining in areas of military operations, at times through forcible
detention. Civilian casualties, the use of human shields, and the repression of
journalists comprise Hamas's documented strategy.


In failing to "respect" and "protect" the hospitals--and instead opting for
conducting military operations inside or within close proximity of hospitals
--Hamas triggered the Article 19 discontinuation of legal "protection." Rather
than situating its operations "as far as possible" from the hospitals, Hamas has
set up regional commands and media centers within them and is perpetuating acts
harmful to its enemy through rocket or gun fires. Hamas's conduct is directly
analogous to the contemplated exclusions of protected status under the
Convention.
For its part, Israel must still satisfy the mitigation requirements of the
Convention. By providing warnings--through phone calls, messages, and
pamphlets--and allowing civilians a moderate amount of time to evacuate targets
of airstrikes, the IDF has reasonably fulfilled its legal obligation. The
oft-raised objection that Gazan evacuees have nowhere to go is not contemplated
by the Convention. Displacement is not a justification to remain at a site known
to be targeted.


Implications of the legal considerations
The U.N.'s investigations of Israel are typically controversial ventures--none
more so than the 2009 Goldstone commission, a paradigm of baseless accusations
not grounded in law. The circumstances of the 2008-9 Gaza war were all but
identical to the current clash, complete with substantiation of civilian abuse
by Gaza terrorists. The Goldstone Report still concluded that there was no
evidence of such conduct, instead opting for labeling Israel as a human rights
violator.

Judge Richard Goldstone retracted his report in April 2011, admitting that
civilians were not intentionally targeted by Israel "as a matter of policy," and
that the fact that Hamas intentionally committed crimes against civilians "goes
without saying." Goldstone exposed the commission's partiality, stating that it
did not have "evidence explaining the circumstances in which we said civilians
in Gaza were targeted, because it probably would have influenced our findings
about intentionality and war crimes."
The meticulous documentation by the IDF and the foreign independent media of the
facts on the ground leaves the presently appointed three-person U.N. commission
with an opportunity. The panel is presented with a case in which it can
competently frame Hamas's terrorist tactics as illegal. Rather than poisoning
the well against Israel and Jews, an unequivocal consequence of the Goldstone
Report, the panel can prove to be on the side of the law. In doing so, it can
begin to steer the U.N. back onto the road towards credibility and to reclaiming
its authority as the arbiter in matters of human rights and international law.

 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


