                              277 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                          September 2, 2015 Wednesday

Botched op: AIIMS panel's report quashed

BYLINE: Durgesh Nandan Jha

SECTION: DELHI

LENGTH: 387 words


NEW DELHI: The Delhi Medical Council has rejected AIIMS committee's report that
gave a clean chit to its doctors on an incident involving the death of a patient
during a live surgery led by a Japanese expert.

Girish Tyagi, the registrar of DMC, told TOI on Tuesday that the council has
asked the institute to provide all the details, CD of the procedure and proof of
permission sought by the foreign faculty.

"We cannot depend on the report of a committee constituted by AIIMS itself. The
institute authorities have been asked to provide all the relevant details which
will be looked into by our committee to reach a conclusion on whether there were
any procedural lapses or negligence in the case," said Tyagi.

On July 31, Dr Goro Honda from Japan's Tokyo Metropolitan Cancer and Infectious
Diseases Center, performed a laparoscopic liver resection at a workshop,

hosted jointly by AIIMS and the Army Research & Referral Hospital, New Delhi, at
AIIMS. Over a hundred surgeons watched him perform the surgery, which involved
the removal of the liver or a portion of it through three or four keyhole-sized
incisions in the stomach.

Honda's patient, 62-year-old Shobha Ram, suffered massive bleeding during the
procedure. It has been alleged that despite suggestions that the team resort to
an open surgery, doctors continued with the laparoscopic technique, relenting
only after seven hours of surgery. The live video feed to the audience was
terminated and the patient shifted to the ICU, where he died 90 minutes later.

Later, AIIMS clarified bleeding is a known complication of the procedure. "The
patient had a detailed preoperative assessment for feasibility of removing the
tumour surgically. During the course of the surgery there was bleeding, which is
a known complication of the procedure. The procedure was converted to an open
one and all measures were taken to control the bleeding. Unfortunately, because
of the underlying liver disease he did not do well and died," the institute
said.

Dr Amit Gupta, the hospital spokesperson, said there was no procedural lapse.
"We have nothing to hide. The matter has been examined by a committee that had
external experts from PGI, Chandigarh, and SGPGI, Lucknow. If the DMC wants, we
will provide the details to them for perusal too," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


