                              278 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                       The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD.)

                             April 4, 2000, Tuesday

BYLINE: By Peter Geier; Daily Record Legal Affairs Writer

SECTION: Pg. 1Amid

LENGTH: 627 words


A defamation lawsuit brought by a former public school cross-country coach
against students and their parents for accusing him of sexual misconduct will
get a second wind, the Court of Special Appeals held yesterday.     The appeals
court reversed a Montgomery County Circuit Court dismissal of the case, saying
the students' accusations were not absolutely protected from a lawsuit because
adverse administrative actions were taken against Christopher A. Flynn, a former
Walt Whitman High School teacher and coach, without his consent and without
adequate procedural safeguards.     The case "is certainly a matter of public
interest," said Richard E. Schimel, the attorney for the students and their
parents. "We'll go back and conduct discovery and litigate the case on the
defeses of truth and qualified privilege."    Schimel said he had not seen the
court's opinion and declined further comment.     In not accepting the students'
contention that they are absolutely immune from suit because Flynn could have
pursued a grievance or administrative complaint, the court held that procedural
safeguards were available to him only on appeal after he had been sanctioned.
   "In fact, having procedural protections available after adverse action has
already been taken not only fails to ferret out malicious lies, but is actually
less likely to discourage false accusations," Judge Andrew L. Sonner wrote for
the court.     "Although the lower court dismissed the case by relying on
Imperial v. Drapeau, the issue of whether absolute immunity bars a defamation
claim when a knowingly false complaint is made to a public school system about a
public school teacher appears to be one of first impression in Maryland," Sonner
said.      Imperial stems from a case in which emergency medical technician
Wayne A. Drapeau made a judgment call on the scene to transport a patient of Dr.
Roland Imperial to the nearest hospital rather than a more distant hospital
ordered by the doctor.     Because of Drapeau's action, Imperial wrote "unsworn
letters" to Gov. Parris N. Glendening and Rep. Constance A. Morella, R-Md.,
calling for an investigation of the technician's alleged incompetence and
"unethical and illegal" actions.     Drapeau sued Imperial for defamation. The
trial court ruled in favor of the doctor, holding that the letters were "either
absolutely or conditionally privileged;" that is, protected from legal action, a
holding ultimately upheld by the Court of Appeals.     However, the Court of
Special Appeals in the Flynn case did not find the same "procedural safeguards"
in place in the Montgomery County Public School regulation governing the
sanctioning of professional personnel.     "We're not a party to this particular
case," said Brian J. Porter, communications director for the Montgomery County
Public School system, "so it would be inappropriate for us to comment."    Flynn
has been a Montgomery County public school teacher since 1989, and was the coach
of a co-ed high cross-country team from 1990 until 1998, when his alleged
misconduct was brought to the attention of the school principal and other
Montgomery County school system officials.     He was suspended with pay from
January through May 1998 while the county schools' Department of Personnel
Services investigated the students' allegations against him, after which Flynn
was assigned a nonteaching position.     In July 1998, Flynn was reprimanded
"for actions that showed differential and unequal treatment of girls on the
cross country team," Sonner said. Flynn was transferred to another county school
and no longer coaches sports teams.     Neither Flynn nor his attorney, Richard
L. Swick, could be reached for comment.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 The Daily Record Co.


