                              30 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                               SUNDAY MAIL (QLD)

                            February 24, 1985 Sunday

LIBERALS SUPPORT DOCTORS WHO QUIT

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 437 words


Use this version Liberals support doctors who quit SYDNEY._ Federal and State
Liberal leaders yesterday backed doctors who had resigned from public hospitals.

They pledged to support the breakaway Council of Procedural Specialists in their
fight against the Federal Government over Medicare.

The Federal Opposition Deputy Leader, Mr Howard, praised those who had tendered
their resignations from the NSW public hospital system.

Later, Liberal Party state council voted to support the Council of Procedural
Specialists fully in its aim to ""restore and maintain the previous high quality
of medical care in the public hospital system".

Six hundred procedural specialists voted last weekend to resign later this month
over their dissatisfaction with Medicare arrangements for private practice in
public hospitals.

Mr Howard said the Australian Medical Association's decision to reopen
negotiations with the New South Wales Government was a ""matter of regret".

""If the surgeons are defeated in their battle, I believe the face of medical
private practice will be permanently changed in New South Wales," he said.

""The dispute is a matter not just of New South Wales significance but also of
very great national significance."New round of talks The Australian Medical
Association met Federal and State Health Department officials yesterday morning
to clarify procedures for a new round of talks on the dispute, scheduled for
Tuesday.

The AMA federal president, Dr Lindsay Thompson, said yesterday the atmosphere
was positive. The talks were expected to last for a month.

However, there has been a call by New South Wales district medical associations
for Dr Thompson to stand aside and to leave all negotiations to the Council of
Procedural Specialists led by Dr Bruce Shepherd.

Dr Robert Stocken, of Kuring-gai, said the doctors' dispute could bring about
the end of the AMA as a representative group. The dispute had raised doubts
about the AMA's effectiveness.

""Many doctors are considering setting up their own association," he said.

The Australian Society Anaesthetists yesterday said it would not attend the
negotiations between the AMA and the Government.

A meeting of the Federal Executive of the ASA held in Sydney felt lack of
consultation between the AMA the anaesthetists had forced them to take this
stand.

But the AMA Queensland branch has endorsed its federal president's call for a
return to duty by doctors in New South Wales.

A Queensland branch council meeting on Friday voted unanimously in favor of
authorising Dr Thompson to represent all doctors in the NSW hospitals dispute.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: SML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


