                              287 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1989, American Health Lawyers Association
                              Journal of Health Law

                                 October, 1989

                        Vol. 22, No. 10, HOSPLW Pg. 330

LENGTH: 430 words

TITLE: CASENOTE: PATIENT DUMPING: Private action arising under COBRA limited by
state damage cap but not state procedures

AUTHOR: J.K./R.K.

TEXT:

   The United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana denied
defendant hospital's motion to dismiss plaintiff's "patient dumping" claim
finding that the consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA),
42 U.S.C. 1395dd (1986) incorporates state damage cap, but not its procedural
limitations.

   As a result of a serious accident, plaintiff's wife was taken to defendant
hospital's emergency room.  After physicians examined and treated the patient,
defendant hospital transferred her to another hospital where she died.
Plaintiff sought to recover damages under the private enforcement provisions of
COBRA, claiming defendant hospital had failed to provide his patient wife with
the appropriate medical care and stabilizing treatment required to ensure the
safety of her transfer.  COBRA was designed to deter hospitals from transferring
patients to other facilities or turning away patients who are unable to pay.
Under the COBRA private enforcement provisions, anyone who suffers personal harm
as a direct result of a hospital's violation of the act may obtain those damages
available for personal injury under the law of the state in which the hospital
is located.

   Under the state medical malpractice statute, no cause of action arises
against a health care provider until an opinion has been rendered by the state
medical review panel.  The hospital contended plaintiff's failure to file his
complaint with the medical review panel deprived the court of subject matter
jurisdiction.  Plaintiff argued COBRA establishes federal question jurisdiction
over patient dumping claims.  Defendant admitted direct conflict existed between
COBRA's strict liability standard and the state's negligence standard during the
time when the private cause of action arose.  The plain language of COBRA states
a cause of action arises at the time of plaintiff's injury.  Plaintiff asserted
Indiana's statutory limitations on medical malpractice actions, i.e., the
medical review panel and the $ 100,000 ceiling on damages, were rendered
ineffective by the COBRA preemption clause.

   The court ruled COBRA does not incorporate state procedural requirements
including the rule that plaintiff file his complaint with the medical review
panel.  However, the court stated COBRA does incorporate the state's $ 100,000
cap on damages recoverable from a single health care provider.  Aware of the
growing concern over excessive damage awards, the court noted Congress wished to
preserve the ceilings on damage awards which many states have recently enacted.

REFERENCE: Reid v. Indianapolis Osteopathic Medical Hospital, 709 F. Supp. 853
(S.D. Ind. 1989).


