                              289 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                             March 9, 2004 Tuesday

Cost, clinical impacts of DES among topics on opening day

LENGTH: 996 words


American College of Cardiology Scientific Sessions

Cost, clinical impacts of DES among topics on opening day

By HOLLAND JOHNSON  Medical Device Daily Associate Managing Editor  NEW ORLEANS,
Louisiana - A press conference held Sunday on the opening day of the 53rd annual
scientific sessions of the American College of Cardiology (ACC; Bethesda,
Maryland) highlighted some new and innovative advances in the treatment of
coronary artery disease, the repair of leaky heart valves and the use of devices
to assist the failing heart - while also examining key questions about cost
outcomes.

Drug-eluting stents (DES) increase the cost of coronary interventions, though
not as much as might be expected, according to an analysis of data from 74
medical centers.
 The study was presented by David Marks, MD, of the Medical College of Wisconsin
(Milwaukee, Wisconsin) and was done in collaboration with the University
HealthSystem Consortium (UHC; Oak Brook, Illinois), an alliance of 87 academic
health centers in the U.S.

Using the UHC clinical database, researchers analyzed nearly 12,000 stenting
procedures, including more than 3,400 involving the use of a drug-eluting stent.
Not surprisingly, they found that procedural costs were higher in patients
treated with a DES, a device that currently costs up to $3,000.

Among those not suffering from a heart attack, for example, stenting with a
drug-eluting device cost nearly $15,000 on average vs. $13,400 for patients
treated with a bare-metal stent.

Higher procedural costs were balanced somewhat, however, by a shorter hospital
stay for the DES patients - 1.9 days on average for patients treated with a DES
vs. 2.39 days for bare-metal stent patients.

"Drug-eluting stent costs were mitigated by use in less complex or costly
patients and the creation of new cost savings to limit exposure to the greater
supply costs," said Marks.

While he noted that overall costs for all stent procedure admissions decreased
from $192 million in 1Q03 to $178 million in 2Q03, he said these savings
"partially eroded" with time in patients with acute myocardial infarction, an
off-label indication for DES use that raised overall costs for stent use to $210
million in 3Q03.

He also noted that DES adoption was not uniform across the U.S. through 3Q03,
with some centers showing a 0% adoption rate while others have more than an 80%
adoption rate. "This finding," he said, "suggests no standard of care or
consensus in the use of drug-eluting stents by [3Q03]."

It will be interesting to see how this cost analysis changes with the addition
of competition in the DES sector, a factor that is more relevant now that Boston
Scientific's (Natick, Massachusetts) Taxus Express2 stent system has been
approved in the U.S..

Also described at the press conference was a promising new technique that may
soon make it possible to avoid open-chest surgery when repairing the valve that
separates the upper and lower chambers on the left side of the heart. When the
mitral valve does not close properly, blood can leak back into the upper
chamber, or atrium, with each heartbeat, as the lower chamber, or ventricle
contracts.

Describing the new technique was investigator William Stewart, MD, associate
professor of medicine at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation (Cleveland, Ohio), who
is involved in a Phase 1 trial called EVEREST - for Endovascular Valve
Edge-to-Edge Repair Study.

The technique involves threading a dime-sized clip - developed by Evalve
(Redwood City, California), a company incubated by The Foundry (also Redwood
City) - into the heart via a catheter. The catheter is guided by a small
echocardiography probe in the patient's throat, as well as an ordinary
echocardiography transducer placed on the chest. According to the first reports
of the catheter procedure in humans, which involved 10 patients, valve function
improved in all cases.

While Stewart indicated he's not sure what the ultimate indication for this
system will be, whether it will be "used for a lot of patients who currently go
to a valve surgeon, or whether it will be patients who do not go to valve
surgery and are perhaps too risky to go to valve surgery. Heretofore, we've had
nothing to offer patients who have a leaking mitral valve and now we have
something we can offer these patients."

Many patients with heart failure who receive a left ventricular assist device
(LVAD) experience at least some improvement in heart function over time as the
heart is given a chance to rest. However, according to results of a multi-center
study, few patients improve enough to tolerate removal of the device.

The results were presented by Simon Maybaum, MD, of Columbia University (New
York) on behalf of the LVAD Working Group.

The study prospectively followed 64 patients at eight heart transplant programs.

Maybaum and his colleagues found that after one month with an LVAD, the average
ejection fraction improved from about 17% to 35% (a normal ejection fraction is
at least 50%). Additionally, the average size and weight of the heart decreased
significantly.

Despite these encouraging findings, only five of the 64 patients followed - all
of whom had sudden-onset heart failure - recovered enough to have their LVADs
removed. Patients with chronic heart failure continued to need the device. But
Maybaum noted that the addition of "novel medical therapies" might modify those
results.

Some of these therapies include concurrent cell transplantation with LVAD
support, and Maybaum said his team at Columbia is studying the use of
muscle-building drugs like clenbutorol "to promote cardiac recovery in LVAD
patients." He noted that improved therapies combined with LVAD use could "allow
some patients to avoid cardiac transplantation."

While he said that an array of devices approved for bridge to transplantation
were used in this study, the "vast majority of the devices in the study" were
HeartMate systems from Thoratec (Pleasanton, California).

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2004 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


