                              293 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            November 9, 2007 Friday
                                Suburban Edition

Senate Approves Slot Machine Measure;
Key Bills on Taxes, Other Issues Get Past Procedural Votes in Late-Night Session

BYLINE: John Wagner and Ovetta Wiggins; Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 1071 words


The Maryland Senate approved legislation last night calling for a referendum
next year on legalizing 15,000 slot machines and moved closer to passing a
comprehensive tax package to close an estimated budget shortfall of at least
$1.5 billion and raise about $400 million a year for transportation priorities.

A bill to ask voters whether to place slots at five sites in Maryland passed 31
to 15, two votes more the supermajority required for approval. Putting the issue
to a public vote was cast as a compromise to an issue that has paralyzed
Annapolis for years.

Other procedural votes forced by Republicans suggested that Democratic Senate
leaders were likely to win the votes needed today to pass other parts of a
revenue package that includes raising the sales, tobacco, corporate income and
vehicle titling taxes, as well as overhauling the state's income tax brackets.

The crush of activity on the Senate floor came as legislative leaders sought to
bring a special session called by Gov. Martin O'Malley (D) to a conclusion by
next week. The House of Delegates was preparing to work into the weekend to take
up parts of the package as they passed the Senate.

The Senate agreed late last night to invest up to $50 million over five years in
the financially troubled Prince George's County hospital system if a
still-elusive agreement on a long-term solution for the system is reached by
state and county leaders or by the General Assembly.

A broader bill on health-care access being considered during the session also
moved forward in the Senate yesterday on a 31 to 16 procedural vote. The bill
would expand Medicaid eligibility for adults and provide a subsidy to some small
businesses to help them offer insurance to their employees.

The breakneck pace drew protests from Republicans and even some Democrats, who
said legislation was being muscled through the Senate without vetting by
lawmakers and the public.

"What is so special that we have to stay here all night to pass this?" Sen. E.J.
Pipkin (R-Queen Anne's) asked his colleagues.  "We've done a year's worth of
work in a day."

A plan by the Senate to apply the state sales tax to  computer services,
landscaping operations and video arcades prompted some of the fiercest debate
yesterday afternoon.

The proposal to tax the three services, expected to generate about $250 million
a year, was added to the revenue package Tuesday by Senate budget writers
without public input. They replaced several other services that O'Malley had
proposed taxing, including heath clubs and property management services.

An amendment to remove landscaping from the package failed by one vote during
afternoon debate after several senators from both parties expressed concerns
about its consequences. Sen. Delores G. Kelley (D-Baltimore County), who
proposed the amendment, said she feared the provision would hurt "someone with
one lawn mower trying to support a family."

But shortly after 10 p.m., another version of the amendment passed unanimously,
eliciting cheers from senators.

Sen. Edward J. Kasemeyer (D-Baltimore County) said he decided to offer the
amendment to bring unity to the chamber. "I think it caused far too much
division," Kasemeyer said. "Our intent wasn't to damage small businesses or
young people."

A separate amendment that sought to strip all three services from a tax bill
failed earlier in the day. Soon after, a small succession of pickup trucks
carrying lawn mowers was seen being driven around the circle that rings the
State House.

"We don't want a tax on anything," said Neal Ackerson, a construction landscaper
in Crofton. "It's going to put the small landscaper out of business."

At various points yesterday, five bills containing different parts of the
package initiated by O'Malley came to the Senate floor for debate.

All bills are likely to undergo  changes on the House floor, leaving the
differences to be worked out by conference committees.

Del. Sheila E. Hixson (D-Montgomery), chairman of the Ways and Means Committee,
said yesterday that the Senate's plan to apply the sales tax to computer
services "seems like a non-starter for us."

The measure is expected to account for the lion's share of the roughly $250
million in additional revenue anticipated from the Senate's proposal to tax
services that are currently exempt.

"Broadening the sales tax, I'm sure you're going to see different services,"
Hixson said. "Our problem with the computer services is that the only state in
the United States that's done it is Connecticut, and there are about 40 lawsuits
on it."

Much of the debate on slots yesterday focused on the locations listed in a bill
largely unchanged from O'Malley's proposal, which called for allowing five
parlors at horse-racing tracks and non-track locations in the city of Baltimore
and in Allegany, Anne Arundel, Cecil and Worcester counties.

A bid to move one of the parlors to Rosecroft Raceway in Prince George's County
was defeated 30 to 17, with unanimous opposition from the county's senators.

Republican lawmakers said the site would generate $200 million a year more for
the state than the location in Worcester County, which probably would be Ocean
Downs racetrack near Ocean City.

Sen. J. Lowell Stoltzfus (R-Somerset) also said the Eastern Shore site is
opposed by local officials and area business leaders. "There continues to be the
appearance of impropriety" regarding the site's inclusion in the bill, he said.

On two days in January, companies affiliated with the track owner, Potomac
developer William Rickman, and his family gave more than $48,000 to O'Malley's
campaign and an account run jointly by O'Malley and running mate Anthony G.
Brown. O'Malley aides strongly deny that donations influenced the bill.

Kasemeyer said the budget committee that considered the slots legislation had
taken its cue on the most "strategic" locations from O'Malley's office.

If approved by voters next November, the slots bill would generate about $650
million a year for the state, nearly $400 million a year for the parlor
operators and more than $75 million a year for enhanced payouts in horse races
-- a practice that is in place in several neighboring states.

The Senate also approved an amendment that requires a person who lives in
Maryland for three months to pay Maryland income tax. The current threshold is
six months. The change is expected to yield $58 million a year.

Staff writer Philip Rucker contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

GRAPHIC: IMAGE; Del. Sheila E. Hixson (D) opposes some sales tax proposals.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


