                              290 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                            December 15, 2014 Monday

Need for urgent legislation of Cyber Crime law to protect unassuming victims
underscored at seminar

SECTION: Vol. XXXVII No. 343

LENGTH: 583  words


There is an urgent need to legislate a Cyber Crime law  due to increasing
incidents of cyber crime  against unassumingvictims including young girls and
women, recommended participants of a seminar organised to celebrate 25th
anniversary of WAR, the NGO working against exploitation of women.

Women's rights icon in Pakistan Mukhtaran Mai was the guest of honour on the
occasion while Sindh Minister of Culture and Tourism, Ms Sharmila Farooqi
presided the session "Rape &amp; Sexual Violence : Legal Reforms"

that attracted  diverse segments of people, comprising members of the Civil
Society, representatives from NGOs, doctors, lawyers, teachers, human rights
activists and government officials.

Members of WAR said they strongly feel that justice has been done in the
Mukhtaran Mai case and that heinous crime like gangrape, could bereduced through
"no tolerance" approach towards offences committed against women.

They urged the Sindh Government for strict enforcement and implementation of all
laws recently passed for women protection and welfare, as otherwise, they feared
the violence against women will continue, unabated.

Participants using the forum of this seminar to push forth for some much needed
"Legal, Medical and Procedural Reforms" by the Government urged the authorities
to empower the existent Women Police Stations and increase their numbers in
every district.

Moreover, medico legal examination for rape survivors, was demanded to be made
operational in all major hospitals, including those  in private sector as Aga
Khan Hospital, Ziauddin Hospital.

Mandatory DNA testing for all rape cases was also recommended besides provision
for DNA laboratories and relevant gadgets in all districts.

They also called for mandatory recruitment of more women as state prosecutors,
judges, police officers, medicolegal officers and clerical force in judiciary.

Guest of honour Mukhtaran  Mai on the occasion pleaded for speedy trials  to
ensure prosecution of  offenders of the heinous crime.

The Minister for  Culture and Tourism Ms Sharmila Farooqi, praising the work of
NGOs like War Against Rape, reiterated the Government's resolve to continue its
work for  the welfare of women in general, including  effort to eradicate sexual
violence.

The Seminar was also addressed by WAF representative Kausar S. Khan who
reminisced about the environment that led to WAR being formed in the late 1980s.

The highlight of the seminar were the key note addresses on Legal &amp;
Procedural Reforms by Barrister Danish Zuberi who appreciated the Sindh
Government's initiative of passing the Harassment at Workplace Act, The Domestic
Violence law and the Child Marriage Restraint  Act, but urged the government to
focus on the challenge of its actual implementation.

Barrister Danish Zuberi, in her address spoke about the laws relating to rape
and the reforms needed to make rape prosecution more effective.  She also
suggested that cases of sexual violence, rape and incest be covered under "Time
Limit" of two years as done in terrorism cases.

The senior lawyer said in cases of "compromise" or out of court settlement,
state should become a "Party" and continue with the prosecution of the accused.

Activist and researcher Sarah Zaman discussed "on field" challenges in context
of medicolegal and the  procedural obstructions hindering disbursement of fair
trial and justice to survivors.  Going through her experience as a past Director
in WAR, she sought need for urgent reforms in the MedicoLegal Sector.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


