                              288 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     October 14, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Medtronic CoreValve Evolut R System Demonstrates Exceptional Results at One Year

LENGTH: 721  words


Oct. 14 -- Medtronic plc (NYSE: MDT) announced new one-year data showing
transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) with the CoreValve Evolut R
System-the first and only next-generation recapturable, self-expanding valve
available in the U.S.-led to exceptional clinical outcomes.

Presented at the Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics (TCT) scientific
symposium, data from the Evolut R CE Study reported the lowest rate of all-cause
mortality (6.7 percent) of any TAVR study in extreme and high risk patients to
date at one-year follow-up. The one-year stroke rate was also low at 3.4
percent. The Evolut R CE Study is a prospective, single-arm, multicenter study
that enrolled 60 extreme and high risk patients at six centers in Australia, New
Zealand and the United Kingdom.

"These data show that, even in a high and extreme risk patient population, the
exceptional procedural outcomes experienced with Evolut R were maintained
through one year, which indicates that this next-generation, recapturable
technology delivers on its promise to advance TAVR outcomes for patients," said
Ganesh Manoharan, M.D., consultant cardiologist at the Royal Victoria Hospital
in Belfast, Northern Ireland and study investigator for the Evolut R CE Study
who presented the data. "The low rate of paravalvular leak and new pacemaker
implantation suggest that the ability to recapture and reposition during
deployment will play an important role in the evolution of TAVR technology."

In the data presented today, Evolut R showed strong hemodynamic performance,
which may be attributed to the valve's supra-annular design. Mean aortic
gradients (a common method for measuring the restriction of blood flow through
the aortic valve) remained low in the single digits at 7.52.7 mm Hg at one year.
With optimized valve positioning accuracy due to the device's 1:1 response and
controlled deployment, rates of moderate or severe paravalvular leak remained
low (3.4 percent at 30 days and 4.3 percent at one year). The permanent
pacemaker implantation rate was similarly low at 30 days (11.7 percent) and at
one year (15.2 percent).

These data showed no incidents of valve dysfunction, procedural death, annular
rupture, coronary occlusion, valve thrombosis, embolization, or conversion to
surgery. Transfemoral access was possible in all but one patient in a population
that included patients with smaller vessels (down to 5.0 mm).

"With the recapturable and repositionable capabilities of Evolut R, and
enhancements to both the delivery system and valve design, we set out to enhance
the key procedural outcomes that drive TAVR outcomes.  These exceptional results
clearly demonstrate that we have achieved our goal," said Rhonda Robb, vice
president and general manager of the Heart Valve Therapies business, which is
part of the Cardiac and Vascular Group at Medtronic. "The Evolut R System
represents the TAVR platform of the future. Heart teams worldwide recognize that
the clinical results from this trial are exceptional, and they are excited to
have next-generation technology that enables them to achieve these same positive
outcomes for their own patients in their own practices."

The Evolut R valve is delivered through the EnVeo(TM) R Delivery Catheter
System, which features an InLine(TM) Sheath that significantly reduces the
profile to the lowest on the market (14 Fr equivalent, less than 1/5 inch). A
smaller profile size provides a greater opportunity to treat patients with
smaller vessels through the preferred transfemoral access route, and may
minimize the risk of major vascular complications in some patients.

The 23 mm, 26 mm and 29 mm sizes of the CoreValve Evolut R transcatheter valve
and the CoreValve EnVeo R Delivery Catheter System are available in Europe and
other countries that recognize the CE mark.  The CoreValve Evolut R System was
FDA-approved for commercial use in the United States in June 2015.

In collaboration with leading clinicians, researchers and scientists worldwide,
Medtronic offers the broadest range of innovative medical technology for the
interventional and surgical treatment of cardiovascular disease and cardiac
arrhythmias. The company strives to offer products and services that deliver
clinical and economic value to healthcare consumers and providers around the
world.

Source: Medtronic

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


