                              292 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Cairns Post (Australia)

                            August 31, 2006 Thursday

Flegg promises cardiac unit;
Heartfelt plea;
SEPT 9TH HEALTH

BYLINE: Peter Michael (michaelp@tcp.newsltd.com.au)

SECTION: QUEENSLAND DECIDES ELECTION 2006; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 299  words


EMMA Bowden knows all about the cardiac care crisis in Cairns.

But not even the Coalition promise of a new $5 million procedural cardiac unit
in the city was enough to win her vote yesterday.

The visibly upset young woman interrupted a press conference outside Cairns Base
Hospital to tell how her father, 71, suffering chest pain had been stranded in
an ambulance waiting for a hospital bed for more than an hour.

"I'm angry. I'm really angry," Ms Bowden said.

"My dad is suffering an angina attack, he is in pain, he is sweating and clammy
and in need of treatment.

"But he is stuck in an ambulance because there are no beds."

Asked if a promise by Liberal leader Bruce Flegg to improve cardiac services in
Cairns would win her over she replied: "No. No way. I blame the hospital. I
still have faith in Beattie."

Led by Dr Flegg, the Coalition has sought to seduce the state's voters by
hammering the health crisis in Queensland.

But it does not appear to be working. The latest Newspoll shows Labor in front
with 58 per cent of the two-party-preferred vote, compared with the Coalition's
42 per cent.

"There is only one poll that matters and that is on September 9," Dr Flegg said
yesterday.

"Polls are not a matter of life and death unlike health services," he said.

Tagged as "hapless" after a shaky start to the election campaign, the deputy
Coalition leader yesterday shook off criticism of his unpolished performance as
he desperately sought to stay on message.

His comments came as Premier Peter Beattie yesterday admitted to his own "blonde
moment" after initially refusing to accept there was a crisis in the state's
health system.

Dr Flegg said a Coalition government would boost vital cardiac services in
Cairns by opening a procedural cardiac unit as soon as practical on being
elected to power.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TCP


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


