                              291 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                            January 21, 2014 Tuesday

MoIT moving reference against 13 PSDP projects

BYLINE:  TAHIR AMIN

SECTION: Vol. L No. 20

LENGTH: 382  words


The Ministry of Information Technology is moving a reference against thirteen
Public Sector Development Program (PSDP) information technology projects,
showing gross financial, administrative and procedural irregularities estimated
at Rs 1.2 billion to National Accountability Bureau (NAB), it is learnt.

Official sources told Business Recorder that a reference against 13 projects
executed by Pakistan Computer Bureau (PCB) and Electronic Government
Directorates (EGD) is currently lying on the table of Minister of State for IT
Anusha Rehman waiting for formal approval. The Minister is likely to give formal
approval for sending the reference to NAB soon, after which the Bureau would
thoroughly probe these cases and would fix responsibility. Sources further
revealed that about 15 officials are directly involved in the process while some
of them have already gone on long leave.

State Minister for IT had ordered to refer the internal audit reports showing
gross financial, administrative and procedural irregularities of thirteen PSDP
IT projects. Most of the projects began between 2004 and 2006 with a projected
completion period of 2 to 3 years. However, despite a lapse of more than 7
years, the projects' desired deliverables were not achieved within the defined
timelines. It had become a yearly trend of PCB/EGD to seek extension of these
projects on one pretext or another, said officials.

The projects include 'Provision of E-Services at CDA, Islamabad, 'M/o
Information Technology, Health NET Telemedicine Project for Rural/Remote Areas
in Punjab (Holy Family Hospital Rawalpindi), 'HMIS and Networking facilities at
Children Hospital, PIMS, Islamabad, E-Ennoblement of Establishment Division,
Federal Government Data Centre and Intranet, E-Services at Chief/Deputy
Commissioner's Office, E-Services of Islamabad Police, E-Office at MoIT,
E-Office Replication at Federal Ministries/Divisions, E-Services at FIA,
E-Services at Ministry of Health, E-Services at Ministry of Interior and
E-Services at Ministry of Population.

The Minister in September 2013 ordered to conduct a special audit of all the
projects of MoIT attached departments/entities to ensure transparency,
efficiency in their business processes and on-time delivery of the project
deliverables, sources maintained.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


