                              286 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 28, 2014 Friday

Surgical Tech II - Surgery (Varied / On-Call)

LENGTH: 612  words

DATELINE: Lansing


National Association of Sales Professionals has issued the following job
announcement:


Surgical Tech II - Surgery (Varied / On-Call)
Job ID:  21376464
Position Title:  Surgical Tech II - Surgery (Varied / On-Call)
Company Name:  St Joseph's Westgate Medical Center
Location(s):  Glendale, Arizona, 85305, United States

Posted:  November 27, 2014
Job Function:  Other
Entry Level:  No
APPLY FOR THIS JOB
Apply URL:  http://www.ecentralmetrics.com/url/?u=90303175818%...
Save Job  Email Job  Print Job
Job Description

JOIN US NOW as we are seeking a dynamic SURGICAL TECH who is passionate about
the health and well-being of our patients to assist physicians and nurses during
surgical procedures and in preparation for surgery, deliver safe, competent
care, be responsible for maintaining the sterile field, being constantly
vigilant that the scrubbed members of the team adhere to aseptic/sterile
technique, assemble and process sterile instrument trays and equipment, expedite
the operative procedure by anticipating the needs of the surgeon, provide
procedural circulating support and perform instrument and equipment counts. This
position may cross train into procedures.

Located in Glendale, AZ, this position is critical to the success of St.
Joseph's Hospital Medical Center and requires the full understanding and active
participation in fulfilling the Mission of Dignity Health.

REQUIREMENTS:
HS Diploma/GED, two+ years surgical technologist clinical experience that
demonstrates the ability to identify and respond to advanced clinical issues and
BLS required.

Surgical Tech Program Graduate strongly preferred.
Hello humankindness
Located conveniently off the Loop 101 and Glendale Avenue in Glendale, Arizona,
St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center, a campus of St. Joseph's Hospital and
Medical Center, is the centerpiece of Dignity Health's West Valley expansion.
With a vision of Partnering with patients, physicians, employees and communities
to improve the health of all we serve; St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center is
collaborating with groups to build an organization that meets today's changing
healthcare needs.
As part of the new 35-acre medical campus, St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center
features new approaches to healthcare via its onside collaboration with Dignity
Health partners.. The Westgate team has a solid patient/physician focused style
to customer service; actively partnering with patients and physicians to plan
for the continuum of care. It is with Dignity Health's humankindness movement
that gives St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center the opportunity to open a
hospital that is based upon partnerships with patients, physicians, employees,
and the community.
With future plans to expand, St. Joseph's Westgate Medical Center, a 60,000
square foot hospital, includes a 12-bed full-service emergency department, a
24-bed inpatient unit, 2 operating rooms, 2 procedural rooms, dedicated space
for diagnostic services, an ambulance bay and helipad. The campus features some
of the most innovative uses of materials to promote patient safety, patient
satisfaction and medical efficiency.

Now is the time to join Dignity Health and St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical
Center to make a difference in the West Valley community. St. Joseph's is
consistently named an outstanding place to work and one of Arizona's healthiest
employers. Come grow your career with one of Arizona's Most Admired Companies.
Look for us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter.

For the health of our community ... we are proud to announce that we are a
tobacco-free campus.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


