                              301 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         Blackwater Herald (Queensland)

                                 April 8, 2014

Rural docs make best teachers

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 261  words



HIGHLIGHT: Idea mutually beneficial


BLACKWATER'S Dr Manu Nithianantha is positive about the future of rural
generalism.

His student mentoring under the John Flynn Placement Program has been a success
and he is encouraging other rural and remote doctors to register.

"Teaching has a funny way of forcing you to keep up with your own education and
knowledge base and, at the same time, practising it," Dr Manu said.

"The students bring us what they learn from their teachers from various
universities.

"It is extensive. It's like they teach me as much as I teach them."

Dr Manu said the feedback from his students was positive about the opportunity
to gain a massive breadth of experience when they joined him at the hospital and
his North Blackwater general practice.

"They get to do so much when they come here and the key is, they get to do both
procedural and non-procedural stuff," he said.

"Here's the reason why it is so important for rural doctors to take on more
mentoring students.

"The students will not get that experience in the big-city hospitals any more.

"Australia-wide, there is an oversupply of students so every ward has tripled in
size while the amount of experience available has remained the same."

More than 1700 medical students have registered for the JFPP, which gives them
the chance to experience placements across the country from the Pilbara region
to the Australian Antarctic Division.

"We want our students to see what rural doctors do and that the lifestyle is
great," Dr Manu said.

Doctors interested in becoming JFPP mentors can go to www.acrrm.org.au and
register by the end of June.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RBH


                    Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


