                              298 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1987, American Health Lawyers Association,
                             Journal of Health Law

                                September, 1987

                         Vol. 20, No. 9, HOSPLW Pg. 161

LENGTH: 349 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: Medicare/Medicaid: State Statute Changing Rate Of Medicaid
Reimbursement Of Hospitals Violates Medicaid Regulations

TEXT:

   The Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals held that federal courts are not barred
by the eleventh amendment from enforcing a consent decree ordering that
plaintiff hospitals be reimbursed under the Medicaid program.  The court found
that Wisconsin had violated a federal consent decree when it passed a statute
changing the rate at which hospitals were reimbursed by Medicaid.  The decree
ordered the state not to deviate materially from the pre-existing state Medicaid
plan unless the state complied with the plan's procedural requirement pursuant
to federal regulations that make compliance a federal duty.  The court found the
decree to be valid and thus found that the eleventh amendment was not a bar to
enforcement.

   The state legislature passed a statute that had the effect of postponing for
three months scheduled increases in the rate hospitals were reimbursed by
Medicaid, an action the court determined was a material change in the
reimbursement plan.  The state violated Medicaid regulations because it had not
amended the plan to reflect the change, and it had not provided notice of the
new plan or offered assurances that the plan would cover the hospitals' costs.

   The court stated that the eleventh amendment has been interpreted to prevent
a federal court from entering judgment against a state.  This suit was against
the state itself, since it requested pecuniary relief from the state treasury.
Therefore, the suit was within the scope of the eleventh amendment.  However,
the court determined that the group of hospitals seeking reimbursement had an
alternative ground that avoided the eleventh amendment.  In an earlier suit the
district court had entered a consent decree that prohibited the state from
deviating from the plan then in effect without meeting the proper procedural
requirements.  The court determined that a federal court has the power to
enforce a consent decree without bar from the eleventh amendment.

   The court remanded the cause in order to enter a money judgment for the
hospitals for the fiscal years beginning when the statute was in force.

REFERENCE: (Wisconsin Hospital Association v. Rievitz, U.S. Court of Appeals,
Seventh Circuit, Nos. 86-1632, 86-1702, May 19, 1987.)


