                              297 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday

International report: InspireMD reports on positive data for MGuard stent system

LENGTH: 821 words

A Medical Device Daily Staff Report

InspireMD (Tel Aviv, Israel), the developer of the MGuard mesh protective stent
system, reported another positive study, reinforcing MGuard's position in the
cardiology market.

In a preliminary evaluation by Drs. Dmitry Dratva, Yaron Almagor, Jonathan
Balkin, David Rosenmann, Mark Klutstein, Dan Tzivoni and David Meerkin from the
Department of Cardiology at Shaare Zedek Medical Center (Jerusalem, Israel), the
MGuard stent demonstrated excellent performance in a highly complex lesion
subset with limited angiographic and procedural complications, suggesting its
effectiveness in minimizing the possible embolic shower during stenting
procedure, potentially replacing thrombus aspiration and distal protection
devices in selected cases. The results of the analysis were presented at the
EuroPCR 2011, the official congress of the European Association of Percutaneous
Cardiovascular Interventions, held this month in Paris.

Distal embolization with no reflow/slow flow remains the principal complication
of stent deployment in patients during heart attack and in other
thrombus-containing lesions and degenerative vein grafts. This market segment
contributes about one-third of the total stenting procedures completed. Other
solutions in the study did not demonstrate any advantages in helping patients
from distal embolization. While distal protection has demonstrated benefits only
in vein grafts, and has no value in native vessels, the MGuard showed a benefit
for multiple thrombus-containing lesions in the study, including in the
treatment of patients during heart attacks. A commercially available mesh
covered stent (MGuard) was used as an in situ protection device.

Asher Holzer, MD, co-founder and president of InspireMD commented, "This study
further demonstrates the efficacy of the MGuard mesh protective stent system,
currently utilized in more than 500 hospitals worldwide, especially in thrombus
loaded lesions. This analysis represents another positive data point, added to
other studies which show the advantages of MGuard. This evaluation reinforces
our confidence as we continue the MASTER (MGUARD for Acute ST Elevation
Reperfusion) randomized trial, a multinational randomized controlled trial
designed to demonstrate MGuard coronary stent's advantages over standard care
for STEMI (heart attack) patients, chaired by Dr. Gregg Stone from Columbia
University."

Conclusions reached in this preliminary evaluation were that the MGuard stent
demonstrated effective performance in a highly complex lesion subset, with
limited angiographic and procedural complications, suggesting its effectiveness
for these indications.

"This analysis of our initial experience with MGuard confirms our expectations
of its performance in cases with a high risk for distal embolization," said
David Meerkin, MD, director of experimental cardiology, department of
cardiology, Shaare Zedek Medical Center. "The added value of the MGuard
Micro-Mesh for this subset of patients appears to provide a substantially better
procedural outcome. This leaves us with high expectations that the MASTER trial
will confirm the benefits of MGuard for thrombus laden lesions in a randomized
fashion."

The MGuard stent was used at operator discretion for cases considered at risk
for significant distal embolization. Data was prospectively collected in a
registry for all cases where the MGuard stent was used including patient, lesion
and procedural characteristics, as well as procedural and in hospital outcomes.
The results of a total of 82 patients (68 males) were included in this analysis
with a mean age of 61 +/-14 years.

In all but one case the MGuard stents were successfully deployed. These included
41 STEMIs, 18 SVGs, with the remaining patients having an angiographic
appearance of a thrombus laden lesion in a native coronary artery. Of these, 9
presented with stable angina. In the 63 stents in native coronaries, there were
2-LM, 28-LAD, 6-Cx and 27-RCA.

In the study, 2B3A inhibitors were used in only 20 cases (25%) and aspiration
performed in 25 cases (31%). Predilation was performed in 63 cases. Failed
passage of the stent occurred in a single case to mid RCA lesion, where it was
removed and the procedure completed successfully.

No reflow occurred in two cases (2.5%) one of which occurred prior to stent
deployment. In an additional case there was asymptomatic loss of a side branch.

Perforation of a vein graft occurred in a single case following stent
deployment. This was effectively treated with deployment of an additional MGuard
stent.

MGuard is a combination of a coronary stent merged with an embolic protection
specifically designed for Acute MI patients. The embolic protection is comprised
of an ultra-thin polymer mesh sleeve that wraps the stent. The MGuard coronary
seeks to provide permanent embolic protection, without affecting deliverability.
MGuard is CE mark approved.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2011 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


