                              296 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                          February 17, 2016 Wednesday

Washington: Can Electronic Health Records Prevent Harm to Patients?

LENGTH: 846 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality has issued the following
news release:



 Health information technology (HIT) has been shown to improve patient safety,
especially with processes and applications that improve clinicians'
decisionmaking, documentation, and communication.





 But research has often looked at these applications in single institutions. A
question that remains unanswered is the impact of fully installed electronic
health records (EHR) systems used in multiple organizations. Another big
question: can EHRs go beyond improving safety-related processes to actually
preventing adverse events, such as potentially deadly hospital-acquired
infections, from reaching patients?



 A new AHRQ-funded study appearing in the February 6 issue of The Journal of
Patient Safety gives us some insight into these questions. It found that
cardiovascular, surgery, and pneumonia patients whose complete treatment was
captured in a fully electronic EHR were between 17 and 30 percent less likely to
experience in-hospital adverse events.



 The findings suggest that hospitals with EHRs can provide what advocates have
long claimed: better coordinated care from admission to discharge that reduces
the risk of harm reaching patients.



 In the study, a research team led by AHRQ investigators analyzed patient
medical record data from the 2012 and 2013 Medicare Patient Safety Monitoring
System (MPSMS). The database includes 21 hospital adverse event measures that
are considered to be bellwethers of patient safety. Researchers grouped the
measures into four categories: hospital-acquired infections, such as central
line-associated bloodstream infections; adverse drug events; general events,
such as falls and pressure ulcers; and post-procedural events, such as blood
clots.



 To assess the role of EHRs in preventing adverse events, the researchers
measured to what extent care received by patients in the 1,351 hospitals was
captured by a fully electronic EHR.  Hospital care was categorized as:



     Fully electronic, in which all physician notes, nursing assessments,
problem lists, medication lists, discharge summaries, and provider orders are
electronically generated.

     Partially electronic, in which some, but not all, of those components are
electronically generated.

     Non-electronic, in which none of these components are present.



 Amy Helwig



 Among the patients in the study sample, 347,281 exposures to adverse events
occurred.  Of these exposures, 7,820 adverse events actually took place,
resulting in a 2.25 percent occurrence rate of events for which patients were at
risk. Occurrence rates were highest among patients hospitalized for pneumonia
and lowest among patients requiring surgery.



 Thirteen percent, or 5,876 patients, received care that was captured by a fully
electronic EHR.  While these patients had lower odds of any adverse event, this
association varied by medical condition and type of adverse event.



 For example, patients hospitalized for pneumonia and exposed to a fully
electronic EHR had 35 percent lower odds of adverse drug events, 34 percent
lower odds of hospital-acquired infections, and 25 percent lower odds of general
events. Among patients hospitalized for cardiovascular surgery, a fully
electronic EHR was associated with 31 percent lower odds of post-procedural
events and 21 percent fewer general events.  Fully electronic EHRs were
associated with a 36 percent lower odds of hospital-acquired infections among
patients hospitalized for surgery.



 The findings build on the results of a 2014 study Link to Exit Disclaimer of
Pennsylvania hospitals that used patient safety data drawn from the Pennsylvania
Patient Safety Authority, into which hospitals are required to report patient
safety events. Hospitals using advanced EHRs had a 27 percent overall decline in
these events, the authors found, fueled by a 30 percent drop in events due to
medication errors. Edwin Lomotan



 Like all good research, the AHRQ study addresses some questions and raises
others.



 The findings showed a significant relationship between fully electronic EHRs
and adverse drug event rates for patients hospitalized with pneumonia, but not
for those with cardiovascular disease or needing surgery. This may be due to the
fact that certain high-alert medications, such as opioids, which are often
associated with adverse drug events, were not included in the MPSMS measures.
Also, the study did not address which safety features of EHRs had been optimized
or which applications had the greatest impact on reducing adverse events.



 As of today, most hospitals and clinicians have embraced specific EHR
applications and we continue to see implementation of more quality and safety
features.  EHRs can play a key role in preventing adverse events, and as this
study suggests, adoption of EHRs can better manage the multiple tasks that
prevent adverse events before they occur, keeping patients safer as a result.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


