                              299 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 23, 2014 Thursday

Montana: Surgical Tech (Part Time) 10084903

LENGTH: 466  words

DATELINE: Helena


Department of Labor & Industry, The State of Montana has issued the following
job announcement:

10084903
Job Title:  Surgical Tech (Part Time)
Employer:  ST JAMES HEALTHCARE
Location:  BUTTE MT, 59701
Description:  Job Summary -This position provides intra-operative/procedural
teamwork with physicians, nurses, assistants and housekeepers in the Surgical
Services Department.

-Serves as a role model of excellent customer service by responding with
courtesy and respect to the needs of all those he/she interacts with on a daily
basis. -Exhibits flexibility and adaptability to move from department to
department as needed and/or directed to meet the patient/staffing needs of
departments. -Demonstrates behaviors consistent with organizational mission and
goals. -Follows all applicable hospital policies and procedures -Participates in
facility Quality Improvement/IOP Program -Follows policies and procedures for
infection control and facility safety in accordance with regulatory guidelines.
-Follows "Patients Rights Policy" at all times. -Establishes priorities in
organizing intra-operative/procedural care based on case type and needs of the
patient and health care team. -Implements physician preference cards based on
case type. -Aids Physician during treatment and examination of patient during
surgical and endoscopy procedures. -Demonstrates operational knowledge of
equipment, supplies and instrumentation in the operating rooms, sterile
processing, and endoscopy suites. -When not moving to another case, demonstrates
ability to assist other team members in room turnover according to AST
guidelines excluding terminal cleaning. -Decontaminates all surgical and
clinical instrumentation equipment and patient care items as directed.
-Inspects, assembles, packages, sterilizes, stores, distributes and monitors
instrumentation, equipment and patient care items according to current
regulatory standards, manufactures⿿ recommendations and departmental protocol.
-Acts as resource liaison between Sterile Processing and Surgery. -Accurately
monitors and records all statutory documents in accordance with current
regulatory standards. -Assists with inventory, ordering, and stocking of OR
supplies -Assists with transporting or assisting patients to and from OR
-Maintains awareness of comfort and safety needs of the patient. -Demonstrates
knowledge of information management as appropriate. -Completes annual position
specific competencies in timely manner. -Interacts capably with all other
departments to provide the highest level of customer service. EDUCATION and/or
EXPERIENCE -Successful completion of an accredited Surgical Technology Training
Program -One year Surgical Tech experience preferred -Certified Surgical
Technologist Certification -Current BLS Certification
Open

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


