                              300 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                             May 22, 2013 Wednesday
                         1 - All-round Country Edition

Guatemalan dictator's conviction overturned

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 291  words


GUATEMALA CITY: Guatemala's Constitutional Court has struck down the 80-year
sentence given to former dictator Efrain Rios Montt as well as his conviction
for genocide and war crimes.

The 3-2 ruling annulled all proceedings that took place after the trial was
temporarily halted on April 19 due to a technicality, overturning the May 10
conviction but leaving most of the trial and testimony intact.

It was not immediately clear whether the proceedings from April 19 could be
repeated, nor whether Rios Montt, 86, would remain in prison. ``The sentence is
hereby annulled'' on an appeal from Rios Montt's lawyers, said Constitutional
Court spokesman Martin Guzman.

The court said the lawyers' claim of a procedural error during Rios Montt's
trial had standing and as such struck down the conviction and sentencing.

The court said the latter part of the trial had to be voided because it resumed
under a procedural error when the court that convicted him refused to review a
recusal put forth by defence lawyer Francisco Garcia. Rios Montt was rushed to a
military hospital a week ago after fainting in court before a hearing on
reparations for victims, his lawyer said.

Rios Montt's conviction made him the first Latin American former dictator to be
convicted of trying to exterminate an entire people, during a brief but
particularly gruesome stretch of a war that started in 1960, dragged on for 36
years and left about 200,000 people dead or missing.

Under his rule, the army carried out a scorched-earth policy against indigenous
peoples, accusing them of backing rebel forces. Rios Montt and his former
intelligence chief Jose Rodriguez were charged with ordering the army to carry
out 15 massacres that left 1771 Maya Ixil Indians dead in Quiche.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


