                              303 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1991, American Health Lawyers Association
                              Journal of Health Law

                                  April, 1991

                         Vol. 24, No. 4, HOSPLW Pg. 131

LENGTH: 472 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: STAFF PRIVILEGES: Suspension of privileges may constitute
tortious interference with business relationship

AUTHOR: C.E./J.Q.

TEXT:

   The Court of Appeals of Ohio, Twelfth Appellate District, reversed and
remanded a lower court's grant of summary judgment in favor of defendant
hospital.  The court held the suspension of plaintiff physician's hospital
privileges was not contrary to the dictates of procedural due process.  However,
it decided summary judgment was improper because a genuine issue of material
fact existed concerning the elements of tortious interference with a business
relationship.

   Defendant hospital contracted for emergency room services with defendant
emergency physicians' group.  The physicians' group assigned plaintiff physician
to provide such services for the hospital.  The administrator of defendant
hospital subsequently exercised his authority, under a provision of the
hospital's bylaws, and summarily suspended plaintiff's hospital privileges.

   Plaintiff requested a hearing before the medical executive committee of
defendant hospital.  The hearing was canceled and the suspension was rescinded.
Plaintiff was then denied reappointment and reinstatement of his clinical
privileges.  Defendant physicians' group refused to assign plaintiff any further
work, claiming it was necessary to fill his former position.

   Plaintiff first argued his suspension was improper and contrary to the
dictates of procedural due process because he was never given a hearing to
determine the validity of his suspension.  However, the court noted that due
process claim ordinarily requires state action and the hospital was a private
facility.  The court followed the rule that where no state action is present, a
private hospital has broad discretion to make medical staff decisions.  The
court concluded defendant hospital did not act in an arbitrary, capricious, or
unreasonable manner; therefore, it did not commit actionable abuse of
discretion.  The court held defendant hospital's failure to grant a hearing did
not violate the medical staff bylaws, and therefore, plaintiff's claim that his
due process rights were violated was without merit.

   Plaintiff also argued summary judgment on an action for tortious interference
with a business relationship was improper.  The court noted that under the basic
principle of tortious interference, an individual who, without privilege,
induces or purposely causes a third party to discontinue a business relationship
with another, is liable to the other for the harm caused thereby.  The court
held the trial court failed to properly address the elements of privilege and
the tortious nature of the interference.  It held a genuine issue of material
fact existed as to those elements, and therefore reversed and remanded.

   A dissenting opinion stated there was no evidence defendant hospital induced
or purposely caused a third party not to perform any contract with plaintiff
physician.

REFERENCE: Wolf v. McCullough-Hyde Memorial Hosp., No. CA89-07-098 (Ohio Ct.
App., 12th Dist. Apr. 16, 1990) (1990 Ohio App. LEXIS 1449).


