                              302 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Duluth News-Tribune (Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            February 17, 2012 Friday

Grand Marais nursing home worker cited for abuse

BYLINE: John Lundy, Duluth News Tribune, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 393 words


Feb. 17--A nursing assistant at a Grand Marais nursing home was cited for abuse
for pulling two residents by the arms and speaking to one in a "disrespectful
manner," according to a state report made public on Wednesday.

The facility, Cook County North Shore Hospital and Care Center, was cited for
procedural failings in relation to the incident, according to public records
from the Minnesota Department of Health.

The employee, who

wasn't named, was suspended during an internal investigation that began June 2;
she later was fired due to "lack of respect" for residents, the report said. An
unannounced follow-up visit on Nov. 17 determined the facility had corrected its
deficiencies, it added.

Kimber Wraalstad, the facilities administrator, said no criminal charges
resulted from the incident.

According to the report:

An employee said that on May 28 the nursing assistant "lifted/dragged" a
resident into his wheelchair, and the nursing assistant's demeanor was "loud and
rough." On May 29, the same witness said she answered another resident's call
light and a female resident was "shaking from head to foot -- angry looking and
trapped" after being given a shower by the nursing assistant.

When interviewed by special investigator Jaime Greeninger, the witness also said
she observed a pile of "sopping wet" clothes on the shower room floor and saw a
"look of horror" on the resident's face as the nursing assistant was putting dry
clothes on her. The witness said she also saw the nursing assistant pull the
resident into bed by her right wrist. A bruise developed on the wrist within 30
to 45 minutes, the report said.

The nursing assistant told Greeninger the resident resisted personal care, and
that she gave her the shower while she was partially clothed because it "needed
to be done."

The facility was cited for procedural failings related to the incident,
including a delay in reporting the allegations to the state.

Another employee of the same facility was fired last year and charged with five
felony counts after being caught removing fentanyl patches from two residents
for her own use. Cook County North Shore Hospital and Care Center wasn't faulted
in its handling of that case.

___ (c)2012 the Duluth News Tribune (Duluth, Minn.) Visit the Duluth News
Tribune (Duluth, Minn.) at www.duluthnewstribune.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20120217-DU-Grand-Marais-nursing-home-worker-cited-for-abuse-0217-20120217

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DU


                       Copyright 2012 Duluth News-Tribune


