                              304 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly

                           November 19, 2015 Thursday

Labor - Limitations - Waiver

BYLINE: Tom Egan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 804  words


Where a plaintiff's claim under section 301 of the Labor Management Relations
Act for breach of a Collective Bargaining Agreement was dismissed under the
six-month statute of limitations for "hybrid" claims, the dismissal order must
be reversed because the six-year Massachusetts statute of limitations for
contract claims was applicable.

"Paul DeGrandis was fired from his job as a carpenter at Children's Hospital
Boston ('Hospital') in 2008. The Hospital's stated reason for firing DeGrandis
was his 'failure to meet job performance standards. ' Days short of six years
later, DeGrandis sued the Hospital, asserting that it did not have cause to fire
him. The district court dismissed his complaint. He now appeals the dismissal of
one of the counts in his complaint, a claim under section 301 of the Labor
Management Relations Act ('LMRA') for breach of a Collective Bargaining
Agreement ('CBA'). The ultimate question here is whether a six-year statute of
limitations for breach of contract or a six-month limitations period for hybrid
claims applies. The district court held that DeGrandis was required to bring a
hybrid claim, one that alleges breach of contract by the Hospital as well as
breach of the duty of fair representation by his union. We disagree and find
that DeGrandis was not required to bring a hybrid claim, so the six-year statute
of limitations applies. Accordingly, we reverse.

"At the heart of this appeal is a Memorandum of Agreement ('MOA') that
DeGrandis, the Hospital, and DeGrandis's union had entered into after a previous
grievance filed by DeGrandis in 2007. Under the plain language of the MOA, the
grievance and arbitration procedures set forth in the CBA could not be invoked
in the event that DeGrandis was terminated for 'failure to comply with the (
Hospital]'s generally applicable work standards. ' Because this MOA provision
amounts to a waiver of the typical rule that before proceeding to federal court
a plaintiff must exhaust a CBA's grievance and arbitration procedures and abide
by its finality provisions, we find that the district court erred in dismissing
DeGrandis's complaint. ...

"... Since DeGrandis was precluded by the MOA from bringing his challenge
through grievance and arbitration, the only procedural reason for closing the
courthouse doors, failure to exhaust, is simply not involved. The exhaustion
rule -- and by extension the finality rule -- could not prevent DeGrandis from
bringing his claim in federal court if there were no grievance or arbitration
procedures to exhaust in the first place. ... DeGrandis's only option for
obtaining review was to bring a claim in federal court. And that is precisely
what he did when he brought this straightforward breach of contract claim under
section 301 of the LMRA.

"... According to the Hospital, allowing DeGrandis to prosecute his claim in
federal court would amount to a 'second bite of the apple. ' But what the
Hospital fails to realize is that there are two apples on the table. The MOA was
the final resolution of DeGrandis's 2007 grievance for his then-proposed
termination; his 2008 grievance for actual termination is an entirely distinct
matter. DeGrandis is not getting a second bite at the apple; he is getting a
first bite at a new apple.

"Since DeGrandis could not under the MOA take advantage of the CBA's grievance
and arbitration procedures, for us to find that he cannot challenge his
termination in federal court would amount to giving the Hospital an unreviewable
right to fire DeGrandis for any reason so long as it claimed that it was firing
him for failure to abide by its work requirements. The MOA gives the Hospital no
such right.

"The Hospital argues that DeGrandis could bypass the CBA's finality provision
and obtain review if he brought a hybrid claim. But DeGrandis has no reason to
sue his union. We decline to adopt a rule that would require DeGrandis to
manufacture a fictitious claim against his union in order to obtain some measure
of review of the Hospital's decision. Because the waiver provision in the MOA
renders the exhaustion and finality rules inapplicable to DeGrandis's second
grievance, he faces no procedural bar to bringing his section 301 breach of
contract claim against the Hospital, and his claim is timely. "

DeGrandis v. Children's Hospital Boston (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-306-15) (13
pages) (Lynch, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a decision by Saylor, J., in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Jennifer A. O'Brien for
the plaintiff-appellant. Katherine Y. Fergus, with whom Tracey E. Spruce was on
brief, for the defendant-appellee (Docket No. 15-1657) (Nov. 18, 2015).

Click here for the full-text opinion.



http://www.masslawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2015 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

