                              308 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                             August 16, 1992 Sunday
                                 Early Edition

THE LIFE AND DEATH OF RURAL HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: DENIS GREGORY

SECTION: REAL AUSTRALIA; Pg. 94

LENGTH: 2584 words


BREWARRINA in the far west of the State has the worst health figures of any town
or city in NSW. Worse than that, from today the town's 2,000 residents will be
without a doctor.

The Barwon River community easily tops the NSW list of infectious and other
diseases and its death rate is nearly double the State average.

A doctor in Bourke described the situation as absolutely desperate and said
there seemed no way anyone could get through to the State bureaucracy which had
put a limit on hospital and medical resources.

He said Brewarrina also had a high level of emergency trauma from people injured
in fights right through to obstetrics and there often wasn't time to take them
to Bourke, 100 kilometres away on a dirt road.

For 21 months Dr Malcolm Fairleigh maintained a private and hospital practice at
Brewarrina but fell victim to the long hours seven days and seven nights a week
and packed up and left.

What happens now in the town is anybody's guess but the people who live there
are under serious threat.

The Rural Doctors Association which represents general practitioners in these
smaller country towns found two relief doctors to work at Brewarrina on a roster
system for a month but that finished yesterday.

Association secretary, Dr Bruce Harris of Walgett, said Brewarrina must seek
urgent assistance from the State and Federal Health departments.

But he thought negotiations between both health authorities had bogged down
while they waited for next week's Federal Budget.

"We would implore both governments to look at Brewarrina as a case study and to
look at the mortality and morbidity figures and the moral responsibility to
inland Australia," he said.

MORAL RESPONSIBILITY

"The people of the town must also look at their own responsibilities because
this is a one hundred per cent loss of medical services in a community where 70
per cent of the people are indigenous.

"Failure to recognise Brewarrina's need would be a severe indictment on the
Australian health system."

Dr Harris said State funding to country hospitals had been reduced or left at
the same level and most hospital boards couldn't stay within their budgets
without cutting medical services.

Other country towns are in the same boat.

Yass, on the busy Hume Highway, is now down to four doctors from a previous
strength of six.

West Wyalong on the junction of the Newell and Mid Western Highways has enough
work for six doctors but is down to two and by the end of the year there could
be only one.

The stories are the same in towns like Coonabarabran, Narrandera, Temora,
Trundle, Peak Hill, Tullamore and Cobar. All are either struggling to get a
doctor or struggling to keep the ones they have.

In some cases continual clashes between the doctors and local hospital boards
have done little so solve the problem.

In Yass the local board refused to allow a new associate doctor to become a
visiting medical officer at the hospital. The Health Minister eventually
intervened but by then it was too late because the doctor had gone elsewhere.

The Regional Health Department told the people at Trundle their hospital was to
be restricted to only one nurse for each shift and suggested the kitchen staff
could help out in an emergency.

The doctor there said he wouldn't be able to carry on a hospital practice if
there wasn't enough nursing staff and would have to leave.

Protests by the community forced the department to reconsider.

Similar battles against cuts to hospital budgets were waged by communities at
Tullamore and Peak Hill.

And it is the same story in most other small towns throughout NSW.

President of the Rural Doctors Association of NSW, Dr Hal Rikard-Bell, said it
was hard enough for country towns to attract and keep doctors without them
having to continually argue with authorities for a fair deal.

WORK SKILLS

Dr Rikard-Bell, of West Wyalong in south west NSW, said there were a number of
reasons doctors preferred to stay in the big cities.

"They don't seem to want to come to the country because they haven't been taught
the skills required to go into general practice," he said.

"If you want to be a GP the Australian training system has not taught you to
take out an appendix or do a caesarian section or give an anaesthetic.

"But things will improve because rural training units have been set up in
Tamworth and Toowoomba.

"They will train GPs who want to do procedural work in the country so that our
graduates and doctors don't have to put themselves into a position where they
can't cope.

"Doctors don't want to do the wrong thing by their patients. They don't want to
spend all their life on the edge of the chair feeling anxious that patients
might come in who they can't help. And they don't like looking over their
shoulders at the lawyers who are there if they make a mistake.

"Another reason doctors won't come to the country is because the State
Government has been strapped for cash and a lot of small hospitals like mine
have been discouraging the expansion or continuation of services such as
operating theatres because

they are trying to cut costs.

"But in a lot of these little towns where they cut to a certain level to save
money, doctors have still got to do enough procedural work to remain competent
and to keep their skills up.

"If they don't then it's a big step down.

"Smaller country towns like Moree, Warren, Walgett, West Wyalong, Cootamundra,
Coonabarabran, Young and Boorowa need doctors with procedural skills.

"Towns like Warren and Walgett, that don't have a lot of routine theatre, still
need doctors who have good accident emergency skills.

"The doctor who is going to be involved in managing a multiple-victim trauma
such as a major farm accident, a wild shooting or the result of somebody running
amok with a knife is going to be the GP.

"And larger towns like West Wyalong, Young, Cowra and Moree which have districts
of around 10,000 people require doctors who can perform such tasks as
anaesthetics, surgery, obstetrics, accident emergency and cardiac and coronary
care as well as routine hospital ward work.

"West Wyalong is 160 kilometres from Wagga or two hours by ambulance so we like
to be in a position where we can offer routine surgery and routine obstetrics.

"Wagga is too far away if someone needs a caesarian section because of the
difficulty during labor and certainly an ambulance is not the place to have your
emergency.

"To that end places like West Wyalong and other towns this size with a degree of
isolation look for a team who can do these procedural things as well as their
general practice work and we need enough of them so they can share the work
load.

"West Wyalong and district has a work load equal to 10,000 people and needs six
doctors with procedural skills.

Dr Rikard-Bell said that when the State Government cuts services to save money,
country towns get to the stage where their hospitals become patch and dispatch
centres.

He said most towns could be run with one or two doctors if all the patients were
sent away.

"That is no surgery, no obstetrics, no anaesthetic. Every heart attack patient
goes home, every sick person goes and everyone with asthma goes to a hospital
where they do those things routinely," he said.

"But I think that would be far more expensive for the nation and certainly more
expensive for the people.

"We're putting statistics together now that show admitting people to a hospital
in a place like West Wyalong is much more cost effective than having them in
Wagga.

"Certainly the base hospital is a high level hospital that should be looking
after cases requiring a greater degree of expertise.

"It would be much more cost effective if hospitals in the smaller towns were
maintained so it is most important that local administrators try to keep places
like this open.

NOWHERE TO WORK

"The alternative will be that the graduates from Tamworth and Toowoomba training
units will have nowhere to work."

Dr Rikard-Bell said 10 pc of the population in country NSW lived in towns of
less than 20,000 people and in those towns 9 pc or 9,000 babies were born each
year.

If these babies were transferred and delivered in base hospitals like Wagga or
Tamworth those hospitals would have an extra 1,200 to 1,500 births a year to
cope with.

Dr Rikard-Bell said the four or five obstetricians at Wagga wouldn't be able to
handle the extra work load.

In country towns of less than 20,000 people doctors did about 30,000 general
anaesthetics a year and that sort of work load couldn't be accommodated by the
base hospitals either.

"This type of information just hasn't filtered through to the administrators,"
he said.

"If they want to come clean and say they can't afford medical services in small
country towns and want them to stop, that's a different kettle of fish.

"But they're cutting services just to save money and when the operating theatres
close because there are not enough nurses or the doctor leaves or the equipment
needs updating they won't be reopened again.

"That really worries me.

"All this does little to improve patient care in the country."

MINISTER'S FIGURES REFUTED

THE secretary of the Rural Doctors' Association, Dr Bruce Harris, refutes
figures issued by NSW Minister for Health, Ron Phillips, that show Government
policies had attracted 212 GPs and 186 specialists and consultants to rural
areas since 1987.

"Mr Phillips claims of an 80 per cent increase in the number of specialists on
the North Coast represents a population explosion around Coffs Harbour and Port
Macquarie," Dr Harris said.

"Our association is concerned about towns with less than 15,000 people that have
had no significant increase in doctor numbers."

A BITTER PILL FOR NEWCOMERS

COBAR in Western NSW spent a lot of time and money setting up to attract a
doctor but it is not been a particularly happy place for some reason.

There have been clashes with the local hospital administration which the Rural
Doctors Association believes are unnecessary and unreasonable.

The shire council rented the doctor a home and surgery and guaranteed him around
$225,000 a year but because of constant niggling by the hospital board he is
considering leaving.

Dr Rikard-Bell said why go to all that trouble to attract a doctor and then rub
him up the wrong way and have him decide to leave.

"The doctors say 'look this job's hard enough. We don't need this'.

"In West Wyalong for example we have had trouble and until my partner resigned
earlier this year they refused to let locums work as visiting medical officers.

"We go to all the trouble to get a doctor and they refuse to have them or they
say 'yes they can come but we won't pay them' and that is on a fee for service
basis.

"So if there are 10 patients there are only 10 fees no matter how many doctors."

Dr Rikard-Bell said he thought the health administrators needed to look after
their own patch a bit more.

"In medicine we seem to be arguing with the Federal Government which is trying
to tighten the screws on general practice.

"We seem to be arguing with the State Government which is having trouble funding
health throughout NSW.

"We argue with the regional administrations because they are not necessarily
looking after the small hospitals the way we would like them to and then the
local hospital administration wants to give us a serve.

"Why bother?

"And that is what my partner said and he left.

"And that is what my other partner feels and he, too is leaving. The situation
is ridiculous.

"Here we are busting our gut to get doctors to come to the country and the local
hospital board says 'no you can't have a position as a visiting medical officer
because we can't afford you.'"

Dr Rikard-Bell said it seemed the tall poppy syndrome was part of Australian
lore.

"Doctors are very difficult to deal with. They are used to talking to people who
are not listening. They are used to thinking they are right and they tell you
and when you give them an instruction they don't agree with, they ignore you.

"However the town needs them. If you don't have a medical service and a practice
and a hospital you have a big hole.

"And the towns need to look after their services. If they lose their doctor,
their dentist, their pharmacist, their solicitor and their accountant the town
becomes hollow and that really worries me.

"If this bleeding of professional staff continues and medicine is the first one
to go then what you will have is major cities like Orange, Tamworth and Wagga
and between them little hamlets with patch and dispatch facilities.

"Towns like Muswellbrook, Parkes and Cowra might be big enough to grow at the
expense of the smaller towns around them but I don't think Australians want that
empty type of country NSW.

"And if a traveller going through has an accident he wants someone there with
the routine skills to look after him.

"People deserve that."

NOBODY WANTS TO GO BUSH

THERE are lots of reasons why doctors won't go to small country towns.

Many marry professional women like lawyers and pharmacists and if they want to
continue their careers they won't go to a place where they cannot get work

Wives too, have to be happy to live in the bush where Dr Rikard-Bell believes is
the best place to practice medicine.

He describes the work as interesting, challenging and stimulating and the people
as friendly.

"The lifestyle is great but you can't do it forever.

"At age 50 the car crash at three in the morning and the heart attack at 10.30
loses its attraction.

"And you've got to be good at your work. You have to be prepared to go off to
the courses and keep up your skills. And it's hard."

Another major hurdle attracting young doctors to the country is that after doing
six years of medicine, a year or two residency and then four years in the rural
training scheme, they are looking at 10 to 12 years before they can get a
practice of their own.

So there has to be financial rewards to make the carrot at the end of the stick
worth chasing.

Young doctors are not prepared to sink a lot of money into a country town
because they are not sure whether they are going to like it or whether they can
keep up with the long on-call hours and the high anxiety that comes with having
to cope with so many aspects of medicine.

Dr Rikard-Bell believes it soon will be incumbent on most shire councils to own
the medical centre in country towns and rent it to the doctors.

He thinks councils should also provide a rented home to doctors like many places
do now including Junee, Brewarrina, Bourke and Walgett.

He said some doctors were not prepared to spend up to $200,000 for a home and a
share in a surgery when they are not sure whether they will get it back or
whether they will be there long enough to justify the expense.

Dr Rikard-Bell believes another 100 to 150 doctors are needed in small country
towns.

But he still maintains they won't go to a town where they believe they cannot
cope.

"West Wyalong is a classic example.

"When I came here in 1980 there were four partners, a full time lady associate
and Family Medicine Program trainees were coming all the time.

"In 1986 the senior partner retired and we have been advertising since then
without success. The associate stopped working last year and then the Family
Medicine Program said they didn't have any more doctors who wanted to go to the
country.

"In July this year my partner resigned to go to another job. My other partner is
leaving at the end of the year and that leaves me and whatever locums I can get
and whatever associates I can attract to come to what should be a practice of
five or six just to continue doing what we are now.

"So next year is crunch time for me, too."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Three Illus: LAST HOPE: Where once the patient was the emergency, now
the whole country hospital system is in a critical condition. THE NEED IS GREAT:
Dr Rikard-Bell "100 to 150 doctors needed in small country towns." HELPING HAND:
Some patients in Brewarrina are no sooner treated than they are back on the
streets in need of more care.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1992 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


