                              310 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Sunday Tasmanian

                             March 19, 2006 Sunday

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 628  words


Medical blame game destructive

The article by Gill Vowles (Sunday Tasmanian, February 26) which suggests that
medical negligence claims in Tasmania may become ''a flood in the next 10
years'' is worrying, not just for doctors, and requires comment.

Hobart lawyer Jo Matthews says: ''As people realise they don't have to put up
with Third World healthcare there will be a very rapid increase in litigation.''

Don't get me wrong, I will never defend negligent healthcare practices, but this
statement is offensive to Tasmanian health workers as well as to people who live
in Third World countries and have to make do with nothing like the services
available in this state.

No, the services are not perfect and much needs to be done in many areas, but
let us carefully consider what could make a positive difference.

Firstly, there does need to be a heightened sense of personal responsibility for
one's own health, a degree of self-discipline is required.

Secondly, all healthcare workers need to operate in a culture of continuous
quality improvement and audit of their practice.

Thirdly, there is a need for the governments of the day (state and federal) to
recognise the support that organisations and individuals working in this often
stressful area require.

Finally, the community in general needs to exercise in a responsible way its
power to advocate for the best affordable health and social support systems
possible.

What would be extremely destructive would be to evolve to a system where there
is no personal responsibility, where the ''blame game'' is fashionable and
ambulance-chasing lawyers and journalists serving their own purposes are king.

I am not suggesting that either Gill Vowles or Jo Matthews are in this category
but such systems exist and are profoundly antagonistic to good medical care,
which relies so much on a relationship of trust between doctors and nurses and
the patient.

Dr Frank Nicklason, Chairman, Medical Staff

Association, Royal Hobart Hospital

Redistribute cardiologists' fees

Regarding Dr Luke Galligan's letter (Sunday Tasmanian, March 12), he is
absolutely right in saying that the disparity between procedural fees and
consultation fees is a problem.

A partial solution would be for Canberra to reduce significantly all procedural
fees and to redistribute the money saved to hospital doctors and, of course, to
the GPs, who are the backbone of any health system.

Robert Cutforth, Sandy Bay

Local heroes outshine celebrity

Your story about Rebecca Gibney's ''starring'' role in the Swansea baton event
(Sunday Tasmanian, March 12) is perhaps one of the laziest pieces of journalism
I have witnessed.

Ms Gibney's role was, to say the least, minor. Rather than being cheered through
the streets by adoring locals, we were, in fact, cheering on our two local
representatives, Jim Morris and Dorothy Lord, both of whom were selected for the
honour due to their tireless service to local community -- Jim as Tasmania's
longest-serving ambulance volunteer and Dorothy for her charity work.

There was no mention of the fantastic family fun day organised by local people
and funded by local businesses.

This story could, and should, have been about the local heroes, not the puff
piece of Ms Gibney's career to date.

I'm sure she is a perfectly nice woman, a good actress and we're very happy that
she is very happy to be here, but please, spare us the celebrity nonsense.

Neal McDermott, Swansea

Shooting the messenger

Typical. An honorable man writes about the shameful bits of Tasmania's forestry
practices and he's accused of being bitter, scurrilous, prejudiced, ill-informed
and a failed local candidate (Letters, March 5).

Why is it that people are so often attacked personally when the issue they are
concerned about can't be denied?

Jeff Size, Cygnet

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


