                              306 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Mail (SA)

                              July 6, 2003 Sunday

Uncertain future for rural GP practices

BYLINE: By Brad Crouch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 365 words


MURRAY Bridge GP Dr Peter Rischbieth loves his practice, the patients and the
lifestyle but has deep concerns over the future of rural practice.

As an obstetrician and anaesthetist he faces the risk of being sued long after
he retires for work done in public country hospitals.

While the Government guarantees cover for five years after retirement, he could
be exposed to a claim decades after a procedure.

Insurance issues have contributed to six of his Bridge Clinic's 12 GPs with
obstetrics skills deciding to stop delivering babies in the past seven years.

In addition, a shortage of midwives and procedural GPs and closure of the
Lameroo, Pinnaroo and Meningie obstetric service has created a situation where a
few babies have been delivered by the side of the road en route to Murray
Bridge.

Dr Rischbieth said it would be reasonable for the Health Commission to assist
more with insurance cover for procedural work done in public hospitals on rural
patients.

Dr Rischbieth explained that his practice felt they could not increase their
fees to cover the increasing costs of medical indemnity for hospital work as
many residents were from low socio-economic groups and would not turn up for
antenatal visits because of the rising costs.

"We have a very good relationship with our midwives and nursing staff at our
local hospital as well as our hospital administration but they don't have the
power to decide the insurance issue," Dr Rischbieth said.

"Rural doctors and midwives are well-trained and skilled, the outcomes in
country obstetric units are good but we have a situation where the rural doctors
and nurses are ageing and the insurance uncertainty is discouraging younger
health professionals from practising in the country.

"Doctors who are normally mild-mannered and calm are worried and saying it is
just not worth it. It will be an individual decision about whether to continue
delivering babies in country hospitals but if doctors haven't got satisfactory
insurance cover they may have to reconsider their position.

"If the insurance issue gets sorted out I'll continue but at the moment we are
all working in a very uncertain environment."

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: SUM

                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited


