                              307 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bakersfield Californian

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 19, 2013 Tuesday

Medical board accuses surgeon of negligence

BYLINE: Rachel Cook, The Bakersfield Californian

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 458 words


March 19--The Medical Board of California has brought an accusation against a
Bakersfield surgeon claiming he was negligent and incompetent in his care of 10
patients.

The accusation alleges that Mallik Thatipelli, a vascular surgeon, committed "an
extreme departure from the standard of care" in how he treated the patients or
documented their care. The patients are identified only by initials in the
accusation and range in age from 58 to 87.

Thatipelli's attorney Mitchell Green said the accusation arose out of an
internal review at Bakersfield Memorial Hospital. The San Francisco attorney
said other doctors at the hospital have questioned Thatipelli about his
techniques, but that there was no injury to any patient or malpractice claim.

"What the dispute is really about more than anything else is which of several
different techniques is the proper technique to diagnose someone with vascular
disease," Green said Friday.

Frank Miller, a program support analyst for the medical board, confirmed that
hospitals are required to notify the medical board of peer reviews.

"We handle (peer review reports) just like any other case we would get as a
source of a possible complaint or an investigation," Miller said.

Robin Mangarin-Scott, a spokeswoman for Mercy and Bakersfield Memorial
hospitals, said the hospital cannot comment on peer reviews.

The medical board's accusation, which was filed in February, asserts that
Thatipelli incorrectly diagnosed an 85-year-old patient and performed an
"unnecessary" diagnostic angiogram and then referred the woman for vascular
surgery, "which was also unnecessary."

In his treatment of an 87-year-old woman, the accusation argues that Thatipelli
performed procedures, including using general anesthesia, that "were
unnecessarily high risk techniques for this particular patient."

The accusation charges Thatipelli with departing from the standard of care in
several areas, including by "performing two angiographic procedures in one
setting" and in his "pre-procedural planning and procedural documentation."

"Specifically, there is either a lack of documentation or confusing
documentation," the accusation said.

Green said the issues at stake are technical ones that do not pose a great or
imminent risk to patients.

"We're expecting that we're going to prevail at the hospital hearing and that,
based on that, the medical board will withdraw these charges," he said.

Thatipelli's license was issued in February 2009, according to the medical
board. He graduated in 1989 from an Indian university, according to the board's
website.

___ (c)2013 The Bakersfield Californian (Bakersfield, Calif.) Visit The
Bakersfield Californian (Bakersfield, Calif.) at www.bakersfield.com Distributed
by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130319-BK-Medical-board-accuses-surgeon-of-negligence-0319-20130319

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BK


                   Copyright 2013 The Bakersfield Californian


