                              309 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                          New Straits Times (Malaysia)

                           August 11, 2004, Wednesday

Patients to know cost of hospital stay before admission

SECTION: Nation; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 858 words


KUALA LUMPUR, Tues. - Patients will soon be able to find out how much they
would have to pay for their hospital stay even before admission.

This is because doctors who examine them will not only diagnose their
illnesses but also provide a detailed classification of all the procedures
they would have to undergo and the costs to be incurred.

Hospital Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia Professor of Health Economics
and Head of the Community Health Department, Professor Dr Syed Mohamed
Aljunid, said patients would thus be better prepared for the stay,
treatment and the bill.

Hospital Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (HUKM) is the first hospital in
the country to implement a "Case-Mix" structure. The system, introduced
two years ago, includes a classification system with the costing for each
procedure done. Under this system, resources are allocated according to
the type of case treated.

Dr Syed Mohamed said HUKM kept excellent medical records and a data base
in two main areas - "International Classification of Diseases version 10"
(ICD10) and procedural classification.

"If you do not classify the procedures, then the charges will not be
very good," said Dr Syed Mohamed.

He said HUKM had 8,500 procedures and 40,500 related analyses which it
has grouped into 965 classifications.

"We manage the resources and we know exactly what is the cost of each
procedure and we know what is the outcome of the treatment given to
patients under the classification," said Dr Syed Mohamed.

During the first nine months of implementation, he said, they had
teething problems but these had been rectified and now their system was up
to international standards.

The system was presented to the Health Ministry last year but now it
would be resubmitted with HUKM giving the complete procedural
classification with costing on the cardiovascular condition and the
musculo-skeletal system.

He said they were willing to share their Case-Mix structure with other
public and private hospitals, adding that they would be coming out in
stages with a similar structure for all other diseases as they wanted to
make sure the costing for procedures was reasonable.

Asked why public hospitals had not implemented this procedural
classification, Dr Syed Mohamed said although the ministry initiated it in
1996 in 14 public and teaching hospitals in the country it was
discontinued due to lack of human resources. Moreover, there was no proper
training for staff to run the system.

Asked if private hospitals had the system, Dr Syed Mohamed said they did
not have a proper classification system but they were very interested in
it, especially clinical costing.

He said hospitals must continuously do benchmarking with others in the
same category so that they can compare the outcome indicators.

Dr Syed Mohamed also said the introduction of the Case-Mix structure in
public hospitals would also help them know whether the annual allocation
was sufficient or if they were under-funded and they can also justify with
facts if they need more funds.

"The implementation would also help hospitals to know whether they are
over-spending and if so, how to reduce cost," he added.

HUKM director Professor Datuk Dr Mohamad Abdul Razak said the objectives
of the Case-Mix system in HUKM, among others, was to facilitate the
implementation of a quality enhancement programme which at the end of the
day would ensure that patients received quality and effective treatment.

"Case-Mix output data not only can be used for financing but also can be
used to measure quality of services rendered by the hospitals. This
includes the length of stay, patients' status on discharge and adverse
events," he added.

He said this information helped in identifying differences in treatment
and problems in quality of patient care so they can be highlighted and
managed immediately.

UKM vice-chancellor Professor Datuk Dr Mohd Salleh Mohd Yasin said the
Malaysian healthcare system had been praised all over the world as a model
for the developing countries.

"If we were to maintain the efficient healthcare system we must
introduce measures of quality assurance so as to keep the system running
efficiently," he said, adding that the Case-Mix system has been proven
worldwide to introduce efficiency in the health care system.

Ministry of Health director-general Tan Sri Dr Mohamad Taha Arif, who
urged HUKM to present its Case-Mix structure, said: "Case-Mix provides
useful information on variations of the care provided, allowing health
care providers to better understand the nature of their care. With this
ability, Case-Mix can help monitor the progress of quality assurance
programmes more objectively."

He said Case-Mix can also produce information that can be used to
identify potential areas for clinical audit, input towards the development
of clinical guidelines or care pathways, for output measurement and
resource allocation.

Dr Taha said Malaysia had yet to adopt a Case-Mix system nationwide and
hoped HUKM's experience with their Case-Mix system could be shared with
other hospitals.


LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2004 New Straits Times Press (Malaysia) Berhad


