                              311 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            August 12, 2017 Saturday
                               Australian Edition

Biotech favourite fails to cough up the goods

BYLINE: Tim Boreham

SECTION: WEALTH; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 898  words


ResApp (RAP) 8.3c The best-performing ASX stock of 2015, ResApp, has joined the
list of biotech stocks suffering an embarrassing - and surprising - clinical
setback.

ResApp had developed an app-based algorithm that enables patients with
respiratory diseases to literally cough into their phone for a diagnosis. Given
the rise and rise of telehealth, investors soon cottoned on to the huge
potential.

After being in trading halt for seven days - always a suspicious sign - ResApp
on Wednesday released the broad results of a US clinical study across three
hospitals called SmartcoughC, involving 1245 patients aged between 29 days and
12 years.

The results were a shocker, contradicting previously positive studies carried
out at Perth's Joondalup Health Campus and Princess Margaret Hospital.

While the US study aimed at a 75 per cent effectiveness rate, the results were
as low as 35 per cent for positive diagnosis of asthma and reactive airways
disease. The results were compared with a traditional X-ray analysis, blood test
or doctor with a stethoscope.

The results for negative confirmation - confirming a patient did not have a
certain disorder - were not much better.

Two smaller Perth trials for adults and children claimed detection rates of up
to 100 per cent, with nothing below 89 per cent. An Indonesian-based trial,
funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, was equally impressive.

"These are not the results we expected given our experience in Australia," says
ResApp chief Tony Keating.

"It's obvious that a large number of tests have been affected by procedural
anomalies and we now need to go through each case one by one to fully understand
the results.

"Procedural anomalies included some patients being treated before the cough
test, contrary to instructions and training." Some cough recordings also had
unacceptable background noise and interference, including coughing by third
parties.

ResApp now aims to repeat the study with refinements, as well as launching an
adult study during the northern winter. Each trial is expected to cost between
$2.5 million and $3m.

The company is also pondering seeking a Food & Drug Administration approval
application for bronchiolitis, the only application to score passable detection
grades of between 80 per cent and 95 per cent.

ResApp's setback has parallels with the near-fatal experience of Innate
Immunotherapeutics (ASX: IIL), which held high hopes for its multiple sclerosis
drug with the backing of US investors.

The drug had already been made available to needy patients, who reported
benefits. But in June a 93-patient local trial showed "no clinically meaningful
or statistically significant differences in measures of neuromuscular function
or patient-reported outcomes".

As with Innate shares, ResApp stock was poleaxed on the day, losing 77 per cent
of its value.

ResApp shares listed via the backdoor in July 2015, with $4m raised at 2c
apiece. The stock peaked at 53c in September 2016, a 1275 per cent gain for the
smarties who picked the top.

The moral of the story for investors is that when it comes to clinical studies,
the dangers increase the more expansive the trials become. The lesson for
patients is the stethoscope-wielding doc remains the best way to diagnose
respiratory diseases, which account for the lion's share of GP visits.

Mayur Resources (not yet listed) In a variation of the coals-to-Newcastle theme,
this eclectic multi-commodity resources house plans to ship a million tonnes of
sand from Papua New Guinea to Sydney.

Don't we have a surfeit of the stuff already - and not just on Bondi Beach?
Apparently not: Mayur's sand is the high-quality, fine-grained variety valued by
cement makers, and it's in short supply in the Sydney region.

Mayur chief executive Paul Mulder says most of the construction sand is supplied
from quarries in the Newcastle region and then trucked to Sydney at great cost.

It's cheaper to ship the stuff from PNG, where the sand will be an otherwise
waste product from Mayur's proposed Orokolo Bay mineral and industrial sands
project on the southern coast.

The Singapore-incorporated, Brisbane-headquartered Mayur is in the throes of
raising up to $15.5m ahead of its September 1 ASX listing. The offer looks like
being oversubscribed ahead of its close date next Friday.

Mayur's PNG assets also include limestone, copper-gold tenements and coal
projects, as well as a planned coal-fired power station to be built near the
industrial city of Lae.

The project remains subject to a definitive feasibility study, with total capex
of just $US22m to bring the project into production.

With more than 12,000sq km of highly prospective exploration tenements available
to be drilled, Mayur is confident enough to plan trial shipments to customers in
China and Japan within 14 months.

Costed at $110m, the Lae power project involves shipping coal from Mayur's Depot
Creek project in the south of the country, which boasts the first compliant coal
resource in PNG, at 11.4 million tonnes.

The power plant, which has been granted environmental approval, remains subject
to a power purchasing agreement execution with state-owned utility PNG Power.

While approval is no Lae-down misere, Mulder seems confident the power project
will ultimately prevail because of the need for reliable low-cost electricity.

Tim Boreham is editor of The New Criterion.
Tim.boreham@independent-research.com.au

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


