                              313 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           November 12, 2016 Saturday

Regulatory update: United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission has issued Order
regarding ( ML16204A194) ABC Cardiology Consultants, P.C.; Termination Request
Letter dtd June 13, 2016.

LENGTH: 2346  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission has issued the
following document:



 ABC CARDIOLOGY CONSULTANTS, P.C.

 June 13, 2016

 Licensing Assistance Team

 Herman C. Gist, MD.

 106 Irving St. NW, Suite 1500 North

 Washington, D.C 20010-2954

 Telephone: (202) 722-1305

 Fax: (202) 291-2909

 Division of Nuclear Materials Safety

 U.S. NRC, Region 1

 2100 Renaissance Blvd.



 King of Prussia, PA 19406

 Re: Closeout Survey j _J ,

 License Number: US NRC 08-31328-01 (J '30 '7f'J3

 ABC Cardiology Consultants, P.C.

 Dear License Reviewers:

 We are requesting the release of the areas previously utilized as the
camera/hot lab, treadmill

 room, hallway, and bathroom for unrestricted use at 106 Irving St., NW,
Washington DC. In

 accordance with the guidelines established by the NRC, dated April 1993,
"Guidelines for

 Decontamination of Facilities and Equipment Prior to Release for Unrestricted
Use," we hereby

 submit the final survey of the Nuclear Medicine Department. Ms. Shelley Sturtz
of KrugerGilbert

 Health Physics, Inc. performed a survey on April 27, 2016.

 Any questions regarding this request may be directed to the undersigned or Ms.
Shelley Sturtz of

 Kruger-Gilbert Health Physics, Inc. at ( 410) 692-9806.

 Sincerely,

 =/J-4~J:/J~

 Herman C. Gist, MD

 Manager

 Krueger--C;-ilbert Health Physics, Inc.

 111,.; il,\l.J)\\'I'\; \-HI I IU '.\11

 P.t ), Ht."lX "H~"

 J-\RliFrI.-;\-11.1 I:. \L\l<YI ,\'\:rl :~!l':':·l p .. ;H'

 April 27, 2016

 ABC Cardiology Consultants, P.C.

 106 Irving St. NW

 Suite 1500 - North Tower

 Washington DC 20010

 RE: Closeout Survey

 Attention: Dr. Herman Gist,

 On April 27, 2016, the undersigned conducted a closeout survey of the
Camera/Hot !ah, Treadmill room,

 Hallway and Bathroom for unrestricted use at I 06 Irving St. NW, Washington DC.
In accordance with the

 guidelines established by the NRC, dated April 1993, "Guidelines for
Decontamination of Facilities and

 Equipment Prior to Release for Unrestricted Use"' we hereby submit the final
survey of the Nuclear

 Medicine Department. Wipe testing and survey meter monitoring were performed as
indicated on the

 enclosed diagrams. In addition, you will find a drali letter to the NRC
requesting the release of this area

 for unrestricted use.

 As the enclosures demonstrate, the surveyed areas were free of radioactive
sources and contamination.

 Please take the following action:

 !. Have the enclosed draft letter (page 2) typed on facility letterhead, signed
by Management.

 Forward the signed letter and copy of closeout survey report to the N RC at the
address

 2. indicated on the draft.

 3. Retain one copy of the entire package in the facility's license file.

 Upon receipt of the amendments, please forward a copy to the office of
Krueger-Gilbert Health Physics,

 Inc. for our files.

 Any questions regarding this report should be directed to the undersigned.

 Sincerelv.

 ,.,.-4 /' --1 1";--::"·'o"-.. -~ .. ·--~-·-·

 ., }<:;,.),. [t,1__ J.-f.<...7 )~'...,d '_ ...; ·P :LJ {L.~>-./7. -:.j

 Shelley Sturtz, CNMT

 Health Physics Consultant

 Krueger-Gilbert Health Physics, Inc.

 SURVEY RESULTS

 Wipe tests were conducted on 100 cm square areas using absorbent paper. Wipe
test areas are indicated on

 the enclosed diagram. The wipes were counted at Krueger-Gilbert Health Physics.


 Wipe test instrument used: Ludlum Scaler Ratemeter, Model 2200, SN: 232992

 Last calibrated: February 16, 2016

 Detector efficiency: Cs-137 (662 keV) 12.5%

 Ba-133 (356 keV) 18.2%

 Co-57 (122 keV) 63.6%

 The minimal detectable activity (MDA) was determined using a worst case
efficiency of32% and

 background plus 3 standard deviations.

 MDA 3.3E-03

 All areas surveyed had exposure readings equal to the background reading of0.02
mR/hour with the

 Ludlum 14C with 44-9 probe, SN 126794, last calibrated June 1, 2015.

 Wipe test results are as follows:

 Wipe Number Wipe Area Wipe Test Result

 45-56 Camera/Hot Lab Room Less than MDA

 57-59 Hallway Less than MDA

 60-67 Treadmill Room Less than MDA

 68-71 Bathroom Less than MDA

 CAMERA ROOM HALLWAY

 48 52 56

 59

 47 51 55

 46 so 54 58

 53

 45 49 DOOR

 57

 TREADMILL ROOM BATHROOM

 63 67 70

 71

 62 66

 DOOR

 - 69

 61 65

 68

 64

 60 DOOR

 MedStar Washington

 Hospital Center

 PURPOSE

 Standard of Practice

 Surgical/Procedural Scrub Attire

 The purpose of this standard practice is to define the policy to be followed by
all WHC

 associates for the use and distribution of WHC scrub suits in surgical and
procedural areas. The

 intent of this Standard Practice is to assist with infection prevention, comply
with regulatory

 agencies, control the use, and insure adequate supply of these items.

 DEFINITIONS

 WHC scrub suits are defined as the "cotton blend" tops and pants laundered by
hospital approved

 facility to be utilized by physicians, associates and other individuals defined
within this Standard

 Practice that are worn to maintain infection prevention standards as well as to
provide protection

 in the patient care area and environment.

 Semi-restricted area - includes the peripheral support areas of the surgical
suite. It has storage

 areas for clean and sterile supplies, scrub sink areas, work areas for storage
and processing of

 instruments, and corridors leading to the restricted area of the surgical
suite. Traffic in this area is

 limited to authorized personnel and patients. Personnel are required to wear
surgical attire and

 cover all head and facial hair.

 Restricted area - includes operating rooms, procedure rooms and clean core
areas. Surgical

 attire and head/facial hair coverings are required. Masks are required where
open sterile supplies

 or scrubbed persons are located. Scrub jackets buttoned all the way are
required.

 Unrestricted area - All areas of the hospital not considered Semi-restricted or
Restricted areas,

 includes a central control point established to monitor the entrance of
patients, personnel and

 materials. Street clothes are permitted in this area, and traffic is not
limited to authorized

 personnel and patients.

 RESPONSIBILITIES

 All Staff, Managers, Department Heads and Public Safety Officers are
responsible for enforcing

 this Standard Practice with support from Senior Management.

 PROCEDURE

 Appropriate scrub attire consists of the following:

 A. Scrub suit-should be worn in all restricted and semi-restricted areas.
Supplied and

 laundered by MedStar Washington Hospital Center. A clean suit will be donned
daily and

 changed whenever it becomes soiled. Scrub suits are not to be taken home and/or
worn to

 and or from the hospital. Street clothes are not to be worn in restricted or
semi-restricted

 area.

 a. The scrub suit will consist of a two-piece matching pantsuit, with shirt
tucked in

 or fit close to body.

 b. Personal clothing may be worn underneath the scrub top provided it is
contained

 within the scrub suit. When long sleeve shirts are worn underneath the scrub
top,

 the shirt sleeve must not extend past the cuff of the scrub jacket sleeve and
the

 jacket must be buttoned up completely. Any personnel scrubbing into a case are

 not permitted to wear long sleeve shirts. Religious head coverings may be

 covered with a disposable hood.

 c. Non-scrubbed personnel will wear hospital laundered or disposable warm-up

 jackets. The warm-up jackets provided by the hospital should be buttoned or

 snapped closed when in the restricted area. The jackets are to be worn
throughout

 the day unless it becomes soiled and should be changed. Sweaters and jackets
that

 are not hospital laundered daily, are not permitted.

 B. Head/Hair coverings

 a. All head and facial hair must be covered by a bouffant or hood cover when

 entering restricted and semi-restricted areas, including ears, scalp skin, side
bums,

 and nape of neck.

 b. Skull caps and cloth caps maybe worn only when covered by a bouffant cap

 covering all hair, ears, scalp skin, side bums, and nape of neck.

 c. Beards must be covered by a beard cover provided by the hospital.

 d. Bouffant head coverings should not be removed when leaving the

 surgical/procedural areas. Only remove when soiled, upon donning street
clothes,

 or leaving the building.

 C. Shoes

 a. Need to meet OSHA safety guidelines, and have closed toes, low heels,
nonskid

 soles, without holes. It is preferred to have shoes dedicated to wear only in
the OR

 or procedural area. If shoes are worn from outside, shoe covers are required
when

 entering restricted and semi-restricted areas.

 b. Must remove shoe covers when leaving the procedural areas.

 D. Surgical Masks

 a. Surgical masks are worn in restricted areas, as described in definition, and
should

 completely cover mouth and nose. They are to be tied as to prevent venting from


 the sides of the mask. Ear loop masks should not be worn due to side venting.

 b. A new surgical mask should be donned before each procedure and discarded or

 changed when soiled or wet.

 c. Masks should not be worn hanging around neck.

 E. Eye Protection

 a. Must be worn whenever splashing, spatter, droplets of blood, body fluids, or
other

 potentially infectious materials are expected.

 b. Eye protections can be combined with mask, re-usable eye protection can be
worn

 and should be cleaned regularly with low level disinfectant.

 F. Identification Badge

 a. Should be worn daily and be visible from the outside of scrubs/scrub jacket

 b. IDs on lanyards cannot be worn in restricted areas.

 c. ID badges should be cleaned regularly with low level disinfectant.

 G. Jewelry

 a. Jewelry (i.e. watches, bracelets, necklaces) may be worn in restricted and
semirestricted

 areas only if they are covered by scrub attire.

 b. Wedding bands may be worn in restricted and semi-restricted areas. Wedding

 bands need to be removed prior to scrubbing into a procedure.

 c. Earrings may be worn in restricted and semi-restricted areas as long as they
are

 covered by approved head cover, and should conform to MWHC dress code

 policy.

 Non-OR Personnel

 Everyone who enters a semi- and/or restricted areas of the operating room suite
for a brief

 period of time an OR sterile zone without OR scrubs, must put on a disposable
jump suit( "bunny

 suit") before entering that area. This policy includes transporters, nursing
staff, unit clerks or

 administrative staff, as well as any visitors or potential donors who are
entering the procedural

 areas. The jump suit will be removed prior to leaving the semi-
restricted/restricted area.

 PATIENT USE

 Patients are not authorized to wear WHC scrub suits for any clinical
application. Patients in such

 areas as the Bum Unit, Dermatology, Rehabilitation Medicine and other units
will be provided

 with the appropriate linen pajama tops and bottoms.

 ASSOCIATE USE

 Certain associates who are temporarily assigned to a clinical area may be
authorized to use a

 WHC scrub suit. For example, Environmental Services associates and Facilities
Management

 associates may, in the performance of certain tasks, be authorized to use WHC
scrub suits during

 particular times. These WHC scrub suits are available through the distribution
system.

 OTHER SCRUB USE

 Associates who are not authorized to wear Hospital scrubs as defined above may
wear nonHospital

 scrubs in accordance with established Hospital Policy; Reference HP 402
"Workplace

 Standards for Dress and Appearance," December 15, 1998.

 Hospital issued scrubs must not leave the hospital campus. If the need arises
to leave the

 hospital campus while still on duty then you must change out of the scrubs into
your street

 clothes and change into a new pair of scrubs upon your return.

 Backpacks, briefcases, and other personal items that are not made of material
that can be

 cleaned with disinfectant wipes, cannot be taken into the semi- restricted or
restricted areas.

 These items should be wiped clean prior to entering and upon leaving the
semi-restricted and

 restricted areas. Additionally, these items may not be placed directly on the
floor.

 NRC FORM 532 U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION

 (05-2016) so"-"Eau{

 ~+~% ~ P: ~ \~~ 'j ACKNOWLEDGEMENT - RECEIPT OF CORRESPONDENCE

 "+., ......... +o'

 Name and Address of Applicant and/or Licensee Date

 I July 21, 2016 I

 License Number(s)

 ABC Cardiology Consultants, P.C. I 08-31328-01 I

 ATTN: Herman C. Gist, M.D., Owner/President Mail Control Number(s)

 106 Irving St., NW#1500 North I 591473 I Washington, DC 20010

 Licensing and/or Technical Reviewer or Branch

 Janice Nguyen

 This is to acknowledge receipt of your: [{] Letter and/or D Application Dated:
06/13/2016

 The initial processing, which included an administrative review, has been
performed.

 D Amendment [{] Termination D New License D Renewal

 [{] There were no administrative omissions identified during our initial
review.

 D This is to acknowledge receipt of your application for renewal of the
material(s) license identified

 above. Your application is deemed timely filed, and accordingly, the license
will not expire until final

 action has been taken by this office.

 D Your application for a new NRC license did not include your taxpayer
identification number. Please

 complete and submit NRC Form 531, Request for Taxpayer Identification Number,
located at the

 following link: !Jttp_;/lwww._r1r_<;.,g_Qvfre~d i ng-rm/
doc-coJle_~Jiq_os/formsLnr~~:u,pdf

 Follow the instructions on the form for submission.

 D The following administrative omissions have been identified:

 Your application has been assigned the above listed MAIL CONTROL NUMBER. When
calling to inquire about this

 action, please refer to this control number. Your application has been
forwarded to a technical reviewer. Please

 note that the technical review, which is normally completed within 180 days for
a renewal application (90 days for all

 other requests), may identify additional omissions or require additional
information. If you have any questions

 concerning the processing of your application, our contact information is
listed below:

 Region I

 U. S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission

 Division of Nuclear Materials Safety

 2100 Renaissance Boulevard, Suite 100

 King of Prussia, PA 19406-2713

 (610) 337-5260, (610) 337-5313,

 (610) 337-5398, or (610) 337-5239

 NRC FORM 532 (05-2016)



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


