                              32 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         Caloundra Weekly (Queensland)

                                  May 5, 2010

One step closer

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 632  words



HIGHLIGHT: Activists can see light at end of the tunnel

New services

The services announced include:

New cardiac catheterisation laboratory - this will be the only public cardiac
catheter lab between Brisbane and Townsville. Up to 1800 Sunshine Coast patients
currently travel to Brisbane each year for cardiac care and the new services
will help to reverse the majority of this flow.

New vascular surgery procedural suite at Nambour - ensuring that vascular
diagnostic and interventional procedures can occur at a built-for-purpose suite,
without patients having to travel to Brisbane.

New dedicated endoscopy procedural unit at Nambour - patients will receive their
treatment in a new state-of-the-art facility, providing better care for local
patients and freeing up time in theatres for other procedures.

New outpatient neurosurgery service at Nambour - allowing patients to attend
follow-up appointments locally at Nambour General Hospital.

Implementing a sustainable radiation oncology service for public patients -
meaning more patients can receive their treatment closer to home.

Jean Gleed is a firm believer that good things come to those who wait.

The Kawana resident has been campaigning for eight years to see the hospital at
Kawana become a reality and the news of additional health services for the Coast
in the interim has brought a smile to her face.

Health Minister Paul Lucas arrived at Nambour General Hospital last week with a
folder full of announcements that will boost the region's medical services prior
to the construction of a new $1.97 billion tertiary health precinct at Kawana.

The services, including a cardiac catheterisation laboratory, vascular surgery
procedural suite and a dedicated endoscopy procedural unit at Nambour, will cost
$600 million.

Construction of these new facilities will begin next year, with services to
commence from late 2011.

Ms Gleed, who was the former president of the Sunshine Coast University Hospital
Action Group, said she believed the government would follow through with their
latest offerings.

"I don't think this promise is going to be broken the way the last one was," she
said.

"When (the hospital) was first promised it was to be open in 2012, then 2014 and
then 2016.

"There was even talk of it to be 2020. We didn't have anything then, now we've
got a block of land and I think we will have a building on it in the future.

"What else can we do? Once they build the private (hospital) we will have an
extra 70 to 110 beds. It's not very much, but it's better than nothing and at
the present moment, nothing is what we've got."

Ms Gleed said the majority of the SCUHAG members resigned from their volunteer
posts after false criticism the apolitical group was strongly aligned with the
LNP.

"I feel we've achieved what we set out to do eight years ago. We can lobby
ourselves now, under our own names and do what we want to do," she said.

Sunshine Coast Local Medical Association president Andrew Southee welcomed the
much-needed services.

Dr Southee said having these services would fast forward the region's health
services by five to 10 years.

Sunshine Coast Private Hospital CEO Terence Seymour said he looked forward to
the services complementing those already operating privately on the Coast.

Mr Lucas said these services would also help to retain and recruit top-level
specialists to help build up the clinical capacity in the lead-up to the opening
of the SCUH.

"We want to make sure we can create a critical staff base so that the emergency
department at Sunshine Coast University Hospital will be fully functional from
day one," Mr Lucas said.

"This is a win for the Sunshine Coast community, building up the skills and
services that will make the SCUH a reality."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SLW


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


