                              317 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Wellington Times

                                December 4, 2011

Rural health service gets helping hand

SECTION: NEWS - RURAL

LENGTH: 399  words


The Australian College of Rural and Remote Medicine (ACRRM) has enthusiastically
welcomed an announcement by the NSW government that it plans to introduce a new
rural generalist training pathway in 2013.

College president, Professor Richard Murray, said the government's decision was
a great Christmas present for rural and remote NSW communities, including
Wellington.

"There is no question that with strong government support and cooperation this
pathway will deliver a more stable medical workforce for the bush," he said.

The rural generalist pathway provides a supported career path to become a
specialist GP with the extended range of skills and knowledge required to work
across primary care and hospital settings, as well as training to provide
life-saving procedural skills like obstetrics, surgery or anaesthetics.

The rural generalist pathway joins up a number of existing training and support
measures.

It assists doctors throughout their entire training pathway - from the time they
graduate from medical school, through to their junior doctor years and then the
four years of extended specialist generalist training.

Professional, family and employment related needs of the doctor are all
carefully considered and supported as part of the process.

"The NSW government's support is critical because of the vital role that
generalist rural doctors play in caring for patients in country hospitals,"
Professor Murray said.

NSW is the most recent state government to see merit in establishing and
supporting a rural generalist program.

Queensland has been running a successful program for a number of years and the
first graduates are now in independent rural practice.

The Northern Territory government is also introducing the program and Victoria
will commence a rural generalist program in 2012.

"We saw the quality and numbers of applications for 'super-generalist'
procedural rural GP training turn on a dime when the Queensland government
introduced the Rural Generalist Program in 2007," said Professor Murray.

"There are many medical graduates who seek an expansive generalist medical
career, doctors who do not want to be confined to a discreet area of medical
practice. This pathway can be the answer for them."

ACRRM is looking forward to working with the government and other key
stakeholders as part of the working group to establish the program for its first
intake in 2013.

LOAD-DATE: February 02, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2011 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


