                              319 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             The Advocate (Burnie)

                             May 31, 2017 Wednesday
                           Print & Internet Editions

Room for smooth ride to operating table

BYLINE: Baz Ruddick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 257 words


A comfortable, pleasant and 'fit for purpose' environment for pre-admission to
surgery is now on the cards for the North-West Regional Hospital.

With $720,000 set aside in the state budget for the project, the new facility
will provide a place where pre-anaesthetic and procedural assessment can be
carried out, Director of Medical Services Dr Robert Pegram said.

"It is very important in elective surgery to minimise any risks and make the
safest journey for the patient," Dr Pegram said.

"That means a good pre-anaesthetic and pre-procedural assessment."

While the current facility "does the job", Dr Pegram said the hospital does not
have facility that best practice would require as it is not designed
specifically for the purpose.

"If you are having surgery you are feeling very anxious and you have a lot of
questions, so it needs to be done in a very sensitive way and be planned
properly," he said.

Dr Pegram said the facility that is planned will have a good waiting area, a
pleasant environment and separate consulting rooms for privacy.

"The whole surgical journey will be more comfortable, better planned and as good
as anywhere else."

The hospital currently does about 4000 to 4,500 operations a year.

Currently out to tender, Dr Pegram said they hope to have the new pre-admission
clinic open within a year.

Health Minister Michael Ferguson said an additional eight beds have been
allocated for the North-West Regional Hospital, which include four emergency
department short stay beds and four surgical beds for elective surgery patients.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


