                              322 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            August 12, 2003 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

Doctors at a premium in the litigation era

BYLINE: Ruth Pollard and Ben Wyld

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words


Sixteen months after Australia's largest medical defence organisation collapsed,
the true cost is only now emerging. Ruth Pollard and Ben Wyld report.

At Westmead Hospital, obstetrician Andrew Pesce is worried. "Ten years ago," he
says, "there were 15 of us providing obstetrics and gynecological services at
Westmead to people in the area. There are now seven.

"I now turn away more patients . . . than I look after. Our specialty is dying
the way that we practise has been corrupted by the expense of the litigation and
the psychological impact that it has on the practitioners."

General surgeons, neurosurgeons and others paint the same bleak picture. Doctors
will keep quitting the profession because their insurance premiums remain way
too high despite Federal Government subsidies, significant state law reform and
Canberra's action to prop up United Medical Protection since the insurer went
into provisional liquidation last year.

Without Government subsidies, obstetricians face annual premiums of up to
$140,000.

Dr Pesce, spokesman for the National Association of Specialist Obstetricians and
Gynecologists, says 45 of the nation's 700 practising obstetricians left
obstetric practice in 2001.

"That is about six to seven per cent of the workforce. Last year it was even
higher than that, and there is no indication it is going to get any better."

One casualty of the crisis is Moree obstetrician and general practitioner Maxine
Percival, who stopped doing private procedural obstetrics in May last year.

Dr Percival, who would have faced a premium of $20,000 this year if she had
maintained her procedural insurance, now only practises obstetrics for the local
public hospital. She said a loss of confidence in UMP forced her to give up her
procedural work.

"In obstetrics, litigation can be launched 25 years after the procedure," Dr
Percival said. "I don't know if UMP or their subsidiary will be around next
year, let alone in 25 years' time."

The Government stepped into the indemnity crisis after UMP went into provisional
liquidation with unfunded liabilities of $460 million. UMP had about 30,000
members, or two-thirds of the country's doctors. The Government rescue package
is estimated to be worth $260 million over four years.

Dr Percival says that for women in Moree, who don't want to be admitted to the
district hospital as a public patient, the alternative is a three-hour trip to
the nearest obstetrician in Tamworth.

"For towns that are relatively isolated, you can't put pregnant women in the
back of an ambulance and transfer them three hours away, hoping they get there
without having their baby."

Dr Pesce said Federal Government subsidies had helped to make medical indemnity
more affordable for obstetricians but the pressures, both financial and legal,
continued to bite.

The president of the NSW Neurosurgical Association, Dr Warwick Stening , had
warned last year that 10 of the state's 30 neurosurgeons would resign if the
medical indemnity crisis continued. In a move to reduce medical misadventure,
cut premiums and thereby halt the exodus, neurosurgeons launched a project to
identify and measure risk in the hospital system and to manage better the risk
of neurosurgical procedures. Working with NSW Health, the risk-management model
will be rolled out in the next year .

"We are still a long way from solving the problem, but this is a positive step
that we have taken which will allow us to identify problems before an
unfavourable outcome occurs," Dr Stening said. "All we can do is to start to
reduce the number of claims by reducing the number of adverse incidents."

Dr Stening said the NSW Government's Health Care Liability Act of 2001 and the
Civil Liability Act of 2002, along with Federal Government subsidies, had helped
ease the financial pressure on neurosurgeons.

But that was not to say, he said, that a special new levy imposed on doctors in
case of a claim against them would not hurt the rest of the medical profession.

A recent survey of 750 general surgeons aged over 55 has found that one in five
intends to retire in the near future. Nearly 100 per cent of them nominate
medical indemnity as the reason.

Many experts are placing their hopes on the establishment of a federally
administered fund for the catastrophically injured. This would help cut medical
indemnity premiums. Yet after 10 months of meetings, progress on achieving such
a fund is no closer.

Dr Pesce said: "The Government has made great effort to improve the situation .
. . we now need substantial reform of the remaining uncapped liabilities that
doctors face, and that is for the long-term care costs for the catastrophically
injured."

The Assistant Treasurer, Helen Coonan, said the long-term scheme was definitely
on the national agenda. "You cannot contemplate a proper system of professional
standards for doctors . . . without having regard for the long-term care needs
of those catastrophically injured by medical negligence."

It was November 2001 when a court handed down a decision that would send
shockwaves through the medical fraternity. Sydney woman Calandre Simpson, who
suffers from cerebral palsy, was awarded $14.2 million after she successfully
sued the doctor who botched her delivery.

It was almost twice the previous highest award, and it highlighted the
vulnerability of both the country's medical insurance industry, and individual
doctors. The payout has since been reduced to just under $11 million on appeal.

The tort law reforms put in place by the federal and state governments since the
collapse of UMP, six months after the Simpson decision, have hit consumers hard,
according to the senior health policy officer for the Australian Consumers
Association, Martyn Goddard.

They would simply deliver increasing wealth to insurance companies and do
nothing to lower the cost of premiums, Mr Goddard said. "The real cause of the
bulk of indemnity rises wasn't a sudden increase in litigation there has been no
such increase it was changes to the structure of the global reinsurance market."

The Federal Government clearly needed to intervene in the medical reinsurance
market, he said. "They are doing the opposite, which is trying to reduce
premiums by subsidies and by limiting patients' rights."

COUNTING THE COST

Michael Fearnside

Neurosurgeon, Westmead Hospital

Age 57

INDEMNITY COSTS

2003/04 premiums $61,000*

UMP** call $12,000 over five years

IBNR*** levy $16,000 this year

* receives government subsidy of $21,000

**United Medical Protection Ltd

***Incurred but not reported. New levy for potential claims

"You have two options, either increase your fees or scale back your practise to
decrease premiums ... I don't feel it's right to put the fees up."

Duncan MacKinnon (right)

Procedural GP anaesthetist, Bega District Hospital and private day surgery
centre

Age 43

INDEMNITY COSTS

2003/04 premiums $15,400*

UMP call $2300 over five years

IBNR levy $2000 to $3000 this year

* receives subsidy of $8000

"In a small rural centre you can't stop doing something because it's just
ethically unacceptable to withdraw service ... I want to look after patients and
be involved in the community, [but] these issues of indemnity and litigation are
just really deeply upsetting."

TURNING POINTS

* Nov 01 Calandre Simpson awarded a record $14.2m following a botched forceps
delivery. Award later cut by $3m.

* Dec 01 NSW Government announces it will take on the medical indemnity cover of
doctors working in public hospitals.

* Apr 02 UMP placed in provisional liquidation.

* May 02 Federal Government steps in to guarantee claims until June 30. Doctors
warn of strike action and mass resignations.

* May 03 Federal Government says it will cover malpractice awards above insured
levels and ensure retiring doctors faced only modest premiums.

* Aug 03 Federal Government announces IBNR levy to be charged to UMP members to
cover the cost of its potential-claims package.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THREE ILLUS: ``You can't put pregnant women in the back of an ambulance
and transfer them three hours away'' . . . Dr Percival at Moree Hospital. Photo:
Paul Mathews Photo: John Leach Photo: Edwina Pickles

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2003 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


