                              33 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              June 8, 1979 Friday

Hospital abortion policy fight   has left wounds to heal: doctor

BYLINE: SPCL

LENGTH: 697 words

DATELINE: St. Thomas ON


Special to The Globe and Mail
  ST. THOMAS - The board of governors of the St. Thomas-Elgin General
 Hospital faces the task of healing the wounds left in this community by a
 year-long dispute over abortion policy at the hospital, according to
 medical staff president Dr. A. J. Borre.

There's a tremendous amount of animosity in Elgin County as a result
 of the dispute, particularly among religious groups, Dr. Borre said
 following the annual meeting of the hospital on Wednesday at which
 anti-abortion forces suffered a setback.

The meeting was the culmination of the dispute, which began at the
 annual meeting in June of 1978 when Right-to-Life (St. Thomas), an
 anti-abortion group, elected four of its supporters to the 16-member
 board. The anti-abortion governors made an unsuccessful attempt to
 tighten abortion policy at the hospital and fears that further attempts
 would be made led to the threat in April of a mass resignation of the
 medical staff.

Another four seats were up for election at the meeting on Wednesday,
 which led to a public campaign in April by a group called The Citizens
 League to prevent Right-to-Life from winning the seats.

Approximately 5,500 hospital memberships, which allow the holder to
 vote at the annual meeting, were purchased as a result of the campaign by
 the two groups. Last year, just under 1,100 memberships were purchased
 and in previous year fewer than 50 were usually purchased.

Wednesday's meeting had to be held in the city's largest arena, which
 has a seating capacity of about 4,000 and a huge circus tent was set up
 behind the arena to handle the overflow.

Closed-circuit television was used to broadcast the meeting to members
 in the tent.

In the weeks leading up to the meeting, the focus of the dispute
 shifted from the hospital's abortion policy to a new procedural bylaw
 adopted by the board in March and approved by the Ministry of Health in
 April. Right-to-Life vehemently opposed a section of the bylaw which
 established a five-member nominating committee, consisting of the
 president of the hospital board, the mayor of St. Thomas, the warden of
 Elgin County and two members of the medical staff, to screen candidates
 for the board.

The committee received 21 applications from individuals who wanted to
 run for the board and selected 12, which led to the threat of legal
 action against the committee by one of the rejected candidates.

Right-to-Life referred to the screening committee as an insult to the
 democractic process in advertisements in local media and urged hospital
 members to vote against the procedural bylaw. The Citizens League threw
 its support behind the bylaw and argued that it should be supported by
 hospital members.

The meeting resulted in a resounding defeat for the Right-to-Life
 position. The 4,086 members attending the meeting voted 3,246 to 668 in
 favor of the procedural bylaw and elected the four candidates endorsed by
 The Citizens League.

Dr. Borre said the results of the voting demonstrated public support
 for the hospital medical staff and added: I think we can get things (at
 the hospital) back to normal.

He said Right-to-Life was trying to interfere with our right to
 practice medicine and the people didn't fall for it.

One Right-to-Life member, Marjorie Pouli, said the only thing that
 happened at this meeting was that we were denied any chance to have any
 part in the meeting. They (the nominating committee) obviously excluded
 anyone who said they had a deep respect for life. She added: I'm not
 allowed in this community to vote for someone who cares about the number
 of abortions performed at the hospital.

She said she has not discussed the results with other members of the
 group and was uncertain whether Right-to-Life will continue to try to
 influence the hospital's abortions policy.

The meeting itself was almost anti-climactic after the bitter
 campaigning that had occurred in the community during the past two
 months. Many had expected the debate might continue on the floor of the
 annual meeting, but there was little debate except over procedural
 matters.

The hospital established a therapeutic abortion committee in 1970 and
 about 70 abortions are perfomred at the hospital each year.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1979 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


