                              316 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         Whittlesea Leader (Australia)

                             May 28, 2008 Wednesday
                                  1 - Edition

Caring leads to win

BYLINE: Laura Jolly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 266  words


THE last thing Mernda's Kelly Leiper wanted to be when she grew up was a nurse.

But fortunately for her patients, she changed her mind.

Ms Leiper was named Graduate Nurse of the Year at the HESTA Australian Nursing
Awards last week.

The Royal Melbourne Hospital nurse was recognised for her dedication to
improving service to elderly patients, which has led to procedural changes to
reduce patient infection and trauma.

``I fell into nursing after high school, but it was never planned,'' Ms Leiper
said.

``Before that, I thought the last thing in the world I wanted to be was a
nurse.''

Ms Leiper said her decision to work in aged-care nursing was simply a matter of
following her passion.

``(Some people) think it's a waste of my skills at the start of my career,'' she
said. ``I don't understand that thinking. Aged care is my passion. There is so
much in the field that we can improve on, so much more we can do.''

Ms Leiper, while only in her first year of nursing since graduating from
university, is already driving change.

After attending a catheter care in-service at another hospital in her own time,
she addressed a forum with her colleagues about what she had learned, driving
procedural change in her ward.

``It can be pretty unpleasant for the patients and after attending the
in-service I identified some aspects of the process that we could be doing
better,'' she said.

The award is open to registered nurses who have excelled in their graduate year.

It included a $5000 prize comprising travel and education grants, which Ms
Leiper said would help her planned postgraduate studies in gerontology.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WPV


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


