                              314 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          September 30, 2004 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Make Medicare's billions work for the sick, not for the doctors

BYLINE: John Ferguson. Dr John Ferguson is a Newcastle-based physician.

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Opinion; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 811 words


A wrong-headed funding regime is keeping doctors out of general practice and
rural areas, writes John Ferguson.

LONG gone are the days when doctors specialised in areas of medicine that
sparked their interest. Now, they specialise in whatever makes the most money.
According to the recent annual workforce survey conducted by the Royal
Australasian College of Physicians, more trainee doctors are specialising in the
top five procedural specialties of cardiology, gastroenterology, neurology,
rheumatology and respiratory/sleep medicine.

Why? Because Medicare pays doctors more for sticking things into patients than
for taking a history, examining, and prescribing.

Why? No reason, it just does.

This has left a critical shortage of specialists in geriatric, general and
rehabilitation medicine to deal with the increasing number of elderly people.

One can closely correlate a specialty's average Medicare income with the number
of trainees entering that discipline - the market principle is clearly at work.

These five procedural areas account for 53 per cent of specialists in the Royal
Australasian College of Physicians. Strength in numbers results in the creation
of even more training posts for these specialties, and greater political clout.
So the inadequate recruitment of specialists in other fields is unlikely to be
redressed if left to the college of physicians and the Health Insurance
Commission, which manages Medicare.

Rural and outer-metropolitan areas are crying out for more health-care services
and doctors, especially general practitioners but also specialist surgeons and
physicians.

One of the key factors in whether medical practitioners move out of the big
cities is Medicare, which basically provides doctors in private practice with
public income wherever they work. To avoid the inconvenience - and long hours -
of rural practice, most doctors take the easier option of working in the city.

Medicare is structured so that it is almost impossible to target its funding to
regions on the basis of need: Medicare funds largely go to where the doctors
themselves are, which leads to a gross imbalance between the per capita income
flowing to rural areas compared with cities.

This occurs despite the poorer health and treatment outcomes of many rural
residents, some of which relates to poorer availability of services.

A related issue is the way public hospitals use Medicare to generate income for
privately referred outpatient care. The most adept at doing this are the larger
city hospitals. This process channels even more Medicare funds away from rural
areas of need.

Some hospitals have extensive business infrastructures designed to ensure that,
whenever possible, patient consultations and procedures are billed to Medicare.
Generally this can be done for patients referred for review by a hospital
specialist, including laboratory investigations by pathologists.

As a hospital specialist, I am expected to play my part by seeing privately
referred outpatients. The carrot is that my salary gets topped up with a small
proportion of the bills that go to Medicare in my name. The hospital takes the
rest of the income as a facility charge.

It's a system that benefits the hospital specialist and the state Health
Department, but not the Federal Government; the cost of my salary is subsidised
by Medicare, so I am cheaper to employ and the state receives revenue from the
Federal Government.

This dysfunctional state-federal divide produces a wasteful bureaucracy and
removes transparency from the allocation of health funds. We deserve better
value for the increasingly vast sum of public money - $8.1 billion and rising -
that Medicare consumes.

The Medicare system fails to target spending to areas of need, is impossible to
audit effectively and is open to manipulation by the states, medical
institutions and unscrupulous doctors. A large part of the doctor "shortage" is
a result of the poor distribution of available staff and trainees due to the way
Medicare pays for health care.

The Health Insurance Commission is unable to cap expenditure - it rewards
activity, and doctors in hospitals and outside have no difficulty in producing
and justifying such activity. More efficient mechanisms for financing health
care exist and these should be considered urgently.

For example, assessing medical workforce needs and removing the financial
incentives that drive decisions about postgraduate medical careers would be a
start. Then, ensure that the process of public health funding itself is not a
major driver of medical activity such as patient consultations, pathology and
procedures.

Federal health funding should be targeted to services based on population and
needs, and not directly to doctors. The funding process must be easier to audit
than Medicare and health care should be funded through a single state or federal
mechanism, but not both.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


