                              315 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                              July 9, 2010 Friday

Aged care home frees up space

BYLINE:  Bianca Clare

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 324  words


THE old aged care home on the Nambour General Hospital grounds will be
transformed to house administration staff and in turn free up space in the main
building for new services.

Health Minister Paul Lucas made the announcement yesterday at the official
opening of a new $13.4 million State Government-run aged care home in Jack
Street, Nambour.

Mr Lucas met with residents, spoke with their families and cuddled Dascha, the
pets-for-therapy guest.

The new 45-bed high care home was finished in December, except for sewerage and
stormwater works.

Residents made the transition from the old aged care home at Nambour hospital,
known as Hibiscus House, in April.

Mr Lucas said the Government originally intended to redevelop Hibiscus House and
keep it as an aged care home.

However, after a planning review it was agreed a greenfield option would provide
the best long-term solution.

"This is a win, win for both aged care residents and also the general Sunshine
Coast community who will benefit from the roll-out of the additional medical
services in the redeveloped space," Mr Lucas said.

"These services include a cardiac catheterisation laboratory, a vascular
procedural suite and a new dedicated endoscopy procedural unit.

"The cardiac catheterisation lab will be the only one between Brisbane and
Townsville."

Member for Nicklin Peter Wellington campaigned for the Government to keep
control of the new aged care home, fearing that costs would soar and staff cuts
would be made if it went private.

In 2008, Mr Wellington scouted out the 11-hectare site in Jack Street with
Queensland Health District CEO Kevin Hegarty.

A short time later Queensland Health purchased the land, and Evans Harch Pty Ltd
began construction of the nursing home in February, 2009.

Families and residents were included in the allocation of rooms where it was
appropriate.

Their care requirements and preferences were also taken into consideration.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


