                              331 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           December 13, 2003 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Knowles insists he did nothing wrong;
HOSPITALS SCANDAL

BYLINE: Ruth Pollard, and Paola Totaro

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 508 words


Craig Knowles, who was health minister when the nurses first raised their
allegations of patient deaths and management cover-up at Campbelltown and Camden
hospitals, yesterday categorically rejected claims that he bullied or
intimidated them.

But he offered an unreserved apology for the standard of health care at the two
south-western Sydney hospitals.

During a 40-minute press conference, Mr Knowles fielded aggressive questioning
but also said that he welcomed an independent examination of his actions during
the meeting with the nurses.

He said that within an hour of the nurses' visit to his electorate office on
November 25 last year, he wrote to the Director-General of Health, Robyn Kruk,
asking for a formal investigation. He produced copies of the memorandum and
several letters tracing the chain of events that led the claims to the Health
Care Complaints Commission.

"The facts demonstrate my actions were entirely appropriate and immediate," he
said. "I certainly place on record my deep apologies and sadness, as one human
being to another and as the former health minister, to anyone who's had the loss
of a loved one or inadequate care in the NSW public health system. I have been a
community representative since my 20s. This is my community as well . . . there
is a dispute between the nurses' view and mine, and I want that tested."

But yesterday, one of the nurses, Nola Fraser, rejected his apology.

"We didn't do this for an apology," Ms Fraser, flanked by the Opposition Leader,
John Brogden, said. "I just want [him] to recognise what he's done and be held
accountable. Because lots of people, innocent people, under his leadership, have
lost their lives. And it's so big that he can't cover it up."

The Health Minister, Morris Iemma, on Thursday released the report of a 13-month
investigation by the health-care watchdog, the Health Care Complaints
Commission, which examined the deaths of 19 patients at the two hospitals
between 1999 and 2003.

Mr Iemma also revealed that the commission's head, Amanda Adrian, had been
removed and an interim chief, Bill Grant, the CEO of the Legal Aid Commission,
installed to overhaul and reform the body. A special commission of inquiry,
headed by Bret Walker, SC, will investigate all existing and any new claims,
with the 19 deaths referred to the NSW Coroner for examination.

Late yesterday , a second damning report on the complaints commission was
released, this time from a NSW parliamentary committee that has been
investigating the commission for the past two years.

"The committee found that the commission's complaints-handling process lacked
procedural fairness at the assessment, investigation and prosecution phases of
the inquiry," the chairman, Jeff Hunter, the ALP member for Lake Macquarie,
said.

The committee recommended that each investigation be referred to the Crown
Solicitor for written independent legal opinion on the merits of the case, and
he criticised the Deputy Health Care Commissioner, Julie Kinross, over what the
committee termed

her denial of procedural fairness.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illus: In the spotlight . . . Jennifer Collins, who resigned as chief
executive of Macarthur Health Service on October 20, after the commission's
draft report, was given a week to show why she should not be sacked from her new
job. An overwhelmed Ms Collins, due to take up her new position as director of
clinical information at Central Sydney Area Health Service on Monday week, said
yesterday that she needed time to consider any public comment. Photo: Ben
Rushton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2003 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


