                              34 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Herald (Goa) (India)

                           October 18, 2012 Thursday

Blood Bank at Mapusa District Hospital hits road block

LENGTH: 322 words

DATELINE: PORVORIM


PORVORIM, Oct. 18 -- It may be a life- saving facility, but the Blood Bank at
the District Hospital in Mapusa is yet to be fully functional, simply because of
procedural issues between government departments.

Despite commencing operations over a year ago, the district hospital at Mapusa
has encountered hurdles in setting up a Blood Bank service and canteen
facilities in the hospital.

" There was a Blood Bank in the Asilo Hospital and a license to operate the
Blood Bank service was issued to the Asilo Hospital. But when the health
department decided to shift medical facilities and Blood Bank from the Asilo
Hospital to the new District Hospital, the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA)
refused to grant permission to transfer this license in the name of the District
Hospital," said an official at the District Hospital.

" The FDA has inspected the facilities at the District Hospital and has advised
hospital authorities to apply for a Blood Bank service afresh, by changing of
the name of the hospital and ownership documents of the Hospital," the official
added.

Despite these procedural issues, the official assured that they have sufficient
stocks of blood in the District Hospital.

" Whenever we require blood of any particular group, we procure these stocks
from the Blood Bank at the Goa Medical college Hospital in Bambolim," said the
official.

Commenting on the poor canteen facilities at the District Hospital, the official
said only tea and some snacks are being sold at a small counter, located at the
right side of the entrance lobby.

" Family members attending to patients are forced to go out of the hospital in
search of food and refreshments.

Meals for patients are being supplied from the Asilo Hospital," the official
said. Published by HT Syndication with permission from Herald Goa. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 Herald Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


