                              330 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                 Times of Oman

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday

Guatemala strikes down ex-dictator's conviction

BYLINE: AFP

LENGTH: 318 words


Guatemala city: Guatemala's Constitutional Court on Monday struck down the
80-year   sentence given ...

Guatemala city: Guatemala's Constitutional Court on Monday struck down the
80-year   sentence given to former dictator Efrain Rios Montt as well as his
conviction for genocide and war crimes.



The 3-2 ruling annulled all proceedings that took place after the trial was
temporarily halted on April 19 due to a technicality, overturning the May 10
conviction but leaving most of the trial and testimony intact.

It was not immediately clear whether the proceedings from April 19 could be
repeated, nor whether Rios Montt, 86, would remain in prison.

"The sentence is hereby annulled" on an appeal from Rios Montt's attorneys, said
the Constitutional Court's spokesman Martin Guzman.

The court said the lawyers' claim of a procedural error during Rios Montt's
trial had standing and as such struck down the conviction and sentencing.

The court said the latter part of the trial had to be voided because it resumed
under a procedural error when the court that convicted him refused to review a
recusal put forth by defense attorney Francisco Garcia.

Rios Montt was rushed to a military hospital a week ago after fainting in court
before a hearing on reparations for victims, his lawyer said.

Rios Montt's conviction made him the first Latin American ex-dictator to be
convicted of trying to exterminate an entire people, during a brief but
particularly gruesome stretch of a war that started in 1960, dragged on for 36
years and left around 200,000 people dead or missing.

Under his rule, the army carried out a scorched earth policy against indigenous
peoples, accusing them of backing rebel forces.

Rios Montt and his former intelligence chief Jose Rodriguez were charged with
ordering the army to carry out 15 massacres that left 1,771 Maya Ixil Indians
dead in Quiche in northern Guatemala. Rodriguez was acquitted.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 89


     Copyright 2013 Times of Oman - Muscat Press & Publishing House (SAOC)
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


