                              332 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             May 13, 2017 Saturday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "Nuvasive spinal \x93procedural packages"

LENGTH: 315  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "Nuvasive spinal \x93procedural packages"

Solicitation No: SPE2DE-17-R-0007

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date: May 12, 2017

Description: Added: May 12, 2017 1:40 pm
This is a sources sought notice.


The Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Troop Support is seeking sources capable of
providing Nuvasive spinal "procedural packages".  The "procedural package"
includes Implants, Orthobiological products, Instrumentation Sets and Auxiliary
Products. The product mix that makes up the "procedural package" varies based on
the individual needs of the patient. The instruments are both "used" during the
surgery and return to the vendor or purchased by the hospital so they are
readily available on the shelves.
All products must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
The products that make up the "procedural package" must be delivered
Just-In-Time (JIT), Direct Vendor Delivery (DVD) and Consignment.  Under the JIT
delivery method, the Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) calls the manufacturer's
field representative who carriers the products into the MTF just-in-time for the
surgery.  The manufacturer's sales representative may bring many sizes and types
of implants and other auxiliary products to the surgery along with the
instrumentation sets.  Under the DVD method an order for products is placed
through ECAT and the products and the products are delivered direct to the
customer via any transportation carrier.  Under the consignment method an
Medical Treatment (MTF's) will have the products that make up the procedural
package consigned to their facility.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): Charles Reimer Charles.Reimer@dla.mil Phone: 215.737.5495


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


