                              323 of 999 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 1998 Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review
                        Loyola of Los Angeles Law Review

                                  April, 1998

                            31 Loy. L.A. L. Rev. 937

LENGTH: 3472 words

SYMPOSIUM ON MENTAL DISABILITY LAW: ADVOCACY FOR THE MENTAL HEALTH NEEDS OF
CHILDREN IN CALIFORNIA

NAME: James Preis *

BIO:



   * Executive Director of Mental Health and Advocacy Services, Inc., Los
Angeles, California, 1979 to present; Adjunct Associate Professor of Psychiatry
and Behavioral Sciences, UCLA. James Pries served as counsel in litigation on
behalf of children with mental disabilities, including T.L. v. Belshe, a class
action case in California that challenged the State's failure to provide
expanding health coverage to MediCal eligible children, as required by the Early
Periodic Diagnoses and Treatment statute.

 TEXT:
 [*937]  My address today concerns how advocacy on behalf of children in
California has evolved from focusing on procedural due process issues - such as
commitment hearings and other protections from unwanted institutionalization -
to a focus on developing a right to individualized treatment in less restrictive
community alternatives.

   Early cases such as In re Roger S.  n1 established due process protections
for children prior to their placement in public hospitals. In the early 1980s,
child advocates spent their efforts extending Roger S. protections into private
psychiatric facilities. At that time most psychiatric care was not in the public
mental health system. Most care was in private psychiatric hospitals funded by
insurance policies that provided very generous psychiatric inpatient benefits.
Private insurance fueled the harm as there was tremendous abuse of the
hospitalization of children who were not very disabled, but rather whose parents
had significant insurance policies.

   Advocacy efforts in private psychiatric hospitals culminated in 1989 with the
passage of due process protections for minors whose parents had placed them in
private psychiatric hospitals.  n2 The legislative process, however, led to
watered-down provisions which did not provide children with the level of
protection provided in public facilities under Roger S.

   Concurrently in the early 1980s, attorneys in my agency, Mental Health
Advocacy Services, began representing minors in dependency court who were
identified as seriously emotionally disturbed. Our  [*938]  goal was to keep
these children out of state institutions. Early on we discovered that procedural
protections alone were insufficient to accomplish that goal. What ultimately
determined whether a particular child would be hospitalized was what
alternatives were available. On an individual basis, we struggled to identify
alternative services available in the community. The availability of these
alternatives, and not procedural due process arguments, was determinative of
whether or not our client was placed in a less restrictive setting.

   Discussing the right to the least drastic means or the least restrictive
alternatives does not mean very much if alternative services are not available.
We have seen California statutes reflect this dilemma. These statutes condition
the requirement of treatment in the least restrictive alternative by adding the
word "available." Available is an ugly word in this area and in this context. It
means that if there is something out there that you can show is less restrictive
than being locked up in a psychiatric hospital, then the child will be placed in
the less restrictive setting. If those alternatives do not exist, which they
seldom do, the child will be placed in an unnecessarily restrictive hospital
because it is the best option available. Procedural due process that only
focuses on choosing between available options does not adequately protect the
child.

   As a way of protecting minors' due process rights, the challenge for our
advocacy must be to move from the focus on due process procedures to the
establishment of real alternatives to highly restrictive placements of minors.
It is interesting that the lack of alternatives cannot be attributed to a lack
of agreement that such alternatives are preferable to institutional care. In the
area of children's mental health in the last ten or fifteen years, it has not
been difficult to convince mental health professionals that children fare much
better outside of institutions than they do within the traditional psychiatric
hospital setting.

   As early as 1984, the Natural Institute of Mental Health started the Child
and Adolescent Service System Program (CASSP). CASSP became the standard bearer
for a set of principles that now have been adopted throughout the United States.
These principles recognize that for children with serious disorders, who are
unable to live at home without additional support, there is a need to provide
services in the community that wrap around the family. The term often used to
describe these services is "systems-of-care." They bring together - in an
interagency, coordinated fashion - services for children that wrap around the
child and focus on the family to support the  [*939]  child's strengths. These
services must be available at whatever level of intensity is necessary to keep
the child in the home, in school, safe, and out of the criminal justice system.
These fundamental principles have been adopted throughout the United States.

   There is a theoretical consensus: Children should not be warehoused in
psychiatric facilities. Yet today, advocates still find it necessary to threaten
legal action to keep children from being warehoused in these restrictive
facilities. I ask why, despite a theoretical consensus embracing
systems-of-care, these services are still not available to most of the children
who need them? In discussing this question, I will go back a few years in terms
of our agency's own litigation, strategies, and development.

   Six years ago a group of us - including Mental Health Advocacy Services,
Protection and Advocacy, Inc., National Health Law Program, and the American
Civil Liberties Union of Southern California - looked at the issues generated by
our representation of seriously emotionally disturbed children in dependency
court. Specifically, we looked at issues around the placement of dependent
children in highly restrictive settings. These restrictive facilities included
state hospitals and, what we call in California, RCL-14 Facilities (Residential
Care Level 14) and RCL-13.  n3 We were interested in developing a strategy to
move our clients from these highly restrictive programs to systems-of-care and
wrap-around services in the community.

   The question then became why, despite the clinical consensus in support of
these services, they remained unavailable to our clients. As in all
institutional and least restrictive alternative litigation, the first obvious
answer was that there were not enough resources in the children's community
mental health system. Our initial litigation, therefore, needed to create
additional mental health resources.

   In developing a litigation strategy, we had an extremely strong federal
mandate, Early Periodic Screening Diagnosis and Treatment  n4 (EPSDT). The EPSDT
entitlement was the result of a 1989 amendment to the Federal Medicaid Act.  n5
The EPSDT mandate provides that eligible children are entitled to receive,
through the state's Medicaid system, any treatment listed in the Medicaid Act
that is  [*940]  medically necessary, even if it is not available to adults in
the state.  n6 Medical necessity is defined very broadly to include any
treatment or service necessary to ameliorate a mental or physical condition,
defect, or disease.  n7

   Although the Medicaid Act was amended in 1989 to include the EPSDT mandate,
it was not adopted in California. I believe that state officials looked at the
federal law and decided it was too expensive to implement. So they waited to be
sued before taking any action. To force the state to implement full EPSDT
services for children, a lawsuit had to be constructed.  n8 Once the lawsuit was
filed, the state did not litigate aggressively. It would have been difficult for
them to do so. Therefore, the case was settled and regulations were developed.

   There was an assumption that the current services, which were already part of
the state plan, were adequate to serve the needs of the children of the state.
The real focus of the litigation was on the diagnosis and treatment part of
EPSDT. The litigation resulted in regulations that were structured so that
services outside the state plan would be provided through Supplemental EPSDT
Treatment Authorization Requests.

   Part of the MediCal plan in California included a program called Short-Doyle
MediCal. Short-Doyle MediCal is the part of the MediCal system that funds county
mental health services. Short-Doyle MediCal funds are distributed to counties in
a capped amount, which effectively limits the amount of MediCal available for
mental health services. Under the EPSDT mandate this cap on services is illegal.
n9

   After the litigation a meeting occurred between the Department of Health
Services - which is the single state agency responsible for  [*941]  Medicaid -
and the Department of Mental Health. At that meeting they agreed there were not
enough services for MediCal eligible children in the county mental health
system. However, it was unclear what the actual need was.

   The Department of Health Services agreed to augment funding for the counties
by providing additional dollars for children's mental health services. They
pledged to reimburse any additional spending that was beyond the annual amount
spent in 1994-1995, the base year of the litigation. Therefore, as a result of
the litigation, counties can now spend as much money on children's mental health
as is needed and the state will reimburse the Medicaid matching share out of the
state general fund. The federal government's share automatically will match the
state Medicaid share. This means that when asked to provide community mental
health services, counties can no longer respond: "we do not have enough
resources."

   Today, counties in California can provide as many mental health services as
are necessary for MediCal eligible children and do not have to worry about not
having enough money. This is our current reality in California. Our problems
should be solved. Now we should be able to provide children with alternatives to
restrictive institutions. However, we still are not providing these
alternatives. That is the frustration of children's advocates today. Even though
there is unlimited funding for children's mental health services in California,
children are still confined in high level institutions. There are few
wrap-around services. There are no therapeutic foster-care homes. There are only
limited systems-of-care services. The most seriously emotionally disturbed
children still do not have individualized treatment plans.

   Today there is unlimited money. If money is no longer the problem, why are
there so many children still without appropriate services? The problem is the
system itself. When we set out to increase resources in the mental health system
and when we won the EPSDT litigation, the response of the mental health
community was: "Great! You got us all this money. There is a new funding source.
We can build new programs." However, the decision of the EPSDT case was not
grounded on the mental health system's entitlement to money. Rather, it was
based on children's individual entitlements to services.

   An individual entitlement to services seems to be what is lost. The response
of the system is to create programs and then to try and fit the children into
them. We need systems-of-care. A system-of-  [*942]  care cannot start with a
program. It must start with an individual child. We must start by assessing what
the individual child needs and from there develop the appropriate services.

   We are now at a stage where new litigation is necessary, not to seek to
increase resources, but to enforce the entitlement for the assessment and
individualization of services for children. This type of litigation will be
based on the EPSDT mandate and the integration mandate of the Americans with
Disabilities Act  n10 (ADA). There is some irony in this. Prior to these federal
mandates, the mental health community in California fought to increase resources
in order to provide individualized services. Here we are in 1997, with unlimited
funding, and we are still in the position of arguing for individual services.

   In thinking about this future litigation and reviewing previous cases, we
look back to the Willie M.  n11 case, which was brought in 1979 in North
Carolina. The Willie M. decision relied on different legal theories. Instead of
the EPSDT mandate and the ADA, Willie M. included traditional civil rights and
due process theories. However, the case settled and those theories were never
tested in court.

   The settlement in Willie M. is exactly what we are seeking today in
California.  n12 The settlement required that each child who was a member of the
class would be assessed and provided services in a no-eject, no-reject mental
health system.  n13 The class was defined as those children who were the most
difficult to serve in the mental health system of North Carolina. Under this
system each child received what he or she needed. According to the consent
decree, if the services did not exist, the child had to be provided with an
available alternative that was as close to that service as possible and only for
the period of time that it took to create the needed service.  n14 As you look
at North Carolina today, this was an extremely powerful order that has pushed
the state far ahead of almost all other states in terms of individualized
services for children. These services minimize the institutionalization and
maximize the availability of less restrictive alternatives. Twenty years later
we hope to achieve similar results in California.

   The foundation of our litigation strategy is the EPSDT mandate,  [*943]
which unfortunately has been under attack in Congress in recent years.
Obviously, the longer that EPSDT remains a federal mandate, the more likely it
becomes that California will achieve a system of providing for the individual
mental health needs of children similar to the results achieved in Willie M.
n15 Unfortunately, if Congress takes away the statutory entitlement, it is
unlikely that the arguments made in Willie M. will be upheld by the courts
today. We need the EPSDT mandate to survive long enough for us to obtain
creative relief through successful litigation. This relief would require
providing services based on individual assessments and those services "wrapped"
around each child.

   What our experience has shown is that without accountability to individual
children, money is not enough. Because the system has been underresourced for so
long and in so many different areas, it has been hard to prove that we need to
do more than just increase resources to provide adequate mental health services
to children. We have demonstrated this to be the case. Currently, there is
plenty of money to provide adequate service, but the will is not there.

   There are still immense bureaucratic barriers, and clearly this is where we
must focus our attention. Our advocacy efforts, other than litigation, are also
focused on the same issue: working with the bureaucracies to try to get them to
individualize their services. It is not all done through litigation. Litigation
is the last resort. We have established the funding source for the bureaucracy.
The statute is there.  n16 The entitlement is there. However, the effect is like
kicking a brick wall. Every time we talk about services for a particular set of
individuals, the response is: "Well, we are developing a new program." The
mental health bureaucracy has never really developed a mechanism for effectively
responding to the needs of children on an individual basis.

   One of the major bureaucratic barriers to individualized services for
children is the lack of interagency collaboration. Cooperation between different
agencies is one of the fundamental principles in systems-of-care. Everybody
agrees. However, in practice interagency cooperation has come to mean that every
agency serving children will  [*944]  develop its own interagency cooperative.
As a result, child welfare departments have a program called Family
Preservation. The Department of Mental Health has something similar called
Systems of Care. The Department of Probation in Los Angeles has its own
interagency program called Mary C., which is a demonstration project to help
children who are at risk of ending up in the juvenile justice system. In
addition, schools have their Healthy Start programs.

   Each initiative requires all the other agencies participate. However, while
each agency discusses cooperation, they are only talking about it within their
own sphere. For example, there are a lot of discussions at the Los Angeles
County Department of Children and Family Services about developing cooperative
interagency efforts. There are similar discussions at the Department of Mental
Health. Unfortunately, they are not talking effectively with each other, even
though they are talking about the same things.

   Clearly, litigation is undesirable if children can receive the wrap-around
services they need without requiring a lawsuit. However, because the
bureaucratic barriers that separate services for children are so ingrained in
the system, it is likely that real change will require a court order to force
individual bureaucracies to truly cooperate. I think it is beyond the capacity
of the bureaucracies to do this on their own. A major component of any
litigation, seeking to force individualized services for children in
non-institutionalized settings, is that it must also address interagency
cooperation. Without interagency cooperation children's total service needs will
remain unmet.

   In conclusion, advocates for children's rights in the mental health system
must now focus on the creative use of legislative mandates. Advocates must
utilize legislative mandates to fashion judicial remedies that will break down
the bureaucratic barriers that currently result in a failure to provide adequate
mental health services that keep children out of institutions.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
GovernmentsLocal GovernmentsFinancePublic Health & Welfare LawHealthcareMental
Health ServicesChildren's Outpatient ServicesPublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
ServicesMentally Ill & Mentally Retarded IndividualsAdvocacy & Protection

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  19 Cal. 3d 921, 569 P.2d 1286, 141 Cal. Rptr. 298 (1977).




n2.  See Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code 6002.10, .15, .20, .25, .30 (West Supp. 1998).




n3.  These facilities are very restrictive non-hospital, but still
institutional, kinds of settings. Often, they are used as a placement for
dependent children who the court does not have the power to place in a
psychiatric hospital.




n4.  42 U.S.C. 1396d(a)(4)(B), (r) (Supp. 1997).




n5.  See id. (Supp. 1997).




n6.  See id. (Supp. 1997).




n7.  See id. 1396d(r)(5) (Supp. 1997).




n8.  In formulating the lawsuit, we considered that the EPSDT mandate required
not just diagnosis and treatment, which was the care we were seeking, but also
screening and assessment. Early periodic screens were required to include
behavioral and developmental components, which at that time they did not. At the
early stages of the EPSDT litigation, we included claims that addressed a lack
of behavioral screening for children. However, these claims were abandoned when
adult consumers of mental health services objected. They expressed an extremely
strong belief that screening children for a mental disorder was a way of
medicalizing social problems. This was at a time when the Federal Center for
Mental Health had a director who thought all juvenile delinquency was the result
of mental disorders. Primarily, we were interested in developing alternatives
for children in hospitals. Therefore, we did not pursue the issue of screening
children for behavioral problems.




n9.  See id. (Supp. 1997).




n10.  42 U.S.C. 12101(b) (1995).




n11.  657 F.2d 55 (4th Cir. 1981).




n12.  See id. at 57-59.




n13.  See id.




n14.  See id. at 58.




n15.  The parties worked out a comprehensive settlement in which they agreed to
the scope of the class, plaintiffs' rights, the scope of North Carolina's
obligations, and the basic outline of the remedy to be awarded. The settlement
further outlined the procedures for identifying, notifying, and evaluating
potential class members for administrative review. See id. at 57.




n16.  See 42 U.S.C. 1396d(a)(4)(B) (Supp. 1997).


