                              324 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                             July 31, 2014 Thursday

eZono launches eZGuide adaptive needle recognition

SECTION: DIAGNOSIS; Product Launches / Expansions

LENGTH: 333 words



HIGHLIGHT: eZono, a Germany-based developer of tablet ultrasound systems, has
introduced eZGuide Adaptive Needle Recognition (eZGuide ANR), which allows
clinicians to use their needle of choice with the help of a magnetic detection
technology.


eZono, a Germany-based developer of tablet ultrasound systems, has introduced
eZGuide Adaptive Needle Recognition (eZGuide ANR), which allows clinicians to
use their needle of choice with the help of a magnetic detection technology.

By automatically calibrating the eZono 4000 systems, eZGuide ANR helps
clinicians use their needle of choice with eZGuide Navigation Technology.

The eZGuide ANR features an automatic on-screen needle information system that
provides complete picture of the trajectory and penetration capabilities of the
needle to help clinicians before starting an invasive procedure.

The system allows the clinician to increase the safety and efficiency for each
procedure, the company said.

eZono CEO Graham Cox said: "eZGuide ANR is a major step forward for procedural
guidance.

"Our challenge up until now has been in managing the needle optimisation
process.

"We want to enable clinicians and hospitals to have flexibility for their choice
of needle to perform procedures and still offer precision guidance from our
system.

"With the introduction of eZGuide ANR technology, we have not only streamlined
this needle selection process, but we have also included an improved feature
set, which will display the capabilities of each needle before it is used on the
patient.

"This puts the clinician much more in control by having all the information on
the needle guidance, provided ahead of time."

Current procedural ultrasound technologies are products focused more on
diagnostics than procedures, which frequently need expensive add-on equipment
and dedicated consumables which lock hospitals into expensive contracts.

The company intends to upgrade all eZono 4000 users to eZGuide Adaptive Needle
Recognition, free of charge, expanding the clinical utility of the eZono 4000
system.

The company said that image quality improvements, user interface improvements
and DICOM compatibility are also included in the upgrade.

Image: Screenshot of eZono 4000 with eZGuide. Photo: courtesy of eZono AG.

LOAD-DATE: August 01, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


