                              338 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly

                           December 9, 2015 Wednesday

Civil rights - Psychiatric evaluation

BYLINE: Tom Egan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 660  words


Where a plaintiff filed a 42 U.S.C. §1983 claim alleging that the defendant
doctor violated the plaintiff's federal constitutional rights when she issued an
order, pursuant to G.L.c. 123, §12, authorizing the plaintiff to be seized from
her home and brought to a hospital for a psychiatric evaluation, a judgment
dismissing the complaint must be affirmed because of the plaintiff's failure to
provide any developed argumentation that the defendant's alleged failure to
conform to a state statute constituted a violation of the Fourth and 14th
Amendment.

"(Defendant Theresa] Harpold, (plaintiff Louise] Durand's co-worker at a
Massachusetts Department of Mental Health facility in Norton, Massachusetts,
issued the order after she was approached by another co-worker, Marleen Mills.
Mills reported that Durand was having 'visual hallucinations of worms coming out
of her body and across telephone (lines],' had 'been driving to parts unknown,'
had been 'sending threatening texts' to Mills, had 'not been attending to her
blood sugar(, and] has diabetes and reported a (blood sugar level] of 30. '

"Harpold signed the §12 order on this basis, certifying that there was a '(v]ery
substantial risk' that Durand would injure herself. Pursuant to the order, the
police took Durand from her home and drove her to a hospital. At the hospital,
Durand was evaluated by a doctor, who found Durand lucid and released her. ...

"Durand contends that she has stated a plausible claim that Harpold violated her
right, under the Fourth Amendment, to be free from unreasonable seizures because
Harpold violated Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 123, §12, by (1) not evaluating Durand
before issuing the order to have her seized and brought to the hospital; and (2)
not contacting Durand to learn if she would refuse to be examined before issuing
the order. We disagree.

"Durand alleges violations of Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 123, §12, but a state law
violation is not itself enough to render a seizure unreasonable for Fourth
Amendment purposes.   ... Durand's only argument that the state law violation
she alleges does amount to a Fourth Amendment violation relies on precedent that
does not stand for the propositions for which she cites it.

"In sum, Durand does not address the limits the Fourth Amendment places on the
need for warrantless seizure in the scenario at hand, even though the District
Court dismissed her claim below for failure to identify the violation of a
constitutional right (as opposed to the violation of a state law). Because
Durand has failed to provide any developed argumentation regarding how Harpold's
actions rendered Durand's seizure unreasonable for that particular purpose, her
Fourth Amendment-based §1983 claim cannot proceed. ...

"Durand also argues that she has stated a plausible claim that Harpold violated
her Fourteenth Amendment right to procedural due process. But although Durand
acknowledges that the violation of a state law is not in itself sufficient to
demonstrate a violation the Fourteenth Amendment's guarantee of the right to due
process, Durand makes no more than the conclusory allegation -- in one paragraph
of her brief -- that Harpold's failure to comply with Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 123,
§12, 'deprived Ms. Durand of her rights to procedural due process under the
Fourteenth Amendment. ' Thus, this argument, too, is not sufficiently developed
to merit appellate review. ..."

Durand v. Harpold (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-318-15) (6 pages) (Barron, J.) (1st
Circuit) Appealed from a decision by Stearns, J., in the U.S. District Court for
the District of Massachusetts. Christopher J. Trombetta on brief for the
plaintiff-appellant; Sean E. Capplis, Sandra P. Wysocki Capplis and Capplis,
Connors & Carroll on brief for the defendant-appellee (Docket No. 14-2244) (Dec.
7, 2015).

Click here for the full-text opinion.



http://www.rilawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2015 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

