                              337 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'A court would certainly have found Dr Jadun to be negligent';
File 1

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 303 words


THE first independent review of Dr Jadun's work found four cases of negligence,
according to an expert.

The investigation - carried out by Dr Shawn Halpin, from the University Hospital
of Wales, in Cardiff - looked at 25 patients Dr Jadun treated between June and
November 2008.

Dr Halpin reported back to UHNS officials, who had called in the consultant
neuroradiologist to carry out a peer review of Dr Jadun, in July 2009.

Dr Halpin found there were "procedural complications in 25 per cent of cases,
with 12 per cent clinically apparent". He added: "These figures are too high."

Dr Halpin highlighted four cases in which he believed Dr Jadun's treatment of
patients at UHNS was negligent - and would have been confirmed as such if they
had come to court.

In one, Dr Halpin criticised Dr Jadun's use of a substance called Onyx, a
"liquid embolic agent" used in brain surgery.

Dr Jadun and UHNS had previously been warned by professional experts not to use
Onyx without special "training and mentorship". The medic and the hospital
ignored this advice but the doctor used Onyx in the treatment of a patient in
August 2008.

Dr Halpin said: "I read with alarm, the radiology report written by Dr Jadun...
'I have a new glue - Onyx.' "Onyx is not a glue. The statement clearly implies
its use would be a procedural first for Dr Jadun.

"There was nothing in the notes to indicate that Dr Jadun had advised the
patient this was a new agent. He should have obtained permission from the
medical director of the trust before undertaking it and should certainly have
had an experienced colleague with him.

"Dr Jadun's actions would have been unequivocal evidence of negligence had the
patient come to harm. Fortunately, she did not." Despite this, Dr Halpin
concluded that Dr Jadun was a caring doctor who wanted the best for his
patients.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SEN


                      Copyright 2011 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


