                              340 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday

Health department asks CSMMU to find cause of death of 9-month-old boy

SECTION: LUCKNOW

LENGTH: 402 words


LUCKNOW: Taking serious note of the death of a nine-month-old infant in
Barabanki village after vaccination, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to
inquire the cause of death. Two children became seriously ill and one died
reportedly after being administered measles vaccine in Avadhpur Majra village of
Barabanki on Thursday. The health department has written to the vice-chancellor,
Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj Medical University (CSMMU), asking him to direct
university's paediatric department to find the cause of death.

Meanwhile, Barabanki's chief medical officer Dr AK Chowdhury sent samples of the
vaccine in question for testing to rule out possibilities of contamination. A
preliminary inquiry conducted by him hints towards procedural lapses. The case
relates to Auxiliary Nursing Midwife Nalini Devi and ASHA worker Saroj who went
for routine immunisation on Wednesday. They started their work at around 11.00
am from Mohanpur village. By the time, she reached Avadhpur, it was around 3.30
pm. All this while, she administered vaccines to six children.

Within hours of getting the vaccine shots, three children Shivansh, Lalla and
Sadhu in Avadhpur Majra took ill and were rushed to the hospital. Doctors
confirmed that they were down with toxic shock syndrome - typical fallout of
adverse reaction caused by vaccines. All the three children were referred to
Lucknow's Trauma Centre. Shivansh, however could not survive.

"Preliminary inquiries hint towards two procedural lapses. First one is that all
these vaccines should be administered within four hours from the time they are
prepared. But, by the time, the ANM reached Avadhpur villages four-and-half
hours had passed. Secondly, a single vial has vaccines for five children. But,
the ANM covered six children. This indicates that proportion for mixing of
vaccines with their diluting agent could be skewed," said the CMO.

Based on the findings, the CMO suspended ANM besides recommending departmental
action against the incharge medical officer Arvind Yadav and area's additional
CMO Dr Ram Chandani. Meanwhile, Ram Yadav, father of Shivansh, lodged an FIR
against medical officer Dr Arvind Yadav, ANM Nalini Devi and ASHA worker Saroj
at with Ghungter police station. To note, in August last year, a similar
incident was reported from Lucknow's Mohanlalganj area, when four children died
after vaccination.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


