                              347 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       St. John's Telegram (Newfoundland)

                            November 12, 2004 Friday

Doctors now offer less services: report

BYLINE: Stokes Sullivan, Deana

SECTION: METRO/PROVINCIAL NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 833  words


Family doctors in Canada are offering fewer services than they did a decade ago,
but those remaining active in clinical practice areas - such as obstetrics and
hospital inpatient care - tend to have increased workloads, according to a
report released this week by the Canadian Institute for Health Information
(CIHI).

As an example, the number of family physicians delivering babies dropped to 16
per cent in 2001 from 28 per cent in 1992, while the number of obstetrical
services offered by family physicians still providing these services increased
by 33 per cent.

In urban areas, the average number of obstetrical services offered by female
physicians showed an even sharper increase - 60 per cent between 1992 and 2001.

The report, titled The Evolving Role of Canada's Family Physicians: 1992-2001,
looks at activity levels in clinical areas traditionally identified as part of a
family physician's domain, including delivering babies, anesthesia, helping in
the operating room, and advanced procedural skills, such as setting broken
bones.

The primary source of information for the study was the CIHI's national
physician database, which contains fee-for-service claims data provided by
provincial and territorial medical service plan administrative systems.

"Traditionally, Canadians are used to their family physicians offering a wide
range of medical services," said Dr. Joshua Tepper, a practicing rural physician
and co-author of the study.

"The practice of medicine in this country has changed in the context of our
evolving health-care system. In the past decade, we have seen major changes in
medical training and licensing, regionalization, amalgamation, changes in
hospital care, primary health-care reform and an aging population with growing
needs."

The only area where an overall increase was noted in the participation levels of
family physicians was mental health.

The number of family doctors providing mental health services increased to 85
per cent in 2001, from 82 per cent in 1992.

Meanwhile, the average number of mental health-related billings increased by 12
per cent for the same period.

The report data also shows differences in the way male and female family doctors
work.

In 2001, male family physicians provided 46 per cent more office- assessment
services than female doctors, and twice as many advanced procedural skills
services.

Overall, office-assessment services account for about two-thirds of all services
provided by family doctors.

The rates of family physician participation in surgical services, surgical
assistance, anesthesia and obstetrical care declined by 32, 31, 28 and 43 per
cent, respectively, between 1992 and 2001.

The number of services provided in a hospital setting also declined.

A decreasing percentage of family physicians participated in hospital inpatient
care - 71 per cent in 1992, compared to 62 per cent in 2001 - while the average
number of hospital visits dropped by 8 per cent.

Rural family physicians had higher rates of participation in most clinical
areas, including surgical services, basic procedures, advanced procedures and
anesthesia, while mid-sized communities had the highest participation in
surgical assistance services and hospital inpatient care.

"The way family doctors work is influenced by many factors, including trying to
achieve better home/work life balance," said Steve Slade, a CIHI consultant on
physician databases and the study's co-author.

"Whether we are looking at the physician work force by age group, by gender or
by geographical location, we see differences.

"These trends can help us better understand how to plan for meeting the health
needs of Canadians."

A recent national physician survey, released by the College of Family Physicians
of Canada, the Canadian Medical Association and The Royal College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Canada, also identified shifts in health-care practices which
these organizations cautioned could lead to "an alarming state in physician
supply and access to care unless adequate policies are put in place by all
levels of government."

The survey found that 60 per cent of family physicians are either limiting the
number of new patients they see or are not taking new patients at all.

Tough to find a new doctor

Almost half of the physicians surveyed, under the age of 35, said their
practices are either partially or completely closed to new patients.

The Newfoundland and Labrador Medical Association (NLMA) has noticed the same
trend in this province.

NLMA president Dr. Andrew Major said it's more common that newer medical
graduates see fewer patients and spend fewer hours providing patient care than
doctors did in the past.

"There are definitely lifestyle changes in the way medicine is practised in
general," said Major, who also pointed out the study indicated that 45 per cent
of physicians were approaching burnout.

According to the study, female physicians work fewer hours than their male
colleagues, mainly because of additional family responsibilities.

dss@thetelegram.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


Copyright 2004 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest Global Communications
                                     Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


