                              349 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 15, 2015 Wednesday

US Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania) Issues Solicitation
for "Cranial and Maxillofacial [#xfffd]Procedural Sets[#xfffd]"

LENGTH: 490  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations Officer has issued
requirement for "Cranial and Maxillofacial [#xfffd]Procedural Sets[#xfffd]"

Solicitation no. SPE2DE-15-R-0006

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date:
April 14, 2015
Response Date:
May 15, 2015 11:59 pm Eastern

Description: This is a sources sought notice.
The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources capable of
providing KLS Martin cranial and maxillofacial "procedural sets". These "
procedural sets"

include the following product mix; implants, instruments, auxiliary products,
biological products, distraction devices, biomaterials, power systems, sternal
products

and threadlock device systems. The product mix that makes up the "procedural
set" varies based on the individual needs of the patient. The instruments are
both "used"

during the surgery and return to the vendor or purchased by the hospital so they
are readily available on the shelves.
All products offered must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
The products that make up the "procedural sets" must be delivered
"Just-In-Time," "Direct Vendor Delivery", and "Consignment". Under
"Just-In-Time" delivery, the

Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) calls the manufacturer's field representative
who carries the products into the MTF just-in-time for the surgery. The
manufacturer's

sales representative may bring many sizes and types of implants and auxiliary
products to the surgery along with the instrumentation sets. Under "Direct
Vendor

Delivery" method an order for products is placed through ECAT and the product is
delivered directly to the customer via any transportation carrier. Under the

"Consignment" method, an MTF have the products that make up the "procedural set"
consigned to their facility.
At the request of the MTF, the manufacturer is required to have a qualified
representative on site at the MTF's within the timeframe specified by the
facility

necessary to meet their requirements. The manufacturer's representative provides
technical advice and guidance to the physician before, during, and after
implantation.

Furthermore, technical support is available twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven
(7) days a week.
This is a request for information (RFI) and does not commit the U.S. Government
to issue a solicitation, make an award, or pay any costs associated with
responding to

this announcement. All submitted information shall remain with the U.S.
Government and will not be returned.
Your response to this Request for Information may be submitted electronically in
PDF format and emailed to john.r.jackson@dla.mil

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia,
 Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United States

Point of Contact(s): John R. Jackson,
 Acquisition Specialist john.r.jackson@dla.mil Phone: 2157370850

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


