                              345 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Bond Buyer

                            March 22, 2007 Thursday

Massachusetts Legislators OK Governor's $1.47B Budget

BYLINE: Michelle Kaske

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34 Vol. 359 No. 32594

LENGTH: 385  words


Massachusetts' lawmakers yesterday approved Gov. Deval Patrick's $1.47

billion bond bill for fiscal 2007.

The legislature aims to return the bill to Patrick for his signature

before the April 1 deadline when lawmakers will present to local governments

how much they will receive from the roughly $60 million of additional state

aid.

Although the House will need to act on further procedural votes, the

action allows the Senate to take up the bond bill immediately, with the bill

potentially reaching Patrick's desk today, according to Jim Isenberg,

spokesman for Robert DeLeo, D-Suffolk, chair of the House Ways and Means

Committee.

"Once the Senate engrosses it, that means both Houses have essentially

passed the bill, then we have to go through a couple of these procedural

votes which can and probably will happen [today] and then it can go to the

governor," Isenberg said.

Officials say the legislation is an immediate-needs bond bill that will

help secure $985.6 million of matching federal grant money that Massachusetts

will lose if the state does not authorize borrowing. The bill calls for the

state to borrow roughly $869 million overall for highways, local road and

bridges, along with $250 million for a psychiatric hospital in Worcester,

$125 million for critical repairs to state buildings, higher educational

institutions and other facilities, $100 million for mass transit

improvements, and $94.4 million for information-technology upgrades, among

other projects.

Murray plans on taking up the bond bill today, according to spokeswoman

Samantha Dallaire.

A previous bond bill filed by the former Gov. Mitt Romney for the current

fiscal year died in the Legislature when both the House and the Senate failed

to pass the revised $1.2 billion bond bill by the July 31 midnight deadline.

While Patrick's $1.47 billion capital plan is larger than the previous

bond bill, it includes transportation projects that the administration

usually drafts in a separate bond bill.

Separately, Therese Murray, D-Plymouth and Barnstable, became the first

female Senate president in the state's history. Murray, who is also chair of

the Senate Ways and Means Committee, is replacing former Senate President

Robert Travaglini, who is leaving public office to pursue a career in the

private sector.

http://www.bondbuyer.com http://www.sourcemedia.com

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: b


                        Copyright 2007 SourceMedia, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


