                              341 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                       May 9, 2000 Tuesday Final Edition

Tories restrict Bill 11 debate: Health legislation could win approval as early
as tonight

SOURCE: The Edmonton Journal

BYLINE: Ashley Geddes, Provincial Affairs Writer

SECTION: Alberta; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 562 words

DATELINE: Edmonton

The Conservative majority in the legislature could give final approval to Bill
11 as early as tonight, after the government used a procedural tactic to
restrict debate on third reading.

Opposition leaders denounced the government for cutting off debate for the third
time after the Tories introduced a motion Monday blocking further amendments.

But the government defended the motion -- which allows each MLA to speak only
once more on the bill -- saying the private health bill has already received
more than enough debate.

Depending on how many Conservatives speak, the bill could be passed today or
Wednesday.

"I think it's fair," said Premier Ralph Klein. "The process is to allow everyone
to speak."

Associate health minister Gene Zwozdesky said debate had already devolved into
"redundancy and repetition" in the two stages before third and final reading.

"When you get that type of filibustering started and nothing is moving forward,
no progress is being made, no new items or no new points are being raised,
clearly there's a need at some point to say simply 'let's bring this to a vote,'
" said Zwozdesky. "And that's what's going to happen."

The bill, introduced in the legislature March 2, will regulate and expand the
role of private surgery facilities and allow them to perform some procedures now
done only in public hospitals.

The government says the bill will reduce surgery waiting lists and protect the
public health system by filling a regulatory void for private surgery centres.

Critics say the bill will erode the public health system, opening the door to
two-tiered, U.S.-style care.

The motion comes on the heels of the government's use of closure to cut debate
at the committee stage, where amendments can be made. The government used the
same kind of procedural tactic it used Monday to limit debate at the second
reading stage.

The move means each MLA is limited to another 20 minutes of debate, except for
the premier and official Opposition leader, who can speak for up to 90.

Only procedural amendments -- generally involving referrals or delays -- could
be made during third reading debate in any event.

Opposition Liberal Leader Nancy MacBeth said the government has decided "to ram"
the bill through, something she said amounts to a "loss of democracy."

The Liberals had wanted to delay a final vote on the bill to allow time for an
all-party committee to hold public hearings and develop regulations to accompany
the legislation.

"It's an example of the arrogance of this government refusing to listen to
Albertans," said MacBeth.

New Democrat Leader Raj Pannu said the government "just wants to end the
humiliation" it faces due to overwhelming opposition to the bill.

"They have simply said they won't listen to Albertans any more. They're totally
frustrated, they're totally isolated, they're cornered."

About 300 anti-Bill 11 demonstrators gathered outside the legislature Monday
night, chanting and booing the government's decision to cut off debate. "I think
they should allow the debate to take its course and let the people be heard,
because it's a major concern to Albertans," said accountant Robert Calen.

Registered nurse Melanie Keasnytsia said Klein should adjourn debate on the
bill, which she thinks will create a two-tier health system, and allow a
referendum on the issue.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2000 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


