                              36 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 14, 2015 Saturday

Washington: Hospital Finance Unit Manager 71029046/RF74

LENGTH: 581  words

DATELINE: Olympia


The State of Washington has issued the following Job Vacancy:

Job Title:  Hospital Finance Unit Manager 71029046/RF74
Opening Date/Time:  Thu. 12/19/13 12:00 AM Pacific Time
Closing Date/Time:  Continuous
Salary:  $56,532.00 - $75,372.00 Annually
Job Type:  Full Time - Permanent
Location:  Thurston County - Olympia, Washington
Department:  Health Care Authority

Description Benefits Supplemental Questions

Hospital Finance Unit Manager


The Health Care Authority (HCA) is Washington's largest health care purchaser,
responsible for providing comprehensive health coverage to more than 1.5 million
residents through the Public Employees Benefits and Medicaid programs. The
agency provides health purchasing leadership, benefitting both public and
private sectors with a focus on moving the health delivery system away from
volume toward higher value and better outcomes.

The HCA is currently implementing the Medicaid Expansion component of the
Affordable Care Act and anticipates more than 300,000 new clients over the next
two years.

Position Objective:

This position manages the DSH, CPE, NH Proshare, CAH, Major Trauma, Air and
Ground Ambulance, and Out-of-State Medical Services contracting programs within
the Hospital Finance section. With four professional positions reporting to this
position, this group is responsible for:

Fiscal and procedural management of the DSH, CPE, Nursing Home Proshare
programs, and special projects as they arise. These programs account for
million's annually, and they receive a great deal of stakeholder and federal
scrutiny.

Fiscal and procedural management of the thirty-eight hospitals participating in
our CAH program.

Fiscal and procedural management of the Major Trauma Program, Air and Ground
Ambulance transportation, and out-of-state medical services contracting.

Oversight of the DSH application process and the complex calculations to
determine hospital DSH payments; oversight of the Inpatient Hospital and Nursing
Home Proshare CPE programs involving complex calculations and federal
settlements.

Representation of HCA to external entities, hospitals, the Washington State
Hospital Association (WSHA), and stakeholders within state government, in
coordination with the Section Manager.


This position requires expert knowledge of federal rules governing these
programs; expert knowledge of state laws and regulations; advanced level skills
for data mining and analysis; and knowledge of hospital payment methodologies.
It also requires advanced project management, supervisory, communication and
analytical skills to meet the challenges of this position.

The position is authorized to work with various stakeholders on program and
policy issues in representing HCA as the subject matter expert.

This position is has full decision making authority to authorize payment within
budget limits for the programs it manages.

This position reports to the Section Manager for the Hospital Finance Section
and may have delegated authority to act on behalf of the Section Manager.

This position performs legislative bill analysis and may be assigned to draft
legislation.

This position takes a leadership role or actively participates in agency-wide
quality improvement projects.

This position is responsible for overseeing the annual federally-required DSH
audit, and works with the independent auditors for ensuring accuracy and
regulatory compliance with the DSH rules.

For Further information please visit:
http://agency.governmentjobs.com/washington

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


