                              354 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    The Record (Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario

                             March 8, 2012 Thursday
                                 First Edition

IN BRIEF

BYLINE: Record news services

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 528 words


OTTAWA

NDP manage to delay vote

on federal crime bill

Procedural tactics by the NDP in the House of Commons have managed to postpone a
final vote on the Conservative government's omnibus crime bill. The stalling
tactics mean Wednesday evening's vote likely won't take place until early next
week - a perhaps fitting endgame for a bill that has attracted no end of
partisan acrimony in Parliament. Justice Minister Rob Nicholson accused New
Democrats of being more interested in procedural games than what he called doing
the right thing for Canadians.

VANCOUVER

RCMP searching for suspect

in Tamil migrants case

The RCMP have launched an international manhunt for the first person charged in
connection with a ship that brought hundreds of Tamil migrants to Canada's West
Coast a year and a half ago. Thayakaran Markandu has been charged with
organizing illegal entry into Canada, the RCMP announced Wednesday. The charge
relates to the MV Sun Sea, which arrived in August 2010 carrying 492 Tamil
migrants. Markandu, who was born in 1972 according to court records, is
currently believed to be living abroad, although Mounties haven't confirmed
where, said Sgt. Duncan Pound.

TORONTO

Man arrested after passersby foil attempted child abduction

Toronto police say members of the public intervened in the attempted abduction
of a 10-year-old boy. Police say the boy was walking along King Street West near
Cowan Avenue on Tuesday evening when a man grabbed him from behind and tried to
drag him across the street. The boy struggled, broke free and fell to the
ground. Police say people who saw what happened came to the boy's aid. The man
fled but police say an arrest was made a short distance away.

WINNIPEG

Inquest sought into slaughter

of caribou for antlers

Aboriginal leaders are calling for an investigation into the slaughter of almost
three dozen caribou along a Manitoba winter road. A northern chief discovered
the bloody carcasses of 30 animals near Lynn Lake, Man. Their antlers had been
removed, but the meat and hide were left to rot. Grand Chief David Harper, who
represents northern First Nations, says the slaughter is a huge waste. He says
aboriginal hunters would never have done such a thing because First Nations use
every part of the animal. The chiefs are also calling for more provincial
patrols on winter roads to prevent something similar from happening again.

TORONTO

Construction magnate donates $40 million to Sick Kids hospital

The founder of a company that has built thousands of homes in Canada and the
United States has donated $40 million to the Hospital for Sick Children in
Toronto. The donation by philanthropist Peter Gilgan, the CEO of Mattamy Homes,
is believed to be the largest single private gift to a children's hospital in
Canada. The hospital announced the donation Wednesday, and says it will go
toward the construction and operating costs of the SickKids Centre for Research
and Learning. The $400-million facility is currently under construction in
downtown Toronto, and is slated to open in August 2013. The hospital says the
laboratory and learning facility will bring together 2,000 scientists, trainees
and research staff under one roof.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Metroland Media Group Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


