                              357 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1985, American Health Lawyers Association,
                             Journal of Health Law

                                  March, 1985

                          Vol. 18, No. 3, HOSPLW Pg. 2

LENGTH: 355 words

TITLE: Peer review organization program implemented without meeting
requirements.

AUTHOR: Gregory M Luce, Washington, DC.

TEXT:

     The American Health Lawyers Association has filed a complaint with the US
District Court for the District of Columbia charging that the implementation of
the Peer Review Organization Program by the Department of Health and Human
Services was not done in accordance with the Peer Review Improvement Act and the
Administrative Procedure Act.

     Seeking declaratory judgment, injunctive relief and relief in the nature of
mandamus, the AHA asserted that it and its member hospitals have been and will
continue to be deprived of certain procedural and substantive rights by the
actions, practices and policies of the HHS in implementing provisions of the
Peer Review Organization Program without adhering to the rulemaking requirements
of the Administrative Procedure Act, in refusing the petition for rulemaking
previously submitted by the AHA, and in denying due process of law to the AHA
and its member hospitals.

     The AHA brought the action to vindicate the statutory right to reasonable
notice of and opportunity to comment upon regulations directly affecting AHA's
individual and collective interests.  The AHA stated that in several instances
published proposed rules governing the Utilization and Quality Control Peer
Review (PRO) Program have never been finalized; in still other cases, while a
final request for proposals was issued, responses to public comments received in
answer to a notice soliciting comments on the preliminary version of the Scope
of Work to be included in the RFP were never published.

     The AHA also charged that several transmittals, while never published in
the Federal Register in any form, drastically affect existing regulations
regarding the substantive and procedural rights of hospitals participating in
the Medicare program.  The provisions of the bulk of the transmittals have been
incorporated by reference in contracts with peer review organizations and have
been thereby imposed upon AHA member hospitals.

     Also, the Secretary issued certain PRO program directives that regulate and
affect material hospital interests.

REFERENCE: American Health Lawyers Association v Margaret Heckler et al, US
District Court, District of Columbia, January 29, 1985.  The American Academy of
Hospital Attorneys was formerly the American Society of Hospital Attorneys.


