                              358 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                          September 22, 2005 Thursday

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

LENGTH: 1434 words


Bargaining power of doctors

Wake up Tasmania, you're being conned. The Tasmanian Government isn't the
culprit in the health sector.

The reason that the Royal Hobart Hospital is in difficulty is because of the
members of the medical profession and their trade union, the Australian Medical
Association.

Procedural medical specialists are the most avaricious, greedy and selfish group
in our community. Procedural specialists don't get out of bed for under a
million dollars a year.

When John Howard came to power in 1996 one of the first things he did was to put
up the chains around the gates of the medical faculties of our universities. He
did so at the behest of the AMA. Why?

Because restricting the numbers of doctors entering the profession has the
effect of increasing the bargaining power and incomes of doctors.

Not only did John Howard do so, but Fraser did it before him as did McMahon,
Gorton, Holt and Menzies.

The AMA has historically been the single greatest ally of the conservative side
of politics and the federal coalition has always done its bidding.

If there is a shortage of doctors at the Royal today then the blame lies
squarely at the feet of John Howard and his mates in the AMA.

Doctors use countless billions of dollars of publicly-owned infrastructure (our
hospitals) for their own personal profit, and they do so without contributing a
single cent for the privilege.

Doctors are also in the business of controlling the demand side of the health
sector.

Billions of dollars are spent every year on overservicing, unnecessary
procedures and new technologies that are as much about protecting doctors from
litigation as they are about serving the best interests of patients.

The only way we will ever solve the ongoing crisis in health will be by putting
the boot into the AMA and its members.

The old Soviet Union did a lot of things wrong, but they got one thing right. In
the USSR doctors' wages were pegged to the same level as bus drivers.

Richard Warwick

Lenah Valley

Expertise

In response to Christopher J. Ward (Letters, September 20), I am pleased that we
agree that there is a need for a new approach and new ideas for Clarence City
Council.

I know things can be better in Clarence and that is why I offer myself as a
candidate for mayor.

It has been a privilege to serve the people of Clarence as their alderman for
the past five years. During that time I've worked hard -- in a sensible and
professional manner -- to achieve best possible outcomes for the ratepayers.

Simply put, for an organisation to remain focused and vibrant, there is a need
for renewal at the top. It is now time for renewal in Clarence.

As the second largest council in Tasmania with an annual budget of $47 million
-- $38 million of which is raised in rates -- it is essential that those we
elect to manage the council have the necessary skills to perform this important
duty.

To Mr Ward and other electors in Clarence, I tender my experience and expertise
in business and government.

If we are to be truly serious about best outcomes for the city of Clarence, then
surely our mayor ought to be elected on the basis of their capacity to do the
job. Clarence ratepayers deserve the best.

Alderman Brendan Blomeley

Clarence City Council

Tassie team

I never thought I would see an AFL grand final that did not include a Melbourne
team. C'mon the Weagles!

But why does the AFL perpetuate a ground disadvantage? Surely the grand final
should be on the top qualifier's home ground to be fair to all sides and make
that top spot at the end of August worth fighting for.

Come on Melbourne, forget taking your marbles home if you miss out. Share the
occasion around so local fans can afford to see the grand final.

And as South Melbourne shifted to Sydney, surely a financially-troubled
Melbourne team could shift to Hobart and pick up local players who do well in
the seconds.

I was a foundation member of the Sydney Swans and saw them struggling in the
early years, but look at them fly now. So how about the Hobart Hawkes after
Hawthorn flies south?

A Tassie team should be a must for the AFL.

Can't the Tasmanian Government put some pressure and financial backing into it?

Murray Hunter

Auckland, New Zealand

Personal attack

When elected representatives may not, individually or collectively, express a
view about a community issue -- whether we agree with that view or not -- the
notion of representative democracy is diminished.

That is what Greg Barns contends in what appears to be just a personal attack on
Will Hodgman (The Mercury, September 19) dressed up as an insight into the minds
of investors and developers -- that it was wrong for the view to be expressed,
that it caused the demise of the project, that it will deter others who may wish
to invest, and that an elected political party should stay silent,
notwithstanding its function to represent its electors.

In my experience, developers are a little more robust than this.

The process of public debate and comment and the expression of opinion is not
the ultimate determinant of an investment decision at all.

The Opera House survived as a project despite adverse comment and political
opposition because it had merit.

The Ralphs Bay project did not survive because meritorious or not, the
developers did not have the mettle to persist.

That had nothing to do with Will Hodgman or the Liberals' comments.

That expression of view did not interfere with any process for the development
at all.

Gregory Geason

Hobart

HOT TOPIC PORTER HILL

The clash between public and private interest is before the community again in
relation to Porter Hill, and it seems to come down to a matter of money. The
community says the owners want too much and the owners say the community is too
mean.

Parliament has provided a solution: if the community really wants the site, let
the property be compulsorily acquired.

Then an independent umpire will decide on value. The result: the community will
have to pay, and the owners will have to accept, the value fixed independently.

That's a fair system.

Peter M. Roach

Sandy Bay

The people of Hobart as well as visitors from interstate and overseas sent in
more than 800 hand-written letters to the Hobart City Council, an unprecedented
number, urging Hobart City Council to save Porter Hill.

Aldermen voted unanimously on two occasions, deciding to purchase the land. The
Resource Planning and Development Commission had ruled that the Hobart planning
scheme be modified to rezone Porter Hill as "community bushland", a new type of
zoning. The Federal Government had offered the council financial assistance to
purchase Porter Hill as it was judged by the Department of Natural Heritage to
have high conservation value.

Other sections of land on the same hill face as Porter Hill have already been
purchased by council since the commission hearing and are now being managed by
council as the Bicentennial Park. This has enhanced the high conservation value
of Porter Hill.

Since the Supreme Court overturned the first ruling to rezone Porter Hill, the
RPDC and the landowners had agreed not to pursue the rezoning of Porter Hill as
the council was in the process of negotiating to purchase the land in order to
ensure that it be used as community bushland.

The negotiations now appear to have stalled. The owners appear to be placing
Porter Hill on the open market. If the land were sold, the new owners would be
able to lodge a development proposal which, under the present residential
zoning, could allow the area to be built over.

Alternatively, they may offer to sell the land to council at an even higher
price. Our precious Porter Hill could be lost as an important conservation and
recreation area to current and future generations.

If the State and Federal Governments assist the council at this stage, Porter
Hill can still become an extension to the Truganini Reserve, Cartwright Reserve
and Bicentennial Park.

Public pressure has been demonstrated more than adequately and council has shown
the political will to buy the land. All they need is some financial help.

Porter Hill is environmentally and visually the invaluable "bookend" to the
backdrop of Hobart, connecting the mountain to the sea. As such, its local as
well as state significance has been acknowledged even at a federal level. We
must save Porter Hill and the council needs help now.

We appeal to the State and Federal Governments to do the right thing for the
people of Hobart and of Tasmania.

Els Hayward

Dr W. C. Wakefield

Mt Stuart

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited


