                              355 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 15, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

OhioHealth Interventional Cardiologist First in Ohio to Use Newly-Approved
Device to Remove Calcified Coronary Lesions in High-Risk Patients

LENGTH: 447  words


July 15 -- OhioHealth interventional cardiologist Mitchell J. Silver, DO,
recently performed Ohio's first coronary atherectomy using the Diamondback 360
Coronary Orbital Atherectomy System, a vessel preparation treatment for severely
calcified coronary lesions developed by Cardiovascular Systems, Inc. and
FDA-cleared late last year.

"This is an exciting new device that allows us to safely remove calcified
lesions in coronary arteries before stent deployment," said Dr. Silver, who
performed the procedure with good initial results at OhioHealth Riverside
Methodist Hospital. "Calcification in the coronary arteries is difficult to
treat and translates into higher-risk stent procedures. This system enables us
to increase our procedural safety while ensuring optimal stent deployment in
these high-risk patients."

Coronary artery disease is the leading cause of death for both men and women in
the United States. It's a condition that occurs when the arteries that supply
oxygen-rich blood and nutrients to the heart muscle become narrowed or blocked
by a gradual build-up of plaque, which is made up of fatty deposits, white blood
cells, calcium, and scar tissue that collect in the coronary artery wall.

Calcified arterial plaque is a sign of advanced coronary artery disease and
reduces the effectiveness of traditional treatments like angioplasty.
Angioplasty involves temporarily inserting and inflating a tiny balloon where
the artery is clogged to help widen the artery followed by the placement of a
small wire mesh tube called a stent to help prop the artery open and decrease
its chance of narrowing again. Because calcified plaque can be as hard as bones
and teeth, angioplasty cannot effectively widen clogged arteries when calcified
lesions are present.

The Diamondback system uses an electrically driven diamond-coated crown to
reduce the calcified lesions, widen the artery and enable successful stent
deployment.

The FDA granted approval for use of the Diamondback System on October 21, 2013.
The 30-day data from CSI's ORBIT II clinical study demonstrated that the
Diamondback 360 Coronary Orbital Atherectomy System technology produced clinical
outcomes that exceeded the trial's two primary endpoints (safety and efficacy)
by a significant margin.

At 30 days, ORBIT II results showed patient freedom from major adverse cardiac
events was 89.8 percent and procedural success was 89.1 percent. Excluding in-
hospital events, procedural success was 98.6 percent with 97.7 percent of stents
successfully delivered. Moreover, 92.8 percent of patients were free from severe
angiographic complications, and core lab assessed final procedure residual
stenosis was 4.7 percent.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


