                              368 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              May 24, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Field hospital blunder concealed for two years Soldiers need blood tests;
HIV threat to Diggers

BYLINE: Linton Besser

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 606 words


AN UNKNOWN number of Australian soldiers and contractors might have been exposed
to blood-borne diseases such as hepatitis or HIV after staff at Defence's main
hospital unit in the Middle East failed to sterilise surgical equipment
properly. The breach of protocol at the al-Minhad air base continued for 19
months in 2009 and 2010 during heavy fighting and significant casualties for
Australian troops, but soldiers were not alerted to the problem until last week.
A Defence Department memo to troops has warned that soldiers and contractors who
passed through the air base hospital near Dubai should ensure they had their
blood screened. "The al-Minhad air base health facility of Joint Task Force 633
has identified lapses in procedure in the operation of the surgical instrument
steriliser ... during the period February 2009 to August 2010," it says.

"As a consequence the sterilisation of surgical instruments at the facility
cannot be absolutely guaranteed to have met Australian standards. "Personnel who
underwent a surgical procedure (eg excision of skin lesions, minor operations)
during that period are possibly at risk of acquiring a blood-borne disease."
Al-Minhad base is the central launching point for Australian troops in the
Middle East, including the fighting forces in Afghanistan. The department has
previously disclosed there were 37 serious combat-related injuries in
Afghanistan in 2009, and 65 last year. But many of those who have
life-threatening injuries are flown straight to Germany for treatment. An
infectious disease control expert, Richard West, told the Herald yesterday such
"lapses" were rare in normal Australian hospitals and he expressed concern that
it took so long to identify the problem. "The highest risk is hepatitis C
because patients cannot be vaccinated ... there has been the occasional report
of HIV being transmitted in the operating theatre," he said. "It is unusual that
it has taken that long to detect that there is a problem." The machine failure
occurred between February 2009 and August 2010 but the memo was not issued until
May 16 - nine months after the errors were discovered and corrected. An
Australian soldier who asked not to be named said troops who had served in
Afghanistan during this time were shocked by the memo. "In that period of time,
we had a very high casualty rate," he said. The soldier said the health alert
had been removed from the Defence intranet last week because of fears of a
backlash, and he feared others at risk had not been properly informed. "We need
an inquiry because there has been a complete lack of governance," he said. The
memo was signed by Major-General Paul Alexander, the surgeon-general of the
Australian Defence Force, who is fighting numerous fires in his portfolio. There
is a continuing "investigating officers inquiry" into claims of negligence at
the medical centre at HMAS Albatross near Nowra and the department's health
programs have been repeatedly criticised by a serving captain and GP, Julian
Fidge, who claims there is "widespread" contempt for medical professionals
within the chain of command. The health alert said: "The potential risk to
Australian Defence Force personnel is assessed as low ... as blood-borne
diseases within the ADF population are extremely rare and all ADF members are
vaccinated against hepatitis B ...This was an internal procedural issue that was
detected and rectified by the health system," the memo says. "Measures have been
put in place to prevent a repeat of this procedural error and improve governance
systems for deployed ADF healthcare." Do you know more?
investigations@smh.com.au

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: In harm's way ... a wounded soldier is evacuated by
Australians from Afghanistan. Troops are taken from there to an Australian
medical base in Dubai. Below: an extract from the Defence Force memo about the
hospital breaches. Photo: Australian Defence Force/ Sergeant Neil Ruskin MAP:
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


