                              362 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                         May 6, 2016 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Penn Study Finds Moderate Sedation More Effective than General Anesthesia for
TAVR Patients

LENGTH: 751  words


May 6 -- A new study finds the use of moderate sedation, in which patients do
not need a breathing tube, leads to better clinical outcomes as compared to
general anesthesia for patients undergoing transcatheter aortic valve
replacement (TAVR). Researchers from the Perelman school of Medicine at the
University of Pennsylvania conducted the largest observational study of
minimally invasive transfemoral-entry through the groin-TAVR to find whether the
use of moderate sedation is associated with improved patient outcomes,
specifically evaluating 30-day mortality and length of hospital stays, as
compared to traditional general anesthesia. Their findings were presented today
as a late-breaking clinical trial at the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography
and Interventions 2016 Scientific Sessions in Orlando, FL.

For patients who are at extreme or high risk for open heart surgery, TAVR, a
minimally invasive procedure, has become the preferred therapy for severe aortic
stenosis. While general anesthesia has been typically administered during these
cases, the use of moderate sedation for TAVR is increasing. Most of the
developments associated with TAVR over the past decade have been focused on the
device, technology and procedural techniques. However, there has been a push to
improve the process of the procedure.

"More recently the field has moved toward use of an even more minimally invasive
TAVR procedure, in which physicians are able to insert the new valve through the
groin with no incisions at all," said senior and presenting author Jay Giri, MD,
MPH, an assistant professor of Cardiovascular Medicine. "Since there is no
longer a definitive need for a surgical incision, we had to ask the question of
whether there was a need for general anesthesia, the full sedation of a patient
requiring breathing tube and nonresponsive unconsciousness."

Researchers used the STS/ACC TVT RegistryTM - a database of all United States
TAVR patients - to evaluate elective cases treated via a percutaneous
transfemoral approach-entry through the groin without an incision- from April
2014 through June 2015, in order to compare the effectiveness of moderate
sedation to general anesthesia. A total of 10,997 patients were assessed with
1,737 receiving moderate sedation - approximately 15.8 percent. Investigators
concluded that while both patient groups had nearly equal rates of TAVR
procedural success, moderate sedation patients experienced lower rates of 30-day
mortality, 30-day mortality or stroke, and briefer hospital stays.

"This data shows that moderate sedation is both safe and effective, and has
potential to become the choice approach for TAVR," Giri said. "These results
support our hypothesis that moderate sedation can lead to better clinical
outcomes, and could have significant implications for patient care and for the
process of the TAVR procedure."

Importantly, the researchers also conducted a propensity-matched analysis which
accounted for 51 factors known to predict 30-day TAVR mortality, such as age,
gender and heart failure status. The analysis further confirmed that moderate
sedation was associated with lower 30-day mortality and 30-day mortality or
stroke.

"This additional analysis was conducted in order to evaluate whether moderate
sedation is successful across a variety of patients, and not just a relatively
healthy group that was selected for this novel technique," Giri said. "While it
is nearly impossible to account for all factors that could lead to needing
general anesthesia, the 51 comorbidities and clinical characteristics we were
able to account for still brought us to the same outcome - moderate sedation is
associated with better clinical outcomes for patients undergoing percutaneous
transfemoral TAVR."

Giri noted that there are three levels of moderate sedation: isolated local
anesthesia at the entry site; conscious sedation, or "twilight sleep" which puts
patients into a very light, responsive sleep; and monitored anesthesia care -
used by the Penn TAVR team - in which anesthesia is administered in different
proportions by a certified anesthesiologist, putting patients into an
unconscious, but arousable state.

Additional Penn authors on the study include, Matthew Hyman, Wilson Y. Szeto,
Prakash Patel, Howard C. Herrmann, Saif Anwaruddin, Nimesh D. Desai, Prashanth
Vallabhajosyula, Robert H. Li, and Joseph E. Bavaria. This study was also
completed in partnership with researchers from the Duke Clinical Research
Institute.

Source: Penn Medicine

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


