                              370 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1990, American Health Lawyers Association
                              Journal of Health Law

                                 December, 1990

                        Vol. 23, No. 12, HOSPLW, Pg. 374

LENGTH: 405 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: MALPRACTICE: Court must decide patient's competence before
deciding physician's liability for ordering "no code" without patient's consent

AUTHOR: C.C./D.E.

TEXT:

   In a case of first impression, the Indiana Court of Appeals, Second District,
considered the liability of a physician and hospital for issuing a "no code"
order without the consent of an allegedly competent patient.  The court reversed
summary judgment, in part, in favor of defendant physician and hospital, because
genuine issues of material fact existed as to the deceased patient's competence.

   A sixty-five-year-old male alcoholic was admitted to a hospital for treatment
of his deteriorated condition.  When the patient's condition became worse, the
hospital staff contacted the patient's sister.  The sister requested the staff
make no attempts to revive her brother if his heart and lungs stopped
functioning.  The nurse informed defendant physician of this request.  The
physician placed the patient on a no code status to prohibit cardio-pulmonary
resuscitation.  The no code order was adhered to and the patient died.

   After the patient's death, defendant physician sued the decedent's estate for
compensation.  The decedent's estate counterclaimed, alleging the physician was
liable for malpractice because he ordered a no code without the patient's
consent.  The representative also alleged the hospital was negligent for not
providing procedural safeguards for no code orders.  The trial court granted
defendants' motion for summary judgment.  The estate appealed, claiming genuine
issues of material fact existed concerning the decedent's competence, lack of
informed consent, and whether or not he was terminally ill.  The court concluded
the evidence adduced from the nurses' depositions could have led to a jury
finding that the patient was conscious prior to death and therefore, able to
decide for himself whether or not he desired resuscitative efforts.  Other
evidence showed the patient had survived treatment for the same condition in the
past, thus raising a question of whether the patient was actually terminally
ill.

   However, the appellate court found the trial court properly granted summary
judgment in favor of the hospital on the issue of procedural safeguards for no
code.  The estate failed to present evidence demonstrating how the hospital's
failure to provide a written guideline for no codes failed to meet the relevant
standard of care.  Moreover, the estate failed to present evidence rebutting the
determination of the medical review panel which found the hospital was not
negligent.

REFERENCE: Payne v. Marion Gen. Hosp., 549 N.E.2d 1043 (Ind. Ct. App. 1990).


