                              361 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                          December 17, 2014 Wednesday

Pakistan: Seminar underscores need for legislation of Cyber Crime law to protect
victims

LENGTH: 464  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Dec. 17 -- There is an urgent need to legislate a Cyber

Crime law due to incidents against unassuming victims , recommended participants
of a seminar organised to celebrate 25th anniversary of WAR, the NGO working
against women.

Women's rights icon in Pakistan Mukhtaran Mai was the guest of honour

on the occasion while Sindh Minister of Culture and Tourism, Sharmila Farooqi
presided the session that attracted diverse segments of people, comprising
members of the Civil Society, representatives from NGOs, doctors, lawyers,
teachers, human rights activists.

Members of WAR said they strongly feel that justice has been done in

the Mukhtaran Mai case and that heinous crime like gang-rape, could be

reduced through "no tolerance" approach towards offences committed against
women.

They urged the Sindh Government for strict enforcement and

implementation of all laws recently passed for women protection and

welfare.

Participants urged to empower the existent Women Police Stations and

increase their numbers in every district.

Moreover, medico- legal examination for rape survivors, was demanded

to be made operational in all major hospitals, including those in

private sector as Aga Khan Hospital, Ziauddin Hospital.

Mandatory DNA testing for all cases was also recommended besides

provision for DNA laboratories and relevant gadgets in all districts.

They also called for mandatory recruitment of more women as state

prosecutors, judges, police officers, medico-legal officers and clerical

force in judiciary.

Guest of honour Mukhtaran Mai pleaded for speedy

trials to ensure prosecution of offenders of the heinous crime.

The Minister for Culture and Tourism Ms Sharmila Farooqi, praising

the work of NGOs , reiterated the Government's

resolve to continue its work for the welfare of women.

The seminar was also addressed by WAF representative Kausar S. Khan

who reminisced about the environment that led to WAR being formed in

the late 1980s.

The highlight of the seminar were the key note addresses on Legal &

Procedural Reforms by Barrister Danish Zuberi who appreciated the Sindh

Government's initiative of passing the Harassment at Workplace Act, The Domestic
Violence law and the Child Marriage Restraint Act, but urged

the government to focus on the challenge of its actual implementation.

Activist and researcher Sarah Zaman discussed "on field" challenges

in context of medico-legal and the procedural obstructions hindering

disbursement of fair trial and justice to survivors. Going through her
experience as a past Director in WAR, she sought need for urgent reforms

in the Medico-Legal Sector

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


