                              363 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              July 11, 2016 Monday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "Orthopedic Knee, Hip, and Shoulder Reconstruction and
Trauma &#226;&#128;&#156;procedural packages;&#226;&#128;&#157; orthobiological
products; instrumentation sets and auxiliary products"

LENGTH: 407  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "Orthopedic Knee, Hip, and Shoulder Reconstruction and
Trauma &#226;&#128;&#156;procedural packages;&#226;&#128;&#157; orthobiological
products; instrumentation sets and auxiliary products"

Solicitation No: SPE2DE-16-D-0007

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date: July 11, 2016

Description: This is a sources sought notice.



The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources capable of
providing Smith & Nephew Orthopedic Knee, Hip, and Shoulder Reconstruction and
Trauma "procedural packages;" orthobiological products; instrumentation sets and
auxiliary products. The product mix that makes up the "procedural package"
varies based on the individual needs of the patient. The instruments are both
"used" during the surgery and returned to the vendor or purchased by the
hospital so they are readily available on the shelves.
All products offered must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
The products that make up the "procedural packages" must be delivered
"Just-In-Time," "Direct Vendor Delivery", and "Consignment". Under
"Just-In-Time" delivery, the Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) calls the
manufacturer's field representative who carries the products into the MTF
just-in-time for the surgery. The manufacturer's sales representative may bring
many sizes and types of implants and auxiliary products to the surgery along
with the instrumentation sets. Under "Direct Vendor Delivery" method an order
for products is placed through ECAT and the product is delivered directly to the
customer via any transportation carrier. Under the "Consignment" method, an MTF
will have the products that make up the "procedural packages" consigned to their
facility.
At the request of the MTF, the manufacturer is required to have a qualified
representative on site at the MTF's within the timeframe specified by the
facility necessary to meet their requirements. The manufacturer's representative
provides technical advice and guidance to the physician before, during, and
after implantation. Furthermore, technical support is available twenty-four (24)
hours a day, seven (7) days a week.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): JOHN R JACKSON, ACQUISITION SPECIALIST
JOHN.R.JACKSON@DLA.MIL Phone: 2157370850


LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


