                              364 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      November 28, 2011 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Cardiovascular Systems: New Reimbursement Codes Introduced to Better Track Costs
of Treating Patients with Severely Calcified Lesions

LENGTH: 490  words


New Delhi, Nov. 28 -- Cardiovascular Systems, Inc. (CSI) (Nasdaq: CSII) today
announced new medical diagnosis and procedure codes for severely calcified
coronary arteries. These codes will allow providers to track the costs of
treating high-risk patients with severely calcified coronary lesions, which is
the first step toward establishing specific reimbursement rates for this unique
patient population. Severely calcified coronary lesions are often
underestimated, even though they present unique challenges that existing
treatment options cannot overcome. These lesions are more difficult to access,
resulting in higher procedural complications and suboptimal stent placement.
Calcified lesions are also associated with an increased risk of retreatment,
heart attacks and even death.

"High-risk coronary patients often require additional resources during
treatment. In the past, these and other patients were combined under a single
code, which prohibited providers from tracking costs associated with treating
patients with more severe disease," said David L. Martin, CSI president and
chief executive officer. "Our goal is to understand and serve this high-risk
group, improve outcomes and align reimbursement rates."

Dr. Jeffrey Chambers, Metropolitan Heart and Vascular Institute, Minneapolis
added, "Of the 1.7 million patients treated annually via less invasive and
surgical interventions for coronary artery disease, about 10 percent to 20
percent are afflicted with severely calcified arteries. Physicians and hospitals
have long known it is more difficult and time consuming to treat patients with
severely calcified coronary arteries. These patients also have significantly
higher major adverse coronary events when treated with currently available
technology. With the use of these new codes, we will have the ability to
quantify the additional resources needed to optimality treat these patients."
Dr. Chambers is the principal investigator for ORBIT II, CSI's pivotal trial for
a coronary application.

The ICD-9-CM Coordination Committee of the Department of Health and Human
Services activated these new and revised codes:

Procedural Codes

* Revised: Code 00.66, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA)

* New: Code 17.55, transluminal coronary atherectomy, directional atherectomy,
excimer laser atherectomy, rotational atherectomy, that by laser, that by
percutaneous approach, that by transluminal extraction

Diagnosis Code

* New: Code 414.4, coronary atherosclerosis due to calcified coronary lesion;
coronary atherosclerosis due to severely calcified coronary lesion, code first
coronary atherosclerosis (414.00-414.07)

Inpatient Hospital Procedure Code

* Revised: Code 00.66 was modified to describe PTCA only instead of PTCA or
coronary atherectomy

The new and revised codes are used for submissions related to inpatient hospital
procedures on the hospital UB-04 claim form. For more information, visit
www.csi360.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2011 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


