                              366 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          China Daily European Edition

                            October 26, 2012 Friday

Mental health legislation

SECTION: EDITORIALS

LENGTH: 475 words


The draft mental heath law, if approved by the Standing Committee of the
National People's Congress on Friday, will mark a substantive step forward in
protecting the rights and interests of people with mental health problems.
The incorporation of the patient's own voluntary consent as a premise of
hospitalization, as stipulated in the draft under its third NPC reading, plugs a
disturbing hole in the current legislation.                    The lack of due
procedure in the application of forced hospitalization has resulted in such
abnormalities as perfectly healthy people being sent to hospital by family
members coveting their properties, and disobedient citizens being put there by
grassroots tyrants who see them as a threat.

Article 25 of the long-awaited draft, which features the principled request that
in-hospital treatment of mental disorders be on a voluntary basis, may not
eliminate all such potential threats to civil liberties. The second half of that
article makes an exception in cases where an individual may have already hurt
themselves or others. But those people applauding the proposal believe the draft
will provide an effective safeguard against abuse of forced hospitalization.
However, some people have also expressed concern about the capability of people
with serious mental health problems to express credible consent, and they worry
that the request for voluntary consent may leave some with severe mental
disorders untreated.                                It would be great if all the
concerns regarding due procedure can find a definitive answer in the
legislation. Such as what constitutes a patient's voluntary consent, in what
cases is such consent credible, who has the authority to judge a patient's
potential threat, and through what process should such conclusions be made.
But unless we expect such a law to cover all the technical specifics, such
concerns do not suffice as an excuse to further extend the process of
legislative deliberation. The specifics about procedure can be worked out in
subsequent legislative interpretations.
Leaving the procedural technicalities to legislative interpretations, however,
does not mean they are of lesser importance. On the contrary, they are
instrumental in preventing abuse. It has been the inadequate procedural
definition that has led to the abusive application of forced hospitalization. A
clearer definition of judiciary intervention as well as the legal consequences
of abuse will help safeguard us from such abuse.
(China Daily 10/26/2012 page8)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 China Daily Information Co
                              All Rights Reserved


