                              369 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            January 31, 2012 Tuesday

Agreements/contracts: Cardinal, Cook distribute vascular access products

LENGTH: 591 words

A Medical Device Daily Staff Report

Cardinal Health (Dublin, Ohio) and Cook Medical (Bloomington, Indiana) reported
a two-year agreement for the North American distribution of Cook Medical central
venous catheter (CVC) sets with Cardinal Health Presource customizable
procedural kits - providing clinicians with advanced technology the flexibility
of customization for their vascular access needs.

Cardinal and Cook customers are now able to customize components of their CVC
procedural kits, the companies said. The kits can include either uncoated or
Cook Spectrum CVC sets, which feature the industry's highest flow rates and a
comprehensive product line including power-injectable catheters. The partnership
enables acute care providers to maximize value and minimize waste by providing a
cost-effective means to decrease the number of supplies they need to supplement
standard CVC procedural kits.

"We're thrilled to partner with Cardinal Health, an industry leader in custom
kitting, to expand access to Cook Medical's CVC sets for vascular access
professionals," said Dan Sirota, VP and business unit leader of Cook Medical's
critical care and interventional radiology divisions. "Improving patient care
and lowering health care costs are of utmost importance to hospitals. We remain
committed to offering solutions that streamline processes for clinicians and
empower them to provide top-quality patient care."

Cook's Spectrum catheters are impregnated with the antibiotics minocycline and
rifampin and meet the newly released 1A recommendation from the CDC for reducing
catheter-related bloodstream infections (CRBSIs) if maximal sterile barrier
precautions haven't helped a facility reach its [infection prevention] goal.

"Cardinal Health focuses on developing partnerships that deliver innovative
solutions that help make it easier for our customers to deliver high quality
care," said Lisa Ashby, president of category management at Cardinal Health.
"Our relationship with Cook Medical is a great example of the kinds of
partnerships our customers value - those that promote best practice
standardization with superior quality products."

In other agreements/contracts news, Thermo Fisher Scientific (Waltham,
Massachusetts) reported an agreement with Abbott Laboratories (Abbott Park,
Illinois) to make its Procalcitonin (PCT) assay available with Abbott's
immunochemistry analyzers.

The company's Thermo Scientific B.R.A.H.M.S PCT assay will be available on
Abbott's Architect "i" and "ci" series of immunochemistry analyzers. Abbott's
high-, medium-, and low-volume integrated diagnostic testing solutions leverage
software, reagents, and sample carrier to enable labs to standardize lab
operations on a single platform. In turn, laboratories are able to optimize
processes, minimize errors and reduce result variability, an increasingly
important consideration as clinicians rely more heavily on laboratory
diagnostics to guide their treatment decisions.

"Earlier diagnosis of sepsis and other healthcare associated infections can
significantly lower healthcare costs and, most important, improve patient
outcomes," said Ken Berger, senior VP of Thermo Fisher Scientific's specialty
diagnostics business, "Our agreement with Abbott makes it possible for more
hospitals and laboratories globally to adopt a proven PCT testing regimen that
benefits patients and the entire healthcare industry."

Thermo Fisher will manufacture the Abbott Architect B.R.A.H.M.S PCT assay and
has exclusive distribution rights in relevant European markets.

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2012 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


