                              367 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Health Daily Digest

                           November 3, 2016 Thursday

Clinical Trial: Variability of Infant LP Insertion Site Based On Procedural
Experience

LENGTH: 256 words

DATELINE: U.S.


U.S., Nov. 3 -- ClinicalTrials.gov registry received information related to the
study (NCT02949869) titled 'Variability of Infant LP Insertion Site Based On
Procedural Experience' on Oct. 26.

Brief Summary: The reported rate of unsuccessful traditional LP in children
(defined as the inability to obtain cerebrospinal fluid or obtaining a traumatic
puncture) is as high as 50%. Many factors affect LP success including provider
experience. CSF is obtained by puncturing the subarachnoid space (traditionally
at the L3-L4 or L4-L5 interspinous process space), and many have hypothesized
that the width of this space may predict success. Anecdotally, trainees and
those with less experience, tend to perform the LP too low (caudally), where the
subarachnoid space tapers, or too laterally (off the midline) resulting in
higher failure rates. The investigators seek to determine if planned LP
insertion sites vary between training and attendings, and if so, could the
decreased success be explained by smaller subarachnoid spaces.

Study Start Date: November 2016

Study Type: Interventional

Condition: Traumatic Lumbar Puncture

Intervention: Other: Spinal Sonography

As described previously

Recruitment Status: Not yet recruiting

Sponsor: Boston Children's Hospital

Information provided by (Responsible Party): Jason Levy, Boston Children's
Hospital

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Health Daily Digest. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


