                              372 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                          November 26, 2003 Wednesday

Ex-health CEO's plum job queried

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: ANNA PATTY

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 483 words


THE former manager of troubled Campbelltown/Camden hospitals is "sitting pretty"
on a salary of $165,000 while whistleblower nurses are still out of their jobs,
a parliamentary committee heard last night.

Senior NSW Health officials, including director general Robyn Kruk, were
questioned about the circumstances surrounding a 12-month investigation into
allegations of patient deaths and mismanagement at the hospitals.

Questions were raised about why Jennifer Collins, the former CEO of the
Macarthur Health Service that oversees the hospitals, was forced to resign, only
to be reappointed to an equivalent role and salary ($165,000) in another Sydney
area health service.

Ms Kruk told the budget estimates committee hearing that there were no legal
grounds to terminate Ms Collins' contract.

A separate review of the hospitals headed by Professor Bruce Barraclough had
provided no grounds for her dismissal.

"In the absence of any adverse findings against her the Area [health service]
would have been exposed to legal action and potentially the payment of
compensation to Ms Collins," Ms Kruk said.

"In view of the legal advice and the important fact there have been no adverse
findings against Ms Collins, terminating Ms Collins' contract was not an
option."

Ms Kruk said there had been discussions of a settlement for whistleblower nurses
who lost their jobs after raising allegations about patient care and
mismanagement at the hospitals.

However procedural fairness could not be offered to the nurses until the NSW
Health Care Complaints Commission handed down its final report into its
investigation of the hospitals by December 10.

Democrats MP Arthur Chesterfield Evans said it was unfair for Ms Collins to be
"sitting pretty on $165,000" and offered procedural fairness after the
Barraclough review found the hospitals needed a change in management.

Especially when the nurses who raised the allegations had been offered no
assurances about their future employment prospects.

The committee also heard that Mike Wallace was a member of the Barraclough
review team as well as being responsible for rehiring Ms Collins in his position
as acting CEO of Central Sydney Area Health Service.

This connection has been previously raised in parliament by NSW Health Minister
Morris Iemma. Amanda Adrian, who heads the NSW Health Care Complaints
Commission, was questioned about her friendship with Ms Collins.

Hospital saga's winners and losers

* In November last year, four nurses concerned about care at Camden and
Campbelltown hospitals complain to then Health Minister Craig Knowles

  * All lost their jobs

  * In October, the CEO of the South Western Sydney Area Health Service Ian
Southwell was sacked and Macarthur Health CEO Jennifer Collins resigned.

  * Collins has been employed as acting CEO of Central Sydney Area Health
Service

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited


