                              376 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Kalgoorlie Miner (Western Australia)

                             April 24, 2009 Friday
                                 First Edition

Rural GPs in health plea

BYLINE: By Charlotte Hamlyn

SECTION: KAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 468  words


RURAL doctors are seeking assurance from the Federal Government that support for
the regional health sector will not be reduced in the forthcoming budget.

The concern comes from the Rural Doctors Association of Australia after a
spokesperson for Federal Health Minister Nicola Roxon was quoted as saying "the
current incentive system (for enticing doctors to rural communities) is broken"
and would be reformed.

RDAA president Dr Nola Maxfield said the association had no problem with the
Government reforming rural doctor support programs, as long they were not axed
or cut back and as long as there was additional funding behind the programs to
make them work.

"Working families in rural Australia are finding it increasingly difficult to
access local doctors, hospitals and health services," she said.

"The Rudd Government must, in the forthcoming budget, improve support programs
to recruit and retain more doctors in country Australia."

Eastern Goldfields Medical Association chair and Kalgoorlie GP Mal Hodsdon said
doctors working in the regions faced a number of challenges associated with
isolation - and financial incentives were essential to attract and retain them.

"If you're the only doctor in town you're on call almost 24/7," Dr Hodsdon said.

"You haven't got another doctor you can discuss cases with, who can give you
back up, allow you to get a weekend off and spend quality time with your family.

"A general practice is a small business, it's like running any other business.

"Some of these small communities just don't have a population that would sustain
the business economically, that's why a lot of local shires have to subsidise a
doctor's income.

"Obviously, having a doctor in the community is vital for the community, it
encourages people to stay.

"Often when a doctor leaves it can be a nail in the coffin of that community,"

He said a number of regional hospitals were being downgraded to nursing-post
style facilities which did little to attract new doctors.

"A lot of doctors like to have access to a hospital, it adds to the variety of
work if the doctor can have some in-patients they can look after," he said.

Dr Hodsdon said financial assistance for international doctors needed to be
reassessed as they faced increased health and education costs.

RDAA has urged the Federal Government to use next month's budget to introduce a
critical Rural Rescue Package to get and keep more doctors in rural and remote
Australia.

The package, first outlined in 2007 and supported by the Australian Medical
Association, comprises a Rural Isolation Payment to reflect the isolation of
rural practice and a Rural Procedural and Emergency/On Call Loading to better
support rural procedural doctors who provide obstetric, surgical, anaesthetic or
primary emergency on-call service in rural communities.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 West Australian NewsPapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


