                              373 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                    The Courier Mail (Queensland, Australia)

                          September 22, 2005 Thursday

Furore erupts over appointment of consumer watchdog

BYLINE: Malcolm Cole

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 429 words


A FORMER NSW public servant whose job was axed after a botched investigation
into hospital deaths in that state has been hired as Queensland's consumer
watchdog.

A parliamentary investigation into the NSW hospitals affair also found Julie
Kinross had "denied procedural fairness" to a medical practitioner she
investigated.

At the time Ms Kinross was assistant commissioner of the NSW Health Care
Complaints Commission.

Ms Kinross's appointment as Queensland's new Commissioner for Fair Trading was
described by furious Opposition Leader Lawrence Springborg yesterday as totally
unacceptable.

He demanded that the Government reverse the decision before Ms Kinross started
in the role next month.

Fair Trading Minister Margaret Keech defended the appointment, saying Ms Kinross
had been employed in a senior NSW Government role before she was chosen by an
independent panel. A spokesman said Ms Keech had been unaware of the allegations
against Ms Kinross, but had now referred them to her acting director-general for
investigation.

Ms Kinross was among a number of senior managers who had their HCCC positions
abolished after a 2003 investigation into a series of patient deaths at the
Campbelltown and Camden hospitals in western Sydney.

The HCCC report found at least 17 patients had died as a result of unsafe,
inadequate or questionable care at the two hospitals. No medical or
administrative staff were found to be responsible for the deaths.

Then NSW health minister Morris Iemma, now the premier, said the HCCC had
botched the investigation and Ms Kinross was among senior commission staff who
lost their jobs from a resulting HCCC restructure.

A parliamentary inquiry into the affair said the HCCC's complaints handling
service had "lacked procedural fairness". The report says Ms Kinross forced a
medical practitioner to respond to a complaint without being given access to all
the evidence.

Ms Kinross said last night her job with the HCCC had disappeared in a
restructuring while she was on secondment to another agency. She said she had
played only a minor role in the Campbelltown and Camden Hospital investigation
which prompted the shake-up.

On the issue of the medical practitioner she had been acting on three separate
pieces of legal advice.

"The criticism applies to the handling of a complaint which led to a doctor who
had engaged in sexual misconduct being struck off the record," she said.

"I do not back away from any decision or action I took to protect health
consumers from inappropriate conduct by medical practitioners."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited


