                              378 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Michigan Lawyers Weekly

                            August 30, 2016 Tuesday

Medical Malpractice - Trial court erred in summarily dismissing plaintiff's
lawsuit

BYLINE: Lee Dryden

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1873  words


  Plaintiff Audrey Trowell appeals as of right the trial court's order granting
summary disposition in favor of defendant Providence Hospital and Medical
Centers, Inc. (the hospital), in this dispute that, at this juncture, concerns
whether plaintiff's complaint sounded in medical malpractice or ordinary
negligence. The substance of the case regards an incident in which a
patient-care technician employed by the hospital allegedly "dropped" plaintiff
twice while assisting and escorting her to the bathroom, resulting in various
injuries. There is no dispute that plaintiff did not take the mandatory
procedural steps associated with a medical malpractice action, such as serving a
notice of intent, MCL 600.2912b, and procuring and filing an affidavit of merit,
MCL 600.2912d. And the lawsuit was filed beyond the two-year statute of
limitations generally applicable to medical malpractice actions, MCL
600.5838a(2);

MCL 600.5805(1) and (6). Solely on the basis of the allegations in plaintiff's
complaint, as there was no documentary evidence presented in regard to the
hospital's motion for summary disposition, the trial court ruled that
plaintiff's lawsuit sounded in medical malpractice and dismissed the action in
its entirety. The trial court denied plaintiff's motions for reconsideration and
to amend the complaint. Because the allegations in the complaint did not lend
themselves to a definitive determination that the negligence claims in
plaintiff's suit necessarily sounded in medical malpractice, we reverse and
remand for further proceedings.



Background

On February 11, 2014, plaintiff filed a single-count complaint against the
hospital in the Wayne Circuit Court; however, pursuant to a stipulated order,
venue was transferred to the Oakland Circuit Court. In the complaint, under a
count titled "Medical Negligence," plaintiff alleged that on February 11, 2011,
she was admitted to the hospital after having suffered a stroke caused by an
aneurysm. Plaintiff asserted that she subsequently went into cardiac arrest and
that she was placed in the hospital's intensive care unit (ICU). Plaintiff
alleged in the complaint that she had been advised that two nurses needed to
assist her whenever she went to the bathroom, yet "on several occasions" the
hospital only employed one nurse to assist plaintiff to the bathroom. She
additionally contended that on one particular occasion an unassisted female
nurse was tasked with helping plaintiff in going to and using the bathroom and
that she "dropped" plaintiff, causing her to hit her head on a wheelchair.
According to the complaint, when the nurse's aide attempted to assist plaintiff
after dropping her, the aide "dropped (p]laintiff a second time. " Plaintiff
alleged that as a result of the falls, she suffered a torn rotator cuff,
requiring multiple surgeries and treatment that was ongoing, as well as
"bleeding on the brain. "

Plaintiff alleged that the hospital had a duty to ensure that she "received
proper assistance while a patient, including assistance ambulating to and from
the bathroom while she was in the ICU. "

The hospital filed an answer to the complaint and affirmative defenses,
indicating, in part, that plaintiff's suit was time-barred and that she had
failed to serve a notice of intent and file an affidavit of merit as required in
medical malpractice actions. Subsequently, the hospital filed a motion for
summary disposition pursuant to MCR 2.116(C)(7) and (8), arguing that
plaintiff's complaint sounded in medical malpractice and not ordinary
negligence, that the suit was barred by the two-year statute of limitations
applicable to medical malpractice actions, that plaintiff failed to serve a
notice of intent, so there was no tolling of the limitations period, and that
plaintiff failed to file an affidavit of merit. The hospital maintained that
plaintiff's suit sounded in medical malpractice, considering that a professional
relationship had existed between plaintiff and the hospital and that the alleged
acts of negligence raised questions of medical judgment that were not within the
common knowledge and experience of laypersons. The latter proposition forms the
heart of this appeal.

In response to the hospital's motion for summary disposition, plaintiff
contended that the issues concerning the two-year statute of limitations, a
notice of intent, and an affidavit of merit were all irrelevant, given that
plaintiff's "claim was not filed as a medical malpractice action. " Plaintiff
argued that medical expertise was not necessary "in order for a jury to decide
whether a(n] (aide] dropping someone is negligence" and that a juror would be
able to discern, absent medical testimony, that plaintiff had not been handled
properly. Plaintiff further maintained that her suit and the alleged breach of
duty did not entail the aide's administration of any medical care or treatment
or the exercise of medical judgment, that the nurse's aide was simply assisting
plaintiff in using the bathroom, that being dropped by an aide who was
unassisted constituted clear negligence, and that the issue of the hospital's
alleged failure to prevent plaintiff's injury could be answered without any
specialized knowledge. Finally, plaintiff argued that summary disposition was
premature because discovery had not yet been completed.

After reviewing the factual and procedural history of the case and reciting the
two-part test enunciated in Bryant v Oakpointe Villa Nursing Ctr, Inc, 471 Mich
411, 422; 684 NW2d 864 (2004), which test is employed in determining whether a
claim sounds in medical malpractice or ordinary negligence, the trial court
ruled as follows at the hearing on the hospital's summary disposition motion:
Here, there's no dispute that the professional relationship requirement is met.
At issue is the second element. The (c]ourt finds that plaintiff's allegations
sound in medical malpractice. Furthermore, allegations concerning staffing
decisions and patient monitoring involve questions of professional medical
management and not issues of ordinary negligence that can be judged by the
common knowledge and experience of a jury. . . . Therefore, (the hospital's]
motion for summary disposition is granted.

On April 8, 2015, an order was entered granting the hospital's motion for
summary disposition for the reasons stated on the record. Plaintiff then filed a
motion for reconsideration and to amend the complaint. On May 4, 2015, the trial
court entered two orders. One order denied plaintiff's motion for
reconsideration, with the trial court concluding that plaintiff had failed to
demonstrate palpable error and was merely presenting the same issues that had
been previously ruled on by the court. In the second order, the trial court
indicated that plaintiff had failed to attach to her motion a proposed amended
complaint, depriving the court of the opportunity to engage in meaningful review
of her request for leave to file an amended complaint. The trial court directed
plaintiff to refile her motion to amend with an attached proposed amended
complaint. Plaintiff did so, and her proposed amended complaint again contained
a single count, but it was retitled "Negligence. " Plaintiff essentially
repeated most of the allegations found in the original complaint. Paragraph 15
of the proposed amended complaint, which paragraph in the original complaint we
quoted earlier, now simply asserted negligence on the part of the hospital for
departing from the standard of care by failing to ensure plaintiff's safety
while in the hospital, thereby retaining only subparagraph (a) from the original
paragraph 15. Plaintiff did repeat the earlier allegations that the "hospital
was negligent through its agents, employees, and staff in failing to ensure the
safety of" plaintiff and that the negligence of the hospital "and its agents,
employees and staff was the proximate (cause] of" plaintiff's alleged damages.

On May 26, 2015, the trial court entered an order denying plaintiff's renewed
motion to amend her complaint, ruling that the motion was "essentially a motion
for reconsideration," which had already been denied, that the proposed amended
complaint still sounded in medical malpractice, and that, therefore, any
amendment would be futile. Plaintiff appeals as of right.



Overview of appellate arguments

On appeal, plaintiff argues that her claims of failure to ensure safety, failure
to exercise proper care, failure to train, failure to supervise, and failure to
provide adequate staff all sounded in ordinary negligence and not medical
malpractice. She further maintains that Michigan caselaw involving "dropped" or
"fallen" patients in medical settings have all been held to sound in ordinary
negligence. Plaintiff alternatively contends that even assuming some of her
claims sounded in medical malpractice, there still remained viable claims of
ordinary negligence. She also asserts that her claims implicated the doctrine of
res ipsa loquitor. Finally, plaintiff argues that the trial court erred in
denying her motion to amend the complaint.

The hospital argues that the trial court did not err in granting its motion for
summary disposition and in denying plaintiff's motions for reconsideration and
to amend the complaint. The hospital contends that medical knowledge and
expertise were necessary to assess plaintiff's fall risk, that plaintiff did not
allege a failure to take corrective steps, which was recognized in Bryant as a
claim sounding in ordinary negligence, that staffing decisions require the
exercise of medical judgment, that failure to ensure safety is not a viable,
recognizable claim, and that the requirements for the application of res ipsa
loquitor were not met. The hospital further maintains that plaintiff's proposed
amended complaint also sounded in medical malpractice; therefore, the amendment
would have been futile. Finally, the hospital argues that, given the inescapable
conclusion that plaintiff's suit sounded entirely in medical malpractice, the
suit was not properly commenced in accord with mandatory procedural steps and
was also time-barred.



Conclusion

We cannot conclude solely on the basis of the allegations in the complaint,
which is all that can be considered given the procedural posture of the case,
that plaintiff's claims sounded in medical malpractice. Accordingly, the trial
court erred in summarily dismissing plaintiff's lawsuit. Further factual
development is required to properly ascertain whether plaintiff's claims sounded
in medical malpractice or ordinary negligence, and perhaps the suit presents a
mix of such claims. Testimony by the nurse's aide would appear to be a key
factor in answering the question.

Reversed and remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. We
do not retain jurisdiction. Having fully prevailed on appeal, plaintiff is
awarded taxable costs pursuant to MCR 7.219.

Trowell v. Providence Hospital and Medical Centers Inc.; MiLW No. 07-92517, 14
pages; Michigan Court of Appeals published; Murphy, J, joined by Stephens, J,
Boonstra, J; appeal from Oakland Circuit Court.

http://www.milawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2016 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

