                              371 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                            March 13, 2014 Thursday
                               GoldCoast Edition

DEADLY DOUGLAS

BYLINE: STEPHANIE BEDO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 389  words


A LEADING Gold Coast Health doctor has stood down from the executive management
team because of a politician's claims that he was a bully.

Dr Will Butcher resigned from his role as acting executive director of clinical
governance, education and research to focus on surgery amid calls for his
suspension by Gaven MP, Dr Alex Douglas.

While other top doctors and health executives labelled Dr Butcher's departure a
"tragedy", Dr Douglas (pictured left) yesterday stood by his comments.

Dr Butcher's resignation comes after the departures of Dr Lance Le Ray, general
manager of speciality and procedural services, and Dr Tom Snow, director of
radiology.

In further blows this week, two orthopedic surgeons and visiting medical
officers in other speciality services have also resigned because of the
statewide stoush in getting senior doctors to sign new Queensland Health
contracts.

The management restructure has also seen the shock appointment of Professor
David Ellwood to clinical director of speciality and procedural services, where
he will oversee his wife, Dr Anne Sneddon, as service director for women's and
babies health.

In parliament last week, Dr Douglas said "the local (health) boards have
appointed bullies to engage in none-too-subtle coercion tactics. At this point I
will name Dr Will Butcher at the Gold Coast Hospital as engaging in such
activity, and I call on the minister to suspend him immediately for doing so."
Health Minister Lawrence Springborg yesterday jumped to the defence of Gold
Coast Health, before accusing Dr Douglas of creating a "crisis of confidence" on
the Coast.

"He's now driving people away from the Gold Coast," Mr Springborg said. "It's
outrageous the way he's been treating certain doctors. The local hospital and
health board is working with local clinicians. They've got a local health
service that's working for them." Keep Our Doctors campaign spokesman Dr David
Spain said most specialists were sad to see Dr Butcher step down.

"We're supportive of him and what he was trying to do," Dr Spain said. Gold
Coast Health board chairman Ian Langdon said Dr Douglas owed Dr Butcher an
apology.

"The situation is I did inform the Minister's office that I was very unhappy
with the comments Alex Douglas made under parliamentary privilege," Mr Langdon
said."I do believe it's an abuse of privilege."

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Gold Coast Bulletin


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


