                              375 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                              April 5, 2002 Friday
                                  Late Edition

Medical indemnity condition worsens;
OPINION&ANALYSIS

BYLINE: Michael Ridley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 749 words


State Government quick-fix plans for ailing insurers will not help doctors and
the community in the long term. Michael Ridley says a national approach is
needed urgently.

NO group in Australia is more under threat from litigation than our doctors, and
this has major repercussions for the whole community.

If overheads make a business unsustainable, the business shuts down or goes
bust.

We have already seen what happens when income can't keep up with increasing
liability insurance premiums ¤ agricultural shows are cancelled and fun parks
close the best rides.

Will doctors be the next to shut up shop?

In the bush this is already becoming an issue, particularly when early
retirement is a more tempting option than battling on for little gain.

The NSW State Government has done all that can be reasonably expected to drive
down medical indemnity premiums, but so far no premium savings have trickled
down from the insurers.

To make matters worse, United Medical Protection (UMP), which insures 90% of NSW
doctors and 60% nationwide, is on a shaky financial footing.

The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) requires UMP to raise its
capital reserves by $30million within the next few weeks.

The Federal Government has agreed to provide a capital guarantee, but does
anyone seriously think that UMP can lower its premiums in such a climate?

Specialists such as obstetricians and neurosurgeons will still face premiums of
more than $100,000 ¤ more than their total earnings from Medicare.

The State Government came into line with other States last December and agreed
to pay for the medical indemnity of all doctors providing services to public
patients in public hospitals.

That move was also supposed to exert downward pressure on premiums for private
practice.

However, there is no sign of that, which is of no help to GPs or specialists
providing care to private patients.

Like many rural GPs, I also undertake procedural work for my patients.

As a result, my annual premium is $20,000 this year, including 22% of the call
UMP made on its members.

Last year, UMP required its members to start paying an extra year's premium over
five years to help offset its financial difficulties.

In contrast, non-procedural GPs pay premiums around $4000 including the call.

GPs who do procedural work aren't in it for the money.

The Federal Government's assistance to UMP relieves some of the pressure, but it
is still of concern that medical registration is tied to medical indemnity
cover.

Under Part 3 of the Health Care Liability Act, a doctor cannot be registered
without approved medical indemnity insurance.

Considering the general state of the insurance market, we are calling on NSW
Health Minister, Craig Knowles, to suspend that requirement until the current
crisis is resolved.

It is not just UMP feeling the heat. There are also longer-term issues to be
tackled by the whole insurance industry.

From July 1, APRA's capital adequacy requirement for all insurance companies
will increase significantly.

Government bandaids on ailing insurers will not help doctors and the community
long-term.

What we need now is a national care and rehabilitation scheme for victims of
medical accidents.

The Federal Government developed structured settlements just before Easter, but
still needs to devise a scheme to care for severely injured patients.

Until it does, cerebral palsy patients like Calandra Simpson (who was awarded
$14.2million last year over a botched forceps delivery at her birth) will have
no alternative but to sue doctors and undertake lengthy and expensive legal
battles.

Meanwhile, as this interminable insurance saga continues, doctors will continue
to retire early, or take on non-procedural work that attracts lower medical
indemnity costs.

Pregnant women will be the big losers according to the Royal Australian and New
Zealand College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.

Their research indicates that 48% of Australian obstetricians and gynaecologists
have left or intend to leave obstetrics within five years.

Only 24% expect to still be practising obstetrics in 10 years. This mass exodus
has been blamed on the threat of legal action and the soaring costs of medical
indemnity.

Birth is a risky business.

A Federal summit on medical indemnity will be held in Canberra on April 23,
where some real solutions will hopefully be developed.

It's a long time to wait in such uncertain times, so let's all hope it's worth
it. Dr Michael Ridley is president of the NSW Australian Medical Association.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COSTLY PRACTICE: Dr Michael Ridley ... `GPs who do procedural work
aren't in it for the money.'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2002 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


