                              380 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1993, American Health Lawyers Association,
                              Journal of Health Law

                                 October, 1993

                        Vol. 26, No. 10, HOSPLW Pg. 315

LENGTH: 396 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: STAFF PRIVILEGES: Hospital bylaws allowing peer review hearing
before nonmedical staff members contrary to state law

AUTHOR: L. R./A. V.

TEXT:

   The Court of Appeals of Indiana reversed and remanded a trial court's denial
of plaintiff physician's request for declaratory judgment and found defendant
hospital's bylaws contrary to state law and an injunction enjoining defendant
from enforcing its bylaws in a suit against defendants hospital and hospital
board of trustees.  In reversing, the court determined defendant's bylaws, which
allowed a peer review hearing before an ad hoc committee comprised of nonmedical
staff members, ran contrary to the state peer review statute requiring an
evidentiary hearing before medical staff members.

   Defendants hospital and board of trustees brought charges to terminate
plaintiff's medical staff privileges.  Terminating plaintiff's privileges
required filing a report with the state licensing board.  Pursuant to
defendant's bylaws, defendant hospital appointed an ad hoc evidentiary
committee, which according to the bylaws, could include nonmedical staff
members.  Plaintiff brought suit, arguing defendants' by laws ran contrary to
state statute requirements mandating a peer review committee comprised solely of
medical staff members to review charges to be reported to the state licensing
board.  At trial, defendants argued its bylaws conformed to the standards
proscribed by the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 (HCQIA), 42 U.S.C.
§ 11112(b)(3).  Arguing the HCQIA does not specify the type of individuals to be
appointed to a peer review action, defendants contended its bylaws complied with
federal law.  The trial court found for defendants and plaintiff appealed.

   The Court of Appeals found under the HCQIA a state may provide further
procedural protection to physicians if it so desired.  More specifically, the
HCQIA states the act does not preempt state law from providing additional
procedural protection during professional review action, 42 U.S.C. § 1115.

   Under the plain language of the state statute, however, the court found
defendants' bylaws too broad in not granting plaintiff the statutorily required
evidentiary hearing comprised solely of medical staff members.  The court also
noted defendants' bylaws stated defendant hospital was obligated to follow the
state peer review statute.  The court remanded the case for an order and
judgment consistent with its holding defendants' bylaws ran contrary to state
statute requirements.

REFERENCE: Mann v. Johnson Memorial Hosp., 611 N.E.2d 676 (Ind. Ct. App. 1993).


