                              39 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

Now, rules to protect those who help road accident victims;
Central guidelines will safeguard rights of good Samaritans from legal and
procedural problems

BYLINE: Ateeq Shaikh

LENGTH: 742  words


Central guidelines will safeguard rights of good Samaritans from legal and
procedural problems

Finally, there will be recognition for individuals who assist an accident victim
by either taking them to the nearest hospital or calling for medical help. The
Ministry of Road Transport and Highways notified guidelines on Monday,
protecting the rights of such good Samaritans from legal and procedural
problems.

Founder of petitioner SaveLife Foundation Piyush Tewari, who had moved the
Supreme Court on the subject, welcomed the notification. "Although this is an
interim measure, these guidelines will help create a supportive environment for
bystanders to come forward and help the injured without fear of intimidation or
harassment by the police and hospitals. The onus is now on the state governments
to ensure implementation of these guidelines."

The guidelines are a result of a Supreme Court judgment, wherein the court had
set a deadline of May 15. The guidelines were finalised on May 13 but formally
notified only on Monday.

In the last decade, in India, 46 lakh people were seriously injured or disabled
in road accidents. Annually, around 1.37 road-related deaths occur; 12.02 lakh
people got killed in the last decade due to road accidents. The number could be
half, if timely medical help is provided to them. But three out of four people
are reluctant to help person/s injured in road accidents, thereby resulting in
higher deaths.

The deterrent is fear of getting trapped in legal and procedural issues, besides
the fear of harassment by the police. Moreover, there are private hospitals who
are hesitant in giving medical aid in such cases unless some money is deposited.

Result of SC judgment

The guidelines are a result of a Supreme Court judgment, wherein the court had
set a deadline of May 15. They were finalised on May 13 but formally notified
only on Monday.  The deterrent is fear of getting trapped in legal and
procedural issues, besides the fear of harassment by the police.

Know your rights

Bystander or good Samaritan should be allowed to leave immediately except after
furnishing address of the eyewitness only, and no question shall be asked to
such bystander or good Samaritan.

There should be a suitable reward or compensation to encourage citizens to come
forward to help accident victims.

Bystander or good Samaritan shall not be liable for any civil or criminal
liability.

Bystander or good Samaritan, who makes a phone call to inform about the victim
lying on the road, shall not be compelled to reveal his/her name and personal
details.

Disclosure of personal information shall be voluntary in medico-legal case form
of hospitals.

Disciplinary/departmental action shall be initiated against public officials who
coerce or intimidate a bystander or good Samaritan to reveal name and personal
details.

In case of voluntary disclosure of being a witness to an accident and required
to be examined for investigation by the police or during the trial, such a
person shall be examined only once and the state government shall develop a
Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for non-harassment.

SOP shall be developed within 30 days from notification. Examination methods
shall be as per section 284 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, or on
affidavit.

Video-conferencing may be used extensively during examination of bystander or
good Samaritan to prevent harassment and inconvenience.

The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare shall issue guidelines for all
registered public and private hospitals not to detain bystander or good
Samaritan or demand payment for registration and admission costs, unless s/he is
a family member or relative of the injured.

Lack of response by a doctor in an emergency situation pertaining to road
accidents shall constitute 'Professional Misconduct' and disciplinary action
shall be taken against the doctor.

All hospitals shall publish a charter in Hindi, English and vernacular language
of the state and union territory at their entrance, declaring that a bystander
or good Samaritan won't be detained or asked for money for treatment.

In case a bystander or good Samaritan demands, an acknowledgment should be
provided, confirming s/he getting an injured person to the hospital and the time
and place of the incident.

All public and private hospitals shall implement the guidelines immediately.
Non-compliance or violation will attract action by authorities.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


