                              382 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        St. Joseph News-Press (Missouri)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 23, 2008 Saturday

Insure Missouri tabled for now: Legislators want a closer look

BYLINE: Alyson Raletz, St. Joseph News-Press, Mo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 538 words


Feb. 23--Gov. Matt Blunt pulled a controversial health care plan Friday that a
St. Joseph Republican has challenged since its inception.

With Democrats close behind, Rep. Dr. Rob Schaaf, R-St. Joseph, led Republican
opposition to Insure Missouri, Mr. Blunt's program to increase Medicaid
eligibility.

The plan's first phase, aimed at helping more than 54,000 working Missourians
purchase their own health insurance, was set to go into effect in March.

But the governor announced Friday he would take the plan off the table -- for
now.

"The House requested additional time to reach a consensus on the plan and we
will consider ideas that could improve it," Mr. Blunt wrote in a news release.
"I do not believe it would be fair to sign citizens up for a program that may
not be renewed by the Legislature."

One of Dr. Schaaf's largest criticisms of the plan was that the governor planned
on implementing it without legislative approval.

The governor's staff has contended legislators authorized the creation of Insure
Missouri in 2007 when they approved

MO HealthNet, Mr. Blunt's plan to replace Medicaid.

Dr. Schaaf, who handled the MO HealthNet bill, in January launched an
unprecedented six-week series of hearings to examine health care in Missouri,
including the implications of Insure Missouri.

"I don't feel bad about what happened because I see it as a stepping stone to
getting where we are now," Dr. Schaaf told the News-Press.

The health care transformation committee Dr. Schaaf chairs this winter sent a
letter to Secretary of State Robin Carnahan, requesting that she stop the
procedural move necessary for the March launch.

Before she released a decision, Mr. Blunt said the Department of Social Services
would postpone its request for the procedural rule and that he'd continue to
work with legislators on Insure Missouri.

As discussions between Social Services and the General Assembly continue, Mr.
Blunt said he hoped a consensus could be reached so that the program could begin
by July 1.

"Our plan is to now really buckle down and work very hard and try to cover as
many uninsurable people as possible and at the same time strive for some market
reforms that will make health care better and more affordable for every
Missourian," Dr. Schaaf said of his committee.

Insure Missouri had received support from the hospital community, including
Heartland Health's chief executive officer, Lowell Kruse, and the Missouri
Hospital Association, as a way to curb cost shifting in health care.

"This is the governor showing a sign of faith," said another plan supporter,
Senate Majority Floor Leader Charlie Shields, R-St. Joseph. "I don't think he
would've pulled it and said, 'We're done,' and walked away from this ... I don't
think this is the end."

Alyson E. Raletz can be reached at alysonraletz@npgco.com

To see more of the St. Joseph News-Press or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.stjoenews-press.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, St. Joseph News-Press, Mo.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080223-JM-Insure-Missouri-tabled-for-now-0223

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JM


                      Copyright 2008 St. Joseph News-Press


