                              381 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                          December 11, 2013 Wednesday

Virtual reality takes doctors to next level

BYLINE: Ernest Kao ernest.kao@scmp.com

SECTION: NEWS; City; Medicine; Pg.3

LENGTH: 379 words


Inside a brightly lit Aberdeen  office, a medical student digs into a patient's
chest cavity looking for a blocked coronary artery during a tense, but
bloodless, heart bypass surgery.

None of it is actually real - but it is the closest thing to it.

Aspiring doctors and nurses can now hone their skills at the Academy of
Medicine's  new state-of-the-art simulation centre. Built by the Jockey Club  at
a cost of HK$53 million, the Innovative Learning Centre for Medicine  boasts a
variety of facilities, which aim to give medical students and junior doctors
"hands-on" experience - much of it in virtual reality.

The facilities include mocked-up operating theatres and procedural skills rooms
equipped with devices for performing digital "keyhole surgeries". These cover
anything from removing gall bladders and conducting endoscopes to minimally
invasive heart surgery.

Doctors, midwives and nurses-in-training can also use obstetric mannequins to
simulate emergency labour and delivery. The "intelligent dummies" are fitted
with their own heart rate, pulse and dilatable pupils.

Trainees' performances can be observed from behind one-way mirrors fitted in
each room.

"Simulated training is a safer and much more efficient way of training medical
professionals," said academy president Dr Donald Li Kwok-tung.

"It provides opportunities for them to experience adverse or sudden situations
in a safe and controlled environment."

Health authorities of the future will also get a chance to try out in virtual
reality what may perhaps be the hardest part of their job - facing the press.

A "virtual reality" procedural skills room recreates a press conference, where
the trainee can practise answering - or deflecting - questions in the event of
an emergency press briefing.

Li said the next step would be to provide more virtual-reality disaster or
accident-response scenarios.

The Hospital Authority  has eight institutions that have their own simulators.
But the academy's 550 square metre facility is the city's first integrated
simulation centre.

Permanent Secretary for Food and Health Richard Yuen Ming-fai  said the entire
city would benefit from the facility as demand for hospital care and health-care
professionals was expected to soar further amid a rapidly ageing population.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:                  Jockey Club chairman Brian Stevenson (centre) and
Academy of Medicine president Donald Li (far right) experience simulated
training at the Innovative Learning Centre for Medicine.
Photo: Felix Wong

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


