                              389 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Jerusalem Post

                             August 20, 2012 Monday

High Court rejects claim, fines ACRI NIS 45,000 for protesting four years too
late. NGO: Ruling on hospital care bad for Ashdod poor, but even worse for
social justice

BYLINE: YONAH JEREMY BOB

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 817 words


The Association for Civil Rights in Israel reacted with dismay on Sunday at the
High Court of Justice's Thursday ruling which not only rejected its claim of
discrimination against the poor at a new Ashdod Medical Center, but also imposed
an unprecedented NIS 45,000 fine on ACRI.

ACRI had claimed discrimination against the poor due to the inclusion of a
program at the medical center where 25 percent of the care provided could be
privatized, meaning persons with the means to do so could pay extra to receive
special care from particular doctors.

In its petition to the High Court, ACRI argued that equal medical care for all
of the state's citizens was a fundamental right, and that providing different
levels of care at a state subsidized medical center violated those basic rights.
The state paid over NIS 400 million - well over half the cost of establishing
the medical center.

ACRI added that private care at the center would also create perverse incentives
for doctors to give less time, energy and hospital resources to poorer patients
so that they could invest more time in attending to "private care" patients, for
whom they could get paid more.

The court, in an opinion authored by Supreme Court President Asher D. Grunis on
behalf of a panel of three justices, rejected ACRI's petition and imposed a NIS
45,000 fine, characterizing the petition as having been filed four-and-a-half
years late.

In other words, the court viewed what it called the petition's lateness as such
a decisive factor that it did not need to analyze or weigh the substantive
discrimination arguments made by ACRI in-depth, though the court did briefly
comment that it found the arguments unconvincing.

ACRI spokeswoman Nirit Moskowitz said that the High Court ruling was highly
problematic on two significant counts.

The first was that the court, according to Moskowitz, ignored a fundamental
human right to equal health care, a corollary to the fundamental right of
equality, on procedural grounds without making a real effort to see if there was
a way to better protect the rights which ACRI said were violated.

Secondly, Moskowitz said that the heavy fine imposed in the ruling would make it
hard for NGOs like ACRI to do their job of defending the rights of those too
poor or vulnerable to defend themselves.

More significantly, she said it would likely lead to situations where NGOs will
sometimes refrain from getting involved in helping vulnerable persons, not
because they think that there is no injustice, but out of fear of fines if the
court happens to disagree.

On the procedural issue itself, Moskowitz and ACRI attorney Gilad Barnea
disputed Justice Grunis's characterization of the petition as late.

Justice Grunis ruled that the petition should have been filed before the
government and investors had poured funds into building the institution, or at
various other points during the bidding or contract signing process, all of
which were public.

He noted that it was also clear that ACRI had full knowledge of the private
aspects of the medical center nearly a year and a half ago, when ACRI sent a
letter of protest to various government offices.

Despite sending that letter in April 2011, ACRI did not file a petition with the
High Court until March 2012.

Waiting such a long time to file its petition caused significant and unnecessary
prejudice to the parties already invested in the medical center, said Grunis.

Barnea responded that the argument of delay was a poor one. He said both the
state and the Health Ministry had tried to stop the entire project even after
the bidding process, and that the ministry could still withhold its approval.

Barnea also noted that only days before the hearing on the petition it was
revealed that a private company has rights to the land on which the medical
center was built, creating potential complications for its future.

Elaborating on the issue of fines, Moskowitz noted that organizations like ACRI
are not private organizations for profit for whom it is easy to raise funds.
Rather, he said, much of ACRI's work is done by volunteer Barnea and two other
volunteer attorneys, and those funds which are available for essential
expenditures are limited.

Moskowitz confirmed that it had been decades since ACRI had been fined by a
court. She added that, in ACRI's estimation, Grunis was turning out to be a big
disappointment and was ignoring all of the public discussion provoked by the
social protest movement over social justice rights like economic and health
inequalities.

In contrast, Grunis noted that the private aspects of the medical center are
carefully and clearly limited by law and that there were appropriate monitoring
mechanisms in place to prevent inequalities.

He also pointed out that it made sense for a percentage of the medical center to
be private where a significant - though minority - portion of the funding for
the medical center was also private.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: The four-year-old multimillion shekel Ashdod Medical Center is
at the epicenter of a court case initiated by the Association for Civil Rights
in Israel, which has unexpectedly left the NGO NIS 45,000 worse off. (Credit:
Artist's rendering courtesy of Ashdod Medical Center)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Jerusalem Post
                              All Rights Reserved


