                              384 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                          Bush Telegraph (Queensland)

                                  June 7, 2016

Numbers hide rural medical shortage

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 395  words


THE Rural Doctors Association of Australia warns rural and remote Australia
still faces a significant shortage of local doctors with the advanced skills
needed for rural medical practice.

The organisation argued numbers remain low despite coverage of a report by the
Australian Population Research Institute in The Australian that indicated
Australia has an overall oversupply of doctors.

RDAA resident Ewen McPhee said there was lower distribution of doctors in rural
areas compared to an oversupply in larger cities.

"But this is not the case for the hundreds of small rural and remote communities
across Australia that desperately need local doctors with the right skills to
provide the range of advanced general practice and hospital-based services that
those communities require," Dr McPhee said.

"There is not only an overallshortage of doctors in the bush, but more
importantly a shortage of those doctors trained in advanced medical skills who
can provide both procedural services (like anaesthetics, obstetrics, general
surgery and emergency medicine) and non-procedural services (like advanced
mental healthcare and indigenous healthcare) in rural and remote settings, often
with very few available supports.

"Historically, rural and remote Australia has had a strong and viable rural
medical workforce, with local doctors providing not only general practice care
but also medical services at their local hospital.

"But with the older generation of rural doctors now passing retirement age, and
still working for the good of their communities - the urgent challenge is to get
in place the Rural Generalist pathways needed to entice more of the next
generation of Australian-trained medical graduates into advanced rural medical
training, and then get them into rural and remote practice, where they can
become the much-needed GPs and hospital doctors in their towns.

"In communities where rural generalism has been embraced and supported, and
where the next generation of doctors with advanced medical skills are working,
it has resulted in increased services in local hospitals as well as increased
numbers of doctors in local general practices.

"This can only be good for rural patients.

"It is getting "~the right doctor, with the right skills, in the right place'
that is the challenge for governments in developing the next generation of
doctors for the bush."

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WBT


                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


