                              383 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                            April 20, 1985 Saturday

DOCTORS' DISPUTE NEAR END AS VOTE COMES IN

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 460 words


Doctors' dispute near end as vote comes in SYDNEY._ Most doctors are in favor of
an immediate end to the Medicare dispute. Early returns from a national
plebiscite of 32,000 doctors indicate that more than 80 percent support the
Federal Government's $166 million peace package. The Australian Medical
Association federal president, Dr Lindsay Thompson, announced the interim
figures yesterday. He said an end to the dispute affecting public hospitals in
New South Wales was now ""inevitable". Of the 5791 replies so far, 546 came from
doctors who were withholding their services from hospitals. Of these the
majority (55 percent) believed normal services should be resumed. Rebel surgeons
have greeted the results with derision, saying that only those who have resigned
from public hospitals have the right to accept or reject the Government offer.
The Council of Procedural Specialists vice-president, Dr Michael Aroney, said
that even if the number was accurate there were still 1400 resignations
outstanding. Dr Thompson said he believed the results so far indicated that the
majority of Australian doctors wanted peace. He said the final count would
reveal an even stronger anti-strike lobby. Dr Thompson said next week could see
dramatic numbers of doctors withdrawing resignations and returning to the public
hospital system. ""I think that as time goes by more people will see the
validity of a return to work. The package which has been negotiated is not a
perfect one, but it is a package which strongly favors the medical profession
and I think it is an excellent basis for getting back to work," Dr Thompson
said. With less than two weeks to go before the Federal Government's offer
expires, Dr Thompson said it was imperative that the profession accept the
package. ""There will be a hard-core of doctors _ and I support these people _
who have no intention whatsoever of going back to the public hospital system,"
he said. Saying he was confident that the dispute would effectively end by May
1, Dr Thompson warned of the long-term consequences. ""The hospitals are not
going to pick up overnight. It's going to be quite a while before you see the
system working any way like it did before. In fact I suspect it will never
return to quite the system that we had before _ which was the envy of many
people throughout the world," he said. Last night the surgeons maintained that
they were standing firm on their resolution not to accept the Government's peace
package. The procedural specialists have already written to the State and
Federal Governments seeking ""clarification" of some undertakings omitted from
the AMA agreement. Rebel surgeons will meet in Sydney on April 27 to consider
responses to these approaches, Dr Aroney said.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


