                              399 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           February 28, 2017 Tuesday

Head Line: US Federal Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania)
Issues Solicitation for "DePuy Spine, Cranial and maxillofacial and Trauma
procedural packages"

LENGTH: 300  words

DATELINE: New York


WASHINGTON: Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations officer has
issued requirement for "DePuy Spine, Cranial and maxillofacial and Trauma
procedural packages"

Solicitation No: SPE2DER0003

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date: February 28, 2017

Description: The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources
capable of providing DePuy Spine, Cranial and maxillofacial and Trauma "
procedural packages".  These "procedural packages" include Orthopedic Implants,
Instrumentation Sets and Auxiliary products (such as drill bits, saw blades,
bone cement, etc.) that are necessary for the orthopedic surgery. The
instruments are both used during the surgery and returned to the vendor or
purchased by the hospital so they are readily available on the shelves.


All products offered must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
Orthopedic products must be delivered "Just-In-Time," "Direct Vendor Delivery",
and "Consignment". Under "Just-In-Time" delivery, the Medical Treatment Facility
(MTF) calls the manufacturer's field representative who carries the products
into the MTF just-in-time for the surgery. The manufacturer's sales
representative may bring many sizes and types of implants and auxiliary products
to the surgery along with the instrumentation sets. Under the "Direct Vendor
Delivery" method an order for products is placed through ECAT and the product is
delivered directly to the customer via any transportation carrier. Under the
"Consignment" method, an MTF have the products that make up the "procedural set"
consigned to their facility.

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United
States

Point of Contact(s): Brian C. Mason brian.mason2@dla.mil Phone: 2157377238


LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


