                              396 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 22, 2016 Monday

Lifelong Learning Competencies for General Cardiologists

LENGTH: 567 words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: The Department of College of Cardiology Foundation has issued the
following news release:



 The following are key points to remember about American College of Cardiology
lifelong learning competencies for general cardiologists:





     The lifelong learning competencies for general cardiologists are organized
using the six domains promulgated by the Accreditation Council for Graduate
Medical Education/American Board of Medical Specialties and endorsed by the
American Board of Internal Medicine (Medical Knowledge, Patient Care and
Procedural Skill, Systems-Based Practice, Practice-Based Learning and
Improvement, Interpersonal and Communication Skills, and Professionalism).

     The aggregated lifelong learning competencies collectively underlie the
Entrustable Professional Activities that patients and the public can reasonably
expect all competent clinical cardiologists to be able to perform. These include
ability to:

         Evaluate, diagnose, and develop treatment plans for patients with
known, suspected, or at risk of developing cardiovascular disease.

         Manage patients with acute cardiac conditions.

         Manage patients with chronic cardiovascular diseases.

         Appropriately utilize cardiovascular diagnostic testing.

         Implement disease prevention and risk factor control measures,
addressing comorbidities.

         Work effectively to promote and coordinate interdisciplinary,
patient-centered care.

         Engage in lifelong learning to maintain and enhance knowledge and
skills.

     There are a number of ways physicians can maintain competency and expand
lifelong learning in the course of practice (assuring currency with the evolving
art and science of the field), and assess their own professional needs for
education and performance improvement.

     Objective evaluation of competence in the practice setting can be
challenging, but a number of tools are available for this purpose. These
include, for example, certified continuing medical education activities relevant
to an individual's practice, review of practice or hospital data, performance
assessment and improvement programs, and facilitated self-reflection.

     For procedural or diagnostic laboratory activities, assessment tools may
include registry and/or hospital data, appropriate use criteria, and metrics
developed by professional organizations.

     Scholarly activity and clinical research are also important in lifelong
learning and professional competency.

     All physicians should have the skills to assess new research findings and
appropriately incorporate new diagnostic and treatment modalities in patient
care.

     Knowledge should also be maintained and enhanced through regular reading of
journals and other sources of reliable information and attending scholarly
scientific meetings and professional congresses.

     In addition to clinical competency, cardiologists are expected to function
effectively as leaders in allied efforts to assure high quality care and promote
individual and population health.

     Some of these activities and attributes fall outside the realm of clinical
knowledge and skill and instead involve administrative roles in clinical
practice, hospitals, health systems, professional societies, or other
organizations.





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact:

 editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


