                              393 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Albany Herald (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 19, 2016 Friday

Phoebe officials say hospital is in compliance with CMS protocol

BYLINE: Jennifer Parks, The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 793 words


Aug. 19--ALBANY -- More details have been released regarding the circumstances
leading to Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital sending a corrective measure plan to
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

The senior administrative team, the operating room committee and all operating
room staff at Phoebe met on July 22 to discuss the protocol for stopping a
wrong-site procedure after an incident of that nature resulted in a surgeon
being suspended. Phoebe officials said a follow-up survey was conducted earlier
in the week, the results of which showed the hospital is in compliance with
corrective measures.

"We routinely participate with survey agencies such as DNV-GL, the Department of
Community Health and CMS," Phoebe Putney Health System CEO Joel Wernick said.
"When incidents occur that have the potential to impact quality or safety, we
rightfully report them as a means to apply corrective measures to prevent future
incidents. Such an event did occur recently and was appropriately reported,
resulting in a request from CMS for a corrective action plan and follow-up
survey.

"As a matter of state and federal law, we are not at liberty to discuss
instances where a physician's professional practices are under review. Phoebe
and its independent medical staff have cooperated fully with the CMS protocol.
We responded with strong and immediate action, and have taken this opportunity
to review and modify our procedural safety protocol where needed. The survey
took place this Tuesday, and we are pleased to announce we are in full
compliance."

A report from CMS shows a survey was completed at the hospital on July 7, noting
that the facility -- based on a plan of action given to surveyors -- was to
reinforce and hold surgeons responsible for pre-operative processes, including
the reconciliation of any difference between the informed consent and the
marking of the site in the presence of the patient and a nurse.

It further noted that the plan of action, signed off on by Phoebe officials
earlier this month, was to include standardizing the process for when there is a
discrepancy found in the pre-op period so that the surgeon, with a pre-op nurse
present, documents the variance and obtains informed consent reflecting the
correct surgical site.

The report said three patients were involved in separate incidents. The first
one had a loss of blood supply to tissue in the hip and was scheduled for an
arthroplasty. Consent was signed for the right hip, but the procedure was
performed on the left hip with no patient consent for the left side.

A second patient with a compression fracture in the spine had to be returned for
additional surgery after a procedure was done on a portion of the spine that was
not consented.

A third patient had cervical stenosis and surgery was performed on the consented
area of the spine, as well as another area that was not consented, the report
said.

"A Patient Safety Report, including wrong site surgeries, was being provided to
the Quality Council quarterly at the time of the event(s)," a corrective plan in
the report said. "This reporting process has been modified to monthly and will
include measurement, analysis and tracking of adverse patient events to ensure
patient safety is prioritized and immediate action implemented, as warranted."

A review of minutes from a Quality Assurance and Performance Improvement meeting
from June 28 showed that discussions regarding wrong-site surgery had taken
place and that an investigation was ongoing, but that there was no evidence of
training with the involved personnel or other immediate action to prevent future
incidents, the report said.

At the time of the July 7 survey, surgery patients were expected to be reviewed
weekly for four weeks to assess compliance with providing patient rights.
Reviews will continue monthly for six months on a random selection of 50 surgery
and procedure patients. At all access points, patients at Phoebe will be
presented a patient rights and responsibilities document, and will be asked to
sign an acknowledgement form confirming receipt, the report said.

The report said the surgeon placed on suspension following the hip procedure is
required to attend formal safety education before he operates again. All
physicians, advanced practice providers and hospital staff in procedural areas
are to be educated on the process for confirming laterality or other surgical
site identification prior to the procedure in a memorandum.

An additional preoperative verification process is being implemented for one
year for the surgeon and a second staff member in each of the three cases, the
report said.

___ (c)2016 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160819-1AH-Phoebe-officials-say-hospital
-is-in-compliance-with-CMS-protocol-0819-20160819

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                        Copyright 2016 The Albany Herald


