                              390 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                              May 24, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Hospital lapse exposes Diggers to HIV risk

BYLINE: LINTON BESSER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 630 words


AN UNKNOWN number of Australian soldiers and contractors may have been exposed
to blood-borne diseases such as hepatitis or HIV after staff at Defence's main
hospital unit in the Middle East failed to properly sterilise surgical
equipment. The protocol breach at the Al Minhad Air Base, near Dubai, continued
for 19 months from February 2009 during a period of significant casualties for
Australian troops. But soldiers were not alerted to the problem until last week.
A Department of Defence memo issued to troops has warned that soldiers and
contractors who passed through the air base hospital should have their blood
screened.

It said "lapses in procedure" in operating the instrument steriliser had been
identified. "As a consequence the sterilisation of surgical instruments at the
facility cannot be absolutely guaranteed to have met Australian standards," the
memo says. "Personnel who underwent a surgical procedure (e.g. excision of skin
lesions, minor operations) at the AMAB Health Facility during that period are
possibly at risk of acquiring a blood-borne disease." Al Minhad is the central
launching point for Australian troops in the Middle East, including for the
country's fighting forces in Afghanistan. The department has previously
disclosed that Australians suffered 37 serious combat-related injuries in
Afghanistan in 2009, and 65 in 2010. But many of those who suffer
life-threatening injuries are flown straight to Germany for treatment.
Infectious disease control expert Richard West said yesterday that such lapses
were rare in normal Australian hospitals and he expressed concern that it took
so long for the problem to be identified. "The highest risk is hepatitis C
because patients cannot be vaccinated . . . there has been the occasional report
of HIV being transmitted in the operating theatre," Professor West said. "It is
unusual that it has taken that long to detect that there is a problem." The
machine failure occurred between February 2009 and August 2010, but the memo was
not issued until May 16 - nine months after the sterilisation procedures were
discovered and corrected. People exposed to HIV and hepatitis B can be treated
to reduce the chance of the infection taking hold, but the medicine must be
given within two to three days of the incident. There is no such treatment for
people exposed to hepatitis C. An Australian soldier, who asked not to be named,
said troops who had served in Afghanistan during this period were in shock over
the memo. "In that period of time, we had a very high casualty rate," he said.
He said the health alert had been removed from the department intranet last week
over fears of a backlash, and he feared others at risk had not been properly
informed. "We need an inquiry because there has been a complete lack of
governance," the soldier said. The memo was signed by Major- General Paul
Alexander, Surgeon General of the Australian Defence Force, who is fighting
numerous fires within in his portfolio. There is an ongoing "investigating
officers inquiry" examining claims of negligence at the medical centre at HMAS
Albatross near Nowra. And the department's health programs have been repeatedly
criticised by a serving captain, Julian Fidge, who claims there is "widespread"
contempt for medical professionals within the chain of command. Last week's
health alert said the potential risk to soldiers was assessed as low, "as
blood-borne diseases within the ADF population are extremely rare and all ADF
members are vaccinated against hepatitis B". "This was an internal procedural
issue that was detected and rectified by the health system," the memo says.
"Measures have been put in place to prevent a repeat of this procedural error
and improve governance systems for deployed ADF health care."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


