                              392 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                           December 14, 2013 Saturday

Undue tax exemptions to trusts, others cost govt Rs3,019 cr: CAG

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 472  words


Irregularity in tax benefits allowed to hundreds of trusts, which include many
well-known entities such as Breach Candy Hospital, Jamsetji Tata Trust and
several state cricket associations, contributing tax effect to the tune of
Rs3,019 crore has come to light.

A performance audit report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG)
on exemptions to charitable trusts and institutions, tabled in Parliament on
Friday, highlights major violations of tax rules in 1,283 cases for more than
two years. Out of the 90,000 trusts audited by the CAG, procedural lapses were
noted in 6,948 (7.7%) cases.

The Income Tax Act, 1961 provides various tax exemptions to charitable trusts
and institutions run solely for philanthropic purposes, not for profit. The
audit sought to verify the eligibility of trusts enjoying tax benefits. Even
though the tax exemption allowed to Breach Candy Hospital trust initially was
withdrawn by the I-T department on the ground that it runs with the motive of
profit and not philanthropy, the trust continued to enjoy tax benefits. This
resulted in under-assessment of income involving tax effect of Rs4.94 crore.
Similarly, despite clear guidelines on disallowing tax exemptions on the income
received from TV rights from the Board Of Control For Cricket In India, at least
four cricket associations - Saurashtra Cricket Association, Baroda Cricket
Association, Kerala Cricket Association and Maharashtra Cricket Association -
continued to enjoy tax benefits. This resulted in non-levy of tax to the tune of
Rs37 crore.

The CAG also pulled up the I-T department for failing to take action against the
investment of Rs3,139 crore made by Jamsetji Tata Trust and Navajbai Ratan Tata
Trust in contravention to the I-T rules, resulting in short levy of tax of
Rs1,066 crore. The I-T department received a total of 1.75 lakh trust
applications for granting registrations during the financial years 2009 to 2011.
While the department approved 90,000 of these applications, 36,000 requests were
turned down, while the rest are pending for action.

The report notes procedural lapses, allowance of exemptions and non-monitoring
of foreign contributions received. The auditors in their recommendations urged
the ministry concerned to provide a database of registered trusts to I-T
officials for better coordination between approving authorities and the tax
officer. It also said that the ministry may come out with protocols to make sure
that tax officials verify unauthorised investments made by trusts.

Reaction to CAG report

Breach Candy Hospital director Dr Geeta Koppikar said, "I have no idea about
this report."

A person close to the Jamshedji Tata Trust said, "Trusts  are governed by the
Bombay Public Trusts Act. They had taken the charity commissioner's approval
before making the investment referred to."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


