                              41 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             HERBERT RIVER EXPRESS

                           January 12, 2006 Thursday

Support for rural doctors 'timely'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 537  words


THE Rural Doctors Association of Australia has welcomed the increased support
for rural doctors and the other health care professionals announced by the
Commonwealth on Monday but is seeking commitment from the states.

''The Commonwealth Government has put steady and concerted efforts into ensuring
rural communities have access to high quality procedural services,'' RDAA
vice-president Peter Rischbieth said.

''But there is not much point in producing and maintaining a highly skilled
procedural workforce if the rural maternity units or hospitals where they work
are closed because saving money is put ahead of saving lives.

''We look for real commitments from our state and territory governments to
maintain our small rural hospitals and communities.

''The near collapse of rural procedural services at the height of the indemnity
crisis highlighted the need for an integrated approach to retain those who
provide them.

''Since that time we have seen the Commonwealth put significant effort into
responding to RDAA recommendations to support the dwindling procedural
workforce: there are less than a thousand of us left now.''

Dr Rischbieth said many rural doctors were available to their communities on a
24 hour basis and have numerous on-call responsibilities.

He said the extra support announced this week by Minister Tony Abbott was a
timely and practical recognition of their value and commitment to rural
communities and the high level skills they have to maintain.

''The overhaul of the medical indemnity industry, supporting training for rural
proceduralists and initiating the service subsidies for rural obstetrics,
surgery and anaesthetics which the Minister has just announced will be doubled,
have provided crucial help, but these measures alone are not enough to ensure
the ongoing viability of rural procedural services,'' Dr Rischbieth said.

''A team based approach to care - with rural doctors, nurses, midwives and
Aboriginal Health Workers works together - is best for our communities. RDAA has
lobbied vigorously for greater recognition of team care and has been proactive
in gaining recognition for practice nurses and supporting the creation of
several MBS items for practice nurses and allied health professionals last year.

''We applaud the expansion of MBS funding for antenatal checks by nurses,
midwives and Aboriginal Health Workers working on behalf of a GP or specialist
in rural and remote Australia.

''Women in rural and remote communities have the right to receive these
essential services close to where they live. In places where services cannot be
delivered by doctors, a team based approach using the expertise of nurses,
midwives and Aboriginal Health Workers is a welcome initiative which will extend
access to antenatal care.

''Australia's health services are amongst the best in the world, and, as a
recent study based on nationwide data has shown, the outcomes of our rural
birthing services are amongst the best in Australia.

''So now the ball is in the State Government court: the communities need the
services, the services are proven to be high quality, the Commonwealth
government is supporting the workforce so where is the commitment to keep rural
maternity units and hospitals open?''

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: HRE


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


