                              403 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Health Daily Digest

                           October 13, 2016 Thursday

Clinical Trial: Catheter Ablation of Longstanding Persistent Atrial Fibrillation

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: U.S.


U.S., Oct. 13 -- ClinicalTrials.gov registry received information related to the
study (NCT02929836) titled 'Catheter Ablation of Longstanding Persistent Atrial
Fibrillation' on Oct. 5.

Brief Summary: This randomized prospective study compared three ablation
strategies in patients with longstanding persistent atrial fibrillation (LPeAF).
It also explored the best procedural endpoint from among the following:
circumferential pulmonary vein isolation (PVI)+left atrial (LA) linear lesions
(roof line, mitral isthmus)+complex fractionated atrial electrogram (CFAE)
ablation, PVI+LA linear lesions +cavotricuspid isthmus (CTI) ablation +CFAE
ablation, and PVI+CFAE ablation.

Study Start Date: May 2016

Study Type: Interventional

Condition: Atrial Fibrillation

Intervention: Procedure: PVI

PVI was the complete isolation of all PVs, which was confirmed by entrance
and/or exit block into or from the PV antra.

Procedure: LA linear ablation

LA linear ablation include mitral isthmus ablation and roof line ablation.
Mitral isthmus ablation (from the mitral annulus to the left inferior PV) was
performed first, followed by roof line ablation (between the right and left
superior PVs).

Procedure: CFAE ablation

Ablation catheter was maintained in a stable position when the electrograms were
being recorded for at least 5 s to avoid artifacts.The procedural endpoint of
CFAEs was the complete elimination of fragmented atrial activity in local
electrograms.

Procedure: linear ablation

Right atrial CTI ablation was performed during SR.

Device: CARTO

3 dimensional mapping system

Recruitment Status: Recruiting

Sponsor: Shanghai Chest Hospital

Information provided by (Responsible Party): wang yuanlong, Shanghai Chest
Hospital

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Health Daily Digest. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 HT Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


