                              407 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Sunbury & Macedon Ranges Weekly

                           September 1, 2015 Tuesday
                         WKL Sunbury & Macedon Edition

DiagnostiCare provides top-qua...

BYLINE: Eleanor Tabone

SECTION: EGN; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 321 words


DiagnostiCare provides top-quality medical imaging and procedural care for
residents in the northern and western suburbs.

"We're the closest MRI facility to Sunbury and Gisborne and are experts in pain
management and pain injections, with a strong referral base from all over
Melbourne," says practice manager Rod Truran.

Established in 2010, DiagnostiCare has state-of-the-art equipment, providing
hospital-grade medical imaging and procedural care for patients.

Services include MRI, CT (including cardiac CT imaging and calcium scoring),
ultrasounds, interventional imaging (including pain injections), X-rays,
mammography, OPG and dexa imaging.

"We practise industry-leading medical imaging, with quality and thoroughness the
main focus," says radiologist and practice owner Dr Stephen Fasulakis.

"We take no short cuts and patients who come to us inevitably return to us and
become loyal clients."

Patients can also receive treatment for pain management, and there's a
paediatric radiologist, as well as head and neck cancer-imaging specialists, on
site.

"Patients are often examined prior to their procedures, adding value to the
diagnosis provided," Dr Fasulakis said. "The thoroughness of our examinations
frequently leads to the discovery of important diagnostic information that would
otherwise have been overlooked if the study was performed in a rushed manner."

With a strong focus on patient care, DiagnostiCare offers bulk-billing on most
examinations for all local residents.

"It has developed into the go-to practice in the northern and western suburbs
for coronary artery imaging, pain management procedures and musculoskeletal
imaging," says Mr Truran.

DiagnostiCare has a strong relationship with referring clinicians, and it uses a
portal system which gives doctors the opportunity to view images and reports
without the patient having to deliver them.

Appointments are readily available and there is on site free parking.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


