                              402 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                         May 5, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

CareFusion Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2014 Results

LENGTH: 1027  words


May 5 -- CareFusion Corp. (NYSE: CFN), a leading, global medical technology
company, today reported financial results for its third quarter of fiscal 2014,
ended March 31, 2014.

"Our team continued to make progress during the quarter, and as a result, we are
well positioned to finish the fiscal year strong," said Kieran T. Gallahue,
chairman and CEO. "The entire Procedural Solutions segment once again
outperformed our expectations, delivering its seventh consecutive quarter of
organic growth. Medical Systems revenue was below our expectations as we
continued to roll out our new Dispensing Technologies platform and refine our
installation processes in partnership with our customers. We are encouraged by
the positive feedback we're receiving and continue to see momentum building. We
have achieved an all-time record backlog in Dispensing, giving us confidence as
we prepare to close out the fourth quarter and enter fiscal 2015."



Third Quarter Results

CareFusion reported third quarter fiscal 2014 revenue of $968 million, compared
to $901 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2013, a 7 percent increase
on both a reported and constant currency basis.

Compared to the prior year period, operating income increased 18 percent to $159
million. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating income decreased 2
percent to $196 million, with revenue mix negatively affecting the company's
operating margins during the quarter. On a sequential basis, adjusted operating
income improved 8 percent from the second quarter.

Operating expenses totaled $314 million, an 8 percent decrease from the prior
year period during which the company recorded a one-time reserve associated with
a government settlement. Excluding nonrecurring items, adjusted operating
expenses were $284 million, an increase of 3 percent over the prior year period,
primarily driven by operating expenses from the recent acquisitions of Vital
Signs, a manufacturer of single-patient-use consumables for respiratory care and
anesthesiology, and Sendal, an infusion specialty disposable manufacturer in
Spain.

The company reported income from continuing operations of $102 million, or $0.48
per diluted share. Adjusted income from continuing operations totaled $127
million and increased 2 percent to $0.60 per diluted share.

Medical Systems

Third quarter revenue for the Medical Systems segment decreased 2 percent to
$571 million on a reported and constant currency basis compared to a strong
prior year in both the Infusion Systems and Respiratory Technologies business
lines. The Dispensing Technologies business line was even with the prior year as
it continued to manage a product line transition during the quarter.

Segment profit for the quarter was $104 million, as revenue mix negatively
affected segment margins. Adjusted segment profit decreased to $118 million.

Procedural Solutions

Third quarter revenue for the Procedural Solutions segment was $397 million, a
25 percent increase from the prior year period on a reported and constant
currency basis. The top-line results were driven by the segment's clinically
differentiated portfolio and contributions from recent acquisitions.

Segment profit for the quarter was $55 million, an increase of 2 percent.
Adjusted segment profit grew 26 percent to $78 million.

Nine-Month Results

For the first nine months of fiscal 2014, revenue increased 3 percent to $2.72
billion, compared to $2.65 billion in the prior year period. Operating income
totaled $427 million. Income from continuing operations was $277 million, or
$1.29 per diluted share. Adjusted income from continuing operations was $339
million, or $1.58 per diluted share.

Operating expenses in the first nine months totaled $935 million, or $853
million on an adjusted basis.

Within the Medical Systems segment, revenue decreased 3 percent from the prior
year period to $1.68 billion. Segment profit was $287 million and totaled $332
million on an adjusted basis.

Revenue for the Procedural Solutions segment increased 14 percent from the prior
year period to $1.04 billion. Segment profit totaled $140 million. On an
adjusted basis, segment profit increased 13 percent to $187 million.

Recent Highlights

Additional third quarter and recent highlights included:

* Completing the acquisition of the Vital Signs division of GE Healthcare in the
majority of geographies worldwide, helping to create additional scale in
respiratory care and anesthesiology delivery consumables and increasing the
company's presence outside of the U.S.

* Continuing to expand the company's Procedural Solutions portfolio with
multiple new product introductions for Interventional Specialties, surgical
instrumentation and Infection Prevention, including SurFlash safety peripheral
IV catheters.

* Completing an investment for a 40 percent minority stake in Caesarea Medical
Electronics (CME), an Israeli manufacturer of compact and highly portable
infusion and syringe pumps for homecare and hospital settings.

* Installing the first live instance of bidirectional infusion pump
interoperability between the Alaris System and Epic Electronic Medical Record
(EMR) software, helping to improve patient safety and streamline the traditional
workflow for administering intravenous medications.

* Partnering with more than 100 U.S. hospitals to complete a six-month
assessment of surgical skin preparation practices as part of the CareFusion
Focus on Quality Care Program, a service designed to help hospitals reduce or
eliminate variability in processes and have less waste, fewer errors and better
outcomes.

* Receiving the #1 Medication Dispensing Cabinet ranking by nurses in a recent
study from KLAS, an independent research company. According to nurses surveyed
for the report, the Pyxis MedStation system outperformed all competition in
overall product quality, ease of use, and reliability/uptime and earned the
clear number one ranking in terms of overall performance and quality.

* Investing $103 million to repurchase 2.5 million shares during the quarter
under a two-year, $750 million share repurchase program. To date in fiscal 2014,
the company invested $444 million to repurchase 11.5 million shares.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


