                              405 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              May 10, 1988 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

PRACTICE NO LONGER PERFECT

BYLINE: JOHN McLEOD

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 939 words


IN THE medical profession it has always been an unstated rule that specialists
and general practitioners should present a united front: politicians must never
be allowed to glimpse a gap in the ranks. It was said that the socialisation of
medicine in the UK occurred because a wedge was driven between the two and the
GPs caved in.

Recently the South Australian Minister for Health, Dr Cornwall, made what seems
to be a reasoned statement recommending that the role of the GP be redefined and
his remuneration increased. He added that it seemed likely that some specialists
were earning from four to 10 times what most GPs did.

The president of the Australian Medical Association (AMA), Dr Pickering, a
surgeon, responded that this was simply an attempt to divide the profession. I
believe that the medical profession has been divided for a long time and that to
admit it can do no harm and may well do good.

As the medical profession stands today, GP and specialist have little in common
beyond the medical degree they were awarded at graduation. From the moment that
a graduate decides to be either a specialist or a GP there is a parting of the
ways - the two will live quite different lives, see a totally different aspect
of society and illness, and they will have hugely different incomes,
expect-ations and lifestyles. By and large the specialist's mother, the general
public, and frequently the specialist himself, will see him as a cut above an
ordinary GP.

In the medical pecking order the equation is: specialist is to GP is as officer
to NCO; as archbishop to parish priest; as QC is to Rumpole. It seems that
knowing a lot about a little is more valuable than knowing a little about a lot.
Or that knowing about people is not so important as knowing how to operate on
them. None of this is being said out of sour grapes because I have had 35
satisfying years in general practice.

In the public debate doctors are all seen as being alike - especially when
thought to be greedy, uncaring, unavailable or putting themselves before the
public interest. It is time to say that we are almost two different professions
with quite different problems, and cannot be lumped together.

Some specialists earn five to 10 times as much as the average GP. Perhaps they
are right in believing that their skills justify it, but I think they compare
their situation with the business executive in the house next door -his
superannuation, his overseas travel at someone else's expense, and his BMW or
Porsche. I doubt whether they care very much about what a GP may be worth.

Things have changed. Once many city surgeons began as GPs and continued as
family doctors even whey they were specialists on public hospitals. There were
very few full-time specialists. In the past 40 years they have proliferated, but
now they must make their decision to stream into a speciality or general
practice while still hospital residents. Never again the twain shall meet.

Politicians of all colours have done much to erode general practice. John Gorton
introduced the differential rebate so that specialists were paid more than GPs
for doing the same thing. Where were the specialists protesting about this? Now,
except in country areas, a GP is not expected to deliver a baby, give an
anaesthetic, remove an appendix or perform emergency surgery. And just as well!
The system has made it almost impossible for a GP to get the necessary training.

Through all these years of change the AMA, in all its dealings with the attempts
of governments to socialise the profession and control its fees, has clung fast
to two basic tenets - firstly, fee-for-service, and secondly the unity of
specialist and GP.

It is time to say that specialists' problems and GPs' problems have little in
common and may well require different solutions. While Dr Bruce Shepherd is busy
fighting to preserve specialists' incomes and status I fear he is also
preserving mine in its present state, which is rock-bottom. And while he may be
doing the right thing for procedural specialists, I think there may be better
ways for me and other GPs.

GPs, with few exceptions, can now derive their income only from consultations in
the office or in the home, and their income from this is tightly restricted by
almost insurmountable pressures. They do not benefit, as do many procedural
specialists, from technological advances such as ultrasound, CT scans, pathology
tests, endoscopy, lens implants and the like -their main diagnostic tool remains
the human ear.

General practice is an institution worth preserving, but I foresee that this may
be better achieved through a salaried system where the GP is adequately paid,
given holiday pay, sick leave and superannuation rather than through
fee-for-service. At the same time the GPs' qualifications and training should be
those as laid down by the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners and
its Quality Care program. It should not be open to anyone, whether trained here
or overseas, with only the bare minimum of medical qualifications.

Specialists, on the other hand, wish to preserve their present status. They, and
the health service, would be better off if they were allowed by the Government
to be in the public hospital system, at whatever reasonable pay negotiated.
Moreover, private insurance should again be encouraged so that the specialist
would continue to be reasonably reimbursed through the private medical system.

But none of their options is available to, or would help, the GP. The general
practitioners' day of procedural work is over, and neither governments of the
day nor the specialists did anything to help preserve it.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1988 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


