                              401 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                           November 24, 2009 Tuesday
                         1 - All-round Country Edition

Scientist wins fight with health bosses

BYLINE: Leigh Dayton

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 410 words


Dr Tuch said researchers were reluctant to fight back

IN a scientific David and Goliath battle, a NSW diabetes researcher took the
health department, his employer, to court after the closure of his laboratory --
and won.

Endocrinologist and stem cell scientist Bernie Tuch claimed he had been the
victim of bias and procedural unfairness after the department closed his
Diabetes Transplant Unit at Sydney's Prince of Wales hospital over allegations
of unethical research.

In his judgment, handed down on November 12, NSW Supreme Court judge Peter
Johnson agreed with Dr Tuch, finding a report detailing the allegations was
biased, and ruling against the NSW Health Department's South Eastern Sydney
Illawarra Area Health Service.

Dr Tuch said researchers were reluctant ``to fight back'' when their employers
took such action against them.

The report was produced by a committee, established by area health chief
executive Terry Clout and chaired by University of NSW associate dean Terry
Campbell.

The disputed research was aimed at helping young people with type 1 diabetes
overcome the need for insulin injections by giving them insulin-producing cells
placed in protective microcapsules. The result of the early phase-one trial
found the procedure safe, and participants wanting further transplants to help
control their disease.

A total of 15 scientists, research assistants and students worked in the
Diabetes Transplant Unit before it was closed.

Justice Johnson found Dr Tuch had not been allowed to respond to the report's
allegations. He also found that last December, area health circulated the
negative report to UNSW and the NSW Medical Board.

Justice Johnson found ``reasonable apprehension of bias'' due to the involvement
of Robyn Ward, director of research for area health's Northern Hospital Network.

The judge ruled that area health must pay 80 per cent of Dr Tuch's legal costs.

According to Dr Tuch, the work targeted by area health had been approved by its
ethics committee in 2005. The research results were published last month in
Diabetes Care.

A spokesperson for Area Health noted that Justice Johnson dealt only with
questions of procedural fairness, and failed to find ``any person acted with
malice or impropriety'' towards Dr Tuch.

Despite long-running tensions between Dr Tuch and Area Health, the situation
boiled over last January when negotiations to keep his unit alive hit rock
bottom. He began proceedings in the Supreme Court last July.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


