                              400 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                            April 27, 1985 Saturday

DOCTORS MEET ON 'FINAL' OFFER

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 416 words


Doctors meet on "final' offer SYDNEY._ Surgeons here today will vote by secret
ballot whether to accept the Federal Government's $166 million package and go
back to work in New South Wales public hospitals. About 1500 doctors throughout
the State have withdrawn their services over the effects of Medicare on their
incomes and on the operation of public hospitals. The Council of Procedural
Specialists president, Dr Bruce Shepherd, said he received a letter yesterday
from the Prime Minister, Mr Hawke, and the NSW Premier, Mr Wran, in response to
his request for clarification of several outstanding issues in the Medicare
dispute. ""It doesn't clarify a lot of things but until I discuss it with my
colleagues I can't say much more," he said last night. The issues yet to be
clarified, according to the rebel doctors, include a timetable for repeal of
sections of the Medicare legislation and whether the State Government will
deregulate private hospitals through repeal or amendment of State legislation.
Mr Hawke repeated in his letter to Dr Shepherd his warning that the joint
Federal-New South Wales offer is final and that there will be no further
negotiations on the package. The Australian Medical Association accepted the
Government package and last week released progressive figures from an
Australia-wide ballot of doctors which showed 80 percent believed the NSW
surgeons should withdraw their resignations. Dr Shepherd said today's meeting at
the University of New South Wales would be addressed by representatives from the
private insurance industry and private hospitals, and the Federal Opposition
health spokesman, Mr Porter. Invitations to Mr Hawke and Mr Wran to attend were
still open, but both of them, along with the AMA, had declined to attend. Mr
Hawke said in his letter that once a return to work took place matters of detail
and the legislative amendments required could be finalised with the medical
profession. He said he understood the AMA had invited the Procedural Specialists
to be represented during this consultation and he urged doctors to return to
work so it could begin. Mr Hawke said legislation had been drafted on gap
insurance and inpatient fees and could be placed before Parliament immediately
there was a resumption of work. Moves to deregulate private hospitals at a
federal level would require negotiation with the private hospitals and the
health insurance funds. Legislation covering this could be expected in the
Budget session.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


