                              406 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                              June 9, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

David Carradine episode airs on Mental

BYLINE: Alex Strachan, Canwest News Service

SECTION: NEWS; Fine Tuning - Today on TV; Pg. B6

LENGTH: 459  words


Every so often, a very ordinary TV series finds itself in extraordinary
circumstances.

That's the situation tonight facing Mental, the slow-burning psychodrama about
life in a big-city hospital's psychiatric unit. In the series, British-born
Chris Vance plays Dr. Jack Gallagher, a hot, dynamic, rules-breaking therapist
used to dealing with lost souls and missing minds. In a House-ian twist,
Annabella Sciorra plays his hospital-administrator boss, who also happens to be
his ex.

Tonight's episode finds Gallagher treating a famous writer, professor and
philosopher, played by David Carradine. Carradine's character has been struck by
lightning, and has lapsed into a catatonic state. Gallagher tries a risky
unorthodox treatment that may do the patient more harm than good.

Complicating matters, so to speak, is a growing physical attraction between
Gallagher and the patient's daughter, played by Estella Warren.

So far, it doesn't sound any different than any number of other TV medical
procedurals. Mental isn't doing anything House hasn't done countless times
before, and better.

But the presence of Carradine -- who died late last week under mysterious
circumstances in a hotel room in Thailand -- has suddenly thrust Mental into the
media eye.

The Fox Network has said it will go ahead with tonight's broadcast as scheduled,
but will include some kind of testimonial at the end of the episode. Global TV
airs Mental in Canada.

Carradine's sudden death Wednesday has prompted more questions than answers
about the character actor's real-life state of mind, which is why the network
reportedly reconsidered airing tonight's episode.

Mental isn't half the show Kung Fu was, of course, but in its own way, it's
representative of its time. True to TV tradition, tonight's story is --
presumably -- neatly wrapped up at the end. Real life, alas, is rarely so
simple. (9p.m., Fox, Global)

Stephen Colbert's guest tonight on The Colbert Report is TBA, which only makes
sense when you think about it. Colbert is based in Iraq all week. At an
undisclosed location, no less. Does al-Qaeda in Mesopotamia know about this? The
Colbert Nation lives on. (12:35 a.m., CTV)

NCIS, the oddly popular procedural about the U.S. navy's criminal investigative
service, repeats a timely outing from November, Dagger, in which the team tracks
down a spy bent on stealing government secrets. How popular is NCIS, you ask? An
NCIS spinoff, set in Los Angeles and starring rapper LL Cool J, will bow in this
fall. (8p.m., CBS, Global)

Brainless summer movies got you down? Try a brainless summer TV show instead.
Watchman: The Motion Comic is a new animated series that hopes to do for the
Watchmen comic book series what The Clone Wars did for the Star Wars franchise.
(10p.m., Space)

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

