                              412 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                  New Orleans City Business (New Orleans, LA)

                          November 18, 2015 Wednesday

Local health care providers report smooth coding transition, for now

BYLINE: Ashley Roe, Reporter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 873  words


The dust has settled on the medical community's roll-out of the ICD-10 diagnosis
and procedural coding system, and area hospitals have reported no major
logistical snafus more than a month after the mandated transition.

They caution, however, that it's still too early to evaluate the full financial
impact of the switch.

On Oct. 1, all medical entities covered by the Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act transitioned to using ICD-10 diagnosis and procedure codes
when submitting claims to insurers.

ICD-10 stands for International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Edition. The
worldwide diagnostic coding and procedural system was implemented by the World
Health Organization in 1993.

Providers in the metro region and across the country voiced concerns about
potential technology breakdowns and interruptions in insurance reimbursement
ahead of the switch.

More than six weeks later, two major New Orleans hospital systems and a
community health care center reported relatively smooth roll-outs amid
monitoring of long-term effects.

At Ochsner Health System, Vicki Kaplan, vice president of health information
management, said the more than $10 million investment Ochsner poured into
transition efforts was well worth it. It included technology upgrades, staff
training and other preparations.

"In hindsight, the roll-out went as well as we hoped it would," she said. "We
were worried there was something we did not consider, but it was very smooth. "

Kaplan said there were some instances of specific ICD-10 codes being rejected by
insurance companies during claims submission, but staff members were able to
resolve the issues fast and efficiently.

Kaplan said Ochsner is now focused on monitoring and measuring the long-term
effects of the switch.

"It's still very early and we don't want to get too into declaring a success,"
Kaplan said. "But so far, we feel like we put in the time, effort and money
needed for a smooth transition. "

At Jefferson Community Health Care Centers, CEO Shondra Williams reported a
similar experience.

"It's really 'business as usual' right now with the notion that we will evaluate
the financial impact at a later date as the information becomes available," she
said.

Williams said JCHCC noticed a slight increase in workflow time spent per patient
due to converting ICD-9 codes to ICD-10 codes in an ongoing training crosswalk
JCHCC staff underwent.

"Our productivity numbers have not changed, but the timeframe in serving the
patient has," she said, citing a 15 to 20 minute increase in patient workflow
time due to the conversion.

Williams said the health care center is planning to deploy a new electronic
medical record system next year. Among other benefits, the new system will help
improve coding efficiency and streamline patient workflow.

Across LCMC Health facilities, chief financial officer Suzanne Haggard reported
that the transition went well. LCMC Health manages four New Orleans hospitals,
including University Medical Center, Touro, Children's Hospital and New Orleans
East Hospital.

"Our team was well prepared for the ICD-10 implementation on Oct. 1 and we have
not encountered any significant issues thus far," Haggard said in a statement.
"We are continuing to monitor, audit and collaborate across the system to
maintain this smooth transition. "

Haggard has said LCMC facilities spent well over two years training its coding
staff for the conversion. Efforts included setting up ICD-10 boot camps, ongoing
dual coding in the ICD-9 and ICD-10 systems, traditional coursework, one-on-one
training, submitting test claims to insurers and other measures.

The organization also spent considerable time educating other staff including
nurses, registration staff, department directors and hospital management. It
also invested heavily in what Haggard called a "post-go-live" strategy, bringing
in extra staffing resources to be on hand as a safety net during roll-out.

Nationwide, trade media outlets reported it was mostly a smooth transition
across the board for many health care organizations, far from the initial
worries over a Y2K-like breakdown.

According to an Oct. 29 update from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services, all Medicare and Medicaid claims were processing normally. However,
because of a standard two-week payment delay in Medicare claims and an up to
30-day delay in standard Medicaid claims processing, CMS stated it would be
gathering more information on the effects of the transition sometime this month.

The ICD-10 coding transition ultimately allows providers to capture more details
about the health status of their patients to improve patient care and public
health surveillance, according to CMS.

The new code set covers diagnoses and procedures in greater detail and scope
than those in the previous ICD-9 system and incorporates updated medical
terminology. The update added roughly 55,000 new diagnosis codes into the
system, expanding the code set from about 14,000 to about 68,000. Procedure
codes expanded from about 4,000 to roughly 87,000.

To sign up for free CityBusiness Daily Updates, click here.

http://www.neworleanscitybusiness.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more
from this resource.

© 2015 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

