                              411 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                           October 6, 2010 Wednesday

French legislation concerning reimbursement for planned healthcare treatment in
another Member State is compatible with EU law

LENGTH: 968  words

DATELINE: Brussels


Brussels, Oct. 06 -- European Commission has issued following Press Release:

The Commission brought an action against France before the Court for failure to
fulfil obligations, taking the view that some provisions of national law
relating to the reimbursement of certain planned treatment - that is to say,
treatment that the insured person proposes to obtain in a Member State other
than France - are contrary to European Union law.

In the first place, the Commission considered that the provisions of the French
Social Security Code making reimbursement in respect of treatment planned,
outside a hospital setting, in another Member State subject to prior
authorisation by the competent French institution when that treatment requires
the use of major medical equipment are contrary to the freedom to provide
services1. That includes, for example, nuclear magnetic resonance imaging or
spectrometry apparatus used to detect and treat, in particular, cancer, certain
cerebral palsies etc.

In that regard, the Court finds that, in accordance with its settled case-law,
medical services supplied for consideration fall within the ambit of freedom to
provide services, and there is no need to distinguish treatment provided in a
hospital environment from treatment provided outside such an environment.

It points out that the freedom to provide services includes the freedom for the
recipients of services, including persons in need of medical treatment, to go to
another Member State in order to receive those services there without being
hampered by restrictions. The prior authorisation required under French
legislation for reimbursement in respect of medical treatment involving the use
of major medical equipment is capable of deterring, or even preventing, persons
insured under the French system from applying to providers of medical services
established in another Member State, which in fact constitutes a restriction of
the freedom to provide services.

However, regardless of the setting, hospital or otherwise, in which it is
installed and used, it must be possible for the major medical equipment
exhaustively listed in the Public Health Code to be the subject of planning
policy, such as that defined by the French legislation, with particular regard
to quantity and geographical distribution, in order to help ensure throughout
national territory a rationalised, stable, balanced and accessible supply of
up-to-date treatment, and also to avoid, so far as possible, any waste of
financial, technical and human resources. For example, the cost of purchasing
and using the equipment necessary for detecting and treating cancer comes to
thousands, even millions, of euro.

Consequently, having regard to the dangers both to the organisation of public
health policy and to the balance of the financial social security system, the
requirement of prior authorisation for that kind of treatment is, as European
Union law now stands, a justified restriction.

The Court notes, however, that a prior authorisation scheme must be based on
objective, non-discriminatory criteria known in advance, in such a way as to
circumscribe the exercise of the

1 France, supported by Spain, Finland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, challenges the grounds of that head of claim.

www.curia.europa.eu

national authorities' discretion so that it is not used arbitrarily. Such a
system must, furthermore, be based on a procedural system which is easily
accessible and capable of ensuring for the persons concerned that a request for
authorisation will be dealt with objectively and impartially within a reasonable
time, and it must, in addition, be possible for refusals to grant authorisation
to be challenged in judicial proceedings. In the present case, the Commission
has not put forward any specific criticism of the French procedural and
substantive rules regulating the prior authorisation measure.

In the second place, the Commission maintained that France had not given effect
to the Court's decision that, if the reimbursement of costs incurred for
hospital services provided in the Member State of stay, calculated under the
rules in force in that State, is less than the amount which application of the
legislation in force in the Member State of affiliation would afford to a person
receiving hospital treatment in that State, additional reimbursement covering
that difference must be granted to the insured person by that institution2.

On that point, the Court observes that the French legislation provides that a
patient may receive, in respect of hospital treatment provided in another Member
State, reimbursement on the same conditions as if the treatment had been
received in France, and within the limits of the costs actually incurred by the
person insured. Thus those provisions include entitlement to an additional
reimbursement to be paid by the competent French institution when there is a
difference between the levels of social cover in the State of affiliation and
the State of the place of the hospital treatment, as referred to in the Court's
case-law.

That finding is borne out by the fact that the Commission has identified no
provisions of national law constituting an obstacle to the Court's decisions.
Likewise, the Commission has not mentioned any decisions given by French courts
denying that right to an additional reimbursement or any administrative practice
whatsoever that could have deprived insured persons of that right.

Consequently, the Commission's action against France is dismissed in its
entirety.

For more information please contact info@plusmediasolutions.co Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


