                              42 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Missouri Lawyers Media

                                  June 9, 2009

Missouri Court of Appeals Eastern District: Egan v. St. Anthony's Medical Center

BYLINE: Stephanie Maniscalco

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 325  words


Administrative

Egan v. St. Anthony's Medical Center (Case No. ED92207 - 22 pages) (Missouri
Court of Appeals, Eastern District, Cohen, J.)

Hospital Bylaws - 'Substantial Compliance' - Judicial Review

Where a doctor sought an order requiring a hospital to hold a new hearing on the
revocation of his staff privileges and to recall reports submitted by the
hospital to the state medical board, the trial court properly found that the
hospital substantially complied with its own bylaws, so the court did not err in
denying the doctor's request for injunctive relief.

Judgment is affirmed.

Limited judicial review

"We agree that the test for substantial compliance focuses on the hospital's
adherence to those bylaws that set forth basic procedural protections, such as
notice, hearing, and appeal procedures. Conversely, a hospital's 'technical'
violations or minor irregularities in procedural compliance will generally not
constitute a failure of substantial compliance....

"We reemphasize the Supreme Court's declaration in Egan I that it would 'not
impose judicial review on the merits of a hospital's staffing decisions . . . .
' This limited form of judicial review is in harmony with courts from other
jurisdictions that have expressed a reluctance to substitute their judgment for
the superior professional judgment of hospital officials in evaluating hospital
staff decisions...Consistent with this rationale, we agree that if a hospital
substantially complies with its bylaws, the adversely affected medical staff
member is not entitled to equitable relief and a reviewing court may not reweigh
the evidence or interfere with the hospital's decision on the merits. "

Judgment is affirmed.

Egan v. St. Anthony's Medical Center (Case No. ED92207 - 22 pages) (Missouri
Court of Appeals, Eastern District, Cohen, J.) Appealed from circuit court, St.
Louis County, Sherry, J. (Alan Kimbrell for appellant) (Neal F. Perryman and
Evan Z. Reid for respondent).

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

