                              417 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                               Stoke The Sentinel

                            December 2, 2016 Friday

Darren died days after seizure in police custody

SECTION: AGENCY:OTHER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 630  words


THE mother of a 43-year-old man who died after suffering a seizure in custody
has accused Staffordshire Police of treating her son 'worse than a dog'.

Diane Aqueel says her faith in the police has been 'completely shattered' after
listening to four weeks of evidence at the inquest into the death of Darren
Lyons.

Darren was arrested following a stand-off at his Kidsgrove home in January, 2014
and taken to the force's Northern Area Custody Facility - despite his family
warning he had stopped taking his medication and needed urgent medical help.

Lawyers claimed that during Darren's seven-hour detention he  was left
half-naked on his cell floor and covered in his own faeces before his seizure
went unobserved. Darren,right, was resuscitated at the custody suite but died in
hospital three days later.

Staffordshire Police have now admitted 'procedural shortcomings' in Darren's
care and three officers have faced disciplinary hearings.

Following yesterday's inquest verdict, Diane said: "I was brought up to have
such faith in the police but that faith has been completely shattered. I truly
believed Darren was safe and would receive the medical help he needed.

"It is vile to think about how he was left to die, naked and covered in his own
faeces on a cell floor. No dignity, no care, nothing. They treated him worse
than a dog.

"His death and the actions of Staffordshire Police have knocked everything out
of me. I had to find out about the condition of my son, who was critically ill,
fighting for his life, in The Sentinel. I rang the police to inquire which
hospital my son was admitted to and no-one to this day has ever contacted me or
apologised."

Armed police descended on Darren's Beech Drive home after reports he had an air
rifle and a knife and was making threats to kill.

Darren had a history of mental health problems  and alcohol dependency.

The family was represented by the Inquest campaign group, which supports
families affected by deaths in custody. The group's lawyers argued observations
in Darren's cell were 'insufficient', questioned why a  medical examination was
not carried out and criticised the 'inaccurate' handover. Lawyer Gemma Vine
said: "This case illustrates the lack of understanding in custodial settings of
those who have complex medical needs. The seriousness of Darren's presentation
was clearly evident and he was undoubtedly in need of help. Custody was not the
right place for him. He should have been transferred to hospital at the very
outset."

The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) carried out its own
inquiries into policies after Darren's death.

It was found one custody sergeant  failed to properly assess and manage Darren's
health risk during detention, while a second custody sergeant  failed to conduct
an appropriate risk assessment. A police custody detention officer also attended
a disciplinary hearing after being criticised for his cell checks and the
accuracy of his record keeping.

Assistant Chief Constable Emma Barnett said: "We acknowledge there were some
procedural shortcomings in how Mr Lyons was dealt with in custody. Two officers
faced a misconduct meeting following the death of Mr Lyons. One of the officers
received management advice and a second received a written warning. A
considerable amount of work has been undertaken since January 2014 by the force
and those that work with us, so that we are better equipped to understand and
deal with complex needs. In addition, many improvements have been made to the
broader custody process."

Delivering its verdict, the jury criticised 'insufficient' observations and
questioned why his cell door was closed. The jury found Darren died from a
cardiac arrest due to his seizure. He had suffered from a combination of
'prolonged alcohol and drug misuse'.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CALL OUT: Police were called to a stand-off at Darren Lyons' home in
Beech Drive, Kidsgrove.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


