                              414 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 8, 2015 Saturday

US Contract Notice: Defense Logistics Agency (Pennsylvania) Issues Solicitation
for "DePuy Synthes Spine, Cranial Maxillofacial and Trauma "Procedural
Packages""

LENGTH: 505  words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Defense Logistics Agency, DLA Acquisition Locations Officer has issued
requirement for "DePuy Synthes Spine, Cranial Maxillofacial and Trauma "
Procedural Packages""

Solicitation no. SPE2DE15R0010

Notice Type: Sources Sought
Posted Date:
August 6, 2015
Response Date:
Sep 08, 2015 3:00 pm Eastern

Description:
The Defense Logistics Agency - Troop Support is seeking sources capable of
providing  DePuy Synthes Spine, Cranial and maxillofacial and Trauma "procedural
packages".  These "procedural packages" include Orthopedic Implants,
Instrumentation Sets and Auxiliary products (such as drill bits, saw blades,
bone cement, etc.) that are necessary for the orthopedic surgery. The
instruments are purchased by the hospital so they are readily available on the
shelves.
All products offered must be Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved.
Orthopedic products must be delivered "Just-In-Time," "Direct Vendor Delivery",
and "Consignment". Under "Just-In-Time" delivery, the Medical Treatment Facility
(MTF) calls the manufacturer's field representative who carries the products
into the MTF just-in-time for the surgery. The manufacturer's sales
representative may bring many sizes and types of implants and auxiliary products
to the surgery along with the instrumentation sets. Under the "Direct Vendor
Delivery" method an order for products is placed through ECAT and the product is
delivered directly to the customer via any transportation carrier. Under the
"Consignment" method, an MTF have the products that make up the "procedural set"
consigned to their facility.
At the request of the MTF, the manufacturer is required to have a qualified
representative on site at the MTF's within the timeframe specified by the
facility necessary to meet their requirements. The manufacturer's representative
provides technical advice and guidance to the physician before, during, and
after implantation. Furthermore, technical support is available twenty-four (24)
hours a day, seven (7) days a week. The DePuy Synthes Sales Representatives are
experts on the vendor's products and are a vital part of helping to ensure that
the patient is getting the necessary treatment.  Sources must have direct
control over a sales force that is knowledgeable in DePuy Synthes products.
This is a request for information (RFI) and does not commit the U.S. Government
to issue a solicitation, make an award, or pay any costs associated with
responding to this announcement. All submitted information shall remain with the
U.S. Government and will not be returned.
Your response to this Request for Information may be submitted electronically in
PDF format and emailed to charles.reimer@dla.mil

Set Aside: N/A

The NAICS code number for this requirement: 339

Contact Details: 700 Robbins Avenue Philadelphia,
 Pennsylvania 19111-5096 United States

Point of Contact(s): Charles Reimer,
 Contracting Officer Charles.Reimer@dla.mil Phone: 215.737.5495

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


