                              413 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 21, 1991 Saturday

OHIP: Don't leave home with it

BYLINE: TERENCE CORCORAN; GAM

LENGTH: 843 words


TERENCE CORCORAN
 ONTARIO'S universal and comprehensive health care system is about to cut
off most of the universe. As of Oct. 1, Ontario residents travelling or
living outside Canada will no longer be entitled to the full benefits of
the Ontario Health Insurance Plan. Under the new rules, an Ontario
resident forced to spend time and $28,000 in a U.S. hospital as a result
of a car accident would get OHIP coverage of only $5,000, the new limit
set by the Ontario government.

Since U.S. hospital care can run to $3,000 a day, the risks are high.

The unceremonious elimination of out-of-country coverage is the latest
in an increasing number of initiatives Canadian provinces are taking as
they stare down the throat of the uncontrollable, centrally planned health
care system. What should Ontario residents do to protect themselves now
when they're outside Canada? An official in the ministry of Health
Minister Frances Lankin offered some blunt advice in a Toronto newspaper:
"We advise everyone to carry extra insurance."

The province paid $225-million to U.S. doctors and health services last
year. Now most of that cost will have to be picked up by individuals, who
must either buy private insurance plans costing hundreds or even thousands
of dollars or pay the full cost of out-of-country health care themselves,
a prospect that could bankrupt some people.

The Ontario move raises some interesting constitutional, ethical,
medical, procedural and economic issues.

Constitutional issue: Choose one of the following: As far as medicare
is concerned, the province of Ontario is (a) unwaveringly committed to
federal principles of Canadian medicare, (b) willing to bend the
principles a little here and there, (c) it's hard to tell.

Rhetoric-wise, the province seems totally committed to the federal
health system. In its discussion paper released yesterday on the need for
a Canadian social charter, Ontario makes much of the government's desire
to enshrine universal medicare as a Canadian constitutional principle. The
paper lists the five basic principles of medicare found in the Canada
Health Act, including comprehensiveness (coverage of all medically
required services) and universality (provided to all residents).

These principles should be entrenched in the constitution, the paper
suggests, to ensure that all governments across Canada adhere to basic
national principles. But is the new OHIP out-of-country policy consistent
with the requirement that health insurance cover "all residents" for "all
medically required services?" Legally, it's hard to tell, but practically
there's little doubt that as of Oct. 1 all Ontario residents are not
covered for all services.

Ethical issue: It is one thing to limit the ability of drug addicts to
defraud the system by spending $500,000 at resort-like U.S. rehab clinics.
It is ethically another thing to strip Ontario residents of emergency
medical care just because they happen to be out of the country when the
emergency strikes. Or to suddenly tell hundreds of thousands of elderly
and retired vacationers that they must now spend large amounts on new
private health insurance.

Medical issues: Where is the Ontario Medical Association on this issue?
Supposedly dedicated to the welfare of its patients, and to the integrity
of the system, the OMA has been silent. Of course, this is no loss to
Ontario doctors. Indeed, it could mean more business for the doctors as
many Ontario residents are prevented from obtaining specialized medical
services in the United States or elsewhere. As well, uninsured Canadians
temporarily out of the country could be forced to return to Ontario for
medical care - assuming it's available.

Procedural issue: In Ontario there are waiting lists for many medical
procedures, including some that could be termed urgent, if not
emergencies. Imagine, if you will, being unwell in Florida and trying to
line up an Ontario hospital bed via fax and long-distance telephone calls.

Economic issue: One of the province's justifications for the move is
that it doesn't want to continue to pay money into the allegedly
overpriced ($3,000 a day) and profit-driven private U.S. medical system.
This gives the impression OHIP has an idea of how much it costs to keep
someone in hospital in Ontario. In any case, the Ontario ministry's daily
rate for U.S. citizens using Ontario hospitals is equivalent to U.S.
rates. At the Toronto Hospital, for example, non-residents of Canada are
required to pay up to $3,200 a day for intensive care. Hospital care may
even be cheaper in the United States - OHIP has no way of knowing.

Political issues: When Ontario and federal politicians - Premier Bob
Rae, for example, or federal Trade Minister Michael Wilson - travel
outside of Canada, will they purchase extra insurance?

One consolation is that the Ontario government decided not to
nationalize auto insurance. Had they done so, they might have applied the
same out-of-country restrictions. As of Oct. 1, therefore, Ontarians can
take comfort. If they are in an accident south of the border, their bodies
might not be covered but their cars are still protected.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1991 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


