                              415 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                             April 6, 2017 Thursday

Time to wake up

LENGTH: 952 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, April 6 -- Anaesthesiology is a field that hassuffocated inside the
operationtheatre. Graduates specialise in this subject of study with the view to
save lives. Global trends document intense competition among anaesthesiologists;
winning a postgraduate position inanaesthesia and critical care is highly
competitive. In our social context,however, the case is very different

Recently, the Ministry of Health announced 22 vacancies for anaesthesiologists.
Only two applied. We can count the number of specialists working in public
hospitals on our fingers, and most are approaching retirement. We rarely find
anaesthesiologists working outside Kathmandu Valley. The number of
anaesthesiologists in the country now stands around 250. Though the number is
slowly growing, people are still hesitant to pursue this area of specialisation.

Public perception

A look into the historical development of anaesthesia in Nepal may provide
insight into the trend of low interest in anaesthesiology. While interest in
other surgical specialities grew exponentially, the willingness of medical
graduates to pursue anaesthesiology as a career was hard hit by socio-cultural
issues. An anaesthesiologist was not perceived as a doctor; he was widely
regarded as a "gas man" who puts people to sleep. Medical graduates chose
specialities that gave them recognition as public figures. Anaesthesiologists
were the service providers behind the curtain.

The scarcity of anaesthesiologists was highlighted by a conspicuous lack of
trained specialists for surgical procedures and critical care. Only those
graduates with weaker results specialised in anaesthesiology as a secondary
choice. Though the Health Ministry introduced a provision of extra allowance for
anaesthesiologists in a bid to address the shortage, it had little success.

Today, there is only a slight improvement in the public perception of an
anaesthesiologist as a "gas man". Anaesthesiologists are overshadowed by their
surgical colleagues; the public has yet to understand that a lack of trained
anaesthesiologists can result in clinical problems and even loss of life during
surgical procedures.

Existing challenges

A shortage of trained manpower, the prevalent sociocultural context, a lack of
proper policy and interest from the government sector, weak societal awareness
and improper payment systems are some of the hindrances that need to be
addressed. Anaesthesiologists are also to be faulted for their inability to make
the public understand their plight. Globally,anaesthesiologists are the leaders
of critical care, perioperative care medicine and pain medicine. They have also
shown their acumen in the field of policy-making.

The challenges faced by this area of specialisation lie in the shortage of
manpower and safe anaesthesia care for the public. To overcome these challenges,
there is a need for a stepwise tactical approach. The government has to advocate
safe anaesthesia care. This entails, among other measures, raising public
awareness through patients' interaction with anaesthesiologists prior to
surgery.

Anaesthesiologists also need to function independently in their practice; they
need to show greater willingness to talk with patients, and to charge proper
amounts for their service instead of taking cuts from operation charges. Such an
environment can only be created through proper policy-making and implementation
that help break the socio-cultural barriers and make the care providers more
responsive and visible to the public.

Current procedural terminology

The National Anaesthesia Society (NAS) is advocating the use of current
procedural terminology in Nepal. It is a scientific system of anaesthesia
services and charges that is in place in developed countries. The NAS needs to
adapt this system for the Nepali context, making it locally relevant and easily
understandable. Backed by government policy, anaesthesia practitioners will be
answerable to the state and will be required to interact with patients and
provide quality anaesthesia services.

Anaesthesia providers will be an integral part of public hospitals. They will
actively participate in overall operative care of patients; the results will be
evident in the improved quality of patient care. This will also help break the
socio-cultural norms that are biased against anaesthesiologists, encouraging
more medical graduates to pursue the field. Once the shortage of
anaesthesiologists is addressed, some policy changes could encourage
anaesthesiologists to work in rural areas.

More flexible residency selection criteria can eliminate bottlenecks. Once they
graduate, financial and non-financial incentives can be provided as a part of an
initial programme to those willing to work in rural areas. Integration of the
current procedural terminology system in an extended health services policy can
be the best way to start this noble cause. Proper infrastructural provision with
appropriate oxygen supply systems, operating theatre set-ups, ventilators,
assistant staff and administrative support in rural areas can vastly improve the
situation of anaesthesiology in Nepal.

Efforts have been made in the past and a number of meetings have been held
between the government and the anaesthesia society, but the outcomes have been
negligible. Both parties show a lack of willingness to make necessary changes. A
pro-active mindset with a visionary approach is needed. Patients from across
Nepal are entitled to quality anaesthesia services. It's time to wake up.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from EKantipur.com. For
any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


