                              420 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            January 6, 2015 Tuesday

Massachusetts: Management Analyst III - (140000AN)

LENGTH: 1279  words

DATELINE: Boston


Division of Human Resources, The State of Massachusetts has issued the following
job opportunities:


Management Analyst III - (140000AN)
Description
 The mission of the Massachusetts Department of Public Health (DPH) is to
prevent illness, injury, and premature death, to assure access to high quality
public health and health care services, and to promote wellness and health
equity for all people in the Commonwealth.



We envision a Commonwealth in which all people enjoy optimal health.
Massachusetts ranks among the healthiest of states according to comparative
analyses, but we face numerous challenges, including chronic and infectious
disease, substance abuse, violence, preventable hospitalizations, and health
disparities.

DPH coordinates programs and policies to address specific diseases and
conditions and offer services to address the needs of vulnerable populations. We
also develop, implement, promote, and enforce regulations and policies to assure
that the conditions under which people live are most conducive to health and
enable people to make healthy choices for themselves and their families. We
license health professionals, healthcare facilities and a variety of businesses
that impact public health. We operate the state laboratory and four public
health hospitals. We monitor health status and manage vital records including
births, marriages and deaths. We educate people about public health issues and
work closely with local boards of health and community partners to identify and
solve public health problems.
This individual will be required to review and analyze information, including
operating procedures, to plan and coordinate the Associate Commissioner program
schedule and activities associated with the nine Bureau of Environmental Health
(BEH) programs, the MDPH Office of Local and Regional Health, and other
agencies, and offices within state and federal government. The individual will
be required to identify possible needs for recommended changes in the
operations, methods, and procedures with respect to the BEH Associate
Commissioner/Director programmatic and scheduling activities.  This work will
include review and analysis of current operational policies and procedures.  In
addition, the individual will be required to maintain, monitor, review, and
analyze the Associate Commissioner scheduling activities with respect to
ensuring programmatic, and procedural efficiency in BEH operations and services.
The individual will also be required to work with BEH staff, other DPH staff
(e.g., Commissioner's Office), and other internal and external stakeholders to
determine needs, propose solutions, and make appropriate recommendations related
to the Bureau's organizational responsibilities.

DETAILED STATEMENT OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:

1.    Review and analyze information, including organizational procedures, to
identify needs for organizational, scheduling, or procedural revisions.
2.    Develop and implement bureau program and administrative standards and
procedures to ensure successful organization and communication among BEH
Associate Commissioner/Director and Deputy Director and the BEH program
directors related to Associate Commissioner/Director schedule and commitments.
3.    Analyze and review Associate Commissioner/Director activities to recommend
appropriate schedule and ensure efficient operations through continuous
maintenance, monitoring, and review of ongoing or proposed activities of
Associate Commissioner/Director.
4.    Conduct necessary research to support recommended BEH organizational or
procedural policies related to BEH administrative operations.
5.    Recommend revisions to organizational and administrative policies or
procedures in consultation with BEH Associate Commissioner/Director.
6.    Assist the BEH Associate Commissioner/Director in review and analysis
related to BEH programmatic and organizational activities for their policy,
programmatic, and procedural implications for BEH.
7.    Confer with senior BEH staff in collecting and evaluating information for
public or other meetings; includes ensuring appropriate information and
materials are compiled for Associate Commissioner/Director of BEH prior to
public or other meetings.
8.    Reviews and implements bureau program and administrative standards and
procedures to ensure reliability and efficiency of BEH administrative
operations.
9.    Conduct evaluations to determine effectiveness of organizational,
scheduling, and administrative operations.
10. Provide direct supervision to employees in titles of a lower level and
conduct annual performance evaluations.
11. Regularly confer with BEH Associate Commissioner/Director and Deputy
Director regarding organizational, scheduling, and administrative operational
activities.
12. Responsible for managing all activities related to the maintenance of state
owned vehicle(s).
13. Confers with Associate Commissioner/Director to evaluate information
requests related to BEH organizational, programmatic, and administrative
activities.
14. Carry out other duties, as requested, including analyzing information as
requested, preparing reports, maintaining records, and attending meetings
related to BEH activities.
15. Formulate and prepare reports of Bureau activities for review by Bureau
Associate Commissioner/Director.
16. Adhere to Bureau protocol in responding to inquiries regarding environmental
health concerns.
17. Attend day or evening public meetings within Massachusetts, as requested,
related to BEH activities.

Qualifications

This requisition will remain open until filled; however, first consideration
will be given to those applicants that apply within the first 14 days.

MINIMUM ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS:  Applicants must have at least (A) four years of
full-time, or equivalent part-time, professional experience in work
simplification, management analysis, program analysis, methods analysis,
economic analysis, fiscal analysis, financial analysis, budget analysis, program
administration, or program management or (B) any equivalent combination of the
required experience and the substitutions below.

Substitutions:

I.  A Bachelor's degree with a major in business administration, business
management, public administration, industrial engineering or industrial
management may be substituted for a maximum of two years of the required
experience.*

II.  A Graduate degree with a major in business administration, budget
management, public administration, industrial engineering or industrial
management may be substituted for a maximum of three years of the required
experience.*

III.  A Bachelor's degree or higher degree with a major other than in business
administration, business management, public administration, industrial
engineering or industrial management may be substituted for a maximum of one
year of the required experience.*

*Education toward such a degree will be prorated on the basis of the proportion
of the requirements actually completed.

NOTE:  Educational substitutions will be permitted for a maximum of three years
of the required experience.

An Equal Opportunity / Affirmative Action Employer.  Females, minorities,
veterans, and persons with disabilities are strongly encouraged to apply.

Official Title: Management Analyst III
Work Locations
:
Boston - 250 Washington Street

  021084619
Job
: Administrative Services
Agency
: Department of Public Health
Schedule
: Full-time
Shift
: Day
Job Posting
: Jan 6, 2015, 2:15:30 AM
Number of Openings
: 1
Salary
: 54,945.8 - 79,658.54 Biweekly
Diversity Officer / ADA Coordinator Name: Juna Pierre - 6176245471

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


