                              418 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Kalgoorlie Miner (Western Australia)

                           October 17, 2007 Wednesday
                                    GENERAL

Rural health election issue

BYLINE: ALICIA BRIDGES

SECTION: MINER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 477  words


CANDIDATES from both sides of politics for the Federal seat of Kalgoorlie have
acknowledged the need to address rural health issues in the electorate.

However, neither Kalgoorlie MHR Barry Haase nor ALP candidate Sharon Thiel would
commit to a Rural Doctors Association of Australia proposal to set minimum
standards of access to health care services in the country.

With rural Australia needing an estimated 1000 doctors, the RDAA has called on
both political parties to make rural health an election centrepiece.

In partnership with the Australian Medical Association, the doctors want a
two-tiered support structure for rural GPs.

The model would comprise a "rural isolation payment" to reflect the isolation of
regional practice and a "rural procedural and emergency/on call loading" to
support procedural doctors and specialists.

Mr Haase said he supported the RDAA in its bid to attract more doctors to rural
areas, however he said the proposal required further assessment.

"There is no doubt about it that any contribution to a solution for the shortage
of doctors in the Kalgoorlie electorate is welcome," Mr Haase said.

"The proposal that has been put up needs some careful analysis."

He acknowledged the shortage was a key issue in Kalgoorlie-Boulder, but said the
government was already trying to address it by attracting overseas doctors and
streamlining their immigration process.

Mr Haase named the Shire of Leonora as one beneficiary of the Rural Medical
Infrastructure Fund which provides financial support for local governments to
attract a doctor.

"We have tried to solve this problem in many, many ways," he said.

He also said the implementation of community management in regional hospitals,
as proposed by Federal Health Minister Tony Abbott, would help ease the rural
doctor shortage because local people had greater knowledge of their specific
needs.

"Shiny bums in Perth do not care a fig about the shortage of doctors in rural
areas because when they get crook they go down to the local GP," he said.

Ms Thiel said Kalgoorlie-Boulder was facing a critical shortage of doctors,
labelling it a "key election issue".

She said she was in the process of meeting with health organisations throughout
the electorate.

"Statistics clearly show that people in rural areas have poorer health than
people living in metropolitan areas, and poorer access to health services," Ms
Thiel said.

"It's easy to see why this problem exists when the Commonwealth spends less than
$100 per person in many WA rural and remote communities, compared to the
national average of $827 per person.

"People are driving hundreds of kilometres to see a GP which just isn't
reasonable when people are unwell."

Ms Thiel said Labor's GP "super clinics", which would be established in areas
where there was under-utilisation of Medicare funded services, were an example
of what could be done.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


