                              425 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      April 21, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Medtronic Launches New Endoscopic Ablation Catheter for Barrett's Esophagus

LENGTH: 477  words


April 21 -- Medtronic (NYSE: MDT) today announced the launch of the new BarrxTM
360 Express radiofrequency ablation (RFA) balloon catheter, which can help in
the treatment of Barrett's esophagus.

The Barrx 360 Express catheter, with its self-adjusting circumferential RFA
catheter, lets gastroenterologists and surgeons provide RFA treatment more
easily and efficiently. RFA therapy removes diseased tissue while minimizing
injury[1] to healthy esophageal tissue. This treatment has been shown to reduce
the risk of Barrett's esophagus with low grade dysplasia -- a precancerous
condition that causes abnormal cell growth in the esophagus, progressing to high
grade dysplasia or esophageal adenocarcinoma, a type of cancer -- by
approximately 90%.[2]

Esophageal cancer is the fastest-growing cancer in the U.S., having increased
sixfold since the 1970s, outpacing breast cancer, prostate cancer and melanoma.3
Barrett's esophagus, which affects more than 12 million American adults,
develops as a result of chronic injury from gastroesophageal reflux disease
(GERD).[1,4]

The new design helps physicians lower procedural time by up to 20 percent 2,5 by
reducing procedural steps and enhanced ease-of-use features, including the
ability to custom fit the device to various esophagus diameter sizes. With this
tool, physicians are able to ablate Barrett's tissue more efficiently. Using RFA
to treat dysplastic Barrett's tissue has been shown to reduce the risk for
progression to high-grade dysplasia and esophageal adenocarcinoma,[2,6] the most
common type of esophageal cancer in the U.S.

"The biggest advantage of the Barrx 360 Express catheter is that it's easier to
use because of the larger, longer and adjustable balloon size," said Anthony
Infantolino, MD, AGAF, FACG, FACP, of Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in
Philadelphia. "These new features provide for a reduction in surgery time[2,5]
and the number of catheters required during RFA procedures, allowing me to
concentrate on increasing the quality of the procedure."

"In reducing the progression of dysplastic Barrett's esophagus to esophageal
cancer, the launch of the Barrx 360 Express RFA balloon catheter underscores our
commitment to patients," said Vafa Jamali, president, Early Technologies
business in the Medtronic Minimally Invasive Therapies Group. "We believe
patients and physicians will benefit from the easier-to-use technology of the
Barrx 360 Express catheter, which provides a more precise delivery of RF energy
to the targeted area."

The company is currently launching the Barrx 360 Express RFA balloon catheter in
the United States. The catheter is also expected to be available in the EU,
Australia and New Zealand in 2016.

This document has footnotes and they may be found at:
(http://newsroom.medtronic.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=251324&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=2159
148)

Source: Medtronic

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


