                              419 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly

                           January 28, 2016 Thursday

2015: Business Litigation Session year in review

BYLINE: Beth I.Z. Boland and Noah G. Brown

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1908  words


In 2015, Judge Janet L. Sanders once again led the Superior Court's Business
Litigation Session as administrative judge and shared the BLS-2 session with
Judge Christine M. Roach. Judges Mitchell H. Kaplan and Edward P. Leibensperger,
who replaced Judge Thomas P. Billings, shared the BLS-1 session.

In the first half of 2016, Kaplan will hear cases in BLS-1, and Judge Kenneth W.
Salinger will replace Roach in BLS-2.

Last year the BLS adopted additional rules relating to motions for partial
summary judgment. In addition to the existing procedural order requiring
judicial approval prior to filing such motions, effective July 1, 2015, the
moving party now must also file a "Certificate of Compliance" detailing the
steps taken by the parties to comply with the procedural order.

The BLS began and ended 2015 with decisions in two very high-profile matters.

In January, the court rejected a proposed consent judgment agreed to by
then-Attorney General Martha Coakley to allow Partners Healthcare System to
acquire South Shore Hospital and Hallmark Healthcare in Commonwealth v. Partners
Healthcare System, Inc., No. SUCV2014-02033-BLS2 (Jan. 29, 2015) (Sanders, J.).

The court found the proposed acquisitions would increase Partners' market share
and drive up prices from insurers, and cast doubt that the controls put in place
to limit price increases and further expansion by Partners would be fully
enforceable.

The decision not only affected the economic landscape of the health care
industry in Massachusetts (in the wake of the decision, Partners abandoned the
deal), but also utilized an extraordinary process for review of the settlement
agreement.

While judicial approvals of consent judgments between the AG and prospective
defendants often do not trigger intense inquiry, here the BLS not only set up a
process for the submission of comments from the public but also refrained from
deciding the matter until the new attorney general, Maura Healey, had the
opportunity to comment on the deal. And, in fact, Healey notified the court her
office would sue to prevent the merger from going forward.

In December, the court denied a panoply of challenges to the proposed casino in
Everett.

In highly charged litigation, the court rejected suits filed by the cities of
Boston and Revere challenging the Massachusetts Gaming Commission's decision to
award a casino license to Wynn MA, LLC, on grounds that neither city had
standing to challenge the award, in City of Boston v. Massachusetts Gaming
Commission, No. 2015-0012-BLS2 (Mass. Super. Ct., Dec. 3, 2015) (Sanders, J.),
and City of Revere v. Massachusetts Gaming Commission, No. 2014-3253-BLS2 (Mass.
Super. Ct., Dec. 3, 2015) (Sanders, J.), respectively.

Adding insult to injury, the BLS affirmed the commission's decision to
de-designate Boston as a "surrounding community," which would have entitled it
to fees and mitigation commitments from Wynn.

In Abdow v. Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, No. 2015-02026-BLS2
(Mass. Super. Ct., Oct. 15, 2015) (Sanders, J.), the BLS also rejected an
indirect attack to the Wynn casino brought by "approximately forty taxable
inhabitants of Massachusetts," again for lack of standing.

The BLS also decided a number of other issues in 2015 with broad legal
implications:

o Chitwood v. Vertex Pharmaceuticals, 33 Mass. L. Rep. 36 (Mass. Super. Ct.,
Aug. 4, 2015) (Sanders, J.) (An inference of wrongdoing by corporate officers
and directors is insufficient to demonstrate a "proper purpose" under
Massachusetts books and records statute)

In Chitwood, a shareholder of Vertex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., issued a letter to
the Vertex board demanding an investigation into the trading of stock by several
company directors and officers immediately after a press release that allegedly
overstated the efficacy of Vertex drugs and inflated the Vertex share price.

The company subsequently issued a press release correcting the erroneous
release, which drove the share price back down. The board convened a special
committee consisting of two directors who did not sell company shares after the
initial press release and who were considered "independent" under NASDAQ listing
standards.

After its investigation, the special committee concluded that no wrongdoing took
place and submitted its report and recommendations to the board. The independent
members of the board voted unanimously to accept the special committee's
findings and recommendations.

Dissatisfied, the shareholder demanded to inspect the books and records of the
special committee. As with its Delaware counterpart, the Massachusetts
Shareholder Inspection Statute, G.L.c. 156D, §16.02, allows such access so long
as the shareholder party acted in good faith and can show a "proper purpose. "

The court denied the request, concluding that the shareholder did not present a
"credible basis" challenging the special committee's independence or diligence,
or that there was, in fact, wrongdoing by those Vertex directors and officers
who sold their shares immediately after the announcement.

Absent such evidence, a mere inference of wrongdoing is insufficient, and "the
Special Committee's conclusion (ultimately accepted by the Board) would warrant
dismissal of any derivative action the plaintiff might file. "

Equally important, the BLS took pains to endorse (1) the use of a special
committee to investigate claims of wrongdoing, and (2) the submission of the
special committee's findings for final decision by the independent directors of
the board. Once the board has undertaken such efforts, the burden on a plaintiff
to show a "proper purpose" is particularly stringent.

o TIBCO Software, Inc. v. Zephyr Health, Inc., 32 Mass. L. Rep. 637 (Mass.
Super. Ct., April 1, 2015) (Kaplan, J.) (employer of employee subject to a
non-compete can enforce arbitration clause in employee's employment agreement
with prior employer)

The former employer of an employee sued his new employer to enforce a
non-compete clause in the employment contract between the former employer and
the employee. The employment contract contained an arbitration provision, and
the new employer sought to enforce it against the former employer. The former
employer argued that the new employer was not a party to the employment contract
and therefore the non-compete claims were not subject to the arbitration
provision.

The BLS, however, concluded that because the former employer's claims arose out
of the employment contract, the new employer could enforce the arbitration
clause.

Based on this decision, employers should consider limiting the scope of
employment contract arbitration clauses to claims brought against them but not
by them, or consider other carve-outs to preserve their own litigation rights.

Companies hiring employees with non-compete agreements should determine whether
they can force arbitration under those agreements. If claims would not exist but
for the contract, Massachusetts courts may allow the new employer to force the
former employer to arbitrate those claims.

o Walker v. Boston Medical Center Corp., No. 2015-1733-BLS1 (Nov. 19, 2015)
(Leibensperger, J.) (plaintiffs suing over data breach of medical records do not
need to allege such records were actually accessed by unauthorized personnel)

With data breaches (both large and small) now becoming everyday news, the BLS
has weighed in on an important aspect of data breach law: when can a person
whose medical information has been breached -- but not yet accessed or "used" by
unauthorized personnel -- bring a claim against the entity entrusted with the
data?

In Walker, the BLS denied a motion to dismiss a class action against Boston
Medical Center for the inadvertent disclosure by BMC's medical record
transcription service reflecting patient records from office visits with
physicians filed for an indeterminate period of time on its Internet site.

BMC argued that the plaintiffs did not have standing because they did not know
whether their medical records were in fact accessed by unauthorized individuals,
and there was no evidence the information had been used nefariously against the
class members whose records were made available on the online site.

The BLS rejected that argument and held that the plaintiffs' allegations showed
a "serious" risk of injury, given that the records were available to the public
on the Internet for some period of time and therefore "likely" to have been
accessed by unauthorized personnel.

More important, the court focused on the fact that persons whose medical records
are disclosed may bring suit for mental distress, harm to interest in privacy,
and special or economic harm, without more specific evidence of harm. As such,
the plaintiffs were entitled to discovery to determine whether their records
were accessed while they were on the transcription service site.

The Walker decision represents an important stepping stone in the longstanding
battle over whether mere disclosure of private data, without more, can
constitute an "injury" sufficient to support a claim for damages.

According to the BLS, when the data consists of medical information, the answer
may be "yes. "

o Aspinall v. Philip Morris USA Inc., No. 98-6002-BLS1 (Aug. 10, 2015)
(Leibensperger, J.) (smokers purchasing "low tar/low nicotine" cigarettes that
were allegedly as harmful as regular cigarettes could seek to recover $25
minimum statutory damages, and possibly also "benefit of the bargain" damages)

Seventeen years in the making and at least one trip to the Supreme Judicial
Court later, Aspinall went to trial. Prior to trial, the BLS decided two key
evidentiary motions and a motion for summary judgment.

First, in Aspinall v. Philip Morris USA Inc. (Mass. Super. Ct., Aug. 10, 2015)
(Leibensperger, J.), the BLS denied Philip Morris USA Inc. 's motion for summary
judgment and to exclude the testimony of the plaintiffs' damages expert.

After a lengthy discussion of damages theory under a string of SJC decisions
since the landmark decision in Hershenow v. Enterprise Rent-a-Car, 445 Mass. 790
(2006), the BLS concluded that (1) the plaintiffs were entitled to submit proof
of $25 minimum statutory damages based on their allegation that "low tar and
nicotine" cigarettes were in fact less safe than advertised, and (2) the
plaintiffs could potentially recover more if they could show that the difference
between the value paid for the misrepresented cigarettes and their "true market
value" was more than $25.

The BLS also denied the defendant's Daubert motion to exclude expert testimony
of the "true market value" of the misrepresented cigarettes, and instead ordered
a pre-trial evidentiary hearing regarding the expert's methodology. The court
further granted the plaintiffs' motion to exclude prior deposition testimony
from out-of-state smokers in other tobacco cases, given that the instant
plaintiffs did not have an opportunity to cross-examine those deponents.
Aspinall v. Philip Morris USA Inc. (Mass. Super. Ct., Sept. 10, 2015)
(Leibensperger, J.).

The court conducted a five-week bench trial in late 2015, and post-trial
briefing is underway. MLW

Beth I.Z. Boland is vice chair of the litigation department, chair of the
securities enforcement and litigation group, and a partner in the Boston office
of Foley & Lardner. Noah G. Brown is an associate at the firm.

http://www.masslawyersweekly.com/be-the-first-to-know/ Click here for more from
this resource.

© 2016 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

