                              424 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            January 8, 2011 Saturday
                                  1 - Edition

RHH chief loses appeal `No miscarriage of justice' in inquiry

BYLINE: SUE NEALES

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 441  words


OUSTED Royal Hobart Hospital chief Michael Pervan has lost his appeal to State
Service Commissioner Iain Frawley over an internal investigation into bullying
allegations against him.

Mr Frawley yesterday ruled that there had been no miscarriage of justice or
denial of procedural fairness by the Department of Health and Human Services in
its initial investigation of the bullying allegations.

The decision means a full-blown inquiry into several alleged bullying incidents
involving Mr Pervan will now resume.

He remains stood down from his job as RHH chief executive.

But he stays on as the recently appointed acting director of community
development, disabilities and housing within the DHHS.

Mr Frawley's findings did not look at the validity of the bullying allegations
made by two RHH doctors.

His only task was to assess whether the way Mr Pervan claimed to have been dealt
with by the DHHS in its external preliminary inquiry was contrary to the State
Service Act and justified the case being dropped.

Mr Pervan is now considering appealing against Mr Frawley's ruling to the
Supreme Court.

Mr Pervan, a former WA Commissioner of Health, was stood down from the RHH top
job in September by Health Department supremo David Roberts, less than one year
into his five-year contract.

Mr Pervan was immediately sent on leave while an independent investigator from
Sydney appointed by Mr Roberts conducted a preliminary inquiry into the bullying
accusations.

But Mr Pervan complained to the State Service Commissioner, backed by the Health
and Community Services Union, that he had been denied a right of reply and
procedural fairness when he was not interviewed as part of the inquiries.

However, Mr Frawley yesterday handed down a confidential ruling declaring that
Mr Pervan's objection that he had been dealt with unfairly had no merit.

He found, according to HACSU state secretary Tim Jacobson, that independent
investigator and workplace grievances expert Jocelyn Sparks was not required to
give Mr Pervan a right of reply under his interpretation of the State Services
Act, because her investigation was preliminary.

Mr Frawley also ruled that, based on the information provided to him by the DHHS
secretary, he believed there were grounds for the department to start an
investigation into the allegations against Mr Pervan.

The State Service Commissioner determined a full inquiry into the bullying
allegations made against Mr Pervan could now proceed, but that Mr Pervan should
be interviewed as part of that process.

DHHS acting secretary Alice Burchill said yesterday the formal investigation
into the allegations against Mr Pervan would now resume.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MER


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


