                              423 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                   Kansas City Daily Record (Kansas City, MO)

                            July 16, 2008 Wednesday

Missouri Court of Appeals Western District rules health care insurers can go to
arbitration

BYLINE: Aaron Bailey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 704  words


Kansas City-area physician groups trying to sue several health insurance
companies for price-fixing will have to arbitrate their claims.

In a unanimous decision, the Missouri Court of Appeals Western District en banc
sided with the health insurance companies Tuesday, ruling that an arbitration
agreement between the two sides is binding and not unconscionable. The physician
groups wanted to take their antitrust claims to court.

The physician groups, comprising more than a dozen health care professionals in
Kansas City, sued in February 2005, claiming that several health insurance
companies were conspiring to fix doctor reimbursement fees.

The groups had entered into contracts with the insurers, including Blue Cross
and Blue Shield and United HealthCare Services, agreeing to arbitrate disputes
over fees.

The appellate case is the result of Jackson County Circuit Judge Charles
Atwell's denial of a motion to compel arbitration in December 2006. Atwell, who
acknowledged in the decision that he would be appealed, also stayed the case.

Atwell denied the motion to compel despite the recommendation that it be
sustained by a court-appointed special master.

In denying the arbitration request, Atwell relied heavily upon a Western
District opinion in Whitney v. Alltel Communications and a case from the Ohio
Supreme Court involving an allegedly similar medical conspiracy.

The Whitney case involved class action allegations and sought relief under the
Missouri Merchandising Practices Act. The Western District, which upheld a lower
court order denying arbitration, determined in Whitney that a clause precluding
class actions was "procedurally and substantively unconscionable. "

Atwell, who called the case complex and a "close call" in his decision, wrote
that antitrust laws were enacted to deter anticompetitive conduct.

In the Western District's decision Tuesday, the court decided that while the
circuit court was correct that the arbitration agreements between the insurers
and physician groups were broad, but they did cover the physician's antitrust
claims.

"A broad scope creates a strong presumption in favor of arbitrability, and the
circuit court should order arbitration of any dispute that 'touches' matters
covered by the parties' contracts," wrote Judge Paul Spinden, citing a case
decided by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, Simula v. Autoliv.

The Western District found that all of the arbitration

"touched" on issues of alleged price-fixing and rate disputes.

Lynn McCreary, a Bryan Cave attorney who represented the insurers, said the
appellate court made the appropriate decision.

"Obviously this matter was grounded in the parties' contracts," she said. "Blue
Cross has always valued its relationships with the physicians that service
members in the community. We've always worked to resolve issues in a fair and
equitable manner and in accordance with the agreements Blue Cross has with its
physicians. And we're pleased the court of appeals is furthering this effort. "

Lead attorney for the physician groups, Robert Horn, of Horn Aylward & Bandy,
could not be reached for comment.

In defending the lower court's decision, Horn argued that the antitrust claim
could be litigated without ever referring to the underlying arbitration
contracts.

"Nonetheless," Tuesday's decision reads, "the physicians assert that they have
suffered damages as a result of the conspiracy, which they would not have
suffered had they not agreed to reimbursement contracts with Blue Cross and
United Healthcare. "

Atwell's alternative basis to rule against enforcing the arbitration agreement
was that the contracts were unconscionable.

But the appellate court decided that Whitney lays out two aspects of
unconscionability: procedural and substantive. The procedural angle deals with
the forming of the contract - such as undue pressure from one side to enter the
contract. And the substantive aspect revolves around the actual terms of the
contracts.

The Western District ruled that since Atwell never made a finding of procedural
unconscionability and the physicians never made that claim, there was sufficient
basis to overturn the ruling of unconscionability.

- Charles Emerick of The Daily Record contributed to this article.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

