                              422 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             July 26, 2012 Thursday
                                 First Edition

In a state of excitement;
JUNIOR MEDICAL OFFICERS

BYLINE: Keeli Cambourne

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 580 words


LAST year, nearly 40,000 applications were made by about 6000 doctors for 4500
junior medical officer (JMO) positions during the NSW Health Department's annual
recruitment campaign.

Dr Linda MacPherson, a medical adviser for the Ministry of Health, says the
department expects similar numbers this year.

The campaign begins today.

"It is a very competitive process and there are lots of people applying for
multiple positions," she says, "so it is best to apply early and ... put some
effort into each application."

All JMO positions in the NSW health system are advertised at the same time, so
junior doctors can see what is available across the specialties and apply during
one period rather than stagger applications across the year.

MacPherson says the campaign aims to encourage junior doctors to think about
where they would like their careers to lead them, and highlights the many
options available in each specialty.

JMO positions are for doctors who have done at least one postgraduate year.

They allow doctors to start their specialisation training in many disciplines,
from obstetrics and gynaecology to pathology, dermatology, emergency medicine,
orthopaedics and psychiatry.

This year, the JMO campaign applications will close on August 15. The jobs are
posted on the NSW Health website.

Certain disciplines always have shortages, MacPherson says, but for junior
doctors who are uncertain about which specialisation to choose,

non-training positions are available. These allow junior doctors to rotate
through different areas of a hospital.

"Intensive care specialists are needed, and it is one of those specialties that
is not as well known as others," MacPherson says. "An intern is unlikely to do
intensive care, so this is a specialisation that we are encouraging junior
doctors to think about.

"And as with every campaign, we are also encouraging doctors to think about
going to regional and rural sites.

"One of the positions in these areas is general practice with procedural
training, which was implemented under the NSW generalist rural training program.
It is being advertised for the first time this year and will be something to
look out for."

MacPherson says the generalist rural training program is about supplying doctors
to rural areas and offers training in advanced skill procedures, such as general
practice obstetrics or anaesthetics.

"Doctors can enter the program from their second postgraduate year and they are
supported to do procedural advanced skills as well as normal GP training," she
says.

"With those advanced skills they can work in hospitals to provide things like
anaesthetics or obstetrics.

"We are focusing on these two skills in the first year."

MacPherson says it's essential that junior doctors applying for positions make
sure their applications meet all the selection criteria. If they don't, they
won't even be considered," she says. "I also encourage them to find out as much
about the position as they can before starting their application by contacting
the suggested contact person.

"And it's always good to apply for more than one position. Don't put all your
eggs in one basket. It is also important not to apply for positions in locations
that you know you probably will not accept, so it doesn't waste the time of
selection committees.

"Consider applying for positions outside of where you are working now, and talk
to friends or colleagues who may be working at those hospitals so they can give
you an idea of what the position is like."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Recruitment operation ... career options abound. Photo: Louie
Douvis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2012 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


