                              432 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                            January 31, 2016 Sunday

Procedural delays render ambulance service immobile

LENGTH: 550  words

DATELINE: PUDUCHERRY


PUDUCHERRY, Jan. 31 -- An ambulance meant to shift critically ill-patients from
Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital to Jipmer or hospitals in Chennai is
lying idle for the past two-and-half months waiting for clearance to be
repaired.


 It requires only Rs. 3,500 to repair the clutch cylinder of this ambulance that
has worn out. The other vehicle - a Qualis used by the doctors requires a new
self-starter that would cost Rs. 2,500.
 But the cumbersome bureaucratic procedures are delaying the sanction of this
required amount to carry out repair works.
 Well-equipped
 An official in the hospital lamented: "This ambulance is well-equipped to
quickly shift a critical patient and all that needs to be done is to repair the
clutch cylinder. When moving the patients to Chennai, they are only charged Rs.5
per km. This would come up to Rs. 1,500 or Rs. 1,600 per patient. But, it
becomes very expensive for people taking private vehicles since they charge up
to Rs. 12,000 to move the patients to Chennai."
 It would be impossible for people from economically poor background to spend
such exorbitant amount on ambulance.
 The procedure to repair a vehicle begins by getting a no-objection certificate
(NOC) and RRC from a government-run workshop. After assessing the extent of
damage, the cost incurred towards repairing would be given to the hospital. The
file would be sent to Assistant Engineer (AE) and then to Junior Engineer (JE)
in the RTO office. It has to come back from the RTO office.
 Once the director (health) sanctions the amount, the file would be sent to the
secretariat (health) and then to the finance department.
 This procedure will take at least five to six months to complete, causing
inconvenience to the impoverished people dependent on this service. There are
only six vehicles which include ambulances and also vehicles used by doctors at
the Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital and Postgraduate Institute.
 In 2001, they had 16 vehicles. Out of the six vehicles present now, only three
are working. The hospital has not added any new vehicles for the past 10 years.
 On an average, at least two to three patients in a day would need the ambulance
to be moved to Chennai or Jipmer or Rajiv Gandhi Women and Children Hospital.
 When asked about the ambulance service, Director of Health and Family Welfare
Services K.V. Raman said that there were enough 108 ambulance services.
 These vehicles are all strategically placed at the eight primary health centres
(PHCs). The 108 services are present at Ariyur, Karaikalampakkam, Katterikuppam,
Thavalakuppam, Bahour, Kalapet, Nettapakkam, and Medical College.
 However, the National Health Mission that runs the 108 ambulance services
provide services mainly to pregnant women, referral cases sent to the Indira
Gandhi Government General Hospital, road accidents and snake bites.
 It is the vehicles in the GH which are used to move patients from Indira Gandhi
Government General Hospital to other hospitals including those in Chennai.
 These procedural delays are adding to the burden of the patients who cannot
afford expensive private ambulance services. The repair work should be carried
out faster to enable better services during emergencies.
 One has get a no-objection certificate and RRC from a govt.-run workshop for
repairs

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


