                              435 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                  Copyright (c) 1999 Boston College Law School
                           Boston College Law Review

                                  March, 1999

                              40 B.C. L. Rev. 673

LENGTH: 15239 words

NOTE: Due Process Requirements for Emergency Civil Commitments: Safeguarding
Patients' Liberty Without Jeopardizing Health and Safety

NAME: Marybeth Walsh

TEXT:
 [*673]  INTRODUCTION

   Upset about a dying friend, Susan Rockwell was anxious and a bit disheveled
when she arrived at a Massachusetts hospital to attend a support group meeting.
n1 The dirty coat she wore belied her achievements as a law school graduate and
former librarian.  n2 Based on her appearance and a brief conversation, an
emergency room doctor ordered attendants to put Rockwell in a four-point
restraint, inject her with drugs and place her in a locked room in the
hospital's psychiatric ward.  n3 Throughout this ordeal, the hospital refused
Rockwell's pleas to call her psychiatrist, who later said that she would have
argued against admission.  n4 The hospital released Rockwell two-and-a-half days
later.  n5 According to her psychiatrist, Rockwell suffers nightmares and
flashbacks -- symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder -- as a result of this
experience.  n6

   The emergency room physician admitted Susan Rockwell pursuant to
Massachusetts' emergency involuntary commitment statute.  n7 The statute
authorizes a qualified physician to admit a person for ten days of psychiatric
care if the physician believes that failure to admit would create a likelihood
of serious harm to the person or to others.  n8 A physician's decision to admit
a person pursuant to the emergency involuntary commitment statute is not subject
to judicial review.  n9 Rather, a hospital must seek judicial authorization for
commitment only if it desires to keep a patient longer than the ten-day
emergency  [*674]  period.  n10 Since the Massachusetts statute allows courts
fourteen days to schedule a hearing on a hospital's commitment petition, a
person may be involuntarily confined in a psychiatric ward for up to twenty-four
days without judicial review.  n11

   Susan Rockwell's experience illustrates the need for persons subject to
emergency commitment to have a means of challenging physicians' decisions to
admit them.  n12 The emergency commitment process deprives persons of their
liberty, yet contains significantly fewer procedural due process safeguards than
does the justice system at large.  n13 At the same time, however, the emergency
commitment process exists to provide care in a timely manner for persons whose
mental illnesses, physicians believe, pose a likelihood of serious harm to
themselves or others.  n14 The consequences of failing to commit when emergency
commitment is warranted can be fatal. Therefore, an effective emergency
commitment statute must contain both procedural safeguards to protect persons
wrongly committed and provide immediate care for those who need it.

   This Note explores what the goals of procedural due process should be in the
context of emergency commitment.  n15 Part I defines procedural due process and
describes the constitutional status of the law on due process in the emergency
commitment context.  n16 Part I then discusses different perspectives on what
procedural safeguards should be provided in the emergency commitment process.
n17 Part II describes Massachusetts' review of its emergency commitment statute
and one of the proposed procedural schemes resulting from that review.  n18 Part
III analyzes this proposal as a means of addressing the general policy issues
involved.  n19 Part III concludes that the proposal should be adopted because it
protects patients' liberty without compromising clinical interests.  n20
Specifically, Part III argues that providing judicial review for all persons
within forty-eight hours of emergency admission is harmful to the clinical
interests of most patients and, in many cases, does not provide meaningful
protection of liberty interests.  n21  [*675]  The best means of protecting
patients' rights in practice is instead to appoint counsel immediately upon
emergency admission and provide a process for an emergency hearing in cases of
inappropriate commitment.  n22

   I. DUE PROCESS REQUIREMENTS FOR EMERGENCY INVOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS

   This section is divided into three subsections. Subsection A defines
procedural due process and describes how the Supreme Court determines what
procedural safeguards due process requires.  n23 Subsection B discusses the
status of the law on due process requirements for emergency commitment.  n24
Subsection C explores three perspectives on the emergency commitment process.
n25

   A. Procedural Due Process Defined

   The Fourteenth Amendment of the United States Constitution prohibits state
governments from depriving a person of "life, liberty, or property, without due
process of law."  n26 This amendment is rooted in the notion that personal
freedom requires an institutional check on arbitrary government action.  n27
Procedural due process consists of procedural safeguards that accord a person
the right to be heard before being deprived of life, liberty or property as a
result of government action.  n28

   Two competing approaches to procedural due process shape discussions of what
procedural safeguards are constitutionally required -- or even desirable.  n29
The first approach focuses on the intrinsic value of due process as an
opportunity for people to participate in government decisions that affect them
and thereby express their dignity as persons.  n30 Justice Frankfurter supported
this approach by writing that there is no better way "for generating the
feeling, so important to  [*676]  popular government, that justice has been
done."  n31 The United States Supreme Court, however, has adopted an
"instrumental" approach, which views due process as a means of assuring
accuracy, reasoning that the Constitution requires process "to prevent unfair
and mistaken deprivations."  n32

   Pursuant to the instrumental approach, the Supreme Court balances competing
interests when determining the required form of procedural due process.  n33
Thus, in 1976, in Mathews v. Eldridge, the Court noted that "'due process,'
unlike some legal rules, is not a technical conception with a fixed content
unrelated to time, place and circumstances."  n34 In Eldridge, the Court held
that an evidentiary hearing was not required prior to termination of social
security disability benefits.  n35 A person brought an action challenging the
constitutional validity of the administrative procedures used to terminate her
disability benefits because the procedures did not include an evidentiary
hearing prior to termination.  n36 In concluding that due process did not
require an evidentiary hearing prior to termination, the Court identified three
factors that must be weighed to determine what procedural due process requires:
(1) the private interest that will be affected by the official action; (2) the
risk of an erroneous deprivation of the private interest through the procedures
used and the probative value, if any, of additional or substitute procedural
safeguards and (3) the government's interest, including the function involved
and the fiscal and administrative burdens that the additional or substitute
procedural requirements would entail.  n37 Thus, the Court concluded that due
process is flexible and the procedural protections it requires vary according to
the facts and interests of particular situations.  n38

    [*677]  B. Status of Law on Due Process Requirements for Emergency
Involuntary Commitment

   Over the past four decades, changes in the ways mental illness is treated and
perceived have greatly affected civil commitment.  n39 First, the introduction
of psychotropic drugs in the 1950s enabled many previously institutionalized
patients to live outside mental hospitals.  n40 Second, during the 1960s and
1970s, revelations of poor living conditions in state hospitals for the mentally
retarded sensitized the public to the plight of the institutionalized mentally
ill and led to the inclusion of this group in the growing civil rights movement.
n41 Legal reforms during the 1970s reduced the broad discretion previously given
to psychiatrists by restricting involuntary commitment to persons demonstrably
dangerous to themselves or others and applying to the commitment process the due
process safeguards of the criminal justice system.  n42 As a result of these
clinical, social and legal developments, the average number of persons subject
to commitment in state and county mental hospitals per day declined from 560,000
in 1955 to 276,000 in 1972, and to about 138,000 in 1981.  n43

   Despite the attention given to the emergency commitment process in recent
decades, the Supreme Court has not clearly defined the due process requirements
for emergency civil commitment, and as a result, commitment procedures vary
considerably from state to state.  n44 Lower court decisions in the early 1970s
held that due process required a probable cause hearing within forty-eight hours
after commitment.  n45 Subsequent Supreme Court summary affirmances of other
decisions, however, indicate that substantially longer periods of commitment
without judicial review are constitutional.  n46 More recent lower federal
[*678]  court decisions have held that constitutionality depends not on the
specific timing of judicial review, but on the totality of the procedural scheme
provided by the statute.  n47

   One of the first cases to address this issue was Lessard v. Schmidt.  n48 In
1972, in Lessard, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Wisconsin struck down a Wisconsin statute permitting confinement for 145 days
and held that the maximum period that a person may be detained without a
preliminary hearing is forty-eight hours.  n49 The suit was brought as a class
action on behalf of the plaintiff and all other persons eighteen years of age or
older who were being held involuntarily pursuant to any emergency, temporary or
permanent commitment provision of the Wisconsin involuntary commitment statute.
n50 The complaint sought declaratory and injunctive relief against the
enforcement of certain portions of the statute.  n51 Noting that the interests
of those facing involuntary civil commitment are at least as great as those of
accused criminals, the court reasoned that emergency civil commitment can be
justified only for the length of time necessary to arrange for a probable cause
hearing before a neutral judge.  n52 The court, therefore, held that a
preliminary hearing must be held within forty-eight hours.  n53

   Subsequent decisions gave greater weight to the clinical needs of the
mentally ill.  n54 In the 1970s, the United States Supreme Court summarily
affirmed two lower court decisions upholding substantial periods of commitment.
n55 These decisions effectively overruled Lessard and indicate that a prompt
probable cause hearing is not necessary to satisfy due process requirements.
n56

   First, in 1973, the Supreme Court summarily affirmed Logan v. Arafeh, in
which a three-judge district court panel upheld a Connecticut  [*679]  statute
providing for emergency commitment for up to forty-five days without judicial
review.  n57 In Arafeh, individuals who were, or at one time had been,
involuntary patients at a state mental hospital petitioned the United States
District Court for the District of Connecticut for declaratory and injunctive
relief against the statute's enforcement.  n58 The statute provided that if a
patient is committed involuntarily for more than fifteen days, there must be a
judicial determination of the validity of his or her confinement within
forty-five days from the date of the initial commitment.  n59 The court reasoned
that there was a reasonable connection between the time allowed before judicial
review and the objective sought.  n60 The court noted that the purpose of
commitment is treatment and care, not penal detention, and that physicians need
time to gain knowledge of a patient's mental condition through visual
observation and diagnostic tests.  n61 This period of observation and treatment,
the court observed, also has the positive aspect of allowing the hospital staff
to alleviate the symptoms of the patient's mental illness or determine that the
patient need not be committed.  n62 In such cases, the court reasoned, the
patient avoids the stigma of a court record and the length of confinement is
shortened.  n63 The court also noted that patients may at any time challenge the
legality of their confinement through a habeas corpus proceeding in the state
courts.  n64 Therefore, the court held that the Connecticut statute satisfied
constitutional due process requirements.  n65

   Then, in 1979, the Supreme Court summarily affirmed French v. Blackburn, in
which a three-judge district court panel upheld a North Carolina statute that
permitted a ten-day period between emergency detention and a probable cause
hearing.  n66 In Blackburn, the plaintiff, who had been subjected to an
involuntary commitment procedure that led to a hearing resulting in his release,
petitioned the United States District Court for the Middle District of North
Carolina for declaratory and injunctive relief challenging the validity of the
North Carolina statute.  n67 The statute provided for a final hearing on
commitment  [*680]  within ten days of initial commitment unless the respondent
is given a continuance, which may be for up to five days at a time.  n68 The
court noted that the purpose of the statute was humanitarian and that during the
pre-hearing period of confinement, a patient receives treatment that may aid his
or her mental health and be necessary for an adequate and informed commitment
hearing.  n69 Moreover, the court reasoned that the statute afforded
opportunities for physicians to release a patient prior to the commitment
hearing.  n70 Finally, relying on the Supreme Court's summary affirmance of
Arafeh as binding precedent, the court held that the ten-day commitment period
prior to a hearing did not violate due process.  n71

   More recent lower court decisions have also held that a probable cause
hearing is not necessary to satisfy due process requirements.  n72 For example,
in 1983, in Project Release v. Prevost, the United States Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit upheld New York statutes providing for involuntary commitment
for up to sixty days and emergency commitment for up to fifteen days without a
judicial hearing, unless one is requested.  n73 Project Release is a
not-for-profit corporation that filed a suit seeking a declaratory judgment that
the New York involuntary and emergency commitment statutes violated the
Fourteenth Amendment.  n74 In rejecting the need for a prompt probable cause
hearing, the court considered the layers of professional and judicial review
provided by the statutes and found that the totality of the procedural scheme
comported with due process.  n75 The court noted that civil commitment is not
tantamount to criminal detention and, therefore, does not demand the same
procedural safeguards required in the criminal context.  n76 Finally, noting
that the substantive standards for civil commitment vary from state to state,
the court stressed that the decision by some states to limit pre-hearing
confinement to a shorter period does not mean that such a model is needed or is
even  [*681]  adaptable to the needs of all states.  n77 Thus, the court
concluded that due process does not require a prompt probable cause hearing.
n78

   C. Perspectives on Procedural Requirements for Emergency Commitment

   Constitutionality is only the first step in analyzing any procedural scheme.
Because the United States Constitution sets only minimum due process
requirements, states are free to provide more than the minimum requirements
mandated by the Constitution.  n79 Thus, even though a procedural scheme meets
due process requirements, the question remains whether additional due process
protections should be provided. This subsection will explore this question from
the perspectives of the three interests at stake in the emergency commitment
process: the liberty, the clinical and the public interests.  n80

1. The Liberty Interest

   A civil libertarian approach to procedural due process rejects the idea set
forth in Eldridge that procedural safeguards should be determined by balancing a
person's liberty interest against the government's interest, the risk of
erroneous deprivation of liberty and the probative value of additional or
substitute procedural safeguards.  n81 Under this analysis, for example, the
threat of erroneous deprivation of liberty cannot be outweighed by concerns of
government and judicial resources.  n82 Thus, where a pre-deprivation hearing is
not possible, a prompt post-deprivation hearing should be held as soon as
possible.  n83

   With respect to the emergency commitment process, advocates for prompt
probable cause hearings often draw an analogy to criminal procedure.  n84 Noting
that the law affords accused criminals hearings  [*682]  within twenty-four
hours, they ask why persons committed involuntarily, who are accused of no
crime, should be afforded less due process protection.  n85 Thus, the argument
follows that the liberty interest of a person committed involuntarily is at
least as high as that of an accused criminal.  n86 In support of this argument,
advocates for immediate hearings cite the serious consequences of involuntary
commitment, including humiliation, potential loss of employment and the stigma
attached to commitment.  n87

   Moreover, the absence of prompt judicial review of emergency commitment
ignores the intrinsic value of due process.  n88 A prompt judicial hearing on
commitment would allow persons to have a voice in the decision to deprive them
of their liberty.  n89 Civil libertarians argue that this process is essential
to respect the dignity of those committed involuntarily and to generate a sense
of justice and fairness in the commitment process.  n90

2. The Clinical Interest

   Clinicians emphasize the therapeutic nature of the commitment process,
reasoning that they neither seek to have an adversarial relationship with their
patients nor to deprive patients of their liberty.  n91 They believe, therefore,
that it is inappropriate to impose a criminal model on what is essentially a
therapeutic process.  n92 Rather, it is imperative that a procedural scheme both
safeguard patients' liberty and provide access to clinical care.  n93

    [*683]  In addition to expressing concerns that using a criminal model in
the commitment process needlessly antagonizes the doctor-patient relationship,
many fear that too many procedural safeguards may serve as a barrier to
treatment.  n94 Too much judicial scrutiny may make it difficult to commit many
persons in need of treatment, i.e., the very persons whom the emergency
commitment process was designed to protect.  n95 Thus, while a prompt probable
cause hearing may be the best means of protecting patients' liberty interests,
it may jeopardize their clinical interests.  n96

   Clinicians also express concern about the burdens that hearings place on the
clinical process. In addition to the harm that hearings cause to the
doctor-patient relationship, they place large demands on clinicians' time.  n97
It is not in the best interest of all patients to have clinicians devoting large
amounts of time to commitment procedures -- time that could be spent attending
to the clinical needs of patients.  n98

3. The Public Interest

   Concern about the impact of the emergency commitment procedures on the public
leads others to ask whether layers of judicial review -- providing only minimal
protection -- consume too many limited judicial resources.  n99 According to
this perspective, society cannot  [*684]  focus exclusively on the interests of
the individual whose liberty is deprived.  n100 Rather, the individual's liberty
interest must be considered in a larger context -- one that includes
consideration of the costs and time demands that hearings place on the court
system.  n101 Thus, although the cost of providing a post-deprivation hearing
cannot justify totally denying an opportunity to be heard, such considerations
may factor into a determination of what type of hearing should be held and when.
n102

4. The Liberty, Clinical and Public Interests Compared

   Strict advocacy of any one of the interests involved in the emergency
commitment process presents problems. Critics of the civil libertarian
perspective argue that because the purpose of emergency commitment is
therapeutic, it may be detrimental to the patient to impose a criminal construct
on the process.  n103 While a prompt probable cause hearing may protect a
patient's liberty interest, it may also harm the patient's clinical interest
because it transforms the doctorpatient relationship from a therapeutic to an
adversarial one. Thus, in the first days of a patient's emergency commitment,
the doctor must both treat the patient and oppose him or her in a commitment
hearing. Moreover, too much process may serve as a barrier to treatment because
it may discourage or impede commitment of persons in need of treatment.  n104

   Some commentators believe that a patient's liberty is better protected by a
probable cause hearing held a few days after commitment than one held
immediately upon commitment.  n105 Noting that many acute psychiatric episodes
subside within one to four days, they reason that if hearings were required
immediately, many patients whose conditions would have improved sufficiently for
discharge in a few days would be retained unnecessarily for long commitment
periods.  n106 If, however, hearings were scheduled a few days after commitment,
then many patients would improve sufficiently to be discharged by the hospital
prior to the hearing.  n107 Moreover, in cases of improper commiment,  [*685]  a
delay of a few days may also afford a patient's counsel needed time to marshal
the facts of the case before representing his or her client at a commitment
hearing.  n108

   Critics of the clinical perspective note that it presumes the need for a
clinical relationship.  n109 Where commitment is improper, there is no need for
a clinical relationship, and the doctor-patient relationship is, by definition,
adversarial.  n110 In such cases, concern for a clinical interest that does not
exist jeopardizes the "patient's" liberty interest.  n111

   With respect to the public perspective, civil libertarians argue that liberty
interests should not be balanced against -- much less outweighed by -- concerns
about judicial resources.  n112 Under this analysis, the emergency commitment
process should be designed to safeguard against cases of improper commitment
and, therefore, must include prompt judicial review.  n113 Thus, because the
individual's liberty is of primary importance, it cannot be adequately protected
by balancing it against society's concerns about judicial resources.  n114

   The results of a study of commitment petitions filed in the Cambridge
Division of the Massachusetts District Court, however, offer support for the
public perspective. The study revealed that more than sixty-seven percent of
emergency commitment hearings scheduled in the court during an eighteen-month
period were canceled.  n115 Of the cases that did not go to a hearing, more than
half of the patients were  [*686]  discharged by the hospital.  n116
Approximately five percent of patients were discharged as a result of petitions
for commitment being denied.  n117 This data indicates that involuntary
commitment most likely terminates when the hospital decides to discharge the
patient or when the patient opts to change his or her commitment status.  n118
In light of such data, those concerned with the effect on the public argue that
it is reasonable to consider the amount of practical protection the commitment
hearing process provides relative to the burdens it places on the judicial
system.  n119

II. MASSACHUSETTS REVIEWS ITS EMERGENCY COMMITMENT STATUTE

   In 1997, an article in the Boston Globe (the "Globe") chronicling abuses of
the Massachusetts emergency commitment statute prompted the Commonwealth to
review its emergency commitment procedures.  n120 This section describes that
review and the proposed changes resulting from it. Subsection A describes the
Massachusetts emergency commitment statute and subsection B describes the Globe
article that examined it.  n121 Subsection C discusses the responses to the
Globe article, including the proposed changes to the emergency commitment
statute.  n122

   A. The Massachusetts Emergency Commitment Statute

   In 1970, Massachusetts enacted a statute providing for the emergency
commitment of the mentally ill.  n123 Under this statute, commonly  [*687]
referred to as section 12, a qualified physician may admit a person to a
hospital for a ten-day period "if the physician determines that failure to
hospitalize such person would create a likelihood of serious harm by reason of
mental illness."  n124 If someone other than a qualified physician makes an
application for admission, the person may be admitted only after a qualified
physician gives the person a psychiatric examination and determines that failure
to hospitalize would create a likelihood of serious harm by reason of mental
illness.  n125 The person must then be discharged at the end of the ten-day
period unless the hospital files a petition for further commitment with the
district court.  n126 The law permits a maximum of fourteen days between the
filing of a petition for commitment by the hospital and the time of the judicial
hearing on commitment.  n127 Thus, a person may be committed involuntarily
without judicial review for a maximum of twenty-four days.  n128

   Section 12 contrasts sharply with the statutes of other states, most of which
require, or permit a patient to request, that a hearing be held within five days
after emergency involuntary commitment.  n129 Because emergency commitment
processes vary greatly from state to state with  [*688]  respect to the standard
for commitment, length of commitment and timing of judicial review, it is
difficult to draw broad conclusions based on any one aspect of a state's
procedural scheme.  n130 A state that requires judicial review within
twenty-four hours of commitment may appear to provide more due process
protection than a state that allows commitment for a longer period. If the state
requiring immediate judicial review, however, has a low standard for commitment,
the due process protection it provides is diminished. Nevertheless, according to
a study conducted by the Globe and the American Bar Association's Commission on
Mental and Physical Disability Law, the twenty-four-day period of commitment
without judicial review permissible in Massachusetts is the longest period of
commitment without judicial review in the country.  n131

   B. Boston Globe Article Draws Attention to Section 12

   On May 12, 1997, a front-page article in the Globe on the emergency
commitment process drew public attention to section 12.  n132 The article
described several cases of apparently improper emergency commitments under
section 12, including Susan Rockwell's case, discussed in the Introduction.
n133 The Globe report cited such abuses of section 12 to illustrate the need for
reform of the emergency commitment process.  n134 The Globe investigation
revealed that Massachusetts law permits the longest period of emergency
commitment without judicial review in the nation.  n135 Specifically, the study
conducted by the Globe and the American Bar Association's Commission on Mental
and Physical Disability Law found that twenty-five states and the District of
Columbia require court involvement within seventy-two hours of emergency
involuntary commitment.  n136 Fourteen other states require court involvement
within five days of commitment.  n137 The laws of the remaining states vary,
with most requiring court involvement within six to eight days.  n138

    [*689]  C. Responses to the Boston Globe Series

   The Globe series encouraged the Massachusetts District Court Committee on
Mental Health and Retardation to form an ad hoc committee ("Ad Hoc Committee")
to take an in-depth look at section 12.  n139 The Ad Hoc Committee was comprised
of judges, clinicians, hospital administrators and attorneys representing both
hospital and patient interests.  n140 The Ad Hoc Committee sought to determine
the most efficient and effective time lines to accomplish the purposes of
section 12, while minimizing the length of any involuntary hospitalization
periods for the patients involved.  n141 On October 21, 1997, the Ad Hoc
Committee presented a report ("Majority Report") containing recommendations for
revisions to section 12 to the Massachusetts legislature's Joint Committee on
Human Services and Elderly Affairs.  n142 Because the patient advocates on the
Ad Hoc Committee disagreed with some of these recommendations, they chose to
present their own report ("Minority Report") to the Joint Committee.  n143

1. The Majority Report of the Ad Hoc Committee

   The Majority Report adopted four proposals relating to the section 12
emergency commitment process.  n144 First, it recognized the need for patients
admitted through the emergency commitment process to have immediate access to
counsel to address the many concerns that arise with involuntary
hospitalization.  n145 Accordingly, the report proposed that the Committee for
Public Counsel Services ("CPCS"), which  [*690]  provides representation for
indigent persons, appoint counsel immediately upon admission of a patient and
that the counsel meet with the patient within twenty-four hours of appointment.
n146 The Majority Report stated that immediate appointment of counsel was the
single most effective method of protecting a patient's rights.  n147

   Second, the Majority Report addressed the need for an emergency commitment
procedure to deal with inappropriate cases of involuntary hospitalization, such
as those highlighted in the Globe series.  n148 The Majority Report proposed
that patient's counsel be able to petition the local district court for an
emergency hearing on the issue of appropriateness of commitment when counsel or
the patient feels that the circumstances of admission constituted a misuse of
the involuntary commitment procedures.  n149 The district court would hold
emergency hearings in such cases on the day that the petition is filed in court
or, at the latest, on the next business day.  n150

   Next, the Majority Report proposed that hospitals be required to file a
petition for commitment no later than the close of the third business day
following a patient's emergency admission pursuant to section 12.  n151 The
clinical representatives on the Ad Hoc Committee stated that, in their
professional judgment, this three-business-day period is the minimum amount of
time needed to evaluate a patient appropriately and to make a determination of
the need for continued involuntary hospitalization.  n152

   Finally, the Majority Report recommended that a judicial commitment hearing
on the petition filed by the hospital be held no later than the close of the
fifth business day from the receipt of the petition.  n153 This would reduce the
twenty-four-day period in which a patient can be involuntarily held under
current law without judicial review to a maximum of eight to twelve days.  n154
All of the representatives of the judiciary on the Ad Hoc Committee stated that
a minimum of five  [*691]  business days between the filing of the petition and
the hearing was necessary for the courts to process the petition, prepare the
case file and schedule a judge and other staff to travel to the petitioning
hospital to hold a hearing.  n155

2. The Minority Report of the Ad Hoc Committee

   Three members of the Ad Hoc Committee, all of whom were representatives of
and advocates for persons with mental disabilities, opposed the majority
proposal for two reasons.  n156 First, the majority proposal did not call for a
prompt probable cause hearing in every case of emergency commitment to determine
whether the initial detention was appropriate.  n157 Second, the majority
proposal did not provide a prompt judicial hearing on the need for extended
commitment.  n158

a. Probable Cause Hearing

   The Minority Report advocated a probable cause hearing that would require the
Commonwealth, or its designee (the psychiatrist and/or the hospital), to prove
to a court in every case that the statutory standard for involuntary commitment
was met.  n159 Relying principally on Lessard v. Schmidt, the Minority Report
stated that due process mandates a probable cause hearing as soon as possible
after the patient is deprived of his or her liberty.  n160 Therefore, the
Minority Report rejected the emergency hearing procedure proposed by the
majority because its purpose was restricted to correcting obvious abuses of the
emergency commitment process, rather than providing a judicial forum for the
determination of probable cause in every case of emergency commitment.  n161
Moreover, the Minority Report noted that the emergency hearing process proposed
by the majority requires that the patient request the emergency hearing and,
therefore, bear the burden of proof.  n162

   The Minority Report noted that even though the dissenting members believed
that a prompt probable cause hearing was constitutionally  [*692]  mandated,
they agreed during meetings of the Ad Hoc Committee that a full commitment
hearing within a very short period of time after commitment would obviate the
need for a probable cause hearing in most cases.  n163 The dissenting members
offered this approach as an alternative to the Majority Report.  n164 The Ad Hoc
Committee's final recommendation, however, which rejected the minority's
alternative approach, made the absence of a prompt probable cause hearing
unacceptable to the minority.  n165

b. Length of Time Before Judicial Hearing on Extended Commitment

   The dissenting members also disagreed with the time frame proposed by the
majority for scheduling a hearing on extended commitment, namely, requiring that
the hospital file a petition for commitment within three business days and that
the court schedule a hearing on the hospital's petition within five business
days.  n166 The Minority Report stated that in light of the Ad Hoc Committee's
decision not to recommend a mandatory probable cause hearing, the proposed time
frame for judicial review was unreasonably long.  n167

   As an alternative to the Majority Report, the Minority Report proposed that
the three-business-day time period during which the hospital may file a
commitment petition runs concurrently with the five-business-day time period the
court has to schedule a hearing.  n168 This concurrent approach would reduce the
amount of time a patient may wait for a court hearing from eight business days
to five business days.  n169 Specifically, the minority's concurrent approach
would require that on the first business day after the patient's involuntary
admission, the hospital notify both CPCS, which would promptly appoint an
attorney to represent the person, and the court, which would tentatively
schedule a hearing within five days.  n170 If the hospital then files a
commitment petition, the hearing would be confirmed.  n171 If the hospital does
not file a petition, the hearing would be canceled.  n172

    [*693]  In the Majority Report, the Ad Hoc Committee stated that the
minority's concurrent approach was unacceptable to the majority, including all
of the judiciary department members, because it would require courts to set up
schedules for judges to go to hearings that might never be held. In particular,
the majority described such a system as "an undesirable aberration to the normal
filing process in our busy court system."  n173 The Minority Report stated that
the canceled hearings that would inevitably result under this concurrent
approach already occur in the current commitment process.  n174 Under the
present system, hearings are frequently canceled because the hospital decides to
withdraw its petition or the person agrees to remain at the hospital on a
voluntary basis.  n175 The Minority Report noted that the study of commitment
petitions filed in the Cambridge Division of the Massachusetts District Court
revealed that more than sixty-seven percent of scheduled hearings are canceled
for these reasons under the present system.  n176

4. Constitutionality of Proposed Changes to Section 12

   The Supreme Court's summary affirmances of both Logan v. Arafeh and French v.
Blackburn, in which three-judge panels upheld statutes permitting forty-five and
ten-day periods of commitment without a hearing, respectively, indicate that the
emergency commitment procedures proposed by the Majority Report satisfy due
process requirements.  n177 These decisions suggest that the absence of a prompt
probable cause hearing in these proposals does not violate due process.  n178
Rather, as the Second Circuit reasoned in Project Release, the constitutionality
of a statute should depend on the totality of the procedural scheme.  n179

   The Majority Report calls for a time frame that would provide judicial review
within eight business days of commitment.  n180 Additionally, it advocates for
an emergency system whereby patients could obtain immediate hearings when the
circumstances of admission constitute  [*694]  a misuse of the involuntary
commitment process.  n181 Furthermore, the opportunity for patients to have
counsel appointed immediately will enhance their ability to take full advantage
of these hearings.  n182 Thus, when considered as a whole, the layers of due
process protection provided by this proposal comport with due process.  n183

   The Minority Report's position that due process requires a prompt probable
cause hearing is not supported by case law.  n184 The Minority Report relies
principally on the United States District Court's reasoning in Lessard to
support its contention that due process requires a probable cause hearing as
soon as possible after commitment.  n185 The Supreme Court's affirmances of
Blackburn and Arafeh effectively overruled Lessard.  n186 Thus, the Minority
Report's assertion that due process requires a prompt probable cause hearing is
unfounded.  n187

III. ANALYSIS OF PROPOSED EMERGENCY COMMITMENT PROCEDURES

   An ideal emergency commitment process is one that best protects patients'
rights in practice.  n188 To develop such a process, it is essential to
recognize that in most cases, emergency commitment affects both the liberty
interests and the clinical interests of the patient.  n189 Striking a workable
balance between these competing interests requires consideration of this issue
from the civil libertarian, clinical and public perspectives. The Ad Hoc
Committee's Majority Report, described above, best respects both liberty and
clinical interests because it balances  [*695]  the need for prompt judicial
review after deprivation of liberty with the clinical needs of patients.  n190

   First, the time frame for judicial review proposed by the Majority Report
would effectively serve both clinical and liberty interests.  n191 Requiring
hospitals to file a petition for commitment within three business days of
emergency commitment marks a significant reduction from the present ten-day
period permitted by section 12.  n192 Moreover, because many acute psychiatric
episodes subside within one to four days, the three-business-day period would
allow the hospital to make an informed decision on the need for further
commitment or to decide that the patient has improved sufficiently to be
released.  n193 Second, the Majority Report's recommendation that a judicial
commitment hearing on the petition filed by the hospital be held within five
business days of receipt of the petition represents a fair balancing of the
patient's right to a hearing and the burdens the hearing process places on the
judicial system.  n194 In considering this five-day period, it is important to
note that the Majority Report suggests that these hearings be held at the
hospitals and to recognize the scheduling difficulties that this may pose.  n195
Holding the hearings at the hospitals is less disruptive for patients and makes
the process seem less criminal in nature.  n196 Moreover, by not requiring
physicians to travel to court, it also reduces the amount of time that the
commitment process takes away from physicians' clinical duties.  n197

   Although emergency commitment for eight business days without judicial review
may seem outrageous when compared to the due process procedures afforded by the
criminal justice system, in practice, this  [*696]  time frame provides more due
process protection than would an immediate probable cause hearing.  n198 If a
hearing were held immediately after admission, physicians would be forced to
seek commitment for many patients whose condition might improve sufficiently for
them to be released a few days later.  n199 If a hearing were held after eight
business days, however, such patients would be released prior to court
involvement.  n200 Moreover, because judges seem unwilling to second-guess the
judgment of physicians, immediate probable cause hearings would likely result in
rubber stamps on physicians' commitment petitions.  n201 The Cambridge District
Court study that revealed that only five percent of patients for whom commitment
petitions were filed were discharged as a result of the petitions being denied
indicates that judicial review is not a patient's best means of securing an
early discharge.  n202 Faced with the decision of releasing a patient whose
mental illness, according to a physician, poses a serious harm to him or herself
or others, most judges would defer to the professional judgment of the
physician. Thus, although an immediate probable cause hearing would, in the
abstract, comport more with civil libertarian notions of fairness, in practice,
a hearing held some days after admission would provide greater protection for a
person's liberty.  n203

   Furthermore, the procedure for requesting an emergency hearing when counsel
or the patient feels that the circumstances of admission constitute a misuse of
section 12 would provide an additional layer of protection.  n204 This emergency
hearing process would address the concern that the time frame of the emergency
commitment process presumes a need for a clinical relationship. Thus, in cases
such as Susan Rockwell's, where there was no basis for admission under section
12,  [*697]  patients can petition the court for a hearing to be held no later
than the next business day after the petition is filed.  n205

   One potential problem with such an emergency hearing process, however, is
defining the grounds for requesting a hearing. The Majority Report does not
contain specific guidelines for the emergency hearing process. The criteria for
an emergency hearing must be sufficiently narrow so that these hearings do not
become routine.  n206 Because all section 12 commitments are involuntary, most
patients would undoubtedly feel that their admissions were improper and that
they deserve emergency hearings. A patient's disagreement with his or her
admission under section 12, however, is not necessarily tantamount to an
improper commitment and should not trigger an emergency hearing in every case.
Moreover, if such emergency hearings were to become a substitute for the regular
system of judicial review, they would be counterproductive to the patients'
interests and would overburden the judicial system.  n207 Therefore, emergency
hearings should be available only when the circumstances of the emergency
admission suggest that the admitting physician did not make reasonable efforts
to ensure that commitment was necessary, e.g., when the admitting physician did
not conduct a thorough examination of the patient.

   Of all the elements of the proposals described in Part II, perhaps the most
significant is the element calling for immediate appointment of counsel.  n208
Appointing counsel immediately would serve the interests of patients, physicians
and the courts because it would increase the likelihood of an extra-judicial
resolution of improper section 12 admissions. Where a patient's admission under
section 12 was a clear abuse of the process, the patient's counsel would be able
to work with the physician and the hospital's counsel to resolve the matter
immediately. In Susan Rockwell's case, for example, immediate appointment of
counsel almost certainly would have resulted in her being discharged more
quickly.  n209 Appointed counsel could have facilitated her discharge by
arranging a conference between the admitting physician and Rockwell's
psychiatrist.  n210 Moreover, even in cases of proper admission, immediate
appointment of counsel would enhance patients' rights.  n211 If  [*698]
patients believe that the physicians are not acting in their best interests,
counsel may be the only person whom the patients believe they can trust.  n212
It should be noted, however, that requiring immediate appointment of counsel
would place an added burden on CPCS. Therefore, the Commonwealth should provide
CPCS with sufficient funding so that it would be able to meet this demand.

   It is worthwhile to note that the Minority Report calling for a prompt
probable cause hearing was supported exclusively by patient advocates and
representatives.  n213 This may signal a fundamental clash of perspectives on
what should be the goals of emergency commitment procedures.  n214 Whereas the
Majority Report balances the clinical and liberty interests of patients, the
Minority Report focuses exclusively on the patient's legal rights. The primary
goal of the Minority Report appears to be to design a system that will meet the
needs of the relatively small percent of persons admitted improperly under
section 12.  n215 In doing so, it does not address the clinical needs of the
majority of patients who are properly admitted.  n216 If one looks at the
involuntary commitment process only from the perspective of the criminal justice
system, it is easy to reject the idea that liberty interests should be balanced
against clinical interests.  n217 If, however, one acknowledges the therapeutic
aspect of the involuntary commitment process, consideration of a patient's
clinical needs is essential to protecting a patient's rights.  n218

   CONCLUSION

   An emergency commitment statute should reflect the fact that the emergency
commitment process affects both liberty and clinical interests. Because the
emergency commitment process deprives persons of their liberty, persons subject
to it must have a means of quickly challenging physicians' decisions to admit
them. At the same time, however,  [*699]  it must be remembered that the purpose
of the emergency commitment process is therapeutic and that the consequences of
failing to admit someone when warranted can be severe. The most effective means
of protecting these competing interests is to appoint counsel immediately and to
provide a procedure for requesting an emergency hearing when counsel or the
patient feels that the circumstances of the admission constituted a misuse of
the emergency commitment process. This would allow for fast resolution of cases
of improper commitment in which there are no clinical interests at stake. For
cases of emergency commitment that do not require emergency hearings, judicial
review within eight business days would provide protection of patients' liberty
interests and allow time for possible extra-judicial resolutions of the
involuntary commitments. Equally important, a hearing within eight business days
would provide physicians sufficient time to make informed decisions on the need
for continued commitment and, therefore, best protect patients' clinical
interests.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Civil ProcedureDeclaratory Judgment ActionsFederal JudgmentsGeneral
OverviewConstitutional LawBill of RightsFundamental RightsProcedural Due
ProcessScope of ProtectionPublic Health & Welfare LawHealthcareMental Health
ServicesCommitmentInvoluntary Commitment of Adults

FOOTNOTES:




n1  See Mitchell Zuckoff, Flawed Law Turns Patients to Prisoners: 'Section 12'
Admissions Fuel a Booming Hospital Business, BOSTON GLOBE, May 12, 1997, at A1.




n2  See id.




n3  See id.




n4  See id.




n5  See id.




n6  See Zuckoff, supra note 1, at A1.




n7  See id.




n8  See MASS. GEN. LAWS ANN. ch. 123, § 12 (West 1997).




n9  See id.




n10  See id.




n11  See id. § 7(c).




n12  See Zuckoff, supra note 1, at A1.




n13  See MASS. GEN. LAWS ANN. ch. 123, § 12 (West 1997).




n14  See id.




n15  See infra Parts I, II and III.




n16  See infra notes 26-78 and accompanying text.




n17  See infra notes 79-119 and accompanying text.




n18  See infra notes 120-87 and accompanying text.




n19  See infra notes 188-218 and accompanying text.




n20  See infra notes 188-218 and accompanying text.




n21  See infra notes 188-218 and accompanying text.




n22  See infra notes 188-218 and accompanying text.




n23  See infra notes 26-38 and accompanying text.




n24  See infra notes 39-78 and accompanying text.




n25  See infra notes 79-119 and accompanying text.




n26  U.S. CONST. amend. XIV, § 1. The Fourteenth Amendment states in relevant
part: "nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law. . . ." Id.




n27  See LAURENCE H. TRIBE, AMERICAN CONSTITUTIONAL LAW 664 (2d ed. 1988).




n28  See Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 332-33 (1976); TRIBE, supra note 27,
at 664.




n29  See TRIBE, supra note 27, at 666.




n30  See id.




n31  Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Comm. v. McGrath, 341 U.S. 123, 172 (1951)
(Frankfurter, J., concurring).




n32  Fuentes v. Shevin, 407 U.S. 67, 97 (1972).




n33  See TRIBE, supra note 27, at 714-15.




n34  Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 334 (holding that due process does not require
evidentiary hearing prior to termination of disability benefits) (quoting
Cafeteria Workers v. McElroy, 367 U.S. 886, 895 (1961)).




n35  See id. at 349.




n36  See id. at 324-25.




n37  See id. at 335. For a critique of the Eldridge balancing test, see TRIBE,
supra note 27, at 717-18 (arguing that adequate protection cannot be afforded by
"balancing" general interests of majority against those of individual).




n38  See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 334.




n39  See Uri Aviram & Robert A. Weyer, Changing Trends in Mental Health
Legislation: Anatomy of Reforming a Civil Commitment Law, 21 J. HEALTH POL.
POL'Y & L. 771, 771-72 (1996); Mary C. McCarron, Comment, The Right to Refuse
Antipsychotic Drugs: Safeguarding the Mentally Incompetent Patient's Right to
Procedural Due Process, 73 MARQ. L. REV. 477, 480-81 (1990); Clifford D.
Stromberg & Alan A. Stone, Statute: A Model State Law on Civil Commitment of the
Mentally Ill, 20 HARV. J. ON LEGIS. 275, 275-78 (1983).




n40  See McCarron, supra note 39, at 480-81. For a discussion of the uses and
effects of psychotropic drugs, see Elizabeth Symonds, Mental Patients' Rights to
Refuse Drugs: Involuntary Medication As Cruel and Unusual Punishment, 7 HASTINGS
CONST. L.Q. 701, 704-11 (1980).




n41  See MICHAEL L. PERLIN, MENTAL DISABILITY LAW: CIVIL AND CRIMINAL 4 (1989);
Aviram & Weyer, supra note 39, at 781-84; Stromberg & Stone, supra note 39, at
276.




n42  See Stromberg & Stone, supra note 39, at 276.




n43  See id. at 277.




n44  See ROBERT M. LEVY & LEONARD S. RUBENSTEIN, THE RIGHTS OF PEOPLE WITH
MENTAL DISABILITIES 71 (1996).




n45  See, e.g., Lessard v. Schmidt, 349 F. Supp. 1078, 1091 (E.D. Wis. 1972).




n46  See French v. Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. 1351, 1356 (M.D.N.C. 1977), aff'd
mem., 443 U.S. 901 (1979); Logan v. Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. 1265, 1268 (D. Conn.
1972), aff'd sub nom. Briggs v. Arafeh, 411 U.S. 911 (1973). United States
Supreme Court summary decisions are binding on lower courts. See Hicks v.
Miranda, 422 U.S. 332, 344-45 (1975).




n47  See Project Release v. Prevost, 722 F.2d 960, 975 (2d Cir. 1983).




n48  See Lessard, 349 F. Supp. at 1091.




n49  See id. at 1082, 1091.




n50  See id. at 1082.




n51  See id.




n52  See id. at 1090.




n53  See Lessard, 349 F. Supp. at 1091.




n54  See PERLIN, supra note 41, at 213.




n55  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356; Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1268.




n56  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356; Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1268; LEVY &
RUBENSTEIN, supra note 44, at 71. But see PERLIN, supra note 41, at 214 (sharp
split over question of constitutional right to preliminary hearing not settled
entirely by Supreme Court's summary affirmance in Blackburn).




n57  See Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1268.




n58  See id. at 1266-67.




n59  See id. at 1267-68.




n60  See id. at 1268.




n61  See id. at 1269.




n62  See Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1269.




n63  See id.




n64  See id.




n65  See id. at 1270.




n66  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356.




n67  See id. at 1353.




n68  See id. at 1355.




n69  See id.




n70  See id.




n71  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356.




n72  See Project Release, 722 F.2d at 974; Donahue v. Rhode Island Dep't of
Mental Health, 632 F. Supp. 1456, 1470 (D.R.I. 1986) (upholding
constitutionality of statute providing for involuntary commitment of alcoholics
for 10 days without judicial hearing); In re Z.O., 484 A.2d 1287, 1291 (N.J.
Super. Ct. App. Div. 1984) (upholding constitutionality of 27-day commitment
prior to hearing).




n73  See Project Release, 722 F.2d at 974.




n74  See id. at 963.




n75  See id. at 974, 975.




n76  See id. at 974-75.




n77  See id. at 975 (quoting Addington v. Texas, 441 U.S. 418, 431 (1979)).




n78  See Project Release, 722 F.2d at 974.




n79  See, e.g., Commonwealth v. Johnson, 650 N.E.2d 1257, 1260 n.5 (Mass. 1995);
ROBERT F. WILLIAMS, STATE CONSTITUTIONAL LAW: CASES AND MATERIALS 68 (1988);
Mark R. Sullivan, Due Process, 27 RUTGERS L.J. 1051, 1053, 1055 (1996).




n80  I was first exposed to many of the ideas in the following sections during
meetings of the Massachusetts District Court's ad hoc committee to review
section 12, for which I served as a research assistant. See infra notes 139-41
and accompanying text.




n81  See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 335.




n82  See Minority Report of the Ad Hoc Committee to Review G.L. ch. 123, § 12,
at 3-4 (Oct. 21, 1997) (unpublished, on file with author) [hereinafter Minority
Report] ("The administrative burdens, if any, of this concurrent approach are
simply outweighed by the compelling considerations of shorter involuntary
admissions, greater protection of individual rights, and closer adherence to the
dictates of the Constitution.").




n83  See id. at 1.




n84  See Lessard, 349 F. Supp. at 1090.




n85  See Shoshana's Psychiatric Survivors' Guide, (visited Jan. 30, 1998)
<http://www.harborside.com/home/e/equinox/glossary/htm>. A former patient
defines involuntary commitment as


     an unconstitutional and horrifyingly abused legal process by which --
     in the absence of any destructive activity, and on nothing more than
     the word of a single [mental health professional] -- a [person] can be
     stripped of his civil rights and imprisoned in a psychiatric facility,
     with no form of recourse whatsoever, in most states for a period up to
     72 hours.

See id.




n86  See Lessard, 349 F. Supp. at 1090.




n87  See id. at 1089; Minority Report, supra note 82, at 3; JUDI CHAMBERLIN, ON
OUR OWN: PATIENT-CONTROLLED ALTERNATIVES TO THE MENTAL HEALTH SYSTEM 70, 75, 83
(1978).




n88  See TRIBE, supra note 27, at 666.




n89  See id.




n90  See id.




n91  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1355; Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1269; Donald
H. J. Hermann, Barriers to Providing Effective Treatment: A Critique of
Revisions in Procedural, Substantive, and Dispositional Criteria in Involuntary
Civil Commitment, 39 VAND. L. REV. 83, 94-95 (1986).




n92  See Project Release, 722 F.2d at 974-75; Hermann, supra note 91, at 94.




n93  See Hermann, supra note 91, at 93-95, 106.




n94  See id.




n95  See id.




n96  See id.




n97  See Thompson v. Commonwealth, 438 N.E.2d 33, 37 (Mass. 1982). In Thompson,
the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts upheld chapter 123, section 9(b) of
the Massachusetts General Laws, which authorized persons who have been found
guilty of a criminal charge and committed to the state psychiatric hospital to
apply for discharge. See id. at 34. The statute provided for a prompt judicial
hearing. See id. at 35. The trial court granted the Commonwealth's motion for
summary judgment of the plaintiff's application filed pursuant to section 9(b).
See id. On appeal, the plaintiff argued that due process required the burden to
rest on the Commonwealth in section 9(b) proceedings. See id. In concluding that
allocating the burden of proof to the applicant was constitutional, the court
reasoned, in part, that placing the burden on the Commonwealth would result in
intolerable fiscal and administrative burdens because there would be no
effective means of disposing of or discouraging the filing of frivolous
applications by litigious patients. See id. at 37. The court further reasoned
that psychiatrists would be forced to spend substantially more time preparing
for and attending judicial hearings instead of caring for patients, and that
funds that could be spent for treatment and care of patients would be spent in
conducting numerous adversary hearings. See id. The court, concluded, therefore,
that placing the burden of proof on the applicant in section 9(b) proceedings
did not violate due process. See id.




n98  See id.




n99  See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 348; Thompson, 438 N.E.2d at 37; Report of the Ad
Hoc Committee to Review G.L. ch. 123, § 12, at 6 (Oct. 21, 1997) (unpublished,
on file with author) [hereinafter Majority Report].




n100  See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 348; Thompson, 438 N.E.2d at 37; TRIBE, supra
note 27, at 715.




n101  See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 348; Thompson, 438 N.E.2d at 37; TRIBE, supra
note 27, at 715.




n102  See Eldridge, 424 U.S. at 348; Thompson, 438 N.E.2d at 37; TRIBE, supra
note 27, at 715.




n103  See Hermann, supra note 91, at 94-95.




n104  See id.




n105  See Stromberg & Stone, supra note 39, at 324.




n106  See id.




n107  See id. This argument is consistent with a study of commitment hearings
scheduled in the Cambridge District Court. See infra notes 115-18 and
accompanying text.




n108  See Letter from Hon. Jonathan Brant, Justice, Cambridge District Court, to
Hon. Maurice Richardson, Dedham District Court 2 (July 21, 1997) (on file with
author) [hereinafter Brant].




n109  See CHAMBERLIN, supra note 87, at xiv.




n110  In Susan Rockwell's case, for example, improper commitment deprived her of
her liberty unjustifiably and proved detrimental to her mental health. See supra
notes 1-6 and accompanying text.




n111  See supra notes 1-6 and accompanying text.




n112  See TRIBE, supra note 27, at 718.




n113  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 1.




N114  See TRIBE, supra note 27, at 718.




n115  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 3 n.4. The referenced study was
conducted by Hon. Jonathan Brant, Justice, Cambridge District Court and member
of the Committee. See Brant, supra note 108, at 1. Judge Brant reviewed all
petitions for commitment filed under sections 7 and 8 in Cambridge District
Court during the period from January 1, 1996 to July 15, 1997 -- a total of 289
cases. See id. Slightly fewer than one-third of these petitions actually reached
a hearing. See id. Of the cases that did not reach a hearing, more than half of
the patients were discharged. See id. Thus, approximately 38% of patients were
discharged between the first and 24th day after their admission. See id. Adding
the roughly five percent of patients who were discharged as a result of
petitions for commitment being denied, it appears that 43% of patients were
discharged on or before the 24th day after admission. See Brant, supra note 108,
at 1. Judge Brant noted that these data reflect only the percentage of persons
released after a petition for commitment has been filed and that a significant
percentage of persons admitted under section 12 would have been released without
any petition ever having been filed. See id.




n116  See id.




n117  See id.




n118  See id.




n119  See Thompson, 438 N.E.2d at 37.




n120  See Zuckoff, supra note 1, at A1.




n121  See infra notes 123-38 and accompanying text.




n122  See infra notes 139-87 and accompanying text.




n123  See MASS. GEN. LAWS ANN. ch. 123, § 12 (West 1997). Section 12 states in
relevant part:

     (a) Any [qualified] physician . . . who after examining a person has
     reason to believe that failure to hospitalize such person would create
     a likelihood of serious harm by reason of mental illness may restrain
     or authorize the restraint of such person and apply for the
     hospitalization of such person for a ten day period at a public
     facility or at a private facility authorized for such purposes. . . .
     If an examination is not possible because of the emergency nature of
     the case and because of the refusal of the person to consent to such
     examination, the physician, qualified psychologist or qualified
     psychiatric nurse mental health clinical specialist on the basis of
     the facts and circumstances may determine that hospitalization is
     necessary and may apply therefore. In an emergency situation, if a
     physician, qualified psychologist or qualified psychiatric nurse
     mental health clinical specialist is not available, a police officer,
     who believes that failure to hospitalize a person would create a
     likelihood of serious harm by reason of mental illness may restrain
     such person and apply for the hospitalization of such person for a ten
     day period. . . . (b) Only if the application for hospitalization
     under the provisions of this section is made by a physician
     specifically designated to have the authority to admit to a facility
     in accordance with the regulations of the department, shall such
     person be admitted to the facility immediately after his reception. If
     the application is made by someone other than a designated physician,
     such person shall be given a psychiatric examination by a designated
     physician immediately after his reception at such facility. If the
     physician determines that failure to hospitalize such person would
     create a likelihood of serious harm by reason of mental illness he may
     admit such person to the facility for care and treatment.
     . . . .
     (d) A person shall be discharged at the end of the ten-day period
     unless the superintendent applies for a commitment under the
     provisions of sections seven and eight of this chapter or the person
     remains on a voluntary status.

See id.




n124  Id. § 12(a).




n125  See id. § 12(b).




n126  See id. § 12(d).




n127  See id. §§ 7(c), 12(d).




n128  See id. §§ 7(c), 12(d). When enacted in 1970, section 12 required that
hospitals notify district courts of all emergency commitments and provide
evidence that hospitalization was needed to avoid serious harm. See Zuckoff,
supra note 1, at A1. If the evidence was "shaky," an immediate hearing was
required. See id. In 1971, this provision was deleted from the statute. See id.




n129  See id. See generally CONN. GEN. STAT. ANN. § 17a-502(d) (West 1998)
(person detained has right to request hearing that shall be held within 72
hours, excluding weekends and holidays); LA. REV. STAT. ANN. tit. 28 § 53.D.
(West 1998) (person confined has right to demand hearing that shall be held
within five days); N.Y. MENTAL HYG. LAW § 9.39(a) (McKinney 1998) (patient may
request hearing that shall be held not more than five days after such request is
received).




n130  See LEVY & RUBENSTEIN, supra note 44, at 68-72; Hermann, supra note 91, at
92.




n131  See Don Aucoin & Mitchell Zuckoff, Reform of Emergency Committals Urged
Lawmakers Push for Patient's Rights After Series Exposes Abuses of Law, BOSTON
GLOBE, May 13, 1997, at B1.




n132  See Zuckoff, supra note 1, at A1.




n133  See id.




n134  See id.




n135  See id.




n136  See id.




n137  See Zuckoff, supra note 1, at A1.




n138  See id.




n139  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 1.




n140  See id. The members of the Committee were: Paul Barreira, M.D., Deputy
Commissioner for Clinical & Professional Services, Department of Mental Health;
Hon. Jonathan Brant, Justice, Cambridge District Court; Doris Carreiro, Esq.,
Assistant General Counsel, Department of Mental Health; Robert Fleischner, Esq.,
Center for Public Representation; Stan Goldman, Esq., Director of Mental Health
Litigation, Committee for Public Counsel Services; Hon. Timothy Hillman, First
Justice, Worcester District Court; Jennifer Honig, Esq., Mental Health Legal
Advisors' Committee; Catherine Mahoney, Esq., Deputy General Counsel, Beth
Israel-Deaconess Medical Center; Michael C. Miller, M.D., Director of Ambulatory
Services, Department of Psychiatry, Beth Israel-Deaconess Medical Center, East
Campus; Thomas O'Hare, Esq., Legal Counsel, Newton-Wellesley Hospital; Hon.
Maurice H. Richardson, First Justice, Dedham District Court (Chair); Linda
Sahovey, R.N., M.S.N., Clinical Director, Boston Emergency Services Team; Steven
Schwartz, Esq., Center for Public Representation; Paul Summergrad, M.D., Chief
of Inpatient Psychiatry, Massachusetts General Hospital. See id. at attachment.
Liaison, District Court Department was John C. Connors, Esq., Deputy Court
Administrator and the Staff Liaison was Marilyn Wellington, Esq., Director of
Forensic Legal Services, Department of Mental Health. See id.




n141  See id. at 2.




n142  See id. at 1.




n143  See id. at 2.




n144  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 5.




n145  See id. at 2-3.




n146  See id. at 3.




n147  See id. The Committee also proposed that section 12(e) be amended to
require immediate appointment of counsel. See id. Section 12(e) provides that a
district court judge -- after a hearing on a petition and the issuance of a
warrant of apprehension, if necessary -- may order the 10-day involuntary
hospitalization of a person who represents a likelihood of serious harm as a
result of mental illness. See MASS. GEN. LAWS ANN. ch. 123, § 12(e).




n148  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 3.




n149  See id. at 3-4.




n150  See id.




n151  See id. at 4.




n152  See id.




n153  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 4.




n154  See id. at 5.




n155  See id. at 4.




n156  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 1.




n157  See id.




n158  See id.




n159  See id.




n160  See id.




n161  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 2.




n162  See id.




n163  See id.




n164  See id.




n165  See id.




n166  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 3.




n167  See id.




n168  See id.




n169  See id.




n170  See id.




n171  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 3.




n172  See id.




n173  Majority Report, supra note 99, at 6.




n174  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 3.




n175  See id.




n176  See id. at 2 n.4.




n177  See French v. Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. 1351, 1356 (M.D.N.C. 1977), aff'd
mem., 443 U.S. 901 (1979); Logan v. Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. 1265, 1268 (D. Conn.
1972), aff'd sub nom. Briggs v. Arafeh, 411 U.S. 911 (1973); see also Hicks v.
Miranda, 422 U.S. 332, 344-45 (1975) (United States Supreme Court summary
decisions are binding on lower courts).




n178  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356; Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1268.




n179  See Project Release v. Prevost, 722 F.2d 960, 974, 975 (2d Cir. 1983).




n180  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 5.




n181  See id. at 3-4.




n182  See id. at 5.




n183  See Project Release, 722 F.2d at 974, 975.




n184  See id. at 974-75; Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356; Arafeh, 346 F. Supp.
at 1268.




n185  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 1.




n186  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356; Lessard v. Schmidt, 349 F. Supp.
1078, 1091 (E.D. Wis. 1972); Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1268.




n187  See Blackburn, 428 F. Supp. at 1356; Arafeh, 346 F. Supp. at 1268. The
Minority Report stated that "in a series of consistent constitutional decisions,
numerous federal courts held that states must provide a prompt probable cause
hearing after a person is involuntarily detained." Minority Report, supra note
82, at 1. In support of this statement, the report cited Lessard and Cannon v.
Garland County, 948 F. Supp. 1368 (W.D. Ark. 1996). See id. In Cannon, the
United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas held that an
Arkansas involuntary commitment statute that allowed a hearing to be held up to
11 days after admission violated constitutional due process requirements. See
Cannon, 948 F. Supp. at 1369, 1380. The Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals later
vacated the district court's decision, however, because it concluded that the
plaintiff lacked standing. See Cannon v. Garland County, 141 F.3d 1167, 1998 WL
172612, at *1 (8th Cir. 1998) (unpublished disposition).




n188  See Hermann, supra note 91, at 94-95.




n189  See id.




n190  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 5.




n191  See id.




n192  See MASS. GEN. LAWS ANN. ch. 123, § 12(d).




n193  See Stromberg & Stone, supra note 39, at 324.




n194  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 5.




n195  See id. at 4.




n196  Some people who have been involuntarily committed, however, believe that
hearings should be held at courthouses. On April 7, 1998, the Massachusetts
legislature's Joint Committee on Human Services and Elderly Affairs held a
hearing on a bill to revise section 12. The bill incorporated all of the
proposals of the Majority Report. See H.R. 5402, 180th Leg., 2d Spec. Sess.
(Mass. 1998). At the hearing, several persons who had been involuntarily
committed testified that commitment hearings should be held at courthouses. See
An Act to Reform the Civil Commitment Process for Persons with Mental Illness:
Hearing on H.R. 5402, 180th Leg., 2d Spec. Sess. (Mass. 1998) (statement of Judi
Chamberlin). For example, Judi Chamberlin, an advocate for persons with mental
disabilities who was once involuntarily committed herself, stated that hearings
held in hospitals do not make impressions on patients as being judicial process.
See id. Ms. Chamberlin testified that patients want "their day in court." See
id.




n197  See Thompson v. Commonwealth, 438 N.E.2d 33, 37 (Mass. 1982) (expressing
concern about demands judicial hearings place on psychiatrists' time).




n198  See Stromberg & Stone, supra note 39, at 324.




n199  See id.




n200  See id.; Brant, supra note 108, at 1.




n201  See Brant, supra note 108, at 1 (estimating approximately five percent of
patients discharged as a result of petitions for commitment being denied); see
also Kenneth L. Appelbaum, M.D. & William H. Fisher, Ph.D., Judges' Assumptions
About the Appropriateness of Civil and Forensic Commitment, PSYCHIATRIC
SERVICES, May 1997, at 711. A survey of Massachusetts district court judges
asked if they ever "felt concerned that the mental health system might
inadequately treat or prematurely discharge a patient" who had been civilly
committed. Id. Fifty-four judges, 93.1% of those who responded, acknowledged
having concerns about the adequacy of treatment or confinement in the civil
mental health system. See id. Although this survey does not relate directly to
the likelihood of a judge's denying a commitment petition, it does provide some
insight into judges' views of the commitment process.




n202  See Brant, supra note 108, at 1.




n203  See Stromberg & Stone, supra note 39, at 324.




n204  See Project Release v. Prevost, 722 F.2d 960, 974 (2d Cir. 1983); Majority
Report, supra note 99, at 3-4.




n205  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 3-4.




n206  Cf. Thompson, 438 N.E.2d at 37 (noting intolerable fiscal and
administrative burdens that would result if there were no means of disposing or
discouraging filing of frivolous applications pursuant to MASS. GEN. LAWS ch.
123, § 9(b)).




n207  See Mathews v. Eldridge, 424 U.S. 319, 348 (1976); Thompson, 438 N.E.2d at
37.




n208  See Majority Report, supra note 99, at 3.




n209  See supra notes 1-6 and accompanying text.




n210  See supra notes 1-6 and accompanying text.




n211  See CHAMBERLIN, supra note 87, at 39.




n212  See id.




n213  See Minority Report, supra note 82, at 1. The introductory paragraph of
the Minority Report states: "Several members of the Committee strongly disagree
with the recommendations of the majority. These members are all representatives
and advocates for persons with mental disabilities." Id.




n214  See id.




n215  See id. at 2. The Minority Report criticized the emergency hearing process
proposed by the Majority Report because its purpose was "restricted to
correcting obvious abuses in the emergency detention process, rather than
providing a judicial forum for all involuntarily detained persons for the
constitutionally-required determination of probable cause." Id.




n216  See Hermann, supra note 91, at 94-95, 106.




n217  See id.




n218  See id.


