                              426 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      December 29, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Medicaid, Medicare New Codes, Reimbursements for Telehealth Services

LENGTH: 555  words


Dec. 29 -- US-based Cytta Corp issued the following news release:

Cytta Corp. (OTCQB: CYCA) - Beginning January 1st, 2015, the Centers for
Medicaid and Medicare (CMS) will begin reimbursement for a number of telehealth
services that the Agency hasn't covered before. This means that physicians will
now get paid for using Cytta's remote monitoring system to remotely monitoring
their patients' health!

CMS rule changes and current procedural terminology ("CPT") codes will
significantly broaden coverage for chronic care telehealth services. "Government
action to support healthcare technology creates greater acceptance of remote
patient care and it essentially guarantees the growth of telemedicine usage that
we anticipate for 2015," remarked Gary M. Campbell, CEO of Cytta.

CMS now includes a provision that would cover remote chronic care management
using a new current procedural terminology ("CPT") code, 99490 (with a monthly
unadjusted, non-facility fee of $42.60). This new CPT code can be bundled with
the existing CPT code 99091 for collecting and reviewing patient data, which
does not require the beneficiary to be present and pays an average monthly fee
of $56.92 to the physician. The final rule also includes a provision that would
cover remote-patient monitoring of chronic conditions using existing CPT code
99091 (with a monthly unadjusted, non-facility fee of $56.92).

In effect, these provisions broaden Medicare payments for remote patient
monitoring of chronic conditions, while freeing patients from having to visit
their doctor's office and permits doctors to watch over many more patients, in a
far more cost efficient manner.

Notably, the 99490 and 99091 codes are available nationwide and intended for
coverage of monitoring chronic conditions, the two services can now be combined
as chronic care management and remote patient monitoring with a combined monthly
fee of nearly $100.

"This is a tremendous leap forward for our CyttaConnect platform, for our care
partners and patient users," says Erik Stephansen President of Cytta. "We are
seeing telemedicine momentum pickup and, with proof of beneficial care occurring
everyday, we expect additional CMS telehealth codes will be put in place to
provide more funds for remote patient treatment."

Chronic care management is crucial to reducing healthcare costs. There are
services required that many physicians just don't do right now, in part because
they are not paid for it. By introducing controlled telehealth capabilities,
there are larger economies of scale to help the physician.

Additionally, Hospitals might also take a greater interest in chronic care
management to avoid readmissions penalties. Currently, there are more than 2,000
hospitals paying a penalty this year in their Medicare rates because of
readmissions," mentioned Mr. Campbell. "Telehealth is the best way to remotely
manage care and get ahead of care issues before they require emergency
treatment."

The new rules also include seven new covered procedure codes for telehealth,
including annual wellness visits, psychotherapy services, and prolonged services
at physicians' offices.

For more information about our connected blue tooth monitoring devices, the
Cytta Connect open source network and updates on our current research and
actions go to (http://www.Cytta.com/)

Source: Cytta Corp

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


