                              431 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                              Daily Mail (London)

                                 March 3, 1995

WOMEN IN NEW X-RAYS ALERT;
300,000 breast cancer screenings to be re -checked

BYLINE: Jenny Hope, Medical Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 894 words


ALL breast cancer X-rays taken in Scotland since 1991 are to be checked after
six patients were mistakenly given the all-clear.

The blunder was discovered when doctors treating a woman for advanced breast
cancer found a suspect X-ray, taken almost two years earlier, had not been
investigated.

Health officials have blamed a 'procedural error' for the failure to follow up
the woman's scan at the East of Scotland Breast Screening Service.

A review was ordered yesterday of all 300,000 X-rays taken since the NHS
Scottish Breast Cancer Screening programme was launched in 1991 for women aged
50 to 64.

The case that sparked the review involves a middle-aged woman whose identity is
being kept secret.

Her X-ray was checked by two radiologists who correctly interpreted the results.
They wanted the patient to come back for reassessment and marked her record for
a recall.

But the recall was entered wrongly in a logbook, and this led to an incorrect
entry into a computer at the screening centre based in Dundee Royal Infirmary,
in February 1993.

The computer then produced a letter telling the patient she was in the clear.

There were no cross-checks with the original X-ray and it is feared the same
system may be used by six other screening centres in Scotland.

The woman, who had surgery two months ago and is about to begin chemotherapy,
was told of the mistake this week and is said to be annoyed and upset.  Dr Derek
Maclean, medical director of the Dundee Teaching Hospitals Trust, said doctors
treating the patient had said she should not be told 'until the appropriate time
in her treatment'.

The trust carried out a secret review of all 40,000 records of women attending
the East of Scotland Screening Centre.

This identified five further procedural errors.

All the women have been contacted and no further cancers have been found.

Dr Maclean said the decision to carry out the review in secret was made to
protect patient confidentiality.

Elizabeth Quinn, of the Scottish Breast Cancer Association, said: 'Time is of
the essence in these things and they waited too long - it's women's live they're
dealing with.'

Scottish Office Minister Lord Fraser of Carmyllie said: 'The exercise in Dundee
to check back on records and a previous exercise in Birmingham has shown the
risk from a procedural error to women who have been screened is virtually nil.'

But all UK screening centres have been asked to review procedures.

A similar problem in the West Midlands last year led to the re-checking of
250,000 records and an instruction to all breast screening centres in England to
ensure they had failsafe written procedures.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


