                              430 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           The Ledger (Lakeland, FL)

                            October 30, 2005, Sunday

HOSPITAL'S VITAL SIGNS; IMPROVED ER EXPECTS TO STAY BUSY

BYLINE: ROBIN WILLIAMS ADAMS The Ledger

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 971 words


LAKELAND -- Winter is on the way and the prognosis for Lakeland Regional Medical
Center's emergency room is for another deluge of patients.

Hospital officials want to avoid a repeat of earlier this year, when "code
purple," meaning a saturated ER, became a catchword. Beds filled hallways in the
ER and patients complained of waits of 12 hours or more before they were moved
to a regular room.

There's no question the ER is going to be busy again come winter. Think flu,
winter residents, population growth, people without insurance and people who
don't want to wait three days for a doctor's appointment.

Overall, LRMC expects 133,000 emergency department visits in the fiscal year
that began Oct. 1 -- 5,000 more than last year.

Vice President Janet Fansler, who supervises the ER, said she expects several
improvements made by LRMC to make the situation less stressful, however.

Among the changes:

The patient wing that opened in April with 286 beds, 192 of them in private
rooms, will make it easier to move patients from the ER to a regular room.

The hospital added eight beds to the ER, which brought its total to 82 beds on
March 10.

There have been ongoing procedural changes to improve patients' treatment and
their flow through the ER.

LRMC officials also plan renovations, an electronic tracking system to speed ER
treatment and a fourth ICU for admitting sick patients.

The new wing doesn't increase LRMC's total beds, but it makes more available for
admissions because of its private rooms. Some beds in semiprivate rooms go
unused if only one patient can be there because of a contagious disease or other
situations requiring isolation.

While extra bed space will help with the load, the procedural changes have the
potential for the longest-lasting impact.

A bigger ER alone isn't enough, said Jim Nathan, treasurer of the Florida
Hospital Association board and chief executive officer of Lee Memorial Health
System in southwest Florida.

That health system has 1,070 beds at several facilities. The largest number is
at Lee Memorial Hospital, which has 427 beds.

"Emergency departments are very different today than they were not too many
years ago," Nathan said. "Patients are getting actively managed in an emergency
department for many hours while they are going through a battery of tests."

LRMC and other hospitals need to plan with that in mind, as well as how other
areas of the hospital affect the ER, he said.

In the LRMC emergency room, an area that has been newly designated for
diagnosing chest pain illustrates what Fansler and Nathan mean when they talk
about changing ER delivery to reflect the care needed.

Chest pain already was a high priority, Fansler said, but a designated area
allows a "more formal, organized approach."

Another factor that has a major impact on Lakeland Regional's ER, as it does at
Lee Memorial, is a high number of uninsured people seeking care there.

Nathan recommends hospitals cooperate with groups that work on health care for
the uninsured.

LRMC Vice President John Schliesser participates in the Health Care Alliance, a
coalition working to improve that care, and is on the board of Lakeland
Volunteers in Medicine, a free clinic for some of the Lakeland area's uninsured.

LVIM makes a "significant contribution" in helping uninsured Lakeland residents,
he said, and the alliance has addressed tough issues, including better ways to
provide primary care that can keep people out of the emergency department.

Paul Powers, LRMC's chief finance officer, recently was appointed to the
Citizens Oversight Committee, which recommends how to spend money from the
half-cent indigent-care sales tax.

LOOKING AHEAD

The new wing, extra ER beds and procedural changes already have helped, Fansler
said.

"There has been a lot of satisfaction lately on the situation having improved,"
said Dr. Eric Lipson, a Watson Clinic pulmonary doctor who is chief of the LRMC
medical staff this year.

But more is needed.

LRMC officials had hoped to choose an electronic tracking system by this summer,
which should speed ER treatment once installed, but Fansler said it took longer
than expected to schedule interviews with providers.

Hospital officials saw several presentations in late September on what those
systems could accomplish.

"Hopefully, within a year we'll have a system chosen and installed," Fansler
said. "I hope we make a decision in the fall."

LRMC is budgeting $ 1.4 million this fiscal year for the emergency department
tracking system, Powers said.

LRMC also is working on plans to add a fourth ICU, expand its pediatric ER and
move the fast-track ER for less-serious care into the main building. But those
changes won't be completed in time for this winter.

Construction on the 18-bed ICU and emergency department expansion is scheduled
for 2006-07 as part of LRMC's facilities master plan, Vice President Carole
Philipson said.

Hospital officials expect these changes to satisfy recommendations made by VHA
Inc., an association of not-for-profit hospitals to which LRMC belongs.

The new wing and additional ICU will address its recommendation to limit the
number of patients waiting in the ER for inpatient beds, Fansler said.

Full-to-capacity ICUs can mean some patients who usually would be admitted to an
ICU get their care in the ER instead.

VHA, which visited LRMC before the eight ER beds went in, said its ER had enough
nurses and doctors, but that more beds were needed. It didn't say how many.

The 82 ER beds at LRMC are more than triple its 25 in 1988.

Lee Memorial Health System, with 73 ER beds divided among three hospitals, also
sees increasing visits, particularly in winter.

"Demand fills the emergency department as soon as we expand it," Nathan said.


LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RICK RUNION/The Ledger: An ambulance pulls into Lakeland Regional
Medical Center recently. Earlier this year, the hospital issued a "Code Purple"
-- indicating patient saturation -- and ordered incoming ambulances diverted to
other facilities.; Nathan; Schliesser; Fansler

             Copyright 2005 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation


