                              428 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      November 8, 2011 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

St. Jude Medical Expands Hospital Access to Wireless Fractional Flow Reserve
Technology with New Agreement

LENGTH: 705  words


New Delhi, Nov. 8 -- St. Jude Medical, Inc. (NYSE: STJ), a global medical device
company, today announced its wireless PressureWire Aeris technology, which aids
in the diagnosis and treatment of coronary artery blockages by measuring
Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR), will now be available to hospitals using the
Philips Xper Flex Cardio physiomonitoring system. Physicians will have greater
access to the market's only wireless FFR measurement system through this new
Philips agreement.

FFR measurements indicate the severity of blood flow blockages in the coronary
arteries, allowing physicians to better identify which specific lesion or
lesions are responsible for a patient's ischemia, a deficiency of blood supply
to the heart caused by blood flow restriction. The PressureWire Aeris technology
helps physicians determine the best treatment options for patients during
coronary interventions, such as stent procedures.

The PressureWire Aeris system offers a secure, wireless interface between
PressureWire and a cath lab's hemodynamic recording system to immediately
display, measure and save FFR data. With FFR results integrated into a patient's
existing study record, the severity of coronary lesions is documented together
with other procedural data and angiographic imagery. The wireless technology of
the PressureWire Aeris also eliminates cables crossing the sterile field,
reducing risk of contamination, and making the entire procedure faster and
easier.

The Philips Xper Flex Cardio physiomonitoring system has been designed to
streamline the overall workflow of the entire catheterization suite. A single
interface on the Philips physiomonitoring system combines both the FFR
measurement controls and clinical documentation including lesion, stage and
medication. This unique integration between the PressureWire Aeris wireless
technology and the Philips physiomonitoring system provides availability of this
important clinical data in the physician reporting module. The new product line
offers a truly integrated wireless FFR solution for physicians.

Two-year follow-up data from the landmark FAME (Fractional flow reserve (FFR)
vs. Angiography in Multivessel Evaluation) trial compared FFR-guided treatment
using a St. Jude Medical PressureWire to treatment using standard angiography
alone, and found both superior clinical outcomes and reduced healthcare costs in
patients whose treatment was based on FFR. The combined risk of death or
myocardial infarction (heart attack) was 34 percent lower for patients whose
treatment was guided by PressureWire technology prior to coronary stenting.

FFR-guided treatment using the St. Jude Medical PressureWire System was also
found by the FAME trial to be cost-saving, with a difference of about $2,000, or
a 14 percent reduction in health care costs to the hospital between the two
patient groups after one year. These lower health care costs were a result of
reduced procedural costs, reduced follow-up costs for major adverse cardiac
events and shorter hospital stays.

"St. Jude Medical's FFR technology is clinically proven to significantly improve
patient outcomes while reducing costs to the health care system," said Frank
Callaghan, president of the St. Jude Medical Cardiovascular Division. "This
agreement with Philips allows physicians to more easily gain access to the only
wireless FFR measurement system available."

Because of this new agreement with Philips, and existing compatibility with
other recording systems including the GE Mac-Lab(R) Hemodynamic Recording
System, Mennen Horizon XVu, McKesson Horizon Cardiology Hemo(TM) solution and
Siemens AXIOM Sensis XP, the PressureWire Aeris technology can be used in nearly
all cardiac cath labs for wireless integrated FFR measurement utilizing existing
hardware.

About Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR)

Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR) is an index determining the functional severity of
narrowings in the coronary arteries. FFR specifically identifies which coronary
narrowings are responsible for significantly obstructing the flow of blood to a
patients' heart muscle (called ischemia), and it is used by the interventional
cardiologist to direct coronary interventions and assess results for improved
treatment outcomes.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2011 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


