                              438 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             The Weekend Australian

                    June 14, 2003 Saturday Preprints Edition

Women GPs shun practice in the bush - Rural & Remote Health:NSW

SOURCE: MATP

BYLINE: Daniel Gaffney

SECTION: FEATURES-COLUMN- HEALTH; Pg. C21

LENGTH: 604 words


THE decline of GP numbers in the bush is symptomatic of many problems facing
country communities.

The shortage stems largely from widespread "generational" issues affecting
Australia's workforce and specific disincentives affecting rural and remote
areas.

The latest figures from the NSW Rural Doctors Network list 110 unfilled GP
positions in NSW, of which 80 per cent are in rural and remote locations.

"The average age of rural doctors is increasing and many have brought forward
retirement plans because of uncertainty about medical indemnity insurance,"
Australian Medical Association NSW branch president Dr Choong-Siew Yong says.

While ageing male doctors move into early retirement the rising proportion of
young female doctors -- now 60 per cent of medical graduates -- is compounding
the shortfall of medicos in the bush.

According to new Australian Bureau of Statistics figures, 46 per cent of doctors
aged under 35 are women, and most are reluctant to live in country areas.

As a result only 21 per cent of women GPs work in the bush.

"Like other professions, there are more doctors who want to work part-time,
which further reduces the number of available doctors," Yong says. "For doctors
contemplating a move to country areas, the career aspirations of their spouse or
partner is more important than it was in the past -- another generational
issue."

NSW Rural Doctors Association president Dr Sue Page says women doctors tend to
do less well in the country than men.

"(They) are less likely to work full-time and less likely to do procedural work
in hospitals, and most country practices are only financially viable because
they have a hospital appointment," she says. "But if you're a part-time female
GP with family commitments then you don't necessarily want to be on call for a
24-hour shift at the hospital every second night."

Dr Page believes the higher costs of setting up and running a general practice
in the bush are another disincentive.

"There are a number of costs which are significantly greater in the country,"
she says. "An obvious one of those is the amount of resuscitation equipment you
need.

"If you're in the city, you're going to be close to an ambulance station, so you
don't have the need for a defibrillator machines or resuscitation gear.

"In the country, you might not have an ambulance station in your town, let alone
close to your surgery, so you have to purchase all this equipment."

While medical workforce numbers in the bush continue to haemorrhage -- and with
fewer doctors prepared to bolster the shortfall -- domestic and international
factors are exacerbating the problem.

"There's now an international market in doctors and Australia, like all Western
countries, is running short," Yong says.

"As a result we're actively recruiting overseas doctors to work in rural and
remote areas while overseas nations are actively recruiting to take our doctors
away."

As a result, nearly 3000 Australian doctors are overseas citizens on short-term
working visas, a number that has increased by 400 per cent in the last decade.

"There's been a fall in the number of medical graduates over the last 10 to 15
years, and a conscious decrease in the number of medical school places funded by
the federal Government," Yong says.

"What's more, in regional areas there is less scope now for GPs to do procedural
work like obstetrics or surgery because more specialists are moving into
regional centres.

"For a long time, this procedural work was an important source of job
satisfaction for GPs in the bush, but now it's under threat."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS

                   Copyright 2003 Nationwide News Pty Limited


