                              442 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                             August 5, 2014 Tuesday

MDD's Cardiology Extra

LENGTH: 1811 words

Senior Staff Writer

New technique for PDA

A new technique for repairing the most common cardiac birth defect in newborns,
commonly referred to as "a hole in the heart," has been used to mend the
condition in six premature infants without subjecting the tiny patients to
open-heart surgery.

The technique for repairing the condition, patent ductus arteriosus, also called
PDA, was published online by the peer-reviewed medical journal Catheterization
and Cardiovascular Interventions, the official journal of The Society for
Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions. The study, published in the
journal's July print edition, was developed by a team in the Cedars-Sinai Heart
Institute's (Los Angeles) Guerin Family Congenital Heart Program led by Evan
Zahn, an expert in congenital heart disease.

"Just a few short years ago, the only treatments available for these babies was
an intravenous medication regimen or heart surgery," said Zahn, co-director of
the program. "Yet many of these babies are so fragile that we needed additional
treatment options to ensure that these children have a healthy future ahead of
them."

PDA is a condition in which a blood vessel called the ductus arteriosus, which
routes blood around the baby's lungs prior to birth, does not close naturally as
it should within a couple of days after birth. The opening leads to abnormal
blood flow and can cause symptoms ranging from fast breathing and difficult
feeding to brain hemorrhage and death in premature infants.

The study followed six severely premature infants who were born with patent
ductus arteriosus when they were between 26 and 31 weeks gestation. The babies
in the study were between 16 and 80 days old and weighed between 1.9 and 4.9
pounds. All the infants in the study had successful closure procedures and did
not experience complications, the researchers reported.

Zahn and his team developed a catheter-based technique that employed
sophisticated imaging technologies fluoroscopy and echocardiography to guide the
physicians through the delicate closure procedure.

"The development of new minimally invasive techniques to treat babies with PDA
is a major step forward," said Eduardo Marbán, director of the Cedars-Sinai
Heart Institute. "The tiny size of premature infants renders open-chest surgery
exceedingly risky; Zahn and colleagues can now fix the problem with a catheter,
at the bedside in the neonatal unit, without exposing the internal organs. Lives
have been saved, and many others stand to benefit as this new technology is
disseminated."



Survey finds most satisfied with AVR or TAVR outcomes

A survey, published online in the European Journal of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery,
of 13,860 patients who had undergone interventions for aortic valve disease in
Germany has revealed that more than 80% were in the same or a better state of
health one year after the intervention, and were satisfied with the procedural
outcome.

Aortic stenosis, the narrowing of the aortic valve in the heart, is the most
frequent valvular heart disease in the aging Western population, and the
prognosis of this disease in symptomatic patients with conservative therapy is
poor. As a result, surgical aortic valve replacement (AVR) has become the
therapeutic gold standard with well-documented benefits in terms of symptom
relief and survival. During the past decade, transcatheter aortic valve
replacement (TAVR) has emerged as a minimally invasive alternative for
higher-risk patients, and the number of these procedures being carried out in
Germany and Europe as a whole has increased in recent years.

Friedrich Mohr and colleagues used the German Aortic Valve Registry (GARY) to
look at the 13,860 registered patients undergoing either AVR or TAVR procedures
from 2011. Enrollment in the registry was voluntary, and took place in 78 German
centers. Baseline, procedural, and outcome data, including quality of life, were
acquired up to one year post-intervention. Vital status at one year was known
for just over 98% of patients.

One-year mortality was 6.7% (6,523) for conventional AVR patients and 11%
(3,464) for patients who underwent AVR with coronary artery bypass grafting.
One-year mortality 20.7% and 28% in transvascular TAVR and transapical TAVR
procedures respectively. However, if patients were stratified into four risk
groups, the highest-risk cohorts showed the same mortality at one year
regardless of type of therapy.

More than 80% of patients in all groups were in the same or better state of
health at one year post-intervention and were satisfied with the procedural
outcome.

"GARY is unique in that it includes all interventional and surgical treatment
options for aortic valve disease that are currently available in Germany," Mohr
said. "Our aim was to obtain a comprehensive and contemporary picture of the
current practice of aortic valve intervention therapy and to create an
independent database that will allow for long-term follow-up of those patients."

He added that continuation of the registry and long-term follow-up will help to
develop robust future risk models to predict patient outcomes for each treatment
option in patients with aortic stenosis.

Canadian hospital reduces SSIs after heart surgery by 77%

A common postoperative complication after open heart operations, infection at
the surgical site, has been reduced by 77% at a Canadian hospital through its
participation in the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality
Improvement Program (ACS NSQIP), according to a new case study presented at the
2014 ACS NSQIP national conference.

Vancouver General Hospital (British Columbia) reportedly reduced its rate of
cardiac surgical site infections (SSIs) using a "best practices bundle," or
combination of scientifically proven, up-to-date methods for reducing these
potentially serious infections. The hospital's new surgical patient safety
program quickly resulted in "a dramatic reduction" of SSIs, said Rael Klein, a
study co-author and an anesthesiologist at the University of British Columbia
(Vancouver).

SSIs affect 2% to 20% of coronary artery bypass graft procedures, the most
common open heart procedure performed in the U.S. An infection can develop in
the surgical wound of either the patient's sternum or leg if a vein was
harvested from the leg for the bypass.

"Sternal infections can be devastating for the patient because it is close to
vital structures such as the heart," Klein said. "Reducing the SSI rate means
fewer postoperative complications and a reduced length of stay in the hospital."

Klein and other members of Vancouver General's multidisciplinary cardiac surgery
quality improvement team led the SSI reduction effort after finding that their
average cardiac NSQIP SSI rate was 7%, about twice that of other comparable
hospitals that participate in ACS NSQIP. The team lowered the infection rate to
a NSQIP average of 1.6% in the nine months after fully instituting the surgical
best practices bundle in July 2013.

The group improved guidelines for prophylactic antibiotic use so that providers
routinely administered the proper, weight-based intravenous dose of antibiotic
at the best time and gave the patient a second dose if needed during long
surgical procedures. Patients also received new types of wound dressings
designed to reduce the chance of infection. The nurse practitioner led the team
in standardizing the postoperative wound care of the surgical sites. Another
change involved active warming of patients to normal body temperature once they
were taken off the cardiac surgery bypass machine.

TAVR cuts hospital stay by 30%

New research from Penn Medicine shows that incisionless transcatheter aortic
valve replacement (TAVR) surgery cuts length of hospital stay by 30% and has no
impact on post-operative vascular complication rates when compared with
conventional transfemoral TAVR, which requires an incision in the groin. The
complete study is available in the current issue of Circulation: Cardiovascular
Interventions.

TAVR involves the replacement of the aortic valve without a traditional
open-heart surgical approach. It is a treatment for aortic stenosis, a narrowing
of the aortic valve opening. The surgery can be performed in two ways, both
involving the insertion of a sheath into the femoral artery which allows the new
valve to be threaded up to the patient's chest via a catheter. The traditional
transfemoral approach requires a several inch incision in the groin. More
recently, physicians have begun to employ an incisionless or percutaneous
approach, which requires no more than a pin-prick to access the femoral artery.
Patients leave the hospital without an incision of any kind and little to no
trace that a surgery was performed.

"It has been our clinical experience that there is little difference in vascular
outcomes between traditional and percutaneous TAVR surgery but we wanted to take
a closer look at the data and understand how these techniques performed in a
side by side comparison on vascular complications, outcomes and hospital length
of stay," said senior author Jay Giri, assistant professor in the division of
Cardiovascular Medicine at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania.

Giri and his co-authors examined 120 patients who underwent TAVR via the
traditional method and 211 patients who had percutaneous TAVR surgery at the
Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania or Penn Presbyterian Medical Center
between 2007 and 2013. They observed a shorter post-procedural length of
hospital stay (7.5 vs. 9.9 days) in patients who received percutaneous surgery
versus traditional TAVR surgery and no difference in vascular complication rates
between the two procedures.

Higher rates of vascular complications were also associated with larger valve
introducer sheath outer diameter compared with pati  ents' artery diameter. The
"introducer" sheaths can easily nick or disrupt the vessels in transit and cause
complications for the patient, whether they have traditional or percutaneous
surgery. "While there are clinical circumstances when oversized sheaths must be
used to accomplish a life-saving procedure, we discovered that, contrary to
conventional wisdom, there really is no such thing as a 'safe oversize'," said
Giri."

Previous studies had not examined the association of percutaneous and
traditional surgery approaches with vascular complications in a wide cross
section of patients with the full range of sheath sizes available in the U.S.
This is also the first study to show increasing harm with increasing sheath
oversizing. Vascular complication rates are expected to decrease as technology
advances and sheath sizes continue to decrease in relation to artery diameter.
Currently, however, the authors said, careful pre-procedural planning with
respect to the relationship between sheath size and artery diameter is
warranted.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


          Copyright 2014 Thompson Media Group, LLC d/b/a AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


