                              444 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                            September 8, 2008 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Abrams lures fans to 'Fringe';
The man behind 'Lost' revisits the supernatural

BYLINE: Gary Levin

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 1230 words


NEW YORK -- Something is out there ...

And it could be a J.J. Abrams show that won't leave casual fans feeling lost.

Fringe, due Tuesday (8 p.m. ET/PT, Fox), is one of the most highly anticipated
shows in a fall season offering few buzzworthy new series. And the latest from
the brand-name producer comes with  a new twist: It melds his penchant for
strong characters and shadowy conspiracies with the sturdy TV case-of-the-week
format that lets less rabid viewers step in and out of a series.

The drama "was designed to be an experiment for us," Abrams says. "We wanted to
do a show that had a procedural template, a sort of structure, but doing a
procedural in the mold of CSI and Law & Order didn't interest me; it's been done
to death."

But he also wanted to avoid the oft-heard complaint from sometime fans of his
earlier shows: "So many people would say to me, 'I was watching Lost or Alias,
but I missed a couple of episodes and I couldn't keep up and get back into it.'"

Lost "is a club," he says, "and I think it is a much more difficult show to pick
up and start watching" midway through. "I wanted to try something where the door
was opened a little wider."

This time, he borrowed from The X-Files, grafting a largermythology onto the
series that rewards loyal viewers but isn't essential to any weekly episode.

Fringe centers on no-nonsense FBI agent Olivia Dunham, played by  Australian
newcomer Anna Torv, 29, who explores odd occurrences of "fringe" science: In the
expanded first episode, a planeload of passengers is dead on arrival in a
gruesome airport scene.

To solve the case, her path leads to brilliant but mad scientist Walter Bishop
(John Noble), who must be extracted from a mental hospital with the help of his
estranged son Peter (Joshua Jackson), dragged reluctantly into the mix. The
three  form an unlikely team that solves other disturbing mysteries each week
and slowly discovers a wider pattern of events and people that might connect
them.

It's a wrinkle sure to please the legions of Abrams fans who besieged him at
July's Comic-Con International in San Diego, where he touted both Fringe and his
upcoming Star Trek feature film, due in May. "It was like being in the court of
the king," Jackson says. "That is definitely his world."

The mystery grows

On a hot day back at the Fringe studios here last month, shooting had just begun
on the season's pivotal fourth episode, the first to deeply explore the larger
mythology and the last to air before a two-week break for the World Series. As
such, it will leave many cliffs hanging, the better to lure viewers back in late
October.

The pilot was filmed in Toronto, but tax breaks lured the show to New York, and
the actors have been busy filming on location in the city's neighborhoods. Here
they checked out the FBI offices, freshly built on a vast soundstage.

In the episode, Walter Bishop has gone AWOL, but he has been rounded up, and in
a six-minute scene -- an eternity for a TV show -- he's being interrogated by
Dunham and his own son about some sort of missing cylinder.

Torv and Jackson, in the dark as most actors are about the show's future
direction, say they've finally gotten some idea where it's going -- and where
their characters came from. "Every question that gets answered will leave three
more at least," Torv says. "You're getting satisfaction, but every time you get
satisfaction, there's more to know." The mystery "keeps getting broader and
wider and bigger."

Along for the ride are Dunham's boyfriend and fellow agent John Scott (Mark
Valley); her stern boss, Phillip Broyles (Lance Reddick); and the manipulative
Nina Sharp (Blair Brown), an executive at a mysterious corporation run by Walter
Bishop's former lab partner.

Jackson plays the resident doubter, with a dash of the sarcastic humor he
displayed as Pacey Witter on teen drama Dawson's Creek. "In a show like this
there has to be a skeptic," he says. "You need someone to be the voice of the
audience going, 'That just doesn't make any sense.'"

But eventually, he says, "you fall into a Mulder and Scully land where it's
like, how can she still be so skeptical of this world -- and I was a huge
X-Files fan -- after eight seasons, when she's seen so much proof to the
contrary?" Peter comes to "believe in the science, he just doesn't believe in
the methodology."

His eccentric-genius dad is key to the puzzle: "Something happened 17 years ago
where he was put into a mental asylum, solitary confinement, shocks, drugs,"
Noble says. "He's really stuffed. He has short-term memory loss. What you have
is these flashes in and out of his memory and his lucidity."

Fox sees flashes of a sci-fi-tinged hit it has been seeking since X-Files left
the air in 2002. That show, along with Twilight Zone and Twin Peaks, served as a
big inspiration for Abrams and his team of writer-producers led by Alex Kurtzman
and Roberto Orci, who worked on Alias and wrote Trek and Transformers.

More 'sci' than sci-fi

The two have mapped out the show's ending: "We know what the pattern is; we had
to know what it was all leading to," Kurtzman says. "It's something that can be
revealed whenever we want to," in 13 episodes or 13 seasons, depending on the
show's success.

Fox immediately jumped at the chance to be in business with Abrams. "We heard
the one-liner -- Indiana Jones meets X-Files -- and that felt like a Fox show to
us," says entertainment president Kevin Reilly.

As for the lead roles, "these are not three stiffs," says network chairman Peter
Liguori. "They are three characters who are incredibly colorful, with faults and
neuroses and just surprises."

The network is providing a big theatrical-film-style marketing push that began
last May. "This is a big event, and that's what Fox does well," Liguori says.
And it's the first to get Fox's "Remote-Free TV" treatment: fewer, shorter
commercial breaks that will expand each hour-long episode's content by six
minutes, to about 50, in a move designed to reduce DVR skipping. (Tuesday's
premiere will run 83 minutes.)

Abrams says Fringe is more "sci" than "sci-fi" in that its stories dwell in the
realm of the possible, however remote.

But "his shows become a victim of their own success," Jackson says. "Especially
Lost, which has an almost frighteningly rabid fan base. People take the show so
personally that if they feel like it's deviating from their own understanding of
it, they're going to be personally insulted. It's harsh because they're your
greatest fans and the trumpeters of their shows ... but they're almost
inevitably going to be pissed off because they're not the writers."

"I know the pitfalls we can fall into," he says, "but I'm so excited to be
working in sci-fi. This show is right up my alley."

Abrams likens a new-series startup to "a massive collaboration of crew and cast
and writers and ambition and practical realities, and above all finding a tone
and groove. You're constantly battling every possible growing pain. I remember
going through exactly the same thing on Felicity and Alias and Lost."

Torv says she tries to ignore the high bar set for the show, given its pedigree.
"If I took any of it on board, I'd just crumple in a ball and not function."

But Jackson is sure about one thing: "People have extremely high expectations of
what a J.J. Abrams show is going to be," he says. "This show can only be very
good or off the air; those are the two choices."

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, Color, Todd Plitt, USA TODAY
PHOTO, Color
PHOTO, B/W
PHOTO, B/W, Craig Blankenhorn, Fox
PHOTO, B/W, Todd Plitt, USA TODAY
PHOTO, B/W, Todd Plitt, USA TODAY

