                              440 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      August 17, 2017 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Risks Associated with Transcatheter PDA Occlusions in Lower Weight Infants

LENGTH: 635  words


Aug. 17 -- Transcatheter patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) occlusion is one of the
safest interventional cardiac procedures among adults and children. However,
major adverse events are five to 10 times greater among infants who weigh less
than six kilograms, according to a study published August 16 in JACC:
Cardiovascular Interventions.

Using ACC's IMPACT Registry, Carl H. Backes, MD, et al., identified 747 infants
weighing less than six kilograms who underwent transcatheter PDA occlusion
between January 2011 and March 2015. Across 73 hospitals, the procedural success
rate was 94.3 percent, and 96 percent of cases required less than two hours in
the catheterization suite.

Regarding the study population, researchers examined differences by grouping the
infants into three weight categories: extremely low weight (ELW, &lt;2
kilograms), very low weight (VL, 2-&lt;4 kilograms) and low weight (LW, 4-&lt;6
kilograms). A third of the infants studied were born at &lt;30 weeks of
gestation. At catheterization, the median age was 4.3 months and most were LW
(4.6 kilograms). Additionally, more than half of procedures were performed on
females and Caucasians. Less than half of the infants were hospitalized before
the procedure and more than half were on diuretic treatment. Most infants had a
Type A (37 percent) or Type C (42 percent) PDA.

While the majority of attempted PDA closures were successful, approximately 13
percent of the infants experienced major adverse events (MAEs). "In the present
cohort of infants &lt;6 kg, procedural success rates for transcatheter PDA
closure are similar to those in more mature counterparts, but rates of MAE were
5-10 fold greater," note the study authors.

Most common MAEs included acute arterial injury (3.5 percent) and device
embolization (2.4 percent). ELW infants (10.5 percent) had a higher risk of
embolization than VLW or LW infants (1.6 percent and 2.5 percent, respectively;
p = 0.050). Other noted MAEs included arrhythmia requiring intervention,
unplanned cardiac surgery and a major bleeding event (less than 2 percent each).
Infants who experienced an MAE were more likely to stay at the hospital a week
longer than those who did not (13 vs. 20 days, p = 0.01). Additionally, risk of
MAEs (odds ratio [OR], 3.4; 95 percent confidence interval [CI], 1.5-7.9) and
composite failure (OR, 3.1; 95 percent CI, 1.4-6.9) was higher among younger
patients (&lt;30 days).

While the study proves to be an "important first step in understanding the risk
profile of transcatheter PDA occlusion in this subgroup of infants," the authors
note that "conclusions on the optimal treatment among lower weight infants with
a persistent ductus remain unanswered."

"Conservative treatment may reduce unnecessary interventions in many infants,
but the question remains as to what to do if the PDA fails to close following a
period of conservative treatment," they continue.

"Well-designed comparative trials (transcatheter occlusion, surgical ligation,
conservative treatment) that use clearly defined inclusion criteria and
treatment thresholds, standardized protocols for AE surveillance, and long-term
follow-up, are needed."

Clinical Topics: Arrhythmias and Clinical EP, Congenital Heart Disease and
Pediatric Cardiology, Implantable Devices, SCD/Ventricular Arrhythmias, Atrial
Fibrillation/Supraventricular Arrhythmias, Congenital Heart Disease, CHD &
Pediatrics and Arrhythmias, CHD & Pediatrics and Prevention, CHD & Pediatrics
and Quality Improvement, Statins

Keywords: Ductus Arteriosus, Patent, Odds Ratio, Ligation, Confidence Intervals,
Research Personnel, Follow-Up Studies, Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy
Protocols, Cytarabine, Etoposide, Mitoxantrone, Catheterization, Arrhythmias,
Cardiac, Registries, Diuretics

Source: American College of Cardiology Foundation

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


