                              443 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright (c) 1990 The University of Pittsburgh Law Review
                      University of Pittsburgh Law Review

                                  SUMMER, 1990

                            51 U. Pitt. L. Rev. 1025

LENGTH: 15922 words

NOTE: RESTRUCTURING HOSPITAL-PHYSICIAN RELATIONS: PATIENT CARE QUALITY DEPENDS
ON THE HEALTH OF HOSPITAL PEER REVIEW.

NAME: Paul L. Scibetta

TEXT:
I.  INTRODUCTION

   The hospital has undergone a virtual metamorphosis.  In terms of function,
the hospital of just twenty years ago bears little resemblance to today's
complex corporate entity.  In hospitals of the past, each patient's physician
generally worked a solo performance in providing care.  Few critics questioned
the physician's work.  The hospital, apart from a series of one physician-one
patient duos, had little life of its own.  Both the hospital and the patient
were within the physician's exclusive domain.  In contrast, today's hospital is
a sophisticated and dynamic corporation charged with duties and responsibilities
whose suggestion some years ago would have been likely to spur outright
laughter.  Of primary import among the new concerns faced by hospital management
n1 is direct responsibility for the quality of care provided to patients within
hospital facilities.

   The concept of hospitals taking responsibility for the quality of care
received by "hospital patients" is revolutionary.  The notion shatters the
longstanding belief that patients, whether in hospitals or not, are the sole
responsibility of their own physicians.  n2 Yet, incredibly, the revolution in
responsibility for care has already been waged and won.  n3  [*1026]  The
revolution carries vast implications for the role and needs of hospitals in
society.  Today there is widespread agreement that "quality patient care" will
not be complete unless it is achieved at two levels.  n4 On the first tier,
individual physicians must remain responsible for the quality of care they
provide to their patients.  This is patient care in its traditional form.  To
achieve the second and newer tier of patient care quality, hospitals must now
ensure that patients who receive care in their facilities are not subjected to
unnecessary risks of injury that could result from incompetence or unethical
behavior on the part of hospital staff physicians.  This second tier of quality
introduces a new concept that is independent of, and additional to, the notion
that one physician need take responsibility for his or her own patients.  It
introduces the concept of quality on a hospital-wide basis, or "hospital
quality."

   A number of factors catalyzed the revolution which so dramatically expanded
the definition of quality patient care.  n5 The most important factor may have
been the medical malpractice crisis.  Conservative estimates suggest that three
to five percent of doctors practicing in the United States today, some 18,000,
regularly commit malpractice.  n6 Additionally, the American Medical Association
estimates that between five and ten percent of physicians practicing today can
be classified as "impaired."  n7 As previously noted, the practice of medicine
in its traditional form provided for no oversight of the quality of a
physician's  [*1027]  patient care.  The traditional one physician-one patient
system of health care delivery was manifestly unequipped to provide remedies for
physician malpractice.  Moreover, the problems created by this crisis extended
far beyond those patients who endured direct injury.  The crisis caused the cost
of all health care to rise.  The healthy were affected through rising health
care insurance costs.  Perfectly competent physicians felt the impact of
malpractice through skyrocketing malpractice insurance premiums.  Third party
payors such as the government and insurance companies were forced to shell out
ever increasing amounts to enrollees who were injured through malpractice.  Even
employers felt the impact of medical malpractice, through their provision or
subsidization of employee health insurance policies.

   Manifestations of the public's interest in a broader definition of quality --
one that includes provisions for oversight of physician practice -- abound.  The
duty to effect that oversight has fallen largely on the modern hospital.
Patients have voiced what may be the most pressing demand for hospitals to take
responsibility for quality of care.  Courts have recognized that a hospital with
a good reputation for quality will be more competitive in the marketplace.  n8
In today's highly competitive health care market, high quality patient care is a
necessity for hospital survival.  Patients have also expressed their interest in
hospital responsibility for patient care quality by routinely including the
hospital corporation as a defendant in medical malpractice cases.  Widespread
judicial acceptance of the doctrine of corporate negligence provides further
evidence of the increased role hospitals must play in the quality issue.  This
doctrine holds hospitals liable for failure to select and retain only competent
physicians, and for failure to directly monitor the patient care that is being
provided within hospital facilities.  n9 Finally, developments in the political
arena reflect public concern  [*1028]  about "hospital quality." Recent
legislative enactments  n10 and changes in hospital accreditation requirements
n11 have underscored the importance of "hospital quality" as the top priority of
hospital managers.

   To appreciate the importance of the hospital's new role in pursuing quality,
one must first understand the fundamental changes in the provision of care which
have taken place within the hospital.  The procedure of one physician caring for
one patient has been supplemented; the provision of care now more closely
resembles a team enterprise.  The physician,  n12 to be sure, is the captain of
this team.  A growing number of non-physicians,  n13 however, comprise the
remaining members of this team of practitioners.  The team, as a group, provides
care to patients.  Due to the more complex nature of care now provided within
the hospital, the team must be well-managed if quality is to flourish.  A
physician whose clinical skills are masterful but who is abusive to nurses or
other practitioners may cause the hospital to lose some of its best team
players.  n14 Previously, quality could be safely restricted to  [*1029]  each
physician taking full responsibility for the patients he or she brought into the
hospital.  Today, a physician who is intensely concerned with the well-being of
his or her own patients, but refuses to take interest in the safety of other
hospital patients, is considerably less valuable.  Such physicians may have
thrived in the hospital of yester-year, but would provide serious reason for
concern in the modern health care facility.  Whereas an incompetent physician in
the hospitals of years past would be allowed to go unnoticed on the theory that
it was somehow each patient's duty to ensure the competence of his or her
physician, this practice is unacceptable in today's era of "hospital quality."

   It is only a slight overstatement to say that the raison d'etre of modern
hospital management is to create and maintain a competent staff who can work
together in a harmonious environment.  Only in this way can the hospital fulfill
its mandate for quality.  The major vehicles through which hospital management
struggles to build and maintain an effective team of staff physicians are the
hospital's credentialing  n15 and peer review functions.  n16 Credentialing is
the investigation undertaken by hospitals to assist in the determination of
whether to appoint or reappoint physicians to the hospital staff.  Peer review
is an ongoing process whereby physician practice is monitored to identify
patterns of unacceptable patient care.  Credentialing and Peer Review are
closely related in that both provide an opportunity for hospital management to
gain insight into the clinical and personal competence of staff physicians.  As
Section II describes in more detail, the interests of both patients and staff
physicians may be either greatly enhanced by an effective credentialing and peer
review mechanism, or greatly harmed by an ineffective mechanism.  n17

   Thus the importance of medical staff management and oversight has been
greatly increased by changes that have transformed the hospital from an inert
combination of facilities and equipment into an active corporation with a life
and duties all its own.  In the days when quality was defined narrowly as each
physician being concerned only with his or her own patients, the system
permitted the "needs" of the individual physician to reign supreme.  Physicians
were the givers of care, and the  [*1030]  assurers of quality.  While the needs
of physicians are still important, their interest must be reevaluated in light
of the metamorphosis of the modern hospital.  An all new interest -- that of the
hospital in harboring efficient peer review so as to maintain a high quality
team of caregivers -- has grown out of the changes that have occurred.

   The most celebrated "need" of physicians desiring to practice medicine is
access to hospital facilities.  Hospitals continue to house the high technology
and support structures that physicians often require.  Physicians have no
"right" per se to practice their profession in any specific hospital.  n18 Staff
appointment is a privilege.  Yet courts have frequently held that the public
interest in staff appointments deserves protection.  n19 Physicians need a
hospital in order to practice.  Patients, moreover, need physicians in order to
receive treatment and care.  It is not surprising that at a time when care was
defined in terms of one physician looking after one patient, the patient's
primary interest vested in his or her physician's ability to maintain access to
hospital facilities.  n20 Over the years, courts have recognized this need by
reviewing hospital staffing decisions to ensure that physicians are not excluded
arbitrarily from practice in hospitals.  Legal structures embraced to justify
this protection have often been grounded in what amounts to a "due process," or
"fundamental fairness" theory.  n21

   The development of "hospital quality" as a distinct and independent concept
has caused a collision between this interest and the interests of physicians.
In today's hospital, the clashing interests of the purveyors of care
(physicians) and the overseers of quality (hospital  [*1031]  management through
credentialing and peer review) have caused a situation where traditional due
process protection afforded physicians can be antithetical to the interests of "
hospital quality."

   This Note reexamines current judicial and legislative policy as it effects
hospital-medical staff relations in light of the widespread interest in hospital
quality -- the broad effort to advance, on a hospital-wide basis, the quality of
care received by patients.  Section II describes the credentialing and peer
review efforts that constitute the most significant response to needs for
hospital quality.  Particular emphasis is placed on currently existing barriers
to effective implementation and operation of credentialing and peer review.
Chief among these barriers are the costly due process requirements currently
afforded physicians to protect them from arbitrary exclusion from hospital
staff.  The failure of courts, legislators and hospital accrediting bodies to
understand several aspects of these concepts as they are applied to the modern
hospital has allowed the perpetuation of a system which undermines the quality
goals that are uniformly desired.

   Section III briefly reviews two theories, common law due process and
contract, often used by courts to justify their willingness to intervene in the
credentialing and peer review processes.  Relying on these theories, courts are
requiring that hospitals provide trial-like procedural protection prior to
taking any significant action to implement quality goals.  While not
all-encompassing, the due process and contract theories have been held
applicable to a large and growing portion of cases in which due process is
demanded.  Section IV summarizes why these cases are problematic in light of
newly defined quality goals; Section V offers three alternatives to the status
quo.  Each alternative alters one or more components of existing structures to
incorporate the new policy interest in expanding the definition of quality
patient care to include hospital-wide oversight of physician practice, while
retaining adequate protection for hospital physicians.  As the examples
indicate, hospital quality and physician protection can coincide, but we must
act now in order to allow peer review to work effectively.

   II.  THE CORNERSTONES OF HOSPITAL QUALITY: CREDENTIALING AND PEER REVIEW
EFFORTS

A.  Overview

   Today's hospital is a complex corporation whose main administrative body is
the governing board, represented in the hospital by the hospital's Chief
Executive Officer.  Perhaps the most important characteristic  [*1032]  of the
governing board is that it is generally comprised chiefly or solely of
non-physicians.  This fact is critical because it requires the governing board
to rely heavily on staff physicians to carry out credentialing and peer review
efforts.  The effectiveness of these efforts is critical to the achievement of
hospital quality.

   The concepts of credentialing and peer review are quite simple.
Credentialing is the process by which a physician is investigated as part of the
determination whether to grant membership to the hospital staff, and then, every
two years, whether to reappoint the physician to the same.  n22 The
credentialing committee seeks evidence of both displayed clinical competence and
the ability to work harmoniously with fellow staff physicians and other
practitioners.  The committee solicits recommendations from past colleagues and
acquaintances, and from present colleagues and acquaintances at other hospitals
where the applicant may currently maintain a staff position.  The prospective
appointee or reappointee completes an application, providing information on
educational background, licensure to practice, references, and other matters.
Committee members verify this information.  Current or past malpractice lawsuits
are reviewed with special attention given to cases in which judgments were paid
as a result of the physician's failure to provide reasonable care.  Peer review
is very similar to the credentialing process, but occurs on an ongoing basis
within the hospital.  Peer review committee members seek evidence of a pattern
of inadequately provided care.  n23

   While the governing board must take ultimate responsibility for failures in
quality which cause an unreasonable risk of injury to patients,  n24 the
technical review of qualifications and practice can only be carried out by
physicians -- and often only by specialists in the applicant's area of
specialization.  The physician review process is thus a closed game.  Due to the
technical expertise required to make an informed judgment on the clinical
competence of a physician, hospital managers generally rely on physician
dominated committees to make recommendations as to the quality of practice of
applicants and current staff members.

 [*1033]  B.  Impediments to Effective Peer Review

   Significantly, effective peer review  n25 requires one staff physician who
becomes aware of a deficient pattern of care to come forward voluntarily and
recommend that action be taken to protect the other physician's patients.  It is
thus essential that the reviewing physicians on the credentials and peer review
committees do not hesitate, but act swiftly to alleviate potential injury.
Ideally, incompetence is discovered and acted upon at an early stage.
Physicians whose poor patterns of care are discovered early could be
disciplined, counselled, required to take further education, observed, or
assisted in practice to assure that quality of practice is maintained.  When
problems remain undiscovered for long periods of time and the damage grows more
serious, however, the options open to the hospital governing board will
necessarily be more limited.  In the worst case scenario, permanent suspension
would result.  Thus, patients, physicians, and the hospital share a common
interest in the early detection of a problem, permitting a more flexible
response.

   Considering the need for flexibility and early identification and the fact
that peer review physicians are generally unpaid for their efforts, hospitals
have a critical interest in devising a system of peer review void of barriers
n26 that tend to cause peer reviewers to wait unnecessarily long prior to
recommending action.  The same is true of credentialing activities.  If members
of the credentials committee are unduly hesitant about rejecting the application
of a candidate for staff, unnecessary injury could result.  Without enthusiastic
participation of staff physicians in peer review activities, hospital quality
efforts necessarily break down.

   Yet a multitude of barriers currently exist to the efficient operation of
hospital peer review.  The most serious obstacle to effective peer review is the
potential fear felt by the reviewer that participation in an adverse
recommendation will lead to a lawsuit against him or her personally.  n27 At
present this fear is uncomfortably realistic.  Scores of this  [*1034]  type of
lawsuit have been brought recently, on several different grounds, with a large
portion having their basis in theories of antitrust.  n28 Under the antitrust
theory, disciplined physicians claim that peer review actions were taken with
the purpose of reducing the number of competitors in the reviewer's own area of
practice.  Despite a few celebrated cases in which plaintiff-physicians were
granted large judgments,  n29 the antitrust theory has been generally
unsuccessful.  State peer review statutes provide limited immunity in those
suits in which the recommendation of the peer reviewer is made in "good faith."
n30 Unfortunately, while "good faith" immunity usually allows peer reviewers to
win a lawsuit, the prospect of having to defend even a meritless claim can chill
the willingness of many to recommend the action necessary to improve hospital
quality.

   Several other factors severely complicate the effectiveness of hospital peer
review.  First, physicians within a hospital are heavily interdependent.  The
professional and financial success of each physician depends upon his or her
colleagues.  Increasing numbers of physicians  [*1035]  practice in referral
specialties: they must depend on their colleagues to send them patients.
Physicians who make important but difficult decisions effecting fellow
practitioners may find that others are reluctant or unwilling to refer to them.
While the monetary loss associated with lost referrals is difficult to estimate,
such a situation is bound to chill the enthusiasm of potential peer reviewers.
Second, the task of peer review is likely to be approached with a heightened
sense of aggravation since reviewers are seldom compensated for their thankless
efforts.  Physicians on these committees are volunteers.

   Lack of personal compensation might be less significant were it not for a
third factor.  Physicians generally have little financial stake in the success
of the hospital corporation.  Their stake may be limited only to the possibility
of the institution's insolvency.  Physicians today thus face an unmistakable
financial disincentive to combine the quality goals they associate with their
own patients -- who pay the physician's bills -- with those new and important
quality goals of the larger whole.

   Finally, physicians are human.  They tend to develop friendships at their
places of work.  Physicians who conduct the review of a colleague's practice
often have close personal ties to that colleague.  It is not difficult to
surmise the internal conflict that must accompany the initiation of a proceeding
which will be ceratin to engender animosity from a personal friend, and may well
have serious implications for that friend's career.

C.  The Due Process Hearing: A Brief Overview of a Lengthy Process

   Peer reviewers often evaluate potential competitors to their own practice.
This has been a major point articulated by physicians who in antitrust suits
claim the need for extensive government protection of medical staff positions.

   The general failure of antitrust lawsuits to provide an effective avenue of
redress to physicians disciplined through the peer review process is likely to
increase the number of claims -- already numerous -- based on theories
resembling "due process." Physicians use due process theories to challenge a
hospital's decision to either reduce or terminate their status on the hospital
staff, or to refuse to appoint them to the staff.  These decisions follow from
either peer review or credentialing committee investigation.  Physicians
challenging these decisions generally claim that they were denied fair
procedures in the decision-making process that led to the hospital's action.
The due process rights enjoyed by physicians may constitute the single most
potent deterrent  [*1036]  to effective peer review.  n31 This gruelling process
will be outlined here; cases requiring the process will constitute the focus of
the following two sections.

   Courts have relied on a due process theory to require that hospitals provide
physicians with protection from arbitrary exclusion.  In public hospitals, the
due process requirement stems from the fifth and fourteenth amendments to the
United States Constitution.  n32 In private for-profit or non-profit hospitals,
the theories employed to require procedural due process stem from such diverse
sources as the common law,  n33 contract theory,  n34 and the titling of some
non-profit hospitals as "quasi-public," thereby justifying application of
constitutional protection.  Regardless of the theory, the result is the same:
Prior to taking any significant action against a physician who is a member, or
who seeks to be a member, of the hospital staff, hospitals must provide a
hearing and appeal process that disturbingly resembles a trial-type proceeding.
n35 Because courts require these protections, today's hospitals feel compelled
to shower physicians with an excessive display of procedural safeguards whether
or not it is worthwhile.  The provision of these safeguards decreases the
likelihood that the process will have to be repeated in future litigation.  The
cost of avoiding litigation is, however, prohibitive in two ways.  First,
resources spent on providing the hearings are not available for the provision of
peer review.  Second, and more significantly, the prospect of furnishing a
hearing sufficient to deter litigation is enough to convince many of the most
committed physicians not to participate in the formulation of an adverse
recommendation.  n36

   The spectre of judicial review prompts most hospitals to include legal
counsel from the time an adverse recommendation is contemplated [*1037]  To
ensure procedural adequacy, counsel must advise the medical staff committee
evaluating the applicant and assist in construction of the "statement of
reasons" that will provide the aggrieved physician with "notice" as to the
reasons for the adverse recommendation.  At this point, the aggrieved physician
is also generally represented by legal counsel, who demands extensive
documentation.  The hospital's legal counsel participates in the review and
provision of all appropriate documentation.

   Hospital's counsel next prepares those witnesses who will be testifying in
support of the recommendation of the medical staff committee.  Counsel will then
be involved in representation of the hospital and committee at the hearing.
Hearings can sometimes be completed in several hours.  In many instances,
however, they drag on for several days, weeks or even months.  It is not unusual
for hospital legal fees to accumulate into hundreds of thousands of dollars in
the process of pursuing one adverse recommendation.

   Other monetary costs are also significant.  Large sums are routinely spent in
efforts to deter litigation.  To ensure that a well-kept record of the hearing
is maintained, hearings are usually documented and transcribed by a hired court
reporter.  A hearing officer and hearing panel members must be employed to
ensure that the hearing is conducted fairly and to prevent it from dissolving
into a bickering match between the parties' lawyers.  Mountains of documents
must be prepared and copied in preparation for the hearing.  Substantial sums
are paid to outside consultants for review of the applicant's or staff
physician's medical records and practice.  Outside experts are included to
mitigate the antitrust implications of having physicians review the practice and
applicants of potential competitors.

   Perhaps the greatest costs, and the most disturbing in light of the public's
interest in hospital quality, are the monetary and nonmonetary costs borne
throughout the process by physicians conducting the peer review process.  To
make an adverse recommendation, a peer review physician must devote hours to
committee meetings and to telephone conversations with past department
chairpersons.  In addition, reviewers must review the applicant's background and
the medical records of his or her patients.  Next, peer reviewers must often
spend more time with lawyers to prepare to testify at the hearing.  Hours are
then spent at the hearing.  Even if the peer reviewer's testimony on direct
examination is limited, he or she is still subject to cross-examination by the
physician and/or the physician's counsel.

    [*1038]  In return for their efforts, physicians are threatened with
litigation.  In addition to the stress related to the threat of litigation, and
the stress associated with the cross-examination, peer review physicians suffer
actual monetary loss since time spent on a hearing is time away from the
physician's practice.

   Finally, peer review physicians suffer a heavy personal cost -- time away
from family and from other relaxing pursuits.  While nonquantifiable, the
personal cost may constitute one of the most significant reasons why physicians
may be unwilling to go through this gruelling process -- or, after having been
through it once, will be unwilling to participate ever again.

D.  Summary

   Despite the problems associated with conducting effective peer review, there
is general agreement that peer review offers the best opportunity to enhance the
quality of patient care in America's hospitals.  The current system of hospital
care is fraught with conflicts between the physician's personal, professional,
and financial interests and broader goals related to the general interest in
hospital-wide patient care quality.  Even the physician who is driven by quality
in his or her own personal practice is likely to endure much hardship and little
reward in carrying out the hospital's quality care goal.  The stakes are too
high to allow peer review to remain in its present state of disarray.  n37

   To achieve success, a system devised to identify and remedy the problem of
incompetent practitioners must address the impediments to peer review described
in Sections II(B) and II(C).  Yet, neither the unique micro considerations
relating to the inner workings of the hospital (Section II(B)), nor the
tremendous cost of providing physicians with elaborate due process protection
(Section II(C)), are given explicit attention by the legislature and judiciary
in their efforts to create a public policy which fosters high quality hospital
care.  Such consideration is critical to the success of any plan in which
physicians must play a major role.

    [*1039]  III.  PHYSICIAN PROTECTION: CURRENT RATIONALES USED TO SUPPORT THE
REQUIREMENT OF PROCEDURAL DUE PROCESS

A.  Common Law Justifications for Procedural Due Process

   The traditional hospital was dominated in every way by its medical staff.
The operations of such hospitals have been compared to "exclusive social clubs
or secret fraternal societies"  n38 that had the power to exclude applicants for
"ideological, moral or even political reasons,"  n39 or for no reason at all.
Traditionally, the willingness of courts to review decisions made by hospitals
with respect to appointment and reappointment of staff physicians has been
dependent upon whether the hospital was public or private.  n40 If an aggrieved
physician was excluded or suspended from a public hospital, he or she could seek
redress in the courts.  The same grievance would fall upon deaf ears, however,
had the action been taken by a private hospital.

   This was the state of affairs in 1963 when the New Jersey Supreme Court
handed down the seminal case of Greisman v. Newcomb Hospital.  n41 Greisman
involved an osteopath who was excluded from a private hospital in accordance
with a hospital bylaw which required that all applicants for membership on the
courtesy staff be graduates of an American Medical Association approved medical
school.  Normally, the case would have fallen within the rule that internal
decisions of a private hospital were within the sole discretion of the hospital
and were not subject to judicial review.  n42 Refusing to accept the traditional
boundaries between public and private hospitals, the court noted that Newcomb
Hospital "constitutes a virtual monopoly in the area in which it functions and .
. . is in no position to claim immunity from public supervision and control
because of its allegedly private nature."  n43 The court reasoned that the
refusal to grant privileges to Greisman restricted the osteopath's ability to
practice his profession, and that patients had an interest in receiving
treatment.  n44 Absent from the  [*1040]  analysis was any consideration of the
impact of the court's choice to review the hospital's decision on the hospital's
ability to conduct peer review.  This is not surprising.  It does, however, date
the case.  Greisman was decided at a time when hospitals were run by doctors
alone, and when hospital management of patient-care quality was but a whistle in
the wind.

   Greisman was grounded in the common law.  Paradoxically, the court made a
point of describing its view of the most attractive quality of common law
evolution: "The persistent movement of the common law towards satisfying the
needs of the times is soundly marked by gradualness.  Its step-by-step process
affords the light of continual experience to guide its future course."  n45 The
court showed prescience in advocating the need for continual change so as to
ensure that policy goals remain current.  Yet, although Greisman is now over 25
years old, it is still considered a landmark case for its justification of
judicial review over medical staff decisions.  The needs and duties of hospital
management have evolved rapidly over the last quarter of a century.  The
hospital described in Greisman bears little resemblance to the modern corporate
entity whose prime imperative is to ensure, through active hospital management,
the maintenance of a competent team of physician and non-physician
practitioners.  The principles expressed in Greisman no longer justify judicial
intervention.  The modern hospital's newly defined and important interest in
fostering quality may be unduly burdened by judicial involvement.  Courts which
continue to follow Greisman have failed to keep the common law in step with "the
needs of the times." Courts adhering to the common law principle of evolving the
law in "light of continual experience" should recognize the important public
interest in hospital-wide quality and overturn the Greisman decision.

   Standing alone, Greisman could be said to stand for the unremarkable
proposition that courts require hospitals to have a rational explanation for
excluding an entire class of practitioners, such as chiropractors, from hospital
facilities.  In most states, this issue has been resolved by legislative
enactment.  n46 It is the procedural due process requirements  [*1041]
announced in post-Greisman cases in New Jersey and elsewhere which pose a
serious threat to hospital quality.  n47

   In the 1966 case of Sussman v. Overlook Hospital Association,  n48 the
Superior Court of New Jersey recognized that in modern hospitals "considerations
of team spirit and cooperativeness can be as important as technical skill in
recommendations for staff appointment."  n49 This represents a step towards a
judicial policy which encourages modern interests in quality.  Yet, despite the
court's acknowledgement in Sussman that "professional competence in hospital
practice should, according to modern hospital theory, include qualities needed
for cooperative staff work,"  n50 the court held that "denial of a physician's
application upon the basis that his appointment will cause disharmony among the
medical staff must be clearly and persuasively supported by the record."  n51
Furthermore, the record must reflect the presence of a nexus between disharmony
caused in the ranks of the medical staff and an adverse consequence affecting
patient care.  The court placed a heavy burden on the hospital seeking to
exclude a physician in responding to the fear that the physician's reputation
would be damaged by a rejection of his application for staff membership.  The
court took an "innocent until proven guilty" attitude towards Dr. Sussman's
application.  This approach seems especially burdensome on the hospital because
something like "team spirit and cooperativeness" is so difficult to prove.
Thus, while the Sussman court was among the first to articulate an understanding
that the purpose of medical appointment had changed  [*1042]  from "granting
permission to practice" (old view) to "certifying members of the team," (modern
view) the New Jersey court still placed the needs of the individual physician
above those of the hospital.

   Twelve years passed between Sussman and the stunning New Jersey Supreme Court
decision in Garrow v. Elizabeth General Hospital.  n52 In each year between
Sussman and Garrow, hospitals were growing in complexity.  Pressures from courts
and patients were increasing the responsibility levied on hospital management
for the quality of staff competence.  The public's interest in an efficient
medical staff appointment and reappointment mechanism was on a steady rise.  In
Sussman, the Superior Court of New Jersey had denied Dr. Sussman a right to
counsel at the hearing that had to be provided for him.  The court had also
refused to grant Dr. Sussman the right to conduct prehearing discovery.  Given
the evolving needs of hospitals during the years between Sussman and Garrow, one
might reasonably expect that Garrow would increase the flexibility available to
hospitals.  Garrow reversed Sussman, but did so in the opposite direction.  In
Garrow, the New Jersey Supreme Court dramatically reduced the flexibility with
which hospital management could pursue hospital quality.  After granting Dr.
Garrow both prehearing discovery and the right to an attorney, the court in
Garrow distinguished between the hospital-run hearing and litigation only
insofar as the hearing need not precisely follow technical rules of evidence.
n53 In a stroke of irony, the court recognized that "it is obvious that as a
practical matter the hearings before a hospital's board of trustees, which
usually consists of civic-minded citizens serving on a pro bono publico basis,
cannot be conducted as full scale trial-type hearings."  n54 By raising the
procedural safeguards due Dr. Garrow to a scale rivalling full-scale litigation,
n55 the court may have chilled the enthusiasm of any physician pondering the
thought of initiating an adverse recommendation.  The decision purported to
balance the governing board's interests in autonomy, and in maintaining control
over the quality of its staff, with the doctor's interest in having a favorable
response to applications for membership.  The court noted that the ability of
physicians to pursue their profession "may depend on the availability of
necessary hospital facilities."  n56 The court supported its right to  [*1043]
review the hospital's decision by reference to the landmark -- and aged --
Greisman case.  n57 The clear message from Garrow -- that hospitals had better
provide physicians their "day in court" within the hospital or be prepared for a
future trip to court -- threatens peer review committee members in New Jersey
and across the country.  Garrow, to the extent the decision required that
physicians be allowed legal counsel and the right to conduct prehearing
discovery, overruled the decision made in Sussman. Importantly, Garrow increased
the burden placed on hospital peer review physicians at the same time that
patients' interests demand that those burdens be reduced.  It is difficult to
see how this "balance" encourages the modern hospital's public mandate to manage
the quality of its staff.

   The case of Silver v. Castle Memorial Hospital  n58 presents the most obvious
argument for the obsolescence of this line of common law cases.  In Silver, the
Hawaii Supreme Court reinstated a physician who had been denied reappointment on
the grounds that the hospital failed to give him a written statement of the
allegations against him but instead read them to him at his hearing.  Silver is
worthy of note for two reasons.  First, Justice Abe's concurring opinion shows
how ill-represented the needs of the modern hospital are in this line of cases.
Justice Abe wrote, "[w]eighing the very marginal gains to be had by allowing
hospitals to completely exclude licensed physicians against the risks attending
the power, I conclude that hospitals that are subject to the Due Process Clause
have no rational basis for excluding licensed physicians."  n59 In the very next
sentence, Justice Abe states that the "resolution does not create a risk that a
hospital will be liable for the negligence of its physicians, yet lack the
capacity to exclude them."  n60 This, he maintained, was true because corporate
liability was not a valid concern in 1972.  n61 Corporate liability for failure
to maintain a competent medical staff is a prominent concern in 1990.  n62
Modern hospitals must also seek quality as a means of survival in an
increasingly competitive marketplace.  n63

   Silver is also significant for its articulation of the concept that  [*1044]
courts should allow potentially incompetent physicians to be immediately
reinstated in instances where the hospital's actions in removing the physician
contained procedural deficiencies.  This concept is highly questionable.
Decisions like Silver raise the possibility that a physician could be removed
from practice at a hospital for failure to maintain adequate standards of
practice, but be reinstated for the duration of a potentially lengthy hearing.
This practice could create a serious risk of injury to unsuspecting patients.
n64

   Judicial review of modern day hospital decisions, as noted in these cases
holding private hospitals to a fiduciary duty because they are "affected with
the public interest," should not turn on the issue of whether they receive
either Hill-Burton funds or tax-exempt status.  The Hill-Burton Act is a federal
statute providing funds to hospitals for the purpose of construction.  n65
Hospitals are evaluated for tax-exempt status under § 501(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code based upon whether they make profits.  n66 Courts have employed
both of these measures as tests to determine whether hospitals should be defined
as "public" or "private." Courts have, in turn, used this classification to
justify review of hospital decisions.  n67 While the preceding line of common
law cases correctly declined to apply the artificial public-private distinction,
the cases generally failed to address the underlying issues.  Competing
interests lie at the core of each one of these cases.  On the one hand,
society's interest in receiving high quality health care suggests that both the
peer review physician's and the hospital's fear of litigation, and the
concomitant compulsion to engage in trial-like hearings to avoid litigation,
must be reduced or eliminated.  This fear is caused in large part by the
procedural due process protections that have been utilized to give physicians
what amounts to a virtual "right" to practice medicine at a desired hospital.
Physicians practicing in hospitals have a competing interest.  Many physicians
require or strongly desire hospitals in order to practice their profession to
the fullest.  Some protection of this interest is also in order.  n68

 [*1045]  B.  Medical Staff "Bylaws": Contract and Quasi-Contract Justifications
for Procedural Due Process

   In recent years, courts have become increasingly willing to require that
hospitals comply with medical staff bylaw provisions that set forth procedural
safeguards.  These safeguards are designed to prevent the use of peer review as
a vehicle for the unjustified exclusion of physicians.  n69 There are several
practical reasons why hospitals routinely adopt medical staff bylaws which
include provisions granting physicians "due process" procedural protection.
Basically, hospital management follows the advice of hospital lawyers.  Lawyers
are likely to advise hospital managers of several things.  First, failure to
include due process provisions may result in loss of accreditation.  n70 Second,
failure to do so may result in the loss of limited antitrust immunity for peer
reviewing physicians.  n71 Third, the absence of these provisions may result in
loss of Medicare funding.  n72 Fourth, and perhaps most urgent, the failure to
provide physicians their "day in court" within the hospital may result in
litigation that is even more costly than the in-house hearing process.  This is
not to say that hospitals faced with an environment divorced from the above
"incentives" would not recognize and protect the interests of physicians in
avoiding unjustified exclusion.  To the contrary, the need to protect
physician's interests is uncontroversial.  The significant  [*1046]  fact is
that the existing regulatory environment strongly reinforces the status quo of
protecting physicians through the costly provision of "due process."
Unfortunately, while the status quo has remained stable, the status of the
hospital, and thus its needs, have rapidly changed.

   To achieve the result that hospitals must, in all cases, grant the procedural
safeguards found in their medical staff bylaws prior to taking any significant
action against an incompetent physician, courts have employed several forms of
what essentially amount to a contract theory.  The issue of whether medical
staff bylaws constitute a contract, or an integral part of the contractual
relationship, between hospitals and staff physicians, has engendered debate both
in legal literature and in courts.  n73 While resolution of this issue rests
outside the immediate scope of this Note, a basic understanding of the arguments
made by courts is necessary to the evaluation of alternatives offered by the
author in the following section.

   The 1959 Pennsylvania Supreme Court case of Berberian v. Lancaster
Osteopathic Hospital Association, Inc.,  n74 was among the first to articulate
the concept that

   [t]he relationship between a hospital association and a member of the
hospital's staff is based on contract. . . .  Consequently in a case such as the
present, the nature of the contractual relationship between the assailed staff
member and the hospital association determines whether a hearing on charges
against the staff member is necessary before he can be discharged from a
hospital staff because of such charges.  n75

To substantiate this conclusion, the court comments that it is

   clear that the [hospital governing] board has agreed to follow certain
specified procedures before determining whether to exercise its authority in a
matter of a staff member's expulsion from the hospital. . . .  When the board of
directors approved the staff by-laws, they became an integral part of the
contractual relation between the hospital and the members of its staff.  n76

Berberian, cited by numerous courts for the proposition that the relationship
between a hospital and its staff physicians is one of contract  [*1047]  and
that the medical staff bylaws constitute "an integral part of the contractual
relation,"  n77 has been criticized for failing to distinguish between the
governing board's "approval" of the bylaws, and their "adoption" of them.  n78
The dissenting opinion spells out the opposing argument in this way:

   The Doctors who were members of the general staff adopted a set of by-laws to
govern themselves which were separate and very different from the Directors'
bylaws and in many respects inconsistent therewith.  The Board of Directors
approved the by-laws which the General Staff adopted to govern themselves.  This
approval does not amount . . . to an adoption of the staff by-laws by the Board
of Directors, as the by-laws themselves further demonstrate.  n79

Berberian framed the issue for many future cases: whether medical staff bylaws
are intended to constitute the terms of a binding agreement between the hospital
medical staff and the governing board, or whether they are a set of internal
hospital guidelines adopted by the medical staff for purposes of
self-regulation.  Courts tackling this issue have increasingly resolved it
consistent with the majority in Berberian.  n80

   The 1963 case of Shulman v. Washington Hospital Center  n81 is another
important case on the question of judicial review of hospital staffing
decisions.  Ironically, courts routinely cite Shulman for the general principle
that courts will not review the medical staff decisions of private hospitals.
The irony arises because the court in Shulman created an enormous exception to
this principle for cases in which the hospital fails to conform to the
procedures set forth in "its constitution, bylaws, or rules and regulations."
n82 It is not entirely clear whether the court intended to apply a contract
theory, but the result would be the same regardless of the court's intent.
Shulman explained in detail why review of private hospital decisions is limited
to compliance with bylaws, recognizing that

   [t]he hospital in admitting a physician or surgeon to its facilities extends
a moral imprimatur to him in the eyes of the public.  Moreover not all
professional[s] . . . have a personality that enables them to work in harmony
with others, and to  [*1048]  inspire confidence in their fellows and in
patients.  These factors are of importance and here, too, there is room for
selection.  n83

Despite its articulation of the needs of the modern hospital, the court
apparently failed to understand that judicial demands of strict compliance with
medical staff bylaws has the practical implication of deterring the hospital's
efforts to improve the quality of care received by its patients.  While the
failure of the Shulman court could possibly be explained by the fact that it was
decided before hospital quality had been articulated as a formal goal, several
recent cases accept its conclusion at face value.  n84

   The 1971 New Hampshire Supreme Court case of Bricker v. Sceva Speare Memorial
Hospital,  n85 a case ultimately decided on common law grounds in accordance
with the cases discussed in the previous section, sheds some light on why courts
have been increasingly willing to interpret medical staff bylaws as a binding
contract.  In Bricker, the court noted that other courts had recently recognized
that "the public has a substantial interest in the operation of private
hospitals and that of necessity in the public interest some measure of control
by the courts is called for.  This has led to the rule that exclusion from staff
privileges must be done in accordance with the bylaws of the hospital."  n86 The
court's frank recognition that a strong connection exists between the outdated
line of common law cases referred to in Section III(A) and contract cases is
extremely troubling.  Both theories result in the mandatory provision of
extensive due process.  The court apparently advocates that the issue of whether
medical staff bylaws constitute a contractual agreement between hospitals and
medical staff members be evaluated with an eye to public policy.  The intentions
of the parties should govern this analysis.  Furthermore, the court's
willingness to rely on policy considerations articulated in the outdated common
law cases described in Section III(A) indicates its reliance on an antiquated
policy.  The court's use of outdated policy is unmistakable -- the court relies
on Berberian and Greisman.  n87

    [*1049]  More recent cases similarly evidence a connection between the
decision to hold hospitals to their medical staff bylaws and the common law
cases requiring due process.  In the 1989 case of Gianetti v. Norwalk Hospital,
n88 for instance, the Connecticut Supreme Court held that Norwalk Hospital
violated a medical staff bylaw.  To support this holding, the court stated:

   'Hospital officials must recognize that their powers, particularly those
relating to the selection of staff members, are powers in trust which are always
to be dealt with as such,' and courts will intervene to enforce judicially this
fiduciary concept. . . .  This rationale from Greisman, although . . . not a
case involving a contractual relationship, gives support to the propriety of
reviewing medical staff decisions made under staff bylaws.  n89

This language would add little to a decision simply interpreting the language of
a valid contract.  In fact, public policy considerations underlie the decisions
made in these "contract" cases.  Unfortunately, courts are relying on the
outdated policies reflected in common law cases such as Greisman.  n90 The
courts have failed to respond to new hospital needs that have developed as a
result of the public's endorsement of the goal of hospital quality.

   Courts are not discussing the possible impact on peer review of requiring due
process hearings.  Nor do the courts articulate any understanding of the need to
break down the barriers to effective peer review.  Finally, the courts have
uniformly failed to address issues related to accreditation, Medicare funding
and limited antitrust immunity for peer reviewers.  Modern hospitals include
elaborate procedural protections in their bylaws in the first place in order to
ensure accreditation, funding and immunity.  Thus the decision to hold hospitals
to the specifics of medical staff bylaws places hospital management in a
quandary: Hospitals must provide elaborate due process and allow their peer
review efforts to flounder, or deny elaborate due process and risk losing the
accreditation, funding and immunity, which the hospital may need to survive in
the marketplace.

    [*1050]  IV.  SUMMARY: THE STATUS QUO HINDERS HOSPITAL QUALITY GOALS

   Two conclusions can be drawn from the previous discussion.  First, hospital
quality -- the quality achieved by hospital management through credentialing and
peer review efforts -- has emerged as a top priority in the provision of health
care.  The promotion of hospital quality serves patients by improving care and
reducing patient injury.  Increased quality helps hospitals survive in a
competitive health care market, and reduces malpractice payments for insurers
and other third party payors, as well as for competent physicians in need of
manageable malpractice premiums.  Second, current credentialing and peer review
methods, the cornerstones of modern efforts to achieve quality, are
significantly impeded by the high cost to peer reviewers and hospitals of
affording elaborate due process prior to taking any significant action against
physicians.  Incompetent physicians may continue to commit malpractice
throughout the weeks, months, or even years it takes to complete a hearing
process.  But an even more serious obstacle to quality is the likelihood that a
physician who has undergone the gruelling endurance event once will hesitate --
or downright refuse -- to participate in meaningful peer review in the future.
Regardless of the theory used to justify the required due process hearing --
whether the common law, contract theory, the United States Constitution, or any
other source -- mandatory due process, at least in its current form, hinders a
hospital-wide system of quality.

   Quality is a top health care priority.  In addition, peer review has achieved
widespread acceptance as the basis for achieving that priority within hospitals.
n91 The antiquated nature of current methods of improving quality thus becomes
apparent.  The time has come to seek a new arrangement which will give the
development of efficient peer review  [*1051]  higher rank among competing
public policy goals.  Of course, the effect a given change will have on the
interests of physicians must also be considered.  New policies must be adopted
that meet both the continuing interests of physicians and the more pressing,
ill-represented interests associated with the development of a quality-driven
system of hospital care.  The situation is urgent.  Each day that passes with
hospitals unable to efficiently sift out and discipline incompetent physicians
is a day in which patients undergo an unreasonable risk of serious injury or
death.

   V.  ALTERNATIVES: DESIGNING A QUALITY-DRIVEN SYSTEM OF HOSPITAL CARE

   Outlined below are three alternatives to the existing hospital-medical staff
relationship.  Each alternative promotes hospital quality interests by changing
one of the two mechanisms, physician protection or quality enhancement through
peer review, that currently conflict.  Each alternative has inherent strengths
and weaknesses.  Yet each suggests a realistic design for the creation of a
quality-driven hospital care system.

A.  Changing the Due Process Hearing to Create Quality-Driven Hospital Care

1.  Shifting the Cost of Providing Due Process Hearings

   The high cost of providing physicians with a due process hearing does not, in
and of itself, diminish the effectiveness of peer review.  Rather, peer review
effectiveness is reduced because hospital managers and reviewing physicians must
themselves provide that hearing.  n92 A system that provides due process but
shifts the burden of its provision away from hospitals and their own staff
physicians would at least partially achieve current quality goals.  The
responsibility for providing due process could be removed from hospitals and
placed upon either county or state medical societies, or perhaps upon private
organizations paid to conduct such hearings.

   This system could work as follows.  Hospital physicians would still be
responsible for performing all peer review functions up to the point where an
adverse recommendation is made to the hospital governing board.  If however, the
adversely recommended physician then chooses  [*1052]  to pursue a hearing, the
matter would be immediately transferred to an outside agency.  The outside
agency would investigate the matter and act as "judge" at the hearing.  The
outside agency would communicate its final decision to the governing board in
the form of a recommendation for action.  The recommendation would include
findings of fact and conclusions for the governing board to consider in deciding
what final action (if any) to take.  The governing board would then be in a
position to take whatever action it considered to be in the best interests of
the hospital's patients.

   If the outside hearing proved to be as lengthy and costly as internal
proceedings, this system would not necessarily remedy the problem of incompetent
physicians continuing to practice throughout the hearing process.  n93 In
addition, the threat of litigation could lead outside agencies to provide
hearings that resemble those conducted in hospitals today.  Fear of litigation
could still chill the willingness of hospital managers and peer reviewers to
take necessary action in achieving quality.

   The interests of physician protection would not, however, require that
outside agencies provide physicians with the unnecessarily procedure-dominated
hearings that now plague peer review committees and hospitals.  A chain reaction
has caused hospital management to continue to increase the duration and
formality of due process hearings.  First, hospital management is fully aware
that courts have maintained or increased their willingness to review the
procedural sufficiency of such hearings.  By providing formal, trial-type
hearings, the hospital reduces the risk of having to repeat the hearing process
in court.  The foremost reason, however, why courts review the procedural
sufficiency of hospital hearings is due to a concern that such hearings may not
be impartial.  n94 Partiality, in turn, is feared because of the competitive
relationship that often exists between reviewing physicians and their reviewees.
By taking the hearing outside the hospital, the fear of partiality is mitigated.
Detaching the hearing process from persons within the hospital whose partiality
is feared should reduce or eliminate the concern that currently underlies the
willingness of courts to review hearing procedure.  Consequently, by allaying
the fear of litigation,  [*1053]  outside agencies can fashion the hearing to
meet the needs of the physician facing censure.

   The purpose of a hearing is simply to determine whether the hospital peer
reviewers had a rational foundation for their recommendation.  Extensive
formality is unnecessary and counterproductive.  It is unnecessary because the
goal is to provide the censured physician with an opportunity to be heard prior
to a final decision.  It is counterproductive because provision of extensive due
process harms quality by deterring effective peer review.  In addition,
incompetent physicians may at times continue to practice while a determination
is made.  The interests of physicians must be considered, but so long as the
hearing is impartial, extensive procedures cannot be justified in a system
providing quality health care to patients.

   Conducting hearings outside the hospital has the further desirable effect of
spreading the cost of due process across the entire profession.  Currently,
those hospitals and peer review staffs that conduct the most thorough peer
review procedures sustain the greatest burden in terms of both monetary and
personal costs.  Conversely, in hospitals characterized by lax peer review
efforts, peer review committees stand to gain (or at least to endure lower
costs) while patients continue to suffer.  This phenomenon should be reduced as
the cost of hearings is removed from individual hospitals and spread across the
profession.  Peer review physicians will be free to concentrate more on
conducting quality peer review and less on the associated risks.  Quality peer
review is, of course, directly related to quality patient care.

   Finally, a note is necessary on the relationship of this alternative to
another fear which also contributes to the paralyzation of peer review: the
spectre of antitrust.  Removing responsibility for the physician's hearing from
the hospital will not change the fact that peer review itself will often be
conducted by a potential competitor.  The assurance of an impartial hearing by
an outside agency should, however, reduce the chance that peer review would
result in antitrust violations.  n95 This is noted simply as a favorable
by-product of the decision to place responsibility for hearings outside the
hospital.

    [*1054]  If maintaining due process protection for physicians is deemed
either a legitimate public interest or a political necessity, the change from a
hospital-based hearing to one based outside the hospital offers several
advantages, all related to quality of care.  If due process is to be preserved,
the option of shifting the hearings outside the hospital deserves serious
consideration.  When measured against the existing arrangement this option has
great merit.

2.  Reducing the Cost of Due Process by Eliminating the Formal Hearing

   Due process hearings block the efficient peer review that is essential to
achieving urgent quality goals.  Physicians, are members of a hospital team.
The team's major goal is to provide quality hospital care.  To allow the
protection of one member of the hospital team to thwart the achievement of the
team's collective goal is obviously counterproductive.  Thus, if all other
factors remain equal, due process hearings that hinder achievement of the team's
quality goals must be significantly reduced or eliminated.  Significantly, while
many non-physicians practitioners can claim a "need" for access to hospital
facilities similar to that claimed by physicians, they generally enjoy no due
process protection.  n96 Thus the elimination of the formal due process hearing
for physicians should not be unthinkable.

   It is, however, beneficial to provide physicians with some recourse should
the peer review process run awry.  There are alternatives to the polar extremes
of providing a full-scale hearing and providing no protection at all.  One
option is to provide physicians with a significantly reduced hearing, or an
opportunity to meet with the hospital's board of directors.  Another option is
to allow hospital managers discretion to choose to provide a full-scale hearing
only when the interests of the particular physician so require.  This latter
option seems logical, as the modern hospital must ultimately take responsibility
for the competency and morale of its staff.

   The alternative described below encompasses a combination of the preceding
suggestions.  Specifically, hospitals could contract to provide physicians with
notice of the charges against them and with an opportunity  [*1055]  to meet
informally with the governing board prior to any action by the board.  Failure
of the board to provide either of these protections would constitute breach of
contract.  But procedural formalities -- at least those contracted for -- must
remain at a minimum.

   To supplement these protections the governing board could reserve the right
to grant a more extensive hearing or to mount an investigation.  If an impartial
hearing committee could not be found within the hospital, members could be
brought in from outside, perhaps selected from a pool of specialists collected
at the county or state medical society.  This system would offer considerable
physician protection at a minimum cost.  It would also allow the hospital to
maintain flexibility in taking action to protect its patients.  Under this
arrangement, hospital management would retain the choice of much less dramatic
steps, such as requiring problematic physicians to be counselled, educated, or
assisted in their practice.  Physicians could be temporarily suspended, for
whatever length of time is necessary to ensure that their skills are brought up
to par.  Problem patterns could be identified and remedied at earlier stages
without the fear of attending costs that currently plague the hearing process.

   This alternative both protects physicians and frees peer review efforts from
the fear of costly hearings.  Before this arrangement could be realized,
however, courts, legislatures, and accrediting bodies must recognize the
deleterious effect that due process requirements have upon a hospital-wide
system of quality patient care.  As long as courts and legislatures require
elaborate procedures, hospitals will provide them -- whether or not their
provision is counterproductive to hospital quality.  The fear of litigation may
constitute the single most significant deterrent to effective peer review;
quality cannot be achieved until that fear is lifted.

   For courts that have justified the requirement of procedural due process by
pointing to a common law fiduciary duty  n97 that hospitals owe patients, the
solution is relatively simple.  If hospitals are to fulfill their fiduciary
duty, the courts must enhance the hospital's ability to protect patients from
incompetent physicians, not enhance the protection of physicians against
hospitals.  Judicial intervention on behalf of physicians for failure to provide
elaborate procedural protections runs contrary to the court's own purposes.
Courts must embrace the modern definition of hospital quality.  Courts must
recognize that peer review  [*1056]  constitutes the core component of the
response to the changed definition of quality.

   The spectre of judicial intervention is devastating to peer review efforts.
Peer review is conducted voluntarily, generally by the more progressive
physicians who have committed themselves to the concept of hospital quality.
For quality efforts to succeed, this group must be encouraged.  But the courts
which follow the common law line of cases discussed in Section III(A) are
actively discouraging these physicians, remedying the lesser problem of
arbitrary physician exclusion by establishing disincentives for peer review
efforts.

   It is a more complex problem to remedy the plight of hospitals in
jurisdictions where elaborate due process requirements have been imposed on the
basis of a contract theory.  n98 The complexity stems from accreditation
requirements that cause hospitals to confer due process procedural safeguards
pursuant to medical staff bylaws.  n99 Further complication arises due to the
statutory requirement of due process necessary for physicians to receive limited
antitrust immunity under the Health Care Quality Improvement Act.  n100

   In fact, hospitals are unlikely to lose accreditation for failure to provide
full-scale hearings to aggrieved physicians.  Due process requirements are the
result of attempts by the physician-dominated accreditation body to cling to the
past.  Accreditors have refused to recognize that the nature of physician
responsibilities in modern hospitals must be redefined.  The complete
elimination of all procedural protections from medical staff bylaws is
nonetheless a risk that most hospitals will not take -- especially with
accreditation at stake.  Further, hospital physicians would strongly resist this
measure.  At any rate, such a solution may not be desirable.  A compromise
solution may remedy the situation in those states where courts consider medical
staff bylaws to constitute a binding agreement between hospitals and their staff
physicians.  Hospitals could negotiate with physicians on the issue of
procedural protections.  The medical staff bylaws or employee manual could
delineate these limited protections.  The hospital's failure to provide
procedures specified in the bylaws would constitute actionable breach.  In
addition, the hospital could compile a separate staff manual for use within the
hospital.  This manual would detail a more elaborate set of procedures that
could be provided when it appeared to hospital  [*1057]  management that a
physician had been unfairly treated.  Provisions described in the manual would
be used by hospital managers for reference purposes in managing its staff, but
would not bind hospital behavior.  Procedural safeguards would thus be divided
between those to which physicians would have an absolute right and those which
are in the hospital's discretion.

B.  Changing the Form of Physician Protection to Create Quality-Driven Hospital
Care

1.  Employment Protection as an Alternative to Due Process Protection

   A third alternative to existing hospital-medical staff relations involves
eliminating due process protection and replacing it with employment protection.
By making physicians employees of the hospital, this arrangement permits
physicians to derive protection from employment laws.  The most obvious
advantage of this system, at least with respect to hospital quality, is that it
would foster efficient peer review by eliminating the strong disincentives
currently associated with the provision of due process.  This would occur for
three reasons.

   First, because the physician's duties as a hospital employee would include
participation in the peer review process, physicians would be compensated for
their efforts.  Physicians would thus have an economic incentive to broaden the
role they play in achieving hospital quality.  Their expanded role would ideally
include not only responsibilities to their own patients but also
responsibilities for the quality of patient care generally.  This expansion of
the physician's role is consistent with recent changes in the health care field,
including the requirement that hospitals assume more responsibility for patient
care quality and the fact that patient care is now a product of team enterprise.

   Second, treating physicians as salaried employees provides another
significant advantage that should increase the effectiveness of peer review.  A
second advantage of the physician-employee arrangement is that it eliminates
hospital physicians' dependence on each other for referrals.  By reducing the
financial interdependence that now exists between hospital physicians, this
approach should make physicians more willing to identify incompetent
practitioners.

   Third, the physician-employee arrangement mitigates disincentives to peer
review caused by the fact that peer reviewers often compete with those whose
credentials they must review.  Two benefits result.   [*1058]  First, because
financial incentives leading to possible bias are eliminated, the need for due
process is reduced.  As stated, peer review efficiency increases as due process
"baggage" is eliminated.  In addition, by removing the possibility that peer
review will be utilized to increase one's patient pool at the expense of a
competitor's, the physician employment alternative reduces the likelihood of
antitrust suits.

   Despite these benefits, physicians are likely to initially resist this
alternative.  The hospital employee model infringes significantly upon physician
autonomy.  But the increasing numbers of non-physician practitioners could make
the same claims for autonomy and most of them are employees of the hospital.
Because many physicians who now enjoy a greater degree of autonomy effectively
refuse to engage in meaningful peer review, their autonomy must be reduced to
the extent necessary to allow hospital-wide quality efforts to succeed.

   As the health care field continues to evolve, physicians will less and less
resemble "independent contractors," the role they traditionally played.
Hospitals are now commonly held liable for lapses in the quality of care
provided by staff physicians;  n101 courts are relying on theories that resemble
strict liability.  In this environment, the proposed change in physician
employment agreements would help to reconcile existing hospital-medical staff
relationships with reality.  Hospitals are already liable for the negligence of
staff physicians.  This liability is similar to the liability that employers
have traditionally faced for the negligence of their employees.  Hospitals must
be free to create a system which enhances quality, and thus allows the hospital
to avoid such liability.  Not surprisingly, in recent years many of the nation's
best health care facilities have entered into employment relationships with
physicians.  n102

   VI.  CONCLUSION

   Today's system of hospital care sacrifices the quality of care received by
patients for the sake of an antiquated system designed to protect physicians.
Yet there is agreement that the unhindered pursuit of quality benefits patients,
hospitals, and doctors as well.  The current  [*1059]  system is thus
unacceptable.  Undeniably, physicians deserve some form of protection.  Absolute
protection of physician's interests can only be provided, however, if it does
not conflict with other important goals.  The requirement of due process, at
least in its present form, conflicts directly with the goal of hospital quality.
To design a hospital care system truly driven by the concept of quality, some
difficult choices must be made.

   In evaluating the alternatives, decision makers can no longer define quality
as a physician taking responsibility for his or her own patients.  Patients, the
consumers of care, will no longer accept this narrow definition.  Under the
current system, malpractice -- or its identification -- has skyrocketed.  Poor
quality is also a problem for hospitals.  Courts now routinely hold hospitals
liable for poor care that occurs as a result of the one physician-one patient
relationship.  As courts have recognized, high quality care may be necessary for
a hospital's very survival.  n103 Physicians would also benefit from a broader
definition of quality.  Only when physicians take responsibility for hospital
-wide quality can unacceptable practices be identified and remedied.  This
remedy may constitute a significant step towards finding relief for the
continuing rise in malpractice insurance premiums.

   The peer review concept has developed in response to the need for a broader
definition of quality.  Both peer review and its kin, credentialing, are
critical components of patient care in the modern hospital.  To fully effectuate
quality hospital care, achieving effective peer review and credentialing
processes must be top priorities.

   The alternatives described above will not solve all the problems that
currently plague hospital care.  Each would, however, restructure relations
between hospitals and their staff physicians to better incorporate the quality
dimension in modern hospital care.  Quality issues are certain to remain at the
forefront of concern and debate in the decade to come.  Until hospital-medical
staff relations are restructured, peer review will hobble along, and unnecessary
suffering will continue.  Let courts, legislators, hospitals, and physicians be
forewarned!  The refusal or inability to adapt to change currently presents the
most formidable obstacle to the achievement of hospital care designed with
quality as its driving force.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Healthcare LawActions Against FacilitiesGeneral OverviewHealthcare LawActions
Against Healthcare WorkersGeneral OverviewHealthcare LawAntitrust
ActionsPhysicians

FOOTNOTES:




n1 " Hospital management" will be used throughout this Note to connote the
hospital chief executive officer and administrative staff, as well as the
hospital boards of trustee/directors.  The phrase will not be used to describe
the medical staff leadership, such as executive committee, credentials
committee, and peer review committee chairpersons and members.  For purposes of
convenience, leaders of the medical staff will all be referred to as "peer
reviewers" and "members of the peer review committee" unless otherwise
indicated.




n2  The concept of one physician caring for one patient is deeply imbedded in
case law.  Thus, the primary concern of courts has been to protect access of
physicians to hospital facilities, to ensure that patients can receive care from
a chosen physician.  See infra notes 38-68 and accompanying text.




n3  The days when a patient's physician carried the sole responsibility for the
quality of that patient's care have past.  Justice Burger has noted the
definitiveness of this change: "I would think no 'evidence' is needed to
establish the proposition that the primary mission of every hospital is care and
concern for the patients and that anything which tends to interfere with that
objective cannot be tolerated." N.L.R.B. v. Baptist Hospital, Inc., 442 U.S.
773, 791 (1979) (Burger, J., concurring).  See also Darling v. Charleston
Community Memorial Hosp., 33 Ill. 2d 326, 211 N.E.2d 253 (1965) (establishing
duty of hospitals to exercise reasonable care in the selection, supervision, and
retention of physicians), cert. denied, 383 U.S. 946 (1966).




n4  Perhaps the most decisive evidence of the need to expand the definition of
quality patient care is found in the enactment of federal legislation designed
to improve the effectiveness of hospital peer review activities.  In the Health
Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, Congress found "an overriding national
need to provide incentive and protection for physicians engaging in effective
professional peer review." 42 U.S.C. § 11101 (Supp. V 1987). Peer review
activities constitute the major response to calls for an expanded definition of
"quality patient care" in hospitals.




n5  In addition to reverberations caused by the medical malpractice crisis
discussed in the accompanying text, the consumer movement helped push quality
issues to the forefront in the purchase of all consumer products and services.
The decline of the view that physicians are an infallible species also
contributed to demands for quality assurance on a hospital-wide basis.




n6  132 CONG. REC. H9954 (daily ed. Oct. 14, 1986) (statement of Rep. Wyden);
see also Waxman, Sounding Board: Medical Malpractice and Quality of Care, 316
NEW ENG. J. MED. 943 (1987).




n7  An impaired physician is one who suffers from psychiatric disorder,
alcoholism or drug dependence.  See A.M.A. Council on Mental Health, The Sick
Physician, 223 J. A.M.A. 684 (Feb. 1973). For an analysis of quality issues
relating to the impaired physician, see generally Hirsh, The Medical-Legal
Implications of the Errant or "Sick" Physician, 1976 MED. TRIAL TECH. Q. 377;
Shapiro, Pinsker & Shaler, The Mentally Ill Physician as Practitioner, 232 J.
A.M.A. 725 (1975); Gordon, Growing Pressure to Act Against Incompetent Doctors,
PHYSICIAN'S MANAGEMENT 56 (May 1975).




n8  Robinson v. Magovern, 521 F.Supp. 842, 919 (W.D. Pa. 1981), aff'd, 688 F.2d
824 (3d Cir. 1982), cert. denied, 459 U.S. 971 (1982); see also Coile and
Grossman, Quality, An Idea Whose Time Has Returned, HEALTHCARE FORUM Mar.-Apr.
1987, at 21.  One story told captures the importance an image of quality can
mean in the hospital marketplace:

   A young couple living 40 miles outside of Chicago find themselves confronted
with a crisis.  Their four-month-old baby has sustained a hard bump to the head.
There's a community hospital within ten minutes, but they go toward the city.
They'll pass dozens of other hospitals before arriving at the emergency room of
Children's Memorial Hospital.  And, despite the long drive, a shortage of
parking, wintery streets, surly personnel, and long waits, they'll continue to
return to Children's over the coming months for follow-up care.
Beckham, Getting a Grasp on Quality, HEALTHCARE FORUM Mar.-Apr. 1987, at 13.




n9  The atmosphere in which a hospital conducts its business has in fact changed
from one of almost complete immunity in the 1960's to one of virtual strict
liability for lapses in many aspects of patient care hospital managers are now
seen as directly providing.  The basic theory underlying the doctrine of
corporate negligence is that hospitals will be held liable as a corporate entity
for injury to hospital patients that is caused by staff physicians if the
hospital could in any way have prevented such injury.  Darling v. Charleston
Community Memorial Hosp., 33 Ill. 2d 236, 211 N.E.2d 253 (1965), cert. denied,
383 U.S. 946 (1966). The doctrine has also been used to require that hospitals
use reasonable care to ensure that physicians appointed to the hospital's
medical staff are competent.  A majority of jurisdictions have now recognized
the doctrine of corporate negligence at the appellate level.  See, e.g., Storrs
v. Lutheran Hosps. and Homes Soc'y of America, Inc., 661 P.2d 632 (Alaska 1983);
Purcell v. Zimbelman, 18 Ariz. App. 75, 500 P.2d 335 (1972); Elam v. College
Park Hosp., 132 Cal. App. 3d 332, 183 Cal. Rptr. 156 (1982); Mitchell County
Hosp. Auth. v. Joiner, 229 Ga. 140, 189 S.E.2d 412 (1972); Corleto v. Shore
Memorial Hosp., 138 N.J. Super. 302, 350 A.2d 534 (1975); Pedroza v. Bryant, 101
Wash. 2d 266, 677 P.2d 166 (1984); Johnson v. Misericordia Community Hosp., 99
Wis. 2d 708, 301 N.W.2d 156 (1981).




n10  See The Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. §§ 11101,
11111-11152 (Supp. V 1987).




n11  See Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations,
Accreditation Manual for Hospitals (1990) [hreinafter JCAHO].




n12  The term "physician" as used here would include, in addition to medical
doctors, osteopaths, podiatrists, and dentists.




n13  The list of non-physician practitioners now sharing the hospital with
physicians is virtually endless.  Examples include the nurse, nurse anesthetist,
respiratory therapist, physical therapist, and physician assistant.




n14  See generally Springer and Casale, Hospitals and the Disruptive Health Care
Practitioner -- Is the Inability to Work with Others Enough to Warrant
Exclusion?, 24 DUQ. L. REV. 377 (1985). Courts have long recognized the
legitimacy of a physician's character as a factor in determining the physician's
ability to contribute to quality care in the hospital environment.  "Mere
intellectual power and scientific achievement without uprightness of character
may be more harmful than ignorance.  Highly trained intelligence combined with
disregard of the fundamental virtues is a menace." Lawrence v. Briry, 239 Mass.
424, 132 N.E. 174, 176 (1921). See also Meredith v. Allen County War Memorial
Hosp. Comm'n, 397 F.2d 33 (6th Cir. 1968); Robbins v. Ong, 452 F. Supp. 110
(S.D. Ga. 1978).




n15  See infra text accompanying note 22.




n16  See infra text accompanying note 23.




n17  See infra text accompanying notes 25-27.




n18  Even in public hospitals where state action is present the physician has no
constitutional right to practice medicine.  See, e.g., Hayman v. City of
Galveston, 273 U.S. 414, 417 (1927); Klinge v. Lutheran Charities Ass'n of St.
Louis, 523 F.2d 56 (8th Cir. 1975); Woodbury v. McKinnon, 447 F.2d 839 (5th Cir.
1971).




n19  See infra notes 38-90 and accompanying text.




n20  Regrettably, modern cases provide evidence that the patient's interest in
receiving high quality care in hospitals is often still subjugated to less
urgent interests.  For example, both the physician's need to maintain access to
a particular hospital and the patient's interest in having a guarantee that a
particular physician is allowed to maintain access to hospital facilities
frequently retain priority over efforts taken by hospitals on behalf of patients
in pursuing "hospital quality" goals.  See infra notes 38-90 and accompanying
text.




n21  Only cases advancing constitutional protection of physician position, in
public hospitals or where state action is present, use a true "due process"
theory to justify intervention.  U.S. CONST. amend. V, XIV.  Most cases justify
intervention into a hospital's medical staff decisionmaking using a theory
mirroring due process but deriving from either common law notions of
"fundamental fairness," see infra notes 38-68 and accompanying text, or
contract, see infra notes 69-90 and accompanying text.  The result is identical.
Thus this Note will use the terms interchangably.




n22  See, e.g., Johnson v. Misericordia Community Hosp., 99 Wis. 2d 708, 301
N.W.2d 156, 160-61 (1981).




n23  For a detailed history of peer review in hospitals, see Haines, Hospital
Peer Review Systems: An Overview, HEALTH MATRIX, Winter 1984-85, at 30.
Comment, Medical Peer Review Protection in the Health Care Industry, 52 TEMP.
L.Q. 552, 554-65 (1979).




n24  See supra note 9 and accompanying text.




n25  As noted previously, due to the similar role and legal implications of
credentialing and peer review as they relate to issues of quality, simplicity
warrants that "peer review" be used, unless otherwise indicated, to denote both
hospital efforts.  See supra note 1.




n26  See generally Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C. §
11101 (Supp. V 1987); Waxman, supra note 6.




n27  Owens, Peer Review: Is Testifying Worth the Hassle?, MED. ECON. August 20,
1984, at 167.  See also 132 CONG. REC. H11588 (daily ed. Oct. 17, 1986)
(statement of Rep. Waxman) ("At the hearing [held for debate over barriers to
peer review], nearly every witness indicated that the threat of litigation under
current law is a major barrier to effective peer review.").




n28  Many states have enacted statutory privileges to provide limited or full
immunity to peer review participants from liability in civil actions.  The
statutes, however, provide varying degrees of immunity ranging from qualified
immunity in actions for defamation to absolute immunity in all civil suits.
See, e.g., ARK. STAT. ANN. § 20-9-502 (1987); CONN. GEN. STAT. ANN. § 38-19a(b)
-(c) (West 1987); GA. CODE ANN. § 31-7-132 (Supp. 1989); ILL. ANN. STAT. ch. 110
P2-1016 (Smith-Hurd Supp. 1989); IND. CODE ANN. § 16-10-1-6.5 (West Supp. 1989);
LA. REV. STAT. ANN. § 37:1287 (West Supp. 1990); MD. HEALTH OCC. CODE ANN. §
14-601 (Supp. 1989); OKLA. STAT. ANN. tit. 76, §§ 25-28 (West Supp. 1990); PA.
STAT. ANN. tit. 63, § 425.3 (Purdon Supp. 1989); R.I. GEN. LAWS § 5-37-1.5
(1987); S.D. CODIFIED LAWS ANN. § 36-4-25 (1986); TENN. CODE ANN. § 63-6-219
(Supp. 1989); UTAH CODE ANN. § 26-25-1 (Supp. 1989); VT. STAT. ANN. tit. 26, §
1442 (Supp. 1988); VA. CODE ANN. § 8.01-581.16 (Supp. 1986); WASH. REV. CODE
ANN. § 4.24.240 (1988); W. VA. CODE § 30-3C-2 (1986); WIS. STAT. ANN. § 164.37
(West 1989).  While legislatures have endeavored to create an environment
relatively free from civil action, peer reviewers still face the prospect of
enduring a gruelling hospital hearing process in order to fulfill legislatively
and judicially mandated procedural process.  At their worst, such hearings rival
litigation.  See, e.g., infra notes 52-57 and accompanying text.  In addition,
state peer review statutes shield participants from losing, but not from having
to defend, a lawsuit.  "'Legally safe' of course doesn't mean you can't be sued,
but only that you'll probably win if [you] are sued." Owens, supra note 27, at
168.




n29  Patrick v. Burget, 486 U.S. 94 (1988); Weiss v. York Hosp., 745 F.2d 786
(3d Cir. 1984), cert. denied, 470 U.S. 1060 (1985); see also Robinson v.
Magovern, 521 F. Supp. 842 (W.D. Pa. 1981), aff'd, 688 F.2d 824 (3d Cir. 1982),
cert. denied, 459 U.S. 971 (1982). For a discussion of the issues relating to
the fear of antitrust and successful peer review, see generally Hosoweiko, If
You Should Lose a Peer Review Suit . . ., MED. ECON. FOR SURGEONS, Jan. 1989, at
38-51; Miles & Philp, Hospitals Caught in the Antitrust Net: An Overview, 24
DUQ. L. REV. 489 (1986); Kissam, Webber, Bigus & Holzgraefe, Antitrust and
Hospital Privileges: Testing the Conventional Wisdom, 70 CALIF. L. REV. 595
(1982).




n30  See supra note 28 and accompanying text.




n31  See Owens, supra note 27.




n32  Sosa v. Board of Managers of Val Verde Memorial Hosp., 437 F.2d 173 (5th
Cir. 1971). See generally Note, Hospital Medical Staff: When Are Privilege
Denials Judicially Reviewable?, 11 U. MICH. J.L. REF. 95 (1977); Comment,
Hospital Medical Staff Privileges: Recent Developments In Procedural Due Process
Requirements, 12 WILLIAMETTE L.J. 137 (1975).




n33  Garrow v. Elizabeth Gen. Hosp., 79 N.J. 549, 401, A.2d 533 (1979).  See
generally Nodzenski, Medical Staff Decisions in Private Hospitals: The Role of
Due Process, 18 LOYOLA U. CHI. L.J. 951, 964-89 (1987).




n34  Berberian v. Lancaster Osteopathic Hosp. Ass'n, 395 Pa. 257, 149 A.2d 456
(1959); Knapp v. Palos Community Hosp., 176 Ill. App. 3d 1012, 531 N.E.2d 989
(1988), cert. denied, 110 S. Ct. 141 (1989).




n35  See Klinge v. Lutheran Charities Ass'n, 523 F.2d 56 (8th Cir. 1975)
(constitutional due process protection).




n36  The following description and discussion outlining the inner-workings of
hospital due process hearings derives from several informal interviews with
experts who have participated as legal counsel in literally hundreds of hospital
hearings.




n37 " Even if their colleagues have some evidence of malpracticing doctors'
incompetence, there are tremendous barriers to getting a bad doctor out of our
health-care system." 132 CONG. REC. H9954 (daily ed. Oct. 14, 1986) (statement
of Rep. Wyden).




n38  Joining the Hospital's Professional Social Club, Action Kit for Hospital
Law Newsletter, November 1973, at 3.  See also Note, supra note 32.




n39  Joining the Hospital's Professional Social Club, supra note 38, at 3.




n40  See generally Note, Judicial Review of Private Hospital Activities, 75
MICH. L. REV. 445 (1976); Note, Denial of Hospital Staff Privileges: Hearing and
Judicial Review, 56 IOWA. L. REV. 1351 (1971).




n41  Greisman v. Newcomb Hosp., 40 N.J. 389, 192 A.2d 817 (1963).




n42  Id., 192 A.2d at 820-21.




n43  Id. at 821.




n44  Id.




n45  Id. at 823.




n46  Equal access to membership on the hospital staff, once limited to
physicians, has been extended by legislative mandate in many jurisdictions to
osteopaths, podiatrists, dentists, and other practitioners.  See, e.g., COLO.
REV. STAT. § 25-3-103.5 (1983); FLA. STAT. ANN § 395.011 (West 1990); IOWA CODE
ANN. § 135B.7 (West 1990); LA. REV. STAT. ANN. §§ 37:1301 (West 1982), 40:2114
(West 1986); MICH. COMP. LAWS ANN. § 333.21513 (West 1989); NEB. REV. STAT. §
71-2048.01 (1989); OHIO REV. CODE ANN. § 3701.35.1 (Anderson 1988); S.C. CODE
ANN. § 44-7-260(d) (Law. Co-op. 1988); WISC. STAT. ANN. § 50.36 (West 1985),
WISC. ADMIN. CODE § HHS 124.05(2)(e) (1988); WYO. STAT. § 35-2-113 (1981).
Issues have thus focused increasingly upon the procedural rights of all parties
in retaining those hospital staff positions.




n47  See, e.g., Reiswig v. St. Joseph's Hosp. & Med. Center, 130 Ariz. 164, 634
P.2d 976 (1981); Ascherman v. St. Francis Memorial Hosp., 45 Cal. App. 3d 507,
119 Cal. Rptr. 507 (1974); Miller v. Nat'l Med. Hosp. of Monterey Park, Inc.,
124 Cal. App. 3d 81, 177 Cal. Rptr. 119 (1965); Silver v. Castle Memorial Hosp.,
53 Haw. 475, 497 P.2d 564 (1972), cert. denied, 409 U.S. 1048 (1972); Silver v.
Queen's Hosp., 63 Haw. 430, 629 P.2d 1116 (1981); Bricker v. Sceva Speare
Memorial Hosp., 111 N.H. 276, 281 A.2d 589 (1971), cert. denied, 404 U.S. 995
(1971); Garrow v. Elizabeth Gen. Hosp. & Dispensary, 79 N.J. 549, 401 A.2d 533
(1979); Sussman v. Overlook Hosp. Ass'n, 92 N.J. Super. 163, 222 A.2d 530
(1966), rev'd, 79 N.J. 549, 401 A.2d 533 (1979); Kelly v. St. Vincent Hosp., 102
N.M. 201, 692 P.2d 1350 (1984); Davidson v. Youngstown Hosp. Ass'n, 19 Ohio App.
2d 246, 250 N.E.2d 892 (1969); Woodard v. Porter Hosp., Inc., 125 Vt. 419, 217
A.2d 37 (1966).




n48  Sussman, 222 A.2d at 530.




n49  Id., 222 A.2d at 540 (quoting Note, Hospital Staff Privileges: The Need for
Legislation, 17 STAN. L. REV. 900 (1965)).




n50  Id.




n51  Id. at 540.




n52  Garrow v. Elizabeth General Hosp., 79 N.J. 549, 401 A.2d 533 (1979).




n53  Id., 401 A.2d at 541.




n54  Id.




n55  Id.




n56  Id. at 537.




n57  Id.




n58  Silver v. Castle Memorial Hosp., 53 Haw. 475, 497 P.2d 564, cert. denied,
409 U.S. 1048 (1972).




n59  Id., 497 P.2d at 573 (Abe, J., concurring).




n60  Id.




n61  Id.




n62  See supra note 9 and accompanying text.




n63  See supra note 8 and accompanying text.




n64  See, e.g., Woodbury v. McKinnon, 447 F.2d 839 (5th Cir. 1974); Anton v. San
Antonio Community Hosp., 19 Cal. 3d 802, 140 Cal. Rptr. 442 (1977); Hackethal v.
Loma Linda Community Hosp. Corp., 91 Cal. App. 3d 59, 153 Cal. Rptr. 783 (1979);
Gotsis v. Lorain Community Hosp., 46 Ohio App. 2d 8, 345 N.E.2d 641 (1974).




n65  42 U.S.C. § 291 (1982). See also Note, supra note 32.




n66  I.R.C. § 501 (1982).




n67  See, e.g., supra note 40.




n68  Alternatives described in Section V of this Note attempt to balance these
interests in a more optimal way to all parties.  See infra notes 92-103 and
accompanying text.




n69  Hoberman v. Lock Haven Hosp., 377 F. Supp. 1178 (M.D. Pa. 1974); Shulman v.
Washington Hosp. Center, 222 F. Supp. 59 (D.D.C. 1963); Margolin v. Morton F.
Plant Hosp. Ass'n, Inc., 348 So.2d 57 (Fla. Dist. Ct. App. 1977); Spencer v.
Community Hosp. of Evanston, 87 Ill. App. 3d 214, 408 N.E.2d 981 (1980); Anne
Arundel General Hosp., Inc. v. O'Brien, 49 Md. App. 362, 432 A.2d 483 (1981);
Joseph v. Passaic Hosp. Ass'n, 26 N.J. 557, 141 A.2d 18 (1958); Gotsis v. Lorain
Community Hosp., 46 Ohio App. 2d 8, 345 N.E.2d 641 (1974); Adler v. Montefiore
Hosp. Ass'n of W. Pa., 453 Pa. 60, 311 A.2d 634 (1973), cert. denied, 414 U.S.
1131 (1979); Berberian Lancaster Osteopathic Hosp. Ass'n, Inc., 395 Pa. 257, 149
A.2d 456 (1959); Miller v. Indiana Hosp., 277 Pa. Super. 370, 419 A.2d 1191
(1980); St. John's Hosp. Medical Staff v. St. John Regional Medical Center, 90
S.D. 674, 245 N.W.2d 472 (1976).




n70  See JCAHO, supra note 11, at 102.  JCAHO provisions include requirements
for procedural due process which must be included in the hospital's medical
staff bylaws.  The "fair-hearing procedures" are singled out by the Joint
Commission as one of the "key factors in the accreditation decision process."
Id. Despite its voluntary nature, accreditation is actively sought by hospitals
because it satisfies the conditions of participation in and payment by Medicare.
See 42 U.S.C. § 1395b(a)(1)(2) (Supp. II 1984).  See also Joy, The Health Care
Quality Improvement Act of 1986: A Proposal For Interpretation Of Its
Protection, 20 ST. MARY'S L.J. 955 (1989).




n71  Hospitals which do not provide procedural due process to physicians
censured in peer review actions lose the partial immunity the legislature
provided peer reviewers from antitrust suits.  Paradoxically, the fear of
undergoing the necessary hearing to fulfill due process requirements causes
deterrence similar to that which antitrust immunity is designed to prevent.  See
Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, supra note 10.




n72  See supra note 70.




n73  See HORTY, Medical Staff Appointment & Privileges, HOSPITAL LAW ch. 6 (May
1982).  But see Falk, Delegated Power to Amend Medical Staff Bylaws, 21
WILLIAMETTE L. REV. 1 (1985). See generally Horty & Mulholland, The Legal Status
of the Hospital Medical Staff, 22 ST. LOUIS U.L.J. 485 (1978).




n74  Berberian v. Lancaster Osteopathic Hosp. Ass'n, Inc., 395 Pa. 257, 149 A.2d
456 (1959).




n75  Berberian, 149 A.2d at 458 (citations omitted).




n76  Id. at 458-59.




n77  Id.




n78  Id. at 461.  See HORTY, supra note 73, at 11.




n79  Berberian v. Lancaster Osteopathic Hosp. Ass'n, Inc., 395 Pa. 257, 149 A.2d
456 (1959) (emphasis in original); see also HORTY, supra note 73, at 11.




n80  See, e.g., supra note 69.




n81  Shulman v. Washington Hosp. Center, 222 F. Supp. 59 (D.D.C. 1963).




n82  Id. at 63.




n83  Id. at 64.




n84  See, e.g., Knapp v. Palos Community Hosp., 176 Ill. App. 3d 1012, 531
N.E.2d 989 (1988), cert. denied, 110 S. Ct. 141 (1989).




n85  Bricker v. Sceva Speare Memorial Hosp., 111 N.H. 276, 281 A.2d 589, cert.
denied, 404 U.S. 95 (1971).




n86  Id., 281 A.2d at 592 (citations omitted).




n87  Berberian v. Lancaster Osteopathic Ass'n, Inc., 395 Pa. 257, 149 A.2d 456
(1959); Greisman v. Newcomb Hosp., 40 N.J. 389, 192 A.2d 817 (1963).




n88  Gianetti v. Norwalk Hospital, 211 Conn. 51, 557 A.2d 1249 (1989).




n89  Id. at 1256 (citing Greisman v. Newcomb Hosp., 40 N.J. 389, 192 A.2d 817
(1963) (citations omitted)).




n90  See supra notes 38-68 and accompanying text.




n91  Congressional findings under the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of
1986 evidence a strong reliance upon peer review as the most significant remedy
available to reduce problems of physician malpractice:

   The Congress finds the following:

   (1) The increasing occurrence of medical malpractice and the need to improve
the quality of medical care have become nationwide problems that warrant greater
efforts than those that can be undertaken by an individual state.

   (3) This nationwide problem can be remedied through effective professional
peer review.

   (5) There is an overriding national need to provide incentive and protection
for physicians engaging in effective professional peer review.
42 U.S.C. § 11101 (Supp. V 1987).




n92  See supra notes 27-37 and accompanying text.




n93  See supra note 64 and accompanying text.




n94  See, e.g., Silver v. Castle Memorial Hospital, 53 Haw. 475, 497 P.2d 564,
572, cert. denied, 409 U.S. 1048 (1972) ("In order for the board to function as
an objective decision making body in its capacity as grantor of staff privileges
it must not be tainted by its own premature decisions prior to the hearing." In
addition to requiring the hearing, the court laid out several criteria which, it
maintained, would ensure objective deliberation of the physician's "case.").




n95  While peer review statutes limit antitrust liability to "bad faith," they
do not limit the ability of disgruntled physicians to bring claims that the peer
reviewers used bad faith.  Thus, protection is from losing, not from having to
defend.  The danger to physicians of bad faith peer reviewers has often been
questioned.  See, e.g., Waxman, supra note 6, at 943.  (The author discusses "a
clear recognition that most peer review is, in fact, conducted by
well-intentioned physicians whose main concern is with quality of care.").




n96  Some non-physician practitioners are employees of the hospital, thus
deriving their protection through employment laws.  Increasingly, however, such
members are seeking -- and attaining -- membership to hospital staff.  Staff
non-physician practitioners arguably have a "need" for access equal to many
physicians, especially general practitioners.  Yet the author's research
indicated that non-physician practitioners, unexplainably, enjoy no such
protection.




n97  See supra notes 38-68 and accompanying text.




n98  See supra notes 69-90 and accompanying text.




n99  See supra notes 69-73 and accompanying text.




n100  42 U.S.C. §§ 11101-11152 (Supp. V 1987).




n101  See supra note 9 and accompanying text.




n102  A few examples of hospitals that now enter into employment or contract
relationships with their physicians are the Cleveland Clinic in Cleveland, Ohio
(telephone interview with Karen Shobert, Office of Professional Affairs,
Cleveland Clinic (Oct. 16, 1990)); the Ochsner Clinic in New Orleans, Louisianna
(telephone interview with Jean Amaro, Administrative Assistant to the Medical
Director, Ochsner Clinic (Oct. 15, 1990)); and the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,
Minnesota (telephone interview with Robert K. Smoldt, Secretary, Board of
Governors, Mayo Clinic (Oct. 16, 1990)).




n103  Robinson v. Magovern, 521 F. Supp. 842 (W.D. Pa. 1981), aff'd, 688 F.2d
824 (3d Cir.), cert. denied, 459 U.S. 971 (1982).


