                              450 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Sowetan (South Africa)

                           February 25, 2016 Thursday

Doctors defend US-made coding for procedures

BYLINE: Youlendree Appasamy

SECTION: ECONOMY, BUSINESS & FINANCE

LENGTH: 513 words


COULD THIS AFFECT COST, ASKS PANEL
 Treatment plans are limited by what medical aid plan a patient is on
 THE South African Medical Association (Sama) had to defend its decisions on
procedural coding for medical procedures at the Competition Commission's Health
Market Inquiry yesterday.


  Sama owns and administrates the only medical procedural coding in South Africa
and lends this out to regulatory bodies such as the national Department of
Health.
  Sama, the largest and most representative medical professional body in South
Africa, presented its submission at the second day of public hearings on the
state of private healthcare.
 Sama's legal and accounts manager, Julian Botha, explained that the current
coding system is derived from the United States coding system, developed and
peer-reviewed at Harvard University.
 The panel asked multiple questions surrounding the accuracy in transposing US
values to South Africa, raising issues such as currency conversion rates,
geographical modifiers to cost of procedures and the time going into the medical
procedure.
 "Every single association has said that there is a major problem with coding so
we are trying to find where the blockage is," said one of the panellists.
 Dr Mzukisi Grootboom, chairman of Sama, stated that it was due to regulatory
bodies that Sama could not move forward with making unique coding for medical
procedures, specific to the South African healthcare context.
 "Cost studies that have been done by Sama have either been rejected or
completely disregarded by the Department of Health," Botha said.
 At Monday's hearings, medical aid schemes and private hospital procedures were
placed under the microscope by the Occupational Therapy Association of South
Africa (Otasa) and the Pharmaceutical Society of South Africa (PSSA).
  The organisations decried uncompetitive behaviour by medical aid schemes that
were having a negative impact on their industries and the healthcare of patients
they treat.
 Lorraine Osman of the PSSA gave the example of how community pharmacies are not
allowed to mark up their medicines and they can only receive their income
through a dispensing fee.
 The fee is a set percentage of the manufacturer's cost of the medication -
however, due to medical aid schemes refusing to pay the patient or pharmacy, the
dispensary fee is often drastically reduced.
 "Not only is this a low return on investment for the pharmacist but there is
not even any profits to be made," Osman said.
 Otasa said that due to the growing importance of funders, medical aid schemes
were compromising their profession and by consequence compromising the care
given to their patients.
 "Our treatment plans are often limited by what the medical aid plan a patient
is on and often a power imbalance is created," their statement read.
 oappasamyy@sowetan.co.za
  THINKING HEADS: The chairman of the Health Market Inquiry, retired chief
justice Sandile Ngcobo, listens attentively to the SA Medical Association's
submission on coding for medical procedures in Pretoria yesterday
  Photo: Youlendree Appasamy

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Sowetan


                    Copyright 2016 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


