                              451 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    December 7, 1998, Monday, METRO EDITION

Tainted Sick Kids review must be shut down

SECTION: LETTER; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 334 words


   James H. Pitblado, chairman of the board for The Hospital for Sick Children,
claims in his Nov. 28 letter that his board is "eager for all the facts to come
out" in the case of Dr. Nancy Olivieri. However, the board's review of the case
virtually guarantees that such result cannot be obtained.

The review, headed by Dr. Arnold Naimark, creates a reasonable apprehension of
bias.

Naimark has had a previous relationship with Apotex, the drug company in
question, and he was president of the University of Manitoba when his university
made donor agreements with Apotex. Conflict of interest is a serious matter.

In addition, the review process has been a patchwork of last-minute decisions.
Naimark was appointed on Sept. 8 to conduct the review.

Only after he had collected hundreds of documents and interviewed dozens of
people on his own were two other members patched into the review process,
creating further procedural irregularities. The board failed to secure the
participation of Olivieri, indicating that an atmosphere of mistrust surrounds
the review.

For all the facts to come out, an open, independent and external inquiry that is
impeachable and has the confidence of all, including Olivieri, must be set up.

The tainted Naimark review must be shut down immediately and the documentation
and interviews embargoed. Charging ahead only can prolong the controversy and
deepen the publicity disaster, to the detriment of all concerned. It is too late
for the board and the University of Toronto to save the appearances.

The Olivieri-Apotex case raises the most serious questions concerning ethics,
research integrity, academic freedom, the privacy of personal correspondence and
the relation between public health and for-profit research.

With an apprehension of bias, and without full procedural safeguards in place,
the Naimark review cannot hope to achieve scientific and public credibility.

William Graham Canadian Association of University Teachers Ottawa

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


