                              452 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                            November 21, 2011 Monday

Kidney transplant tough at home;
Annually 40,000 people in Maharashtra need transplant, but only 400 get it.
Prohibitive organ transplant laws in the country to blame

BYLINE: Rito Paul

LENGTH: 671  words


Gira Soni, 43, has been on dialysis for 11 years after an autoimmune disease
ravaged her kidneys. Recently, she developed Hepatitis C through an infection
contracted during the dialysis process.

Since she doesn't have a family member to donate a kidney, her only hope is a
cadaver transplant. But that too is a long shot.

There are 4 lakh people in India who need a kidney transplant. "Only 1% of that
number or 4,000 people actually get a transplant. And less than 5% of those
4,000 people get a cadaver transplant," said Dr Bharat Shah, senior nephrologist
and transplant specialist.

Gira's brother, Rohit, said his sister would be lucky to get a transplant in the
next 10 years. Apart from Gira, Rohit's two brothers and another sister too
suffer from kidney ailments.

"Around 40,000 people in Maharashtra need a kidney transplant. Out of that, only
1% (400 people) will get one. And less than 5% of the 400 people will get a
cadaver transplant," said Dr Shah.

"The rate of transplants in Maharashtra is pathetic. I was in Ahmedabad where a
single government hospital has performed 300 transplants in a year. But in
Maharashtra, only 30 to 40 transplants take place annually," said Rohit.

According to Dr Shah, the state urgently needs to make amendments to the
Transplantation of Human Organs Act. "Only a few big hospitals based in Mumbai
and Pune are allowed to extract organs from patients who've had brain death. So
if someone dies in a small town or village, then they have to be first shifted
to a big hospital in the city and then the organs can be extracted. Most people
opt not to go through the hassle," said Dr Shah.

The other problem hindering the rate of transplants in the city is lack of
awareness. "Immediate family members are often dissuaded by relatives. Some
people believe that if an organ is taken out of the body then the deceased will
be reborn without the same organs. Such misconceptions are common among people,"
said Jyoti Nagda, a social worker who has worked as a transplant coordinator at
Hinduja Hospital.

Lack of awareness also proves to be a procedural hindrance. In cases of
accidental death where the victim is brain dead, the police have to give
permission to hospitals to extract the organs. "Most police people are not aware
of the benefits of organ donation, so they often refuse permission," said Nagda.

So what is the solution?

Dr Shah said there should be a two-pronged approach. "First, we need to amend
the Transplantation of Human Organs Act to make sure that the permission is
given to more hospitals to extract organs in case of brain death. Second,
awareness of the benefits of donating organs should be spread. A single
brain-dead cadaver cannot only donate kidneys but also heart, lungs and eyes,
saving multiple lives."

4 lakh people in India need a kidney transplant in a year

4,000 people get a transplant

200 is the approximate number of people who get a cadaver transplant

Dialysis versus kidney transplant

A transplant is an expensive procedure up front. It takes about a lakh to get a
complete check up of the donor done. The operation itself costs a minimum of Rs3
lakh. Add to this, the Rs10,000 -15,000 monthly for post-operation medicines and
the figure can be quite daunting.

"However, once the body has accepted the kidney the medicine costs go down
substantially. In around five years, the cost of medicine is only Rs5,000 a
month," said Dr Shah.

The cost of dialysis is Rs25,000 a month for someone who gets it done thrice a
week. "Add to this the loss of work, because of dialysis and the medicine costs
keep rising and it costs you much more in the long run," said Dr Shah.

Getting a transplant is also the healthier option because dialysis only enables
the kidney to function at 10 to 15% of its normal capacity, thereby the longer
you are on dialysis the chances are that your health will get worse.

Lack of awareness is a procedural hindrance. In cases of accidental death where
the victim is brain dead, the police have to give permission to hospitals to
extract the organs.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2011 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


