                              447 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Cape Cod Times (Hyannis, Massachesetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 23, 2012 Sunday

Courts jump through procedural hoops in competency cases

BYLINE: Steve Doane, Cape Cod Times, Hyannis, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1246 words


Dec. 23--Barnstable District Court First Justice W. James O'Neill said he's
never lost sleep over any of his courtroom decisions.

But of the thousands of rulings he makes annually that affect everything from
criminal bail to civil settlements, the cases that really get to him involve the
mentally ill.

"I find the profoundly difficult hearings are when you're putting someone into a
hospital, sometimes against their will," he said.

The mental health care system as a whole has come under scrutiny following the
shootings in Newtown, Conn., earlier this month.

The shooter, Adam Lanza, is suspected to have suffered from one or more mental
illnesses before he broke into the Sandy Hook Elementary School on Dec. 14 and
shot 20 6- and 7-year-olds and six teachers and administrators with an assault
rifle before killing himself.

Lanza's case highlights how those suspected of having a mental illness can go
untreated and how the court system in many ways acts as a catchall for the
mentally ill when they don't get the treatment they need. The Barnstable
District Court, along with other courts on the Cape, has played an increasingly
important role in providing care to the mentally ill recently, according to
statistics.

"We're not the answer for sure," O'Neill said. "We try, and often we're a
gateway from people into DMH (state Department of Mental Health)."

Those suspected of being mentally ill make their way into the legal system in a
variety of ways. The most prominent and often the most tragic is through the
criminal justice system.

COURTS CAN COMPEL TREATMENT

When competency is an issue for someone charged with a crime, there are two
hurdles prosecutors must clear before a trial can take place. A judge must find
the defendant both criminally responsible and mentally competent. Criminal
responsibility refers to the defendant's state of mind at the time of the
alleged crime, whereas mental competency is his or her ability to comprehend the
charges and assist in a defense.

This standard applies in both district and superior court cases. If a judge
finds that a defendant doesn't clear either hurdle, he or she can order the
defendant to a treatment facility for an extended period, O'Neill said.

"If they have committed a crime and there is suspicion psychosis is involved,
it's easier for us to deal with because we have control over them," he said.

When a person suspected of having a mental illness hasn't committed a crime, the
process becomes more complicated.

The court system compels treatment through a variety of means, including civil
commitments and treatment orders, but these are the most extreme measures a
district judge can take and involve a complex hearing process.

These are called civil commitments, and they involve placing someone in a mental
health institution, often against his or her will. The procedure for this is
covered under the Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 123. The initial phase is
an emergency commitment for someone who may pose an immediate threat to
themselves or others. These are known informally as "section 12s," in reference
to their place in the state laws.

A section 12 authorizes the commitment of a potentially dangerous person to a
mental health facility for up to three days, according to state law.

If the facility determines that a patient should stay past those three days, it
may petition the court to have the patient held for a period of six months.
These petitions, known as "section 7 or 8," must be approved in a hearing before
a district judge. The petitioner must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
patient has a mental illness, presents an imminent danger to themselves or
others and that there is no less restrictive way to treat them, such as
outpatient therapy, O'Neill said.

During the hearing, which is conducted at the mental health facility, the
patient is represented by an attorney. The attorney is charged not with
representing the best interests of the patient, which may mean continued
hospitalization, but with what the patient would want if he or she was of sound
mind, O'Neill said.

In addition to the section 7 and 8 hearings, the court can also order a mentally
ill person to undergo medical treatment, which can include using antipsychotic
medication and electroshock therapy.

The court must find that the patient is incapable of making rational decisions
about care and that if the person were of sound mind, he or she would accept
such treatment, according to state law.

WHAT HAPPENS TO JUVENILES?

For the mentally incompetent who aren't at risk of hurting themselves or others,
there are less forceful methods for the courts to get them into treatment or
protect their interests.

For problem children and young adults under age 18, the juvenile court has a
petition called a Child in Need of Services, or CHINS.

A parent, guardian, school administrator or police officer can petition court
for help if they can show a child routinely runs away from home, disobeys a
parent or guardian, is a disruption at school, or doesn't attend at all.

The child doesn't have to have a mental illness for the petition to apply, but
it's a common occurrence, said Matt Selig, the executive director of Health Law
Advocates, a legal assistance group.

If the petition is granted, the child is brought to the court, and he or she
will work out and sign a CHINS agreement with his or her guardian and a
probation officer.

The agreement dictates certain conditions and treatments the child will submit
to for a limited time. The child may also be subject to a hearing if the alleged
offenses are severe enough.

The only real power the juvenile court has is in these situations is the ability
to transfer custody or remand a child to the state Department of Children and
Families, Selig said.

"It's a last resort for parents when they file a CHINS. You'd much rather they
(child) get access to treatment before they get to court," Selig said.

HOW GUARDIANSHIP WORKS

The other option involves the probate courts.

When it comes to mental health issues, the probate system handles the bulk of
involved cases, typically though guardianship proceedings.

"I'd say of the breadth of the Massachusetts court system, the probate court,
sees the majority of cases where mental health is an issue," said John Dugan, a
member of the Massachusetts Bar Association's probate law section and a private
attorney in Franklin.

Guardianship is a form of legal authority the court can grant someone closely
tied to someone with a mental health issue, Dugan said.

Typically a court-appointed guardian has authority only over a mentally ill
person's medical decisions, which can include stipulations for everything from
diet to whether to place the person in a nursing facility, he said.

Guardianship can be granted over any person deemed to be incapable of taking
care of himself or herself. This can include everyone from children to the
elderly, Dugan said.

While a guardian is authorized to make ordinary health care decisions for the
mentally ill person, he or she must petition the court to go forward with any
kind of extreme treatment, such as antipsychotic medication.

These are known as "Rogers hearings" and are similar to the "section 8B"
hearings in the district court except the petitioner doesn't need to demonstrate
an imminent threat if the patient isn't treated, Dugan said.

___ (c)2012 the Cape Cod Times (Hyannis, Mass.) Visit the Cape Cod Times
(Hyannis, Mass.) at www.capecodonline.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121223-CA-Courts-jump-through-procedural
-hoops-in-competency-cases-1223-20121223

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CA


                         Copyright 2012 Cape Code Times


