                              459 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Victoria Advocate (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             August 21, 2011 Sunday

Reallocating EMS personnel

BYLINE: Erin Pradia, Victoria Advocate, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 393 words


Aug. 21--The Victoria Fire Department made procedural changes for a more
efficient response to emergencies last month, and so far the new system is
better, the new fire chief said.

The procedural changes allow battalion chiefs to shift personnel to meet crisis
situations before calling in reinforcements.

"Usually, when you're getting really busy, it's because you have a significant
vehicle accident," Fire Chief Taner Drake said.

If the fire department deploys three of the four full-time ambulances to
transport patients to the hospital, only one is left for the rest of the
community, Drake said.

Before the changes, the fire department would respond to a high volume of
ambulance or fire calls by calling in off-duty personnel to man the vehicle that
is in high demand.

The call-back system created a delay between the call for service and the
availability of personnel to man the vehicles.

The new system, which took effect about 48 days ago, uses the cross-training of
emergency service personnel. Rather than calling in new people, responders can
be shifted to the area they are needed from the vehicle they are assigned to for
that shift.

For instance, someone assigned to work on a fire truck for a particular shift
may be asked to work an ambulance instead. If another fire truck is needed,
someone assigned to work an ambulance shift may be asked to work on the fire
truck.

"Now, we can rotate personnel based on what is going on in the community," Drake
said. "We are trying to create a system so that the battalion chiefs have the
ability to make adjustments based on the call for service."

The new system allows Victoria fire battalion chiefs to reallocate personnel as
needed to match the fluctuating need so the proper vehicle can respond as
quickly as possible.

"It's worked really well. We haven't had to do any more call backs," Drake said.
"It doesn't mean we are not going to have to do that from time to time, but the
goal is to manage with the personnel and equipment we have available on any
given shift."

To see more of Victoria Advocate, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.victoriaadvocate.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Victoria Advocate, Texas
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110821-VI-Reallocating-EMS-personnel-0821-20110821

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VI


                        Copyright 2011 Victoria Advocate


