                              460 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             The New Zealand Herald

                           December 16, 2003 Tuesday

Police made errors while detaining man, court told

SECTION: NEWS; General; Latest

LENGTH: 529 words


Police made a number of procedural errors dealing with an injured man who died
four days after being released from their custody, Rotorua Coroner's Court was
told yesterday.

However, Tokoroa Senior Sergeant Steve Bullock said he believed the officers
involved had acted in good faith.

Mr Bullock investigated circumstances leading up to the death of Anthony Donald
Bruce McKenzie, 56, of Rotorua.

Police took Mr McKenzie into custody for detoxification on Friday, November 1
last year after they found him in a drunken state.

He was taken to Rotorua Hospital after he fell twice and hit his head. He was
discharged at 3am the next morning and returned to the police station.

Mr McKenzie remained in police custody until the Sunday, when he was sent back
to hospital where he died four days later.

Police have said they were unaware Mr McKenzie was suffering from a head injury
while he was in their custody, mistaking his behaviour for the effects of too
much alcohol.

They had not received any medical information about Mr McKenzie when they picked
him up from hospital.

In his evidence yesterday, Mr Bullock said there were a number of procedural
errors made by police.

There were omissions in an initial charge sheet filled out when Mr McKenzie
arrived at the station and police had also failed to fill out a second charge
sheet when he returned from the hospital.

Although Mr McKenzie was checked 18 times while in police cells, there was a
period of almost eight hours where no checks were recorded, Mr Bullock said.

He made a number of a recommendations including writing clear instructions about
what to do with people who are in police custody for longer than 12 hours.

Despite the errors, Mr Bullock was satisfied police had acted in good faith and
in the best interests of Mr McKenzie.

Police had no option but to keep him in custody because he had nowhere else to
go, he said.

Rotorua Sergeant Colin Peers, who had worked the weekend Mr McKenzie was in
custody, said if faced with the same situation again he would "do things
differently."

Mazen Shasha, the hospital doctor who initially treated Mr McKenzie, said he
checked on him six times before he finished his shift, leaving him in the care
of another doctor.

Cross-examined by the lawyer for Mr McKenzie's family, Mark Hammond, about why a
CAT scan was not carried out Dr Shasha said there was no need because Mr
McKenzie's condition was improving.

Dr Shasha agreed with a suggestion made by Rotorua Coroner David Dowthwaite that
there might have been another incident which caused a head injury while Mr
McKenzie was in police custody after being released from the hospital the first
time.

The second time Dr Shasha saw Mr McKenzie he had bruising to his eye, spine and
chest and was a "totally different person".

Kathleen McNab, a nurse who saw Mr McKenzie, said she discharged him after
speaking to the duty doctor Tom Townend.

Dr Townend had not wanted to see Mr McKenzie.

Ms McNab admitted she should have given police some information about Mr
McKenzie and advised them how to look after him.

Mr Dowthwaite adjourned the inquest until Friday.

- DAILY POST (ROTORUA)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

          Copyright 2003 The New Zealand Herald.  All Rights Reserved.


