                              461 of 999 DOCUMENTS


               National Post (f/k/a The Financial Post) (Canada)

                             June 16, 2011 Thursday
                                National Edition

That CN Tower sure gets around; It's not America or Afghanistan, but Toronto
plays them both on TV

BYLINE: Scott Stinson, National Post

SECTION: ARTS & LIFE; Scott Stinson; Pg. AL1

LENGTH: 981  words


15 Division, the police station located just northwest of Toronto's Port Lands,
looks fairly typical. The lockers are a gleaming blue. The interrogation room is
suitably outfitted with a two-way mirror. The rack of rifles and shotguns is
properly imposing.

But the divisional map mounted on the wall does not say "Toronto" anywhere. Nor
does the large, ornate crest that looms over the busy squad room. "Metropolitan
Police," it says. The metropolis in question is not identified.

"Just another day in Generica, U.S.A.," says Travis Milne, who plays Chris Diaz
on Rookie Blue, the secondyear drama that is filmed entirely in Toronto but set
in ... nowhere, exactly. Or, perhaps more accurately, anywhere. It's a formula
that is suddenly popular: both Global's Rookie Blue and CTV's Flashpoint have
found success presenting slick cop shows that use Toronto as a none-too-subtle
backdrop -which is intriguing for Canadian viewers -while still keeping the
locale vague enough that American audiences don't think they are watching
something that would send Lou Dobbs into a protectionist lather.

So, when Andy McNally (Missy Peregrym) chases a murder suspect on an eastend
apartment rooftop (why do murder suspects always end up on the roof?) the CN
Tower is quite visible in the background, but when the suspect is tossed in the
back of a cruiser, the car just says "Police" on the side. It's a delicate
balance, but it works: Rookie Blue is simulcast on ABC in the United States,
which would have been unheard of for a Canadian production if not for the fact
that Flashpoint is entering Season 4 of a simulcast arrangement with CBS.

Rookie Blue, though, is not much like Flashpoint. The latter is heavy on police
work and the tension of a SWAT unit. The former is more of a character-driven
drama. As the name suggests, it's about a group of (highly attractive) police
trainees and the troubles they face on and off The Job.

"At the beginning, a lot of people were coming to it with the intention that
this was a really intense police show, and it's not," Peregrym says.

"I don't think I could last in a procedural. I can barely remember exposition as
it is; anytime it's details I'm like, 'Huh? I'm not emotionally connected to
this dialogue!' I cannot remember it all. But if I'm talking about my feelings
in this show, then that's no problem."

There's lots of opportunity to talk about feelings, too, considering all the
romantic cross-pollination among the officers of 15 Division. As Season 2 opens,
McNally has moved in with Detective Callaghan (Eric Johnson), although her
training officer still pines for her. Traci Nash (Enuka Okuma) still has
feelings for her ex, Detective Barber (Noam Jenkins). Trainees Diaz and Peck
(Charlotte Sullivan) are also a couple, and the new arrival, Detective Rosati
(Camille Sullivan), just happens to be the former girlfriend of Det. Callaghan.
Frankly, it's a wonder crime is not rampant in Somewheresville's 15 Division
since the cops are all busy making moony faces at one another.

But while Rookie Blue is not going to blow anyone away with its inventiveness,
it's well-produced and well-acted -and this season's early episodes deliver a
couple of surprising moments, including a big one in the premiere that shall
remain undisclosed for spoiler reasons. (You'll know when it happens.)

There's action, then, but police work is not what it's about.

"I really shouldn't be wearing a ponytail right now, because that would be
dangerous and someone could grab you by the back of the head," Peregrym says.
"But I want to wear a ponytail because I don't want to wear a bun all the time."

No, a police procedural, it is not.

Although Toronto, with the exception of a certain tower, can easily be mistaken
for urban America, it does not share much of anything with Kandahar,
Afghanistan. Still, Toronto is home to the set of Combat Hospital, another
series testing the simulcast waters on Global/ABC.

This one opts to focus on the medical part of the cops/lawyers/doctors themes
that form the Holy Trinity of conventional network drama programming, with a
dash of topical relevance thrown in by placing the doctors at Kandahar Airfield.
(Digital effects are used for the scenery shots that most definitely do not look
like Southern Ontario.)

The premiere sees newbies Rebecca Gordon (Michelle Borth) and Bobby Trang (Terry
Chen) arrive at KAF, where they are almost immediately thrown into work under
the stern gaze of the spectacularly named Colonel Xavier Marks (Elias Koteas).

Much like the unexpectedness of seeing recognizable Toronto or Vancouver sites
pop up on U.S. television, there's something odd about seeing the maple leaf on
the shoulder of key characters: Col. Marks and Major Gordon are Canadian, as is
head nurse Will Royal (Arnold Pinnock). Other characters are American, and
there's a randy Brit as well, neurosurgeon Simon Hill (Luke Mably). It's a
fictional presentation of an actual hospital, the Role 3 Multination Medical
Unit that serves the military in southern Afghanistan.

The pilot suggests that the producers aren't looking to reinvent the medical
procedural so much as relocate it. But at least they are relocating it to a
place that is well-suited to a hospital show. War zones can keep surgeons fairly
busy.

The premiere moves quickly, the cast is likable and the effect is of a show that
could be well received by fans of ER or Grey's Anatomy, which presumably was the
idea all along.

No one is going to confuse these series with the next Mad Men or Breaking Bad,
but the Canadian coproductions are aimed squarely at a mass audience -which
means romance and a bit of drama, or sometimes the equation is reversed. It's
what a lot of viewers want. Combat Hospital and Rookie Blue deliver it.

- Combat Hospital premieres June 21 at 10 p.m. on Global/ABC. Rookie Blue Season
2 begins June 23 at 10 p.m. on Global/ABC.

sstinson@nationalpost.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / Missy Peregrym as Rookie Blue's Andy McNally, the finest cop an
unnamed city could ask for.; Shaw Media;  Wait a minute, isn't that the Eaton
Centre? Toronto passes for Kandahar, Afghanistan, in the new TV series Combat
Hospital.;

