                              454 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright (c) 2007 Walter F. George School of Law, Mercer
                                   University
                               Mercer Law Review

                                  Winter, 2007

                               Mercer Law Review

                             58 Mercer L. Rev. 711

LENGTH: 18619 words

COMMENT: Involuntary Commitment of People with Mental Retardation: Ensuring All
of Georgia's Citizens Receive Adequate Procedural Due Process

NAME: Laura W. Harper


 TEXT:
 [*711]

   I. Introduction

 In the state of Georgia there are approximately three thousand citizens who are
confined to segregated living institutions because of their disabilities. n1
Many of these individuals are placed in institutions involuntarily through legal
proceedings. n2 Some of these individuals have mental retardation, a condition
that occurs during a person's development and results in below normal
intellectual functioning. n3 Many disability advocates argue that segregation
and institutionalization  [*712]  of people with mental retardation is not
needed, n4 although all do not agree. n5 Despite strong advocacy for the rights
of people with disabilities, many continue to be institutionalized, often
because their families can find no other path of treatment for their loved ones.
n6

   This Comment focuses on the procedures used in Georgia to continue the
habilitation n7 of people with mental retardation. In order to commit someone
initially, Georgia's statute requires an adversarial hearing with ample
procedural protections. n8 However, once the initial order for habilitation is
signed, the level of procedural protections for Georgia's citizens drops
dramatically. n9 This Comment first analyzes the procedures currently in place
in Georgia. Next, it analyzes what procedural due process might require in order
for a state to continue its habilitation of a person with mental retardation.
Because there has been no United States Supreme Court decision on point, this
Comment focuses on past procedural due process decisions to outline the possible
requirements. It also analyzes the procedures that other states utilize for
continued habilitation, as the Supreme Court currently considers what procedures
are used by states when determining how much procedure is due.

   After analyzing what procedural due process requires, this Comment discusses
how those constitutional rights can be waived, including what constitutes
adequate notice of rights. After outlining the relevant law, this Comment
analyzes Georgia's procedures to determine (1) whether they comply with the
proposed requirements of procedural due process and (2) whether the statute
provides adequate notice so that failure to exercise those rights results in
waiver. Finally, this Comment suggests possible amendments to Georgia's
procedures so that committed persons receive all of the protections they are
entitled to under the law and so that no person is needlessly confined.

[*713]

   II. Legal Background

   A. Historical Backdrop

 People with mental retardation have faced a history of segregation and
isolation. Many have been confined in state-run institutions, including mental
hospitals and insane asylums. Until recently, many of these facilities had
deplorable conditions. They provided no treatment for people and merely served
as a place to warehouse people with disabilities. People were admitted with very
little oversight and were then left in these facilities until their deaths. n10
This lack of treatment is evident from Alabama's notorious Bryce State Hospital
in Tuscaloosa, which in 1970 had one physician for every 350 patients, one nurse
for every 250 patients, and one psychiatrist for every 1700 patients. n11 Living
conditions were horrific. There were wards full of elderly people whose families
had dumped them. n12 Patients were often restrained, such as one patient who was
straight-jacketed for nine years to prevent thumb-sucking. n13 Patients who died
were buried in unmarked graves behind the institution. n14 There was no fire
safety equipment, as the fire department's hoses could not attach to the fire
hydrants in the institution. n15 Conditions like these in institutions
throughout the United States sparked lawsuits and legislation that led to
increased rights for institutionalized people.

   For example, in Youngberg v. Romeo, n16 a man with mental retardation who was
involuntarily committed to a Pennsylvania institution alleged that he had a
Fourteenth Amendment right to safe conditions, freedom from bodily restraints,
and training. n17 The Supreme Court held that people with disabilities who are
involuntarily committed have these three basic rights as guaranteed by the
Fourteenth Amendment. n18 But, the Court limited the right to training or
habilitation by requiring only training that relates to freedom from bodily
restraints. n19 The  [*714]  Court concluded that because the respondent only
sought training related to safety, the case "[did] not present the difficult
question whether a mentally retarded person, involuntarily committed to a state
institution, has some general constitutional right to training per se." n20
Despite the limitation of the Court's holding, Youngberg was a crucial case
because it alerted states to the possibility that there was a minimal
constitutional level of care required for people with disabilities.

   Congress's first attempt to address the problem of discrimination against
people with disabilities was the passage of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973. n21 The Act required that no program or activity that received
federal funds discriminate on the basis of disability. n22 But, Section 504 only
covers entities that receive federal funds, and the problem of discrimination
was much broader, so in 1990 Congress passed the Americans with Disabilities Act
("ADA"). n23 The ADA bars employers, public entities, and public accommodations,
such as restaurants and hotels, from discriminating against people because of
their disabilities. n24

   Congress's second finding in the ADA is that "historically, society has
tended to isolate and segregate individuals with disabilities, and ... such
forms of discrimination against individuals with disabilities continue to be a
serious and pervasive social problem." n25 One of the most common forms of
isolation and segregation is the institutionalization of people with
disabilities. By enacting the ADA, Congress made it a violation of federal law
to isolate and segregate people simply because they have disabilities. States
must find other ways of treating people that allow them to live outside of
institutions.

   This interpretation of the ADA was cemented with the Supreme Court's decision
in Olmstead v. L.C. n26 In Olmstead the Court reasoned that institutionalization
"perpetuates unwarranted assumptions that persons so isolated are incapable or
unworthy of participating in community life" and "severely diminishes the
everyday life activities of individuals." n27 Olmstead does not signify the end
of institutionalization, but it does require states to become serious about
finding community placements for people who qualify and want to live outside of
an  [*715]  institution. n28 As the Court explained, the ADA only requires that
states make reasonable modifications to their procedures. n29 In Olmstead the
Court reasoned that if a state could demonstrate that "it had a comprehensive,
effectively working plan for placing qualified persons with mental disabilities
in less restrictive settings, and a waiting list that moved at a reasonable pace
not controlled by the state's endeavors to keep its institutions fully
populated, the reasonable-modifications standard would be met." n30

   Many states, including Georgia, attempt to comply with the ADA's requirements
by maintaining an Olmstead list and moving people into community settings at a
reasonable pace. However, many people with disabilities and disability rights
advocates complain that Georgia is not doing all it can to find community based
arrangements for people with disabilities. In Georgia, state-run facilities for
people with mental retardation are known as Intermediate Care Facilities/Mental
Retardation, or IFC/MRs. Every year advocacy groups investigate complaints of
abuse and neglect in Georgia's ICF/MRs. Many critics argue that abuse and
neglect occur because people with disabilities are cut off from society. n31
Because they are hidden, there may be a lack of oversight, which allows inhumane
conditions to go undetected. Thus, advocacy groups, such as The Georgia Advocacy
Office, Georgia Legal Services Program, and the Legal Aid Society, file lawsuits
on behalf of individuals in Georgia who are qualified for community placement.
However, resources for these groups are limited, and litigation is expensive.
Thus, most people are forced to simply wait.

   B. Procedures for Court Ordered Habilitation of People with Mental
Retardation in Georgia

 If a parent, guardian, or someone standing in loco parentis is unable to find
adequate services for someone with mental retardation, they can petition the
court to order that person to receive services from Georgia's Department of
Human Resources. n32 The court reviews the petition, and if it finds probable
cause, issues an order that the person be examined. n33 Notice of that order is
sent to the person and to two court-appointed representatives. n34 The person is
then examined by an  [*716]  evaluation team, and if the majority of that team
believes the client is in need of specialized treatment, they file an
individualized treatment plan with the court. n35 The court holds a hearing on
the petition, giving notice to the petitioner, the person, and his
representatives or guardians. n36

   After a "full and fair hearing," if the court finds that the person has
mental retardation and needs to receive services from a facility, the court may
order habilitation, not to exceed six months. n37 The full and fair hearing
includes the right to counsel and to have counsel appointed by the court if
necessary. n38 At the end of the six months, if the person in charge of the
client's habilitation believes that the client needs further in-facility
treatment, he or she must seek to continue habilitation under Official Code of
Georgia Annotated ("O.C.G.A.") section 37-4-42. n39

   The process for continuing habilitation requires that the regional state
hospital administrator seek an order authorizing continued habilitation. n40 The
administrator must file a notice with the Committee for Continued Habilitation
Review (the "Committee") of his intention to seek continued habilitation of up
to one year. n41 The Committee is made up of no less than five people, and its
duty is to review and evaluate the updated individualized program plans sent to
them by the hospital administrator and make recommendations back to the
administrators. n42

   Within ten days of receiving notice of the hospital administrator's intention
to seek continued habilitation, the Committee must meet to consider the
application. n43 Before the meeting to consider the application, the client and
his representatives are informed of "the purpose of such meeting, the time and
place of such meeting, their right to be present at such meeting, and their
right to present any alternative individualized program plan secured at their
expense." n44 The law does not specify when this notice must be sent. If the
client is not able to attend, one member of the Committee is ordered to "make
all reasonable efforts to interview the client and report to the committee." n45
The Committee reviews an updated individualized plan and then makes its  [*717]
recommendation to the administrator. n46 The report must specify whether the
person has mental retardation and whether continued habilitation is the least
restrictive alternative available for treatment. n47

   After considering the Committee's report, the hospital administrator must
serve the Department of Human Resources and the client with a petition for
continued habilitation, along with the updated individualized program plan and
the Committee report. n48 The petition must contain:



   [A] plain and simple statement that the client or his representatives may
file a request for a hearing with a hearing examiner ... within 15 days after
service of the petition, that the client has a right to counsel at the hearing,
that the client or his representatives may apply immediately to the court to
have counsel appointed if the client cannot afford counsel, and that the court
will appoint counsel for the client unless the client indicates in writing that
he will have retained counsel by the time set for hearing or does not desire to
be represented by counsel. n49

 If a hearing is not requested, the hearing examiner conducts an independent
review of the paperwork and can order continued habilitation of up to one year.
n50

   If a hearing is requested within fifteen days, the hearing examiner must
order a hearing and send notice to the facility, the client, his
representatives, and his attorney. n51 The hearing must be full and fair, except
that the client may not be required to attend. n52

   When these procedures were originally enacted in 1978, the hearing examiner
was required to hold a "full and fair hearing" every time a hospital
administrator sought continued habilitation. n53 This meant that at least once a
year, a hearing was held before a neutral party with full procedural due process
protections, including the right to counsel. n54 This procedure remained largely
the same until a 1985 amendment removed the requirement for a "full and fair
hearing" unless it was requested within fifteen days after service of the
petition. n55

    [*718]  As the Georgia law for court-ordered treatment currently stands,
once someone is ordered into a treatment facility, it is possible he may never
have an opportunity to be heard again. First, the Committee may meet without the
client or any of his representatives, although it is required to give the client
and his representatives notice it plans to meet. n56 If the client cannot
attend, the Committee is merely admonished to make "reasonable efforts" to meet
with the client. n57 However, the law does not create any penalties for failure
to meet with the client, nor does it explain what constitutes "reasonable
efforts." n58

   Second, once the Committee has made its recommendation, it must send that
recommendation to the client, along with notice of the client's right to request
a hearing. n59 The only person required to receive notice of a right to a
hearing is the client, that is, the person receiving treatment in the facility.
n60 It is worth noting that the client has already been determined to have
mental retardation. If no hearing is requested, a hearing examiner reviews all
of the paperwork and then can order continued habilitation of the client for up
to one year. n61 The law places no burden on the hearing examiner to meet the
client. Thus, after the initial habilitation hearing, a person may be ordered to
a facility year after year through a shuffling of papers. n62

   C. Procedural Due Process

 The Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution provides that no state shall
"deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law."
n63 The clause "due process of law" has been interpreted by the courts to
protect two distinct rights - (1) the right to have a fair procedure before a
deprivation occurs and (2) the right to be free from state interference with
certain fundamental rights. The former is known as procedural due process; the
latter is known as substantive due process. Procedural due process focuses on
the procedures used by the state before it deprives someone of his or her life,
liberty, or property. In order for the right of procedural due process to
attach, there are two preliminary requirements: (1) the right being deprived
must be  [*719]  established by the U.S. Constitution or state statute and (2)
the person or entity which seeks to deprive the right must be acting under color
of state law. n64

   Involuntary commitment infringes upon the constitutional right to liberty.
n65 Even if the initial commitment comports with the requirements of the
Fourteenth Amendment, confinement may become unconstitutional if the reasons for
the confinement are not present later. In O'Connor v. Donaldson, n66 Donaldson,
a man who was civilly committed by his father, sued the hospital administrator
after he was confined against his will for fifteen years. Donaldson challenged
his continued confinement as unconstitutional because he was neither mentally
ill nor dangerous, and the mental hospital did not provide him any treatment.
The issue before the Court was whether there was a constitutional basis for
continuing to confine a patient who was not mentally ill or dangerous. n67 The
Court reasoned that even if the original commitment was based on a
constitutionally adequate basis, the confinement could not continue after that
basis no longer existed. n68 At the trial level, the jury found that Donaldson
was not dangerous and could easily live and work outside of the institution. n69
Thus, the court held that "a State cannot constitutionally confine without more
a nondangerous individual who is capable of surviving safely in freedom by
himself or with the help of willing and responsible family members or friends."
n70

   Donaldson confirms that where there is a constitutionally valid reason for
institutionalizing someone, that reason must continue to exist throughout the
institutionalization. The right to liberty does not disappear even though there
is a valid civil commitment. If the reason for the initial institutionalization
no longer exists, the state is depriving the individual of their constitutional
right to liberty. Where there is a constitutional right at stake, the state
cannot deprive an individual of it without due process of law. Donaldson does
not address the question of what process is required by the Constitution to
ensure that continued commitment is constitutional.

   1. Three-factor Test for Procedural Due Process.Once a right has been
established, the Supreme Court uses a three-factor test, first  [*720]
established in Mathews v. Eldridge, n71 to analyze whether a state's procedure
for depriving a person of that right provides adequate procedural due process.
The first factor is "the degree of potential deprivation that may be created."
n72 With respect to degree, the Court has noted the difference between permanent
and temporary deprivations. n73 The deprivation of liberty and social
stigmatization that occurs in involuntary commitment is considered very severe.
n74

   The second factor is the "fairness and reliability of the existing ...
procedures, and the probable value, if any, of additional procedural
safeguards." n75 Here, the Court focuses on "the nature of the relevant
inquiry." n76 In other words, the Court considers what decisions and conclusions
must be reached through the procedures and whether the current procedures are
adequate to reach those conclusions. n77 More due process is required when
issues such as witness credibility are relevant than when the issue to be
decided is merely medical. n78

   The third factor is "the public interest ... [including] the administrative
burden and other societal costs" of other procedures. n79 Although increased
cost to the state is not a determining factor, the Court weighs the increased
cost of procedures against the "increased assurance that the action is just."
n80 Presumably the state could always increase its procedures to assure more
fairness, but the amount of increase in procedure is checked by cost factors.
Thus, if increased procedure would be very expensive but not increase fairness
and accuracy, then the procedures are not is not required by the Fourteenth
Amendment.

   2. Supreme Court Procedural Due Process Decisions in the Context of
Institutionalization.The Supreme Court has never clearly articulated what
procedures a state must use to continue the habilitation of someone in order to
comply with procedural due process. But the Court has considered issues similar
to the institutionalization of people with mental retardation and certain trends
emerge.

    [*721]  In Parham v. J.R., n81 a class of children challenged Georgia's
procedures for admitting children to institutions. In Georgia, a parent could
admit their child to a hospital for temporary observation, and then each
hospital followed its own procedures to determine whether continued
hospitalization was warranted. n82 Generally, children were admitted and then
their conditions were reviewed periodically through informal meetings between
doctors and providers. n83 The district court found these procedures to be
unconstitutional because children had a liberty interest in not being
institutionalized, and due process required ""notice to be heard before an
impartial tribunal.'" n84 In reversing the district court, the Supreme Court
held that no formal hearing was required before commitment, but that a neutral
fact finder must determine whether the requirements for institutionalization
were met. n85 The Court reasoned that the relationship between parents and
children was unique and that parents generally acted in the best interest of
their children. n86 The Court further reasoned that "the questions are
essentially medical in character," and therefore, judicial involvement was not
necessary. n87

   The Court did not require a formal hearing before commitment, but the Court
did note the need for periodic review, without giving any specific requirements
for that review. n88 With respect to continuing commitment, the Court held that
"it is necessary that the child's continuing need for commitment be reviewed
periodically by a similarly independent procedure." n89 However, the issue of
whether Georgia's periodic reviews met the constitutional standard of due
process was not before the Court, and it lacked the necessary findings of fact
to make that judgment. n90 The Court directed the district court to make this
determination on remand; there is no record of a subsequent decision. n91

   In Justice Brennan's opinion, which was dissenting in part and concurring in
part, the minority disagreed with the majority's decision, arguing that it
failed to enunciate the requirements of procedural due  [*722]  process after
the children were initially committed. n92 The minority argued that "the right
to at least one postadmission hearing can and should be affirmed now." n93 The
Court reasoned that the factors outlined by the Court in Mathews showed that
"the risk of erroneous commitment is simply too great unless there is some form
of adversary review." n94

   The Court also considered a similar challenge to Pennsylvania's laws for the
commitment of children in Secretary of Public Welfare v. Institutionalized
Juveniles. n95 In Juveniles institutionalized children challenged the voluntary
admission procedures of their state. n96 With respect to children with mental
retardation, admission was only permitted after a referral by a physician and a
mental examination. Additionally, the director of the institution was required
to perform an independent evaluation of the children. n97 The Court held that
these procedures comported with the requirements of due process, as thorough
background investigations were taken and an independent evaluation was
conducted. n98 As in J.R., the Court did not decide whether the state's
postadmission procedures comported with due process requirements. n99

   The minority again disagreed with the majority's approach and would have
condemned Pennsylvania's postadmissions procedures as failing to comply with
procedural due process. n100 The postadmissions procedures required that the
children be informed of their right to a hearing and given the telephone number
of an attorney. n101 However, the procedures placed the burden of contacting
counsel and initiating the hearing on the institutionalized child. n102 The
minority concluded that this procedure did not meet the requirements of due
process because "if ... constitutional rights ... are to be guaranteed in
substance as well as in form and if the commands of the Fourteenth Amendment are
to be satisfied, then waiver of those constitutional rights cannot be inferred
from mere silence or inaction on the part of the institutionalized  [*723]
child." n103 The minority noted that "many of the institutionalized children are
unable to read, write, comprehend the formal explanation of their rights, or use
the telephone. Few, as a consequence, will be able to take the initiative
necessary for them to secure the advice and assistance of a trained
representative." n104

   Another Supreme Court case that provides insight into the requirements of
procedural due process is Vitek v. Jones. n105 The issue in Vitek was whether
prisoners were entitled to procedural protections, such as notice of an
adversarial hearing, before being transferred involuntarily to a state mental
hospital. n106 The Court held that there was a liberty interest in not being
placed in a mental institution needlessly, despite the fact prisoners had
already lost their right to be free from confinement. n107 The only procedure
required before the state transferred an inmate was a certification from a
physician that the inmate suffered from a mental disease or defect and needed
hospital treatment. n108 The Court held that procedural due process required
much more: notice, a hearing, an opportunity to present witnesses and to
cross-examine, an independent decisionmaker, written findings of fact, and legal
counsel. n109 The Court particularly stressed the right to legal counsel because
"[a] prisoner thought to be suffering from a mental disease or defect ... is
more likely to be unable to understand or exercise his rights." n110 The state
was required to provide counsel to indigent prisoners if it sought to place them
in a hospital. n111

   These cases demonstrate several important points. First, with respect to the
institutionalization of children, both the majority and the minority of the
Supreme Court agreed that procedural due process required some periodic review.
However, the Court could not and did not agree on the specific contours of that
review. The minority opinions in Parham and Juveniles stressed the danger of
placing the burden of receiving review on the institutionalized child. But,
these cases both involved juveniles, and the commitment of adults requires more
procedural due process, as discussed below. In the Vitek case, the Court
stressed the importance of counsel so that inmates being committed would not
waive their constitutional rights. The case also illustrates the importance of
the  [*724]  right to be free from unwarranted institutionalization - it is a
right that survives even incarceration and must be protected through procedural
due process.

   3. Georgia Courts' Procedural Due Process Decisions in the Context of
Institutionalization.A district court in Georgia has recognized the right of
involuntarily institutionalized persons to hold an adversarial procedure to
challenge their confinement, and the court differentiated between the rights of
children and adults. n112 In Heichelbech v. Evans, n113 an incapacitated adult
challenged the state's requirement that his guardian consent before either
discharging him or conducting a hearing to determine if he met the criteria to
be an involuntary patient. n114 The state's position was that only the guardian
had the right to exercise due process on behalf of the incapacitated ward. n115
The court held that the state had deprived the plaintiff of his due process
rights by not initiating a hearing after his request to be released. n116 The
court reached its conclusion by distinguishing Parham. The court reasoned that
the relationship between a "parent and his minor child is very different from
the relationship between a guardian and his adult ward." n117 The plaintiff "had
a constitutionally protected interest in being free from involuntary
confinement, and due process requires that he be afforded an adversary
proceeding to challenge his confinement." n118 Therefore, the court in
Heichelbech held that even people who have been declared incompetent have the
right to an adversarial hearing to challenge their confinement in an
institution. n119

   Prior to the 1985 amendments to the continuing habilitation statute, all
clients were given a yearly hearing to determine whether they still met the
requirements for admission. n120 The Georgia Supreme Court indicated in dicta
that those "full and fair hearings" comported with procedural due process. n121
In Clark v. State, n122 a man found not guilty by reason of insanity challenged
Georgia's procedures for  [*725]  admitting him to a mental hospital. n123 After
a jury found the defendant not guilty by reason of insanity, the court had to
determine whether the acquittee met the requirements for civil commitment. n124
The court could defer its decision for thirty days, after which it was not
required to hold a hearing. n125 The court determined that the acquittee had a
right to a hearing, but that the right could be waived by the failure of the
acquittee or their representative to file an application for release. n126 The
court compared this to the right of an individual with a developmental
disability to waive a commitment hearing. n127 Clark indicates there is a right
to a hearing, but so long as the individual receives notice of the right to a
hearing, the individual's procedural rights are protected. The court interprets
the individual's failure to request a hearing as a waiver of their
constitutional right to a hearing. n128 Waiver of constitutional rights is
discussed in Part II.D. of this Comment.

   4. Practices of Other States.In addition to the three-factor analysis, courts
also look to the history of the processes other states provide to determine how
much process is due. This historical and comparative approach was used by the
Supreme Court in Burnham v. Superior Court of California. n129 In Burnham the
Court analyzed whether the practice of "tagging" a person with service of
process in a state comported with the due process requirements of the Fourteenth
Amendment. n130 The establishment of personal jurisdiction by tagging is based
on the theory that a state has personal jurisdiction over any person appearing
within its borders. Thus, if a person can be served with notice of the suit
while in the borders of the state then the state has valid jurisdiction over
them. A man who was tagged with service in California challenged the state's
personal jurisdiction over him based on the Supreme Court's reasoning that a
state could only exercise personal jurisdiction if it satisfies the Due Process
Clause and does not violate ""traditional notions of fair play and substantial
justice.'" n131 To determine whether tagging comported with the requirements of
fair play  [*726]  and substantial justice, the Court noted that tagging was a
very old method of establishing personal jurisdiction. n132 The Court reasoned
that the practice was used in all of the states and by the federal government,
and the Court upheld the practice. n133 Thus, when determining what due process
requires, the Supreme Court considers the practices of the states and the
federal government. n134 Therefore, an analysis of the processes used in other
states for continuing commitment or habilitation of people with mental
retardation is useful for outlining the requirements of the due process clause.

   Some states do not have judicial proceedings for the admission of people with
mental retardation; however, states such as Arizona n135 and Massachusetts n136
commit people with mental illnesses. Disregarding those states, there are two
major categories of procedures for continuing habilitation or involuntary
commitment in states: (1) a statutory right to a hearing that must be requested
and (2) automatic hearings to determine continuing need for commitment.

   Georgia is in the first category, but the practices of these states vary
widely. Some states, such as Mississippi, are similar to Georgia in that the
only person given notice of their right to a hearing is the person who was
previously committed. n137

   The second category consists of states that hold automatic hearings, such as
Ohio, n138 California, n139 and Louisiana. n140 The amount of time that passes
between the initial commitment and a subsequent judicial hearing varies greatly.
n141 Connecticut takes a unique approach: the client is informed yearly of their
right to request a hearing, but if a hearing has not been requested in five
years, one is held automatically. n142

   Various conclusions can be drawn from looking at how other states deal with
continuing commitment of people with mental retardation.  [*727]  First, many
states do not involuntarily commit people with mental retardation (although they
may commit people with mental illnesses), which indicates there may be a trend
to stop the practice entirely. Second, Georgia's procedures are not among the
worst of states, but they are not among the best - those that provide automatic
judicial review. If the Supreme Court were to analyze what procedures are
required to meet the traditional notions of fairness, it would likely note that
there is no consensus among the states. And if a trend were to be gleaned from
the data, the trend would be a movement away from using involuntary commitment
and towards automatic judicial review when involuntary commitment is used.

   Minnesota is a useful example of one of the states that provide automatic
judicial review, because its automatic review was established by the Minnesota
Supreme Court after a procedural due process challenge. In In re Harhut, n143
the Minnesota Supreme Court analyzed its commitment procedures for people with
mental retardation. n144 Under Minnesota's procedures, people with mental
retardation were committed for an indefinite period of time, and there was no
statutorily required review; however, there was review for people with chemical
dependency or mental illness. n145 The petitioner in the case, a blind man with
mild mental retardation, presented an equal protection argument. n146 He argued
there was no rational basis for the state to differentiate between people with
mental illness and people with mental retardation. The state argued that there
were sufficient safeguards in place because patients had the statutory right to
petition for judicial review and that patients had court-appointed attorneys.
n147 The court rejected the petitioner's equal protection argument but nearly
held that the statute violated procedural due process because "indeterminate
commitment does raise a serious due process issue since the patient's basic
personal liberty is affected." n148 The statute was only held constitutional
because of the state's explanation of the process. n149 The court was satisfied
with the procedure because all patients had counsel, and the court had faith in
the attorney's "responsibility as a vigorous advocate for the client's rights."
n150

    [*728]  But, the court did insist on additional procedural safeguards being
added. First, the court required that all periodic medical reviews be sent to
the court that committed the person, as well as to the person's counsel. n151
The court made clear the importance of having counsel and directed the
committing court to automatically appoint new counsel if the previous counsel
could no longer serve. n152 Second, the court required a judicial review of
every indefinitely committed person at least once every three years. n153 The
court explained that this three year review was in addition to the patient's
right to request a hearing. n154 The exact nature of the hearing would depend
upon the person:



   In many such reviews, the severity of mental retardation may be so manifest
that the court will find it unnecessary to go into great detail or take
adversary testimony. In other cases, where the degree of retardation is not as
great and substantial progress has occurred, full adversary proceedings similar
to that for initial commitment ... may be in order. n155

 The purpose of the hearing would be not only to determine whether the person
met the requirements of commitment, but also whether institutionalization was
the least restrictive alternative treatment available. n156

   Other lower courts that have considered the issue have also concluded that
procedural due process requires periodic judicial review of involuntarily
committed people with mental retardation, though for varying reasons. In Doe v.
Austin, n157 the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a district court's
determination that Kentucky's involuntary commitment procedures violated due
process and equal protection. n158 At the time, Kentucky considered commitments
that were initiated by a parent or guardian to be voluntary, despite the fact
there was no regard for the "the actual wishes of the committed person." n159
The circuit court affirmed the decision of the district court that "the
commitment of mentally retarded adults by the Commonwealth  [*729]  upon
application by a parent or guardian is to be considered involuntary." n160

   However, the circuit court did not agree with the district court that
procedural due process required judicial hearings before Kentucky involuntarily
committed an adult with mental retardation. n161 While the court agreed that
there must be some process with a neutral factfinder, "due process does not
require that the neutral trier of fact be legally trained or a judicial or
administrative officer." n162 Instead, the court relied on the Supreme Court's
reasoning from Vitek, holding that minimum procedures should include notice, a
hearing, an opportunity to present testimony, an independent decisionmaker,
written findings of fact, and independent legal assistance. n163 Following the
same reasoning, the court affirmed that due process required some postcommitment
periodic review but did not require that the review be judicial. n164 Because
preadmission and periodic judicial review were provided to mentally ill
individuals, the court determined there was no legitimate interest that
justified denying people with mental retardation the periodic review provided to
people with mental illness. n165 Thus, the court concluded that judicial review
for people with mental retardation was not required by the Due Process Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment, but it was required by the Equal Protection Clause.
n166

   This opinion was partially reversed by the Supreme Court's decision in Heller
v. Doe. n167 In Heller a class of involuntarily committed people with mental
retardation asserted an equal protection challenge against the differences
between Kentucky's commitment schemes for people with mental retardation
compared to people with mental illness. There were two differences in the
commitment schemes. First, the burden of proof for mental retardation was clear
and convincing evidence, while for mental illness it was beyond a reasonable
doubt. Second, guardians and immediate family members could participate as
parties in the commitment proceedings of people with mental retardation, but not
in the proceedings of people with mental illness. n168 The Court analyzed these
differences using a rational-basis test, meaning there must be "a rational
relationship between the disparity of treatment and some legitimate  [*730]
governmental purpose." n169 The Court held that there was a rational basis for
the distinction between people with mental retardation and mental illnesses.
n170 First, mental retardation is easier to diagnose than mental illness, and
thus, the risk of an incorrect decision is reduced. n171 Second, the Court
concluded that the parents and guardians of people with mental retardation would
have valuable insights that should be considered in the commitment process. n172
Therefore, the differences in the procedures used for people with mental
retardation and mental illnesses do not violate the Equal Protection Clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. n173 Additionally, the Court held that the party
status of parents and guardians did not violate the procedural Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, either. n174 The Court reasoned that the
accuracy of the proceedings would likely be increased by parental or guardian
involvement, and the parties did not allege that their participation could
decrease the accuracy. n175

   Another state supreme court that considered the issue determined that
procedural due process required periodic judicial reviews for involuntarily
committed people. In Fasulo v. Arafeh, n176 two women petitioned for writs of
habeas corpus, arguing that Connecticut's commitment procedure violated due
process. n177 At the time, once a patient was committed, they could be released
through three possible procedures: (1) the patient could petition for a hearing;
(2) the supervisor of their institution could discharge them; or (3) the patient
could seek habeas corpus relief. n178 In order to evaluate these procedures, the
court noted that it was necessary to "take account of the controlled and often
isolated environment of the mental hospital." n179 The court found the first
procedure - the patient petitioning for release - lacking for two important
reasons. n180 First, only the state has the authority to confine someone when it
proves they meet the qualifications of commitment,  [*731]  thus the burden of
proof must remain on the state. n181 Second, placing the burden on the committed
person ignores the practical considerations of living in an isolated and
segregated environment. n182 The court even doubted whether informing the person
of their right to a hearing was sufficient, stating:



   It ignores the practical difficulties of requiring a mental patient to
overcome the effects of his confinement, his closed environment, his possible
incompetence and the debilitating effects of drugs or other treatment on his
ability to make a decision which may amount to the waiver of his constitutional
right to a review of his status. n183

 The court held that the second method of release - initiated by the manager of
the institution - was lacking because it was too discretionary and could not
guarantee accuracy and fairness. n184 And finally, the court also found habeas
corpus lacking because it placed the legal burden on the patient. n185 Thus,
procedural due process requires periodic state-initiated judicial reviews with
full procedural protection where the burden of proof rests on the state. n186

   In Wyatt v. King, n187 Alabama's lack of postcommitment procedure was held to
violate the Due Process Clause. n188 Wyatt involved a class action against the
Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation challenging the
constitutionality of Alabama's commitment scheme. n189 At the time, Alabama had
1800 residents in its mental hospitals, and ninety percent of them were there
through involuntary commitment. n190 After concluding there was a right to be
free from involuntary commitment if the reason for initial commitment no longer
existed, the court then considered how much process was required to "'minimize
the risk of erroneous decisions.'" n191 The court noted that many other courts
that had considered the issue decided that some periodic review was required.
n192 The court distinguished an Eleventh Circuit decision that held that people
committed after being found not guilty by reason of  [*732]  insanity were not
entitled to periodic proceedings. n193 The liberty interest at stake for someone
who has committed a crime is much less than for someone who has been involuntary
committed. n194 In the end, the court relied not only on the legal precedents of
other courts to consider the issue, but also on the real-life experience of one
of the plaintiffs in the case:



   [The] case of patient "L.M." - who has been involuntarily civilly confined
for over 20 years - by itself provides a compelling reason of why review which
is judicial in nature and reasonably periodic is minimally necessary... . The
least the state owed her over these many years was a periodic formal hearing,
with all the trappings of an initial commitment proceeding, to assure to a
reasonably high degree of certainty that her continued confinement was to her
and society's benefit. n195

 The court concluded that the due process balance falls in favor of periodic
judicial review. n196

   Every court that has considered the issue has determined that the
Constitution requires some form of postcommitment periodic review. However, not
all agree that the review is required by the procedural Due Process Clause, and
not all agree that the review must be judicial. Some are satisfied with an
independent review procedure, even if it is not judicial in nature. Many courts
emphasize the importance of the right to counsel, particularly when the
committed person might waive his or her constitutional right to a hearing.

   D. Waiver of a Constitutional Right

 Assuming arguendo that procedural due process requires that institutionalized
persons be given the right to a hearing, what constitutes a waiver of that
right? Under Georgia's procedure, the institutionalized client is informed in
writing of his right to a hearing. n197 Does the client's failure to request the
hearing constitute a viable waiver of that right?

   The first issue is whether the notice given to people meets the requirements
of due process. In Mullane v. Central Hanover Bank & Trust, n198 the Court set
the standard for sufficient notice under the  [*733]  Fourteenth Amendment. n199
The Court stated: "An elementary and fundamental requirement of due process in
any proceeding which is to be accorded finality is notice reasonably calculated,
under all the circumstances, to apprise interested parties of the pendency of
the action and afford them an opportunity to present their objections." n200 The
Court reasoned that "when notice is a person's due, process which is a mere
gesture is not due process. The means employed must be such as one desirous of
actually informing the absentee might reasonably adopt to accomplish it." n201
The notice must be such that it is reasonably calculated to inform the person of
their right to a hearing. n202

   The Supreme Court has addressed the waiver of the right to procedural due
process in the realm of a property deprivation. In Fuentes v. Shevin, n203 the
Court held that property purchased under a conditional sales contract could not
be seized through replevin without first providing procedural due process. n204
In that case, the contract provided that in the event payments were missed, the
property would be "taken back." n205 The Court reasoned that "a waiver of
constitutional rights in any context must, at the very least, be clear." n206

   In the context of other constitutional rights, such as the right to counsel
for a criminal defendant, the Court requires that the right be waived "knowingly
and intelligently." n207 There can be no waiver from a silent record. n208
Arguably, the right to a hearing falls somewhere in between these two levels of
protection. First, the waiver must be "clear." Second, because there is a
liberty interest at stake, it may be the state's burden to prove that the person
waived their right to a hearing knowingly and intelligently.

   If the failure to request a hearing is to act as a waiver of the
constitutional right to the hearing, then the waiver must be made voluntarily,
intelligently, and knowingly. In Lynch v. Baxley, n209 the court held that
Alabama's procedures for involuntary admission to mental institutions violated
procedural due process. n210 The court held  [*734]  that a precommitment
hearing was required and that only a "knowing and intelligent waiver of
constitutional safeguards" was acceptable. n211 If the person is incapable of
giving consent to the waiver of constitutional rights, then "after appropriate
inquiry and finding of facts, the court may approve such waiver for good cause
shown." n212

   In one interesting case, a court held that the notice given to people with
disabilities violated the Americans with Disabilities Act (the "ADA"). In
Armstrong v. Davis, n213 the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals considered whether
the California penal system's notification of rights was sufficient for people
with disabilities. n214 While the court did not decide the case on
constitutional grounds, it did rule that the procedures violated the ADA. n215
The court held that the procedures violated the ADA by denying people with
disabilities the benefits of state services. n216 The court reasoned, "At the
notification stage, disabled prisoners and parolees routinely waive their rights
to hearings, frequently because they cannot comprehend the information provided
to them." n217 The penal department made little or no effort to communicate
notification in a way that people with disabilities would understand. For
example, notice of rights was not provided in Braille for people who are blind.
n218 The court confirmed the lower court's injunction requiring that the penal
system improve its methods of communications with people with disabilities so
that they may receive actual notice of their right to a hearing. n219

   The required amount of notice is thus bound by the Due Process Clause as well
as the ADA. Once sufficient notice is given, the state must show that the
person's failure to exercise their right was a knowing and voluntary waiver of
that right. Thus, notice and waiver are linked. If the notice does not
sufficiently inform the person of their right to a hearing, their failure to
request one cannot constitute a waiver of that right.

[*735]

   III. Analysis

 While the Supreme Court has yet to definitively rule on the issue of what
procedures a state must use to continue the involuntary commitment of someone
with mental retardation, some guidelines are clear. First, a person's right to
personal freedom continues to exist even after they have been involuntarily
committed. Because people still have a substantive right, the state must utilize
some procedure in order to continue to deprive them of that right.

   There are two major indicators of what due process requires: first, the
three-factor balancing test of Mathews v. Eldridge, n220 and second, what
procedures states currently use to determine what constitutes "fair play," as
described in Burnham. n221 In this arena, the results of the three-factor test
come down to a basic balancing of two competing interests - the interest of the
individual to be free from unnecessary confinement and the interest of the state
to avoid expensive and unnecessary procedures. In comparison to other states,
Georgia's procedures are similar to the majority of states, although it is
somewhere in the middle of the range of procedures, which range from one extreme
of no statutory review system of any kind to the other extreme of full
adversarial hearings held yearly.

   A. What Procedures are Required for Continued Habilitation to Comport with
the Due Process Clause

 The first factor to be analyzed is "the degree of potential deprivation that
may be created." n222 In commitment cases, the potential deprivation is
continued deprivation of personal liberty. Personal liberty is one of the most
closely protected rights in the Constitution. As such, states can deprive people
of it only when there is substantial procedural protection.

   The second factor is the "fairness and reliability of the existing ...
procedures, and the probable value, if any, of additional procedural
safeguards." n223 Here, the Court focuses on "the nature of the relevant
inquiry." n224 There are two major considerations a court must determine when
deciding whether to order someone to receive continued habilitation: (1) whether
the client has mental retardation and (2)  [*736]  whether they are in need of
treatment in an institutionalized setting. The first question is mainly a
medical determination, and it is not likely to change with the passage of time.
Thus, it is unlikely a judicial hearing is required to make this determination.
n225 However, the second determination, whether the person needs in-facility
treatment, is one that could best be decided through an adversarial hearing. The
court also needs to decide if there is a less restrictive environment for the
person to receive treatment. For example, different experts and evaluators may
disagree on the ability of the person to live independently. Additionally,
family and community members may be able to provide to the person support that
lessens their need for institutionalization. Thus, the second determination is
one in which the courts would benefit from a full hearing.

   To fully evaluate the second factor one must compare the fairness and
reliability of the current procedure - notice to the client of their right to a
hearing - to a hearing that is held automatically. On the one hand, the current
procedures might be fair and reliable for clients who are able to read and
understand their rights and are able to request a hearing. One might argue that
those clients are the ones who are least in need of institutionalization. But
understanding the implications of the right to have a hearing is a complex idea,
and even those who may not fully understand or know how to exercise that right
may be capable of living outside of an institution. The current procedure is
unfair to those clients that do not understand their rights but nonetheless
could live outside of the institution. It is also questionable how reliable the
current procedure is because it places the burden of exercising important rights
on the client. Many courts that have considered their state's process have
voiced concern with placing the burden of exercising a constitutional right
solely on the institutionalized person because to do so ignores the realities of
their situation.

   The third factor is "the public interest ... including the administrative
burden and other societal costs" of having automatic hearings. n226 This factor
is difficult to analyze as there is a lack of data regarding how many people are
involuntarily institutionalized in Georgia. There are at least 3000 Georgians
living in congregate (more than seven-person) segregated living facilities. n227
Even if only half of them are institutionalized against their will, there will
still be an increased cost to automatically hold adversarial hearings yearly.
The cost of these hearings may be prohibitive. One strong indication that the
cost may be prohibitive  [*737]  is that in 1985, Georgia's legislature amended
the continuing habilitation statute to remove automatic hearings. n228 It is
possible that these hearings were becoming expensive and burdensome on the
state; so the legislature decided to remove them.

   Accordingly, after analyzing the factors from Mathews, Georgia's current
procedures fall short of what due process requires. Because the right to liberty
is so fundamental and the fairness and reliability of the current procedure is
lacking, increased procedures are needed. But, the cost of holding automatic
hearings may be burdensome on the state's resources and outweigh the added
benefit of additional due process protection. Thus, to balance the important
concerns of adequate due process and wise allocation of the state's precious
resources, this Comment suggests various compromises, mainly modeled after
Minnesota's procedures.

   B. Problems with Georgia's Current Procedures and Potential Changes

 There are several problems with Georgia's current procedures. First, and most
importantly, the only person who is given notice of the right to a hearing is
the person who is institutionalized. n229 That person has already been judged by
a court to have mental retardation and to be in need of treatment. It is far
from certain that clients have the ability to understand the implications of
their right to a hearing and to have an attorney. The statute requires that the
notice be given in writing and in clear and simple language. n230 However, this
means that a person who cannot read or is blind will receive no notice
whatsoever. The statute does not address what the state must do if the person is
incapable of understanding or reading his or her notice.

   Georgia's notice of right to a hearing falls short of constitutional
standards. The failure to petition for the hearing could only function as a
waiver of the constitutional right to a hearing if that waiver was made
knowingly and intelligently. If the person is incapable of giving informed
consent to waive his or her right to a hearing, the court could grant the waiver
only after an inquiry, findings of facts, and for good cause. Lynch indicates
that the failure to petition for a hearing might not be enough to waive the
right to a hearing if the person does not do so knowingly. n231

    [*738]  Because notice is only given to the client, who has a developmental
disability, it can be soundly argued that this is not "reasonably calculated" to
give notice. Georgia's procedure is accurately described as a mere gesture of
due process and not an attempt to communicate with the person their right to a
hearing. The only provisions in the statute are that the notice must be "plain
and simple." n232 These requirements are not enough to ensure that people with
disabilities understand their rights.

   Similar to Armstrong, the state has failed to "address the needs of [people
in institutions] who have problems understanding complex information or
communicating through the spoken or written word;" n233 thus, the state has
violated the ADA. By not making reasonable accommodations to provide notice in a
way that people with mental retardation can understand, the state is depriving
them of their benefit of a hearing.

   The second major problem with Georgia's statute is that if a hearing is never
requested, one will never take place. After the initial commitment hearing,
there is no guarantee that there will ever again be judicial review of the
commitment. While some might argue that this is justified by the intractability
of mental retardation, there are more issues to be resolved than just whether
the person has mental retardation. In order to commit someone, the court must
also find that the person needs to receive services from a facility. n234 Thus,
the question to be answered is not just whether the person has mental
retardation, but whether they are still in need of treatment from a facility.
People with mental retardation have the ability to learn, and many can develop
the life skills to live outside of an institutionalized setting.

   An additional benefit of automatic hearings is that hearings are another
method to ensure Georgia is complying with the requirements of Olmstead. At the
hearings, the court should analyze whether the person qualifies for community
placement and desires it. If so, the court can use the opportunity provided by
the hearing to question the state regarding why the person has not been moved to
the community. This will ensure that many more institutionalized Georgians have
the opportunity to push the state for a community placement, not just the lucky
few who have lawsuits filed on their behalf by an advocacy group.

   If a person with mental retardation is to live successfully outside of an
institution, it usually takes the support of family members, friends, the
community, or advocates. Those members of the community should also  [*739]
receive notice of the right to a hearing. There are organizations in Georgia
devoted solely to pairing up citizen advocates with people with disabilities,
and these citizen advocates should receive these notices. These advocates can
take it upon themselves to investigate possible alternatives, such as lost or
forgotten family members, group homes, and alternative ways to receive treatment
in noninstitutionalized settings.

   Not only should family members and citizen advocates be given notice of the
right to a hearing, every institutionalized person should have an attorney. If
they do not have an attorney, the committing court should appoint one. That
attorney should be served with the notice as well. It is the duty of all
attorneys to vigorously advocate for the interest of their client. It is
axiomatic that it is in the best interest of every person to live in the least
segregated and least restrictive environment possible. Thus, in order to fulfill
their professional obligations, attorneys would likely meet with their clients,
do background research, and try to relieve their clients of their commitment
orders. To effectively advocate, the attorney should investigate whether the
family can take the person back into their home and analyze what supports might
be needed to make that happen. Additionally, attorneys have specialized
knowledge of the legal field and, thus, will be more effective advocates for
their clients in a hearing.

   Next, the notice that Georgia gives should be designed to actually give the
person notice of the person's rights. If the person cannot read, the notice
should be given orally. If the person is deaf, the notice should be given in
sign language or whatever mode of communication the person understands. And
finally, in the case where the person is not capable of understanding his or her
rights, it is crucial that attorneys and other citizen advocates acting in the
best interest of the person receive notice.

   Finally, a hearing should be held after some number of years if there has not
been a hearing held after the initial assessment. Regardless of whether the
client or any of the client's representatives ever requests a hearing, one
should be held, perhaps every three or five years. At that hearing, the person
should be present, along with the person's attorney and any other
representative. The court should ensure the presence of as many people who are
interested in the well-being of the person as possible. As the Minnesota Supreme
Court described in In re Harhut, the exact contours of the hearing would depend
on the nature of the person's disability. n235 If it is clear that the person
has mental retardation, and there are no alternatives available besides
institutionalization, there will not be a need for adversarial witnesses.
However, in a case  [*740]  where the person has mild mental retardation or
where people come forward who are willing to assist in the care of the person,
an adversarial hearing should be held.

   The suggested mandatory three or five year hearing ensures that no person
slips through the bureaucratic cracks. What is crucial about this hearing is
that it gives the person who will be subject to the continuing habilitation
order an opportunity to be heard by the court before that order is issued. The
person will have the opportunity to explain to the court what the person's life
is like, what treatment the person is receiving, and whether the person wishes
to leave the institution. Even if the person cannot communicate, the court will
at least have the opportunity to see the person, thereby ensuring that the
person is not being abused or neglected. The hearing also ensures that attorneys
are advocating for their clients, as it is unlikely attorneys would appear
before the court without having prepared. It also provides an opportunity for
advocates and family members to develop momentum behind deinstitutionalizing the
person. For example, family members can have the opportunity to explain to the
court what services they might need to enable them to bring the person home.
When presented with a full picture of options available, the court may have
other alternatives to continued institutionalization.

   IV. Conclusion

 For the Author, these additional procedural safeguards are a means to an end -
the end of institutionalization of people with disabilities. That goal is
endorsed not only by disability rights advocates, but also by the Supreme Court.
To force someone to live a segregated life simply because they have a disability
violates the Americans with Disabilities Act. By requiring more than a shuffle
of paperwork to continue the institutionalization of a person with disabilities,
momentum will shift away from institutionalization and towards real homes.
Procedures prevent people from being forgotten and ignored. Their appearance
before a court reduces the likelihood that people will suffer abuse and neglect.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Constitutional LawBill of RightsFundamental RightsProcedural Due ProcessScope of
ProtectionHealthcare LawTreatmentIncompetent, Minor & Mentally Disabled
PatientsInstitutionalizationPublic Health & Welfare LawHealthcareMental Health
ServicesCommitmentInvoluntary Commitment of Adults

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Steve Gold, DD Institutions - How Many People are Still Institutionalized,
Information Bulletin, http://www.tilrc.org/Real%20Choice%20Website/gold105.htm
(last visited Mar. 15, 2007).





n2.  Diane M. Weidert, Comment, Constitutional Rights of the Involuntarily
Committed Mentally Retarded After Youngberg v. Romeo, 14 St. Mary's L.J. 1113,
1114-15 (1983).





n3.  Id. at 1113.





n4.  Gunnar Dybwad & Stanley S. Herr, Unnecessary Coercion: An End to
Involuntary Civil Commitment of Retarded Persons, 31 Stan. L. Rev. 753 (1979);
Wolf Wolfensberger, A Brief Introduction to Social Role Valonzation 122-24
(Syracuse University 1998).





n5.  See generally Weidert, supra note 2, at 1114.





n6.  Id.





n7.  The terms "continued habilitation" and "involuntary commitment" are used
interchangeably throughout this Comment.





n8.  O.C.G.A. § 37-4-40 (1995 & Supp. 2006).





n9.  See id.





n10.  Lauren Wilson Carr, Wyatt v. Stickeny: A Landmark Decision, ADAP
Newsletter (Ala. Disabilities Advocacy Program, Tuscaloosa, Ala), July 2004, at
2.





n11.  Id. at 1.





n12.  Id. at 2.





n13.  Id. at 3.





n14.  Id. at 2.





n15.  Id. at 3.





n16.  457 U.S. 307 (1982).





n17.  Id. at 309.





n18.  Id. at 315-18.





n19.  Id. at 318.





n20.  Id.





n21.  29 U.S.C. §§ 701 to 796 (2000).





n22.  29 U.S.C. § 794(a).





n23.  42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 to 12213 (2000).





n24.  42 U.S.C. §§ 12111(2), 12112(a).





n25.  42 U.S.C. § 12101(a)(2).





n26.  527 U.S. 581 (1999).





n27.  Id. at 600-01.





n28.  See id. at 607.





n29.  Id. at 603.





n30.  Id. at 605-06.





n31.  Wolfensberger, supra note 4, at 12-24.





n32.  O.C.G.A. § 37-4-40(a) (Supp. 2006).





n33.  Id. § 37-4-40(b).





n34.  Id.





n35.  Id. § 37-4-40(b)-(d).





n36.  Id. § 37-4-40(d).





n37.  Id. § 37-4-40(e), (f).





n38.  Id. § 37-4-40(d)(2).





n39.  Id. § 37-4-40(f); O.C.G.A. § 37-4-42 (Supp. 2006).





n40.  Id. § 37-4-42(a).





n41.  Id. § 37-4-42(c).





n42.  Id. § 37-4-42(b).





n43.  Id. § 37-4-42(d).





n44.  Id.





n45.  Id.





n46.  Id.





n47.  Id.





n48.  Id. § 37-4-42(f).





n49.  Id.





n50.  Id. § 37-4-42(g).





n51.  Id. § 37-4-42(h).





n52.  Id. The client's counsel may move to allow the client not to attend if the
client is incapable of waiving the right to attend. Id.





n53.  1978 Ga. Laws 1826, 1849.





n54.  Id.





n55.  1985 Ga. Laws 926, 930.





n56.  O.C.G.A. § 37-4-42(a).





n57.  Id.





n58.  See id.





n59.  Id. § 37-4-42(f).





n60.  See id.





n61.  Id. § 37-4-42(g).





n62.  If a child is placed in a facility before they reach age seventeen, it is
possible the child will never have the opportunity to have the initial hearing.
O.C.G.A. § 37-4-42(i).





n63.  U.S. Const. amend. XIV, § 1.





n64.  Heichelbech v. Evans, 798 F. Supp. 708, 712 (M.D. Ga. 1992).





n65.  Id.





n66.  422 U.S. 563 (1975).





n67.  Id. at 564-65.





n68.  Id. at 574-75.





n69.  Id. at 573.





n70.  Id. at 576.





n71.  424 U.S. 319 (1976).





n72.  Id. at 341.





n73.  See id. at 340.





n74.  Humphrey v. Cady, 405 U.S. 504, 512 (1972).





n75.  Mathews, 424 U.S. at 343.





n76.  Id.





n77.  Id.





n78.  See id. at 343-44.





n79.  Id. at 347.





n80.  Id. at 348.





n81.  442 U.S. 584 (1979).





n82.  Id. at 591.





n83.  Id. at 592-95.





n84.  Id. at 597 (quoting J.L. v. Parham, 412 F. Supp. 112, 137 (1976)).





n85.  Id. at 606.





n86.  Id. at 602-03.





n87.  Id. at 609.





n88.  Id. at 607.





n89.  Id.





n90.  Id. at 617.





n91.  Id.





n92.  Id. at 625-26 (Brennan, J., dissenting in part and concurring in part).





n93.  Id.





n94.  Id. at 639.





n95.  442 U.S. 640 (1979).





n96.  Id. at 643.





n97.  Id. at 648.





n98.  Id. at 649-50.





n99.  Id. at 650 n.9.





n100.  Id. at 651 (Brennan, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part).





n101.  Id.





n102.  Id.





n103.  Id. at 651-52.





n104.  Id. at 651 (citation omitted).





n105.  445 U.S. 480 (1980).





n106.  Id. at 483.





n107.  Id. at 487-88.





n108.  Id. at 489.





n109.  Id. at 494-95.





n110.  Id. at 496-97.





n111.  Id. at 497.





n112.  See Heichelbech v. Evans, 798 F. Supp. 708 (M.D. Ga. 1992).





n113.  798 F. Supp. 708, 712 (M.D. Ga. 1992).





n114.  Id. at 711.





n115.  Id. at 713.





n116.  Id. at 714.





n117.  Id.





n118.  Id.





n119.  See id. at 715.





n120.  See 1979 Ga. Laws 734.





n121.  Clark v. State, 245 Ga. 629, 641, 266 S.E.2d 475 (1980).





n122.  245 Ga. 629, 266 S.E.2d 466 (1980).





n123.  Id. at 631, 266 S.E.2d at 469.





n124.  Id. at 641, 266 S.E.2d at 474-75.





n125.  Id.





n126.  Id.





n127.  Id.





n128.  Id. at 475.





n129.  495 U.S. 604 (1990).





n130.  See id. at 608. "Tagging" is when notice of a suit is served on a person
who is physically present in the state. See id. at 607-08.





n131.  Id. at 608-09 (quoting Int'l Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326 U.S. 310, 316
(1945)).





n132.  Id. at 611-14.





n133.  Id. at 615, 628. Not all states still used the process, as some had held
that it was unconstitutional under the Supreme Court's rationale, but the
majority did not count those states. Id. at 615.





n134.  Id. at 615-16.





n135.  Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 36-560F (2003).





n136.  Dybwad & Herr, supra note 4, at 760.





n137.  Miss. Code Ann. § 41-21-99 (2005).





n138.  Ohio Rev. Code Ann. § 5123.761(H)(4) (2001 & Supp. 2006).





n139.  Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code § 6500 (West 1998).





n140.  La. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 28:454.7.A (Supp. 2006).





n141.  Compare Ohio Rev. Code Ann. § 5123.761(H)(4) (two years) and Cal. Welf. &
Inst. Code § 6500 (one year).





n142.  Conn. Gen. Stat. § 17(a)-276(d) (2006).





n143.  385 N.W.2d 305 (Minn. 1986).





n144.  Id. at 306.





n145.  Id. at 309 (citing Minn. Stat. Ann. § 253B.12 (2003)).





n146.  Id. at 306, 310.





n147.  Id. at 310.





n148.  Id. at 311.





n149.  Id. at 312.





n150.  Id.





n151.  Id.





n152.  Id.





n153.  Id.





n154.  Id.





n155.  Id.





n156.  Id. at 312-13.





n157.  848 F.2d 1386 (6th Cir. 1988).





n158.  Id. at 1396.





n159.  Id. at 1392.





n160.  Id.





n161.  Id. at 1392-93.





n162.  Id. at 1393.





n163.  Id. at 1393-94.





n164.  Id. at 1394, 1396.





n165.  Id. at 1396.





n166.  Id.





N167.  509 U.S. 312 (1993).





n168.  Id. at 314-15.





n169.  Id. at 319-20.





n170.  Id. at 321.





n171.  Id. at 321-23.





n172.  Id. at 329.





n173.  Id. at 330.





n174.  Id. at 332-33.





n175.  Id. at 333.





n176.  378 A.2d 553 (Conn. 1977).





n177.  Id. at 554.





n178.  Id. at 556, 558.





n179.  Id. at 555.





n180.  Id. at 557.





n181.  Id.





n182.  Id.





n183.  Id.





n184.  Id.





n185.  Id. at 558.





n186.  Id.





n187.  773 F. Supp. 1508 (M.D. Ala. 1991) vacated as moot, No. CIV. A 3195-N,
1998 WL 13830 (M.D. Ala. Jan. 6, 1998).





n188.  Id. at 1517.





n189.  Id. at 1509.





n190.  Id. at 1511.





n191.  Id. at 1513 (quoting Greenholtz v. Inmates of Neb., 442 U.S. 1, 13
(1979)).





n192.  Id. at 1514-15.





n193.  Id. at 1515 (citing Williams v. Wallis, 734 F.2d 1434 (11th Cir. 1984)).





n194.  Id.





n195.  Id. at 1516.





n196.  Id.





n197.  O.C.G.A. § 37-4-42(f) (Supp. 2006).





n198.  339 U.S. 306 (1950).





n199.  Id. at 314.





n200.  Id.





n201.  Id. at 315.





n202.  Id.





n203.  407 U.S. 67 (1972).





n204.  Id. at 96-97.





n205.  Id. at 94.





n206.  Id. at 95.





n207.  Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436, 475 (1966).





n208.  See Swenson v. Bosler, 386 U.S. 258, 260 (1967).





n209.  386 F. Supp. 378 (M.D. Ala. 1974).





n210.  Id. at 397.





n211.  Id. at 396.





n212.  Id.





n213.  275 F.3d 849 (9th Cir. 2001).





n214.  Id. at 856-58.





n215.  Id. at 879.





n216.  Id. at 865.





n217.  Id. at 863.





n218.  Id. at 862-63.





n219.  Id. at 863.





n220.  424 U.S. 319 (1976).





n221.  495 U.S. 604 (1990).





n222.  Mathews, 424 U.S. at 341.





n223.  Id. at 343.





n224.  Id.





n225.  See id. at 343-44.





n226.  Id. at 347.





n227.  Gold, supra note 1.





n228.  See 1985 Ga. Laws 926.





n229.  O.C.G.A. § 37-4-42(f) (Supp. 2006).





n230.  Id.





n231.  Lynch v. Baxley, 386 F. Supp. 378, 396 (M.D. Ala. 1974).





n232.  O.C.G.A. § 37-4-42(f).





n233.  Armstrong v. Davis, 275 F.3d 847, 862 (9th Cir. 2001).





n234.  See O.C.G.A. § 37-4-41(e) (Supp. 2006).





n235.  See In re Harhut, 385 N.W.2d 305 (Minn. 1986).


