                              457 of 999 DOCUMENTS

           Copyright (c) 1999 University of San Diego School of Law
                      Journal of Contemporary Legal Issues

                                      1999

                         10 J. Contemp. Legal Issues 37

LENGTH: 11658 words

SYMPOSIUM: Therapeutic Jurisprudence and the Civil Commitment Hearing

NAME: BRUCE J. WINICK *

BIO:



   * © 1999 by Bruce J. Winick. Professor of Law, University of Miami School of
Law. I gratefully acknowledge the research assistance of Odia M. Mallard. This
article is an expanded version of my chapter, The Civil Commitment Hearing:
Applying the Law Therapeutically, of a forthcoming book, entitled Mental Health
Law in Evolution: A 25-Year Retrospective 1972-1997 (Lynda E. Frost Clausel &
Richard J. Bonnie eds., forthcoming 2000).

 TEXT:
 [*37]

   I. Introduction

 A continuing controversy in mental health law centers on the value of the civil
commitment hearing. In the 1970s, judges and scholars asked whether such
hearings were merely "time-consuming procedural minuets before the [patient's]
admission" that divert limited clinical resources from diagnosis and treatment,
n1 or instead were valuable legal requirements that have "therapeutic
significance" for the patients subjected to them?  n2 Not only has speculation
about this question been influential in the development of constitutional
doctrine concerning the scope of the civil commitment hearing,  n3 but it also
has occupied the interest of scholars in therapeutic jurisprudence examining the
therapeutic aspects of the legal process.  n4

    [*38]  Therapeutic jurisprudence is an interdisciplinary field of legal
scholarship and approach to law reform that focuses attention upon law's impact
on the mental health and psychological functioning of those it affects.  n5 The
scholarly agenda of therapeutic jurisprudence is to study the therapeutic and
antitherapeutic consequences of law with the tools of the behavioral sciences,
and its law reform agenda is to reshape law so as to minimize its
antitherapeutic consequences and maximize its therapeutic potential when to do
so is consistent with constitutional, justice, and other normative values served
by law. The focus is not only on the therapeutic dimensions of substantive legal
rules and legal procedures, but also on how such rules and procedures are
applied by legal actors, such as judges and attorneys. This article applies the
approach of therapeutic jurisprudence to the civil commitment hearing, examining
not the rules of procedure that apply at such hearings, which have largely been
constitutionalized, but how such rules can be applied by attorneys, judges, and
clinicians testifying at such hearings in order to diminish the antitherapeutic
consequences of the existing civil commitment process and to increase its
therapeutic potential.

   II. Due Process and Civil Commitment

 The Supreme Court has long recognized that civil commitment in any form
involves a substantial curtailment of liberty.  n6 The interest in being free of
external restraint - the core of the liberty protected by the Due Process Clause
- has recently been described by the Supreme Court as a "fundamental" liberty
interest.  n7 When the state seeks to impose involuntary civil commitment, this
liberty interest is directly and profoundly infringed. Yet, in the early period
of civil commitment in America, dating to the late 19th century, involuntary
hospitalization was  [*39]  effectuated simply upon a physician's certification
of need.  n8 Commitment under early statutory provisions was based on the need
of the individual for care and treatment in a hospital, and considerable
deference was accorded to the expertise of psychiatrists on these matters.  n9
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, however, this model of commitment began to be
challenged.

   The civil rights struggle in the early 1960s had produced a new generation of
lawyers committed to protecting and promoting the rights of a variety of
minority groups and other disadvantaged populations, and these lawyers soon
turned their attention to the civil commitment process.  n10 At this time, state
institutions were overcrowded, under-funded, and understaffed. Media exposure of
the abysmal conditions in state institutions coupled with a challenge to
psychiatric expertise and to the wisdom and legitimacy of involuntary
hospitalization set the stage for legal change. Law reform litigation on behalf
of mental patients was brought by such organizations as the New York Civil
Liberties Union and the Washington-based Mental Health Law Project, as well as
by Legal Services programs, pro bono lawyers, and law firms. This litigation
effort succeeded in producing judicial decrees and statutory changes that
tightened the criteria for commitment and created the right to a hearing on
whether those criteria were satisfied. An influential case was the three-judge
federal district court decision in Lessard v. Schmidt, which required various
procedural formalities at the involuntary hospitalization hearing.  n11

   It is now widely accepted that the procedural due process guarantee of  [*40]
the Fourteenth Amendment requires notice and a formal hearing before civil
commitment may occur (or shortly thereafter when commitment is sought on an
emergency basis).  n12 Such a hearing requires the right to counsel, who will be
appointed if the individual is indigent, the right to notice of the proceedings,
a hearing presided over by a fair and impartial judge or hearing examiner, the
right to be present at the hearing, the right to cross-examine adverse witnesses
and to present evidence, and allocation of the burden of proof to the state by
clear and convincing evidence.  n13 In some jurisdictions, the right also
includes the assistance of a court-appointed clinical evaluator to assist in the
defense process.  n14 In short, due process requires a fairly formal adversarial
judicial hearing at which the state is put to its proof.

   III. The Gap Between Theory and Practice

 While due process theory requires a formal adversarial judicial hearing, a
large gulf exists between law on the books and law in action. The formal due
process model is often undermined by the way many attorneys undertaking the
representation of individuals in civil commitment hearings play their roles.
Although our adherence to an adversarial model in this and most other contexts
contemplates competent attorneys who represent their clients' interests
zealously, in fact many counsel in civil commitment cases act in ways that often
do not satisfy this model.  n15 Many attorneys relax their advocacy role and
[*41]  adopt what has been termed a "paternalistic" or "best interests" approach
in which they seek to effectuate what they may perceive their clients' best
interests to be.  n16 Some commentators have even suggested that lawyers should
play a non-adversarial role in order to function in a way that is more consonant
with the paternalistic aims of the civil commitment system.  n17 One study has
shown that even when lawyers are trained in adversarial practice, they
nonetheless continue to play a paternalistic role in civil commitment, seeking
their clients' best interests as they perceive them rather than as their clients
may articulate them.  n18

   To some extent, this paternalistic role represents what Perlin has called
sanism and pretextuality, a deeply ingrained prejudice against those with mental
illness, reinforced by stereotypes, and a basic dishonesty in the civil
commitment process, shared by judges, lawyers, and clinicians.  n19 This
practice has turned the adversarial model into a farce and a mockery in which
procedural rights are accorded in only a formal way so as to effectuate what
judges, lawyers, and clinicians perceive to be the best interests of the
patient.

   In practice, commitment hearings tend to be brief and non-adversarial
episodes in which judges appear to "rubber stamp" the recommendations of
clinical expert witnesses.  n20 Indeed, studies show judicial agreement  [*42]
with expert witnesses in this area ranges from seventy-nine to one hundred
percent, and most frequently exceeds ninety-five percent.  n21 Civil commitment
proceedings are often extremely informal, sometimes occurring in courtrooms set
up at the hospital in which patients appear in hospital garb rather than street
clothes.  n22 Judges frequently fail to advise patients of their rights or
permit them to speak.  n23 Judges often discourage attorneys from taking an
active part in the hearing or themselves take over the role of questioning
witnesses.  n24 These brief, informal hearings at which the judge defers to the
expert witness and seems unconcerned with what the patient or the patient's
lawyer may have to say give many patients the impression that the hearing is an
empty ritual rather than a serious attempt to achieve accuracy and fairness.

   In Parham v. J. R.,  n25 former Chief Justice Burger questioned whether the
supposed protections of the adversary civil commitment hearing were "more
illusory than real," citing studies showing the inadequate job that counsel
usually plays at commitment hearings, which last a mean time of from 3.8 to 9.2
minutes.  n26 These studies are consistent with others showing that civil
commitment hearings are extraordinarily brief, often lasting only minutes.  n27
Civil commitment hearings lasting only several minutes can only be perfunctory
rituals that either presume the existence of mental illness and the need for
hospitalization or only superficially inquire into these issues.

   Lawyers in commitment hearings who take the paternalistic or best interests
approach serve their clients inadequately in a number of respects. They often
defer to the expert witness, performing little or no  [*43]  cross-examination.
n28 They frequently fail even to meet with or interview the client prior to the
hearing, or to perform any investigation of the facts that are alleged to
justify the client's need for hospitalization.  n29 Many fail to controvert the
allegation that the patient is mentally ill.  n30 They fail to explore
alternatives to hospitalization or to obtain benefits for their clients that
might avoid its necessity.  n31 Some attorneys play largely a clerical role,
treating their function as just being "to look through the paperwork to make
sure it is in order, and thus give the false impression that the client has had
the benefit of legal representation."  n32 These lawyers "roll over" in the
hearing, deferring to the expert and even stipulating to the hospital's
allegations and waiving the client's right to testify.  n33 Given these
inadequacies, an individual represented by counsel may have a worse chance of
avoiding commitment at the hearing than an unrepresented one.  n34 In light of
these inadequacies of counsel and the way judges frequently conduct the hearing,
from the patient's perspective, the hearing may resemble the one presided over
by the Queen of Hearts in Alice in Wonderland, "Sentence first - verdict
afterward."  n35

   The paternalistic role played by some counsel in the civil commitment
process, as well as the role often played by the judge, thus undermines and
frustrates the goals of the procedural protections mandated by the Due Process
Clause. Accuracy is undermined because the system assumes that the individual is
a legitimate subject of paternalism when he or she in fact may not satisfy this
condition. Moreover, the practice undermines the participatory or dignitary
value of procedure.  n36 The  [*44]  basic dishonesty of the process can have
severe antitherapeutic consequences for the patient, who will lose trust and
confidence in the judges, lawyers, and clinicians involved and in the
genuineness of their purportedly benevolent intentions. As a result, many will
feel coerced by civil commitment, with potentially negative consequences for the
efficacy of the commitment process.  n37

   IV. The Psychology of Procedural Justice and the Commitment Hearing

 Research on the psychology of procedural justice suggests that people are more
satisfied with and comply more with the outcome of legal proceedings when they
perceive those proceedings to be fair and have an opportunity to participate in
them.  n38 Social psychologist Tom Tyler, applying these principles to the civil
commitment hearing, has argued that increasing the individual's sense of
participation, dignity, and trust during the commitment proceedings is likely to
increase his or her acceptance of the outcome of the hearing, lead to a greater
willingness to accept hospitalization and treatment, and enhance treatment
efficacy.  n39 Civil commitment hearings that appear to patients to be a sham
violate their need to be treated with "respect, politeness, and dignity," and to
feel that "their rights as citizens are acknowledged."  n40 When legal
authorities treat people with dignity in this sense, their status as competent,
equal citizens and human beings is confirmed.  n41 When legal proceedings do not
treat people with dignity, they feel devalued as members of society. When people
attribute this denial of dignity to the legal and political authorities who run
the hearing, the judge and  [*45]  attorneys, this perception threatens their
feelings of self-esteem, self-worth, and sense of personal responsibility.  n42
Because people with mental illness already have been marginalized and
stigmatized by a variety of social mechanisms,  n43 self-respect and their sense
of their value as members of society are of special importance to them. Perhaps
nothing can threaten a person's belief that he or she is an equal member of
society as much as being subjected to a civil commitment hearing.  n44
Individuals involved in civil commitment hearings are particularly sensitive to
issues of participation, dignity, and trust,  n45 and the psychological effects
posited by the literature on the psychology of procedural justice are especially
applicable in this context.

   Civil commitment hearings that are perceived by patients as phony rituals
violate their sense of participation, dignity, and equal citizenship.  n46 The
typical civil commitment hearing, instead of fulfilling the individual's
participatory or dignitary interests,  n47 thus may actually produce feelings of
worthlessness and loss of dignity,  n48 exacerbating the person's mental illness
and perhaps even fostering a form of learned helplessness that can further
diminish performance, motivation, and mood in ways that can be antitherapeutic.
n49

   Tyler's analysis of the psychological effects of the civil commitment hearing
is supported by preliminary empirical work performed by Greer and his
associates.  n50 A pilot study of patient perceptions of the civil commitment
hearing revealed that patients felt that treating physicians who testified at
the hearing failed to listen to them or to show concern for their rights, and
were disrespectful, impolite, and dishonest.  n51 Although the patients felt
that their own lawyers had treated them with dignity, many felt unfairly treated
by the opposing lawyer and the judge and generally felt that they were not
treated with dignity and respect by the legal actors at the civil commitment
hearing.  n52 Patients felt that they  [*46]  had little or no voice in the
proceedings.  n53 At the end of the hearings, the patients felt angry, sad,
displeased, and confused.  n54 They felt "coerced by the process."  n55 The
researchers concluded that the patients' perceptions of the fairness and dignity
of the proceedings "may affect the course and conduct of their treatment in the
hospital."  n56 These feelings, the researchers suggest, do not encourage the
continuation of productive exchange between individuals, and as a result, "do
not advance the therapeutic progress of the patients."  n57 Given the strongly
negative feelings that patients in the study had toward their treating
physicians who testified at the commitment hearing and the likely impact of
these feelings on the treatment process, one question that this study raises is
whether the treating physician should also testify in court.  n58 To the extent
feasible, it would seem preferable that the clinician involved in evaluating the
patient and testifying at the hearing not also be involved in the patient's
treatment.

   The pilot study conducted by Greer and his colleagues supports Tyler's
analysis of the procedural justice value of the commitment hearing, but more
empirical work is needed concerning those aspects of the proceedings that
produce negative feelings on the part of the individual subjected to civil
commitment and the impact of those feelings on the treatment outcome. Tyler's
analysis also finds support in other bodies of psychological research. In a
recent analysis of Tyler's work, Sydeman, Cascardi, Poythress, and Rittenband
suggest that Tyler's conclusion is also supported by principles derived from
both the social cognition and the consumerism literature.  n59

   The social cognition literature places emphasis on "information control," the
perception of control that results when an individual obtains information
relating to a stressful situation or event.  n60 Such information provides the
individual with an opportunity to understand what is happening to him or her.
Properly administered, the civil commitment hearing may provide patients with a
degree of information control, enabling them to understand the reasons for
commitment and the positive expectations that the judge and clinicians
testifying at the  [*47]  hearing have concerning the outcome of
hospitalization. The commitment hearing can thus be seen as an opportunity to
provide information to patients that might relieve their stress, increase their
acceptance of the commitment determination, and create expectancies of positive
treatment results that might, in turn, help to bring them about.

   Participation, dignity, and trust, as well as the opportunity to "tell their
story," are themes often voiced in the mental health consumer (or survivor)
literature.  n61 The consumer's desire for an opportunity to tell his or her
side of the story suggests the applicability in the civil commitment context of
the "voice" effect described in the procedural justice literature.  n62 Allowing
patients at the commitment hearing an opportunity to tell their story therefore
might be an important mechanism for increasing patient perceptions of fairness,
respect, and dignity in the process, with a resulting increase in their
receptivity to treatment.

   V. The Psychological Effects of Coercion and Voluntary Choice

 The recent research by the MacArthur Network on Mental Health and the Law on
patient perceptions of coercion supports the above-stated conclusion.  n63 This
research examined the correlates and determinants of individuals' perceptions of
what makes them feel coerced. Patient perceptions of coercion in the mental
hospital admission process were found to be strongly associated with the degree
to which that process was seen to be characterized by procedural justice. The
MacArthur  [*48]  research found that people feel non-coerced even in coercive
situations such as civil commitment when they perceive the intentions of state
actors to be benevolent and when they are treated with dignity and respect,
given voice and validation, and not treated in bad faith. Patients who are
provided procedural justice in this sense, even if involuntarily committed or
pressured by family members and clinicians to be hospitalized, reported
experiencing considerably less coercion than patients who were not afforded
procedural justice.

   The MacArthur work on coercion is significant when considered in connection
with a body of theoretical work on the psychology of choice that suggests that
people perform more effectively and with greater motivation when they choose
voluntarily to do something, and perform less well, with poor motivation and
sometimes with psychological reactance, when they are coerced into doing it.
n64 Principles of cognitive and social psychology including the goal setting
effect, expectancy theory, intrinsic motivation, the psychology of commitment,
and cognitive dissonance in general support the positive value of choice and the
negative effects of coercion.  n65 In the treatment context, this research
suggests that people who feel less coerced into accepting treatment and who
believe that entering treatment reflects their own choice are more invested in
treatment and benefit more from it than patients who feel coerced and
disrespected by the treatment process. Empirical investigation is needed,
however, to determine the extent to which these general principles apply to
people with severe mental illness.  n66

   Do these principles apply to people in commitment hearings? Sydeman and her
co-authors note that widespread cynicism on the part of mental patients and the
severe symptoms of their psychopathology might interfere with their ability
accurately to perceive the commitment  [*49]  process and the motivation of
others.  n67 They suggest that these factors may diminish the ability of such
patients to experience the procedural justice value of the commitment hearing
that Tyler posits. At least some persons suffering the acute symptoms of
schizophrenia at the time of the hearing may not realize these benefits.
However, many patients, including many with schizophrenia, will not be so
cognitively disorganized or impaired.

   The MacArthur Treatment Competence Study  n68 provides important data that
may shed light on these questions. The study compared a group of hospitalized
mental patients with a group of patients hospitalized for heart disease and a
group of community controls matched on various demographic factors. The groups
were provided with information concerning treatment options and were rated on
their ability to engage in rational treatment decision making. While the group
of mental patients performed significantly less well, this result was
attributable to a small minority in the schizophrenia subgroup. Nearly half of
the schizophrenia subgroup and seventy-six percent of the depression subgroup
were found to perform in the adequate range across all decision making measures,
and a significant portion performed at or above the mean for persons without
mental illness.  n69 A high percentage of recently hospitalized patients with
mental illness, including schizophrenia - the most seriously disturbing of the
major mental illnesses - were thus found to perform in a relatively nonimpaired
range. Moreover, the findings revealed significant variability among patients
within each diagnostic category.

   The MacArthur Treatment Competence Study examined the ability to engage in
rational treatment decision making, including the ability to understand
treatment information, to appreciate it, to think rationally about treatment,
and to express a choice. These abilities may not equate  [*50]  with the ability
of patients at a commitment hearing to follow the proceedings, to understand the
information conveyed, and to make accurate attributions concerning the
motivation of the various actors in the commitment process. However, the general
findings of the MacArthur work concerning the high degree of variability among
patients and the ability of a significant percentage of the group with severe
mental illness to perform in a normal range strongly suggest that, although some
patients at the commitment hearing will be so impaired as to be unable to
realize the procedural justice benefits of the hearing, many and perhaps most
will not be this impaired.

   This conclusion is supported by a study conducted as part of the MacArthur
research on coercion, which found that patient recollections concerning the
admission and hospitalization process were well-grounded in reality.  n70 This
study compared the perceptions of patients about their hospitalizations, both at
admission and one month after discharge, with the perceptions of family members,
admitting clinicians, and the researchers' own most plausible reconstruction of
what had actually transpired based upon personal observations, chart reviews,
and extensive interviews. This study found that the patients' accounts were as
complete, plausible, and consistent as the accounts of family members and
clinicians and overall reflected most closely what actually had happened. These
findings strongly support the conclusion that patients are able accurately to
follow and understand what occurs at the civil commitment hearing. Thus,
patients will be able to experience the procedural justice benefits of the
hearing when they are treated fairly, with dignity and respect, and in good
faith, and to experience the negative effects of not being treated in these
ways.

   That many patients will be able to respond to the procedural justice effects
of the commitment hearing also is suggested by Susman's research on dispute
resolution mechanisms for hospitalized mental patients seeking to refuse
treatment.  n71 Susman found that patients who felt that their argument had been
listened to and given serious consideration were more likely to feel that the
procedure was fair and to accept the outcomes as fair.  n72 While the patients
in Susman's study may not have been as seriously disturbed as are some patients
at the point of commitment, his findings support Tyler's conclusion that many
patients  [*51]  will receive procedural justice benefits from properly
conducted commitment hearings. This conclusion also is supported by the pilot
empirical study of patient perceptions of the civil commitment hearing conducted
by Greer and his colleagues. The researchers found that patients were
"sufficiently aware of the procedural aspects of their hearings and of the
actions of the actors in those hearings and can report those perceptions through
a structured interview administered by an experienced mental health
professional."  n73 Although more empirical work is needed to investigate the
ability of patients in civil commitment hearings to experience these procedural
justice benefits, and to probe the relationship between such benefits and
treatment outcome, there is good reason to conclude that many patients will
experience these benefits, and as a result, will be more receptive to hospital
treatment and respond more favorably to it.

   Many patients facing an involuntary commitment hearing are cynical about the
judicial and hospitalization process. The impact of patient cynicism on the
ability to realize the procedural justice benefits of the hearing also deserves
empirical investigation. Cynicism born of mistreatment in society or at prior
commitment hearings that seemed unfair predictably will have a corrosive effect
on trust and confidence in the benevolent motives of the legal actors in the
commitment process. But the remedy for such cynicism would seem to be more
procedural justice, not less. To break down such cynicism, much of it justified,
patients should be treated fairly, with dignity and respect, and with genuine
tolerance. To the extent that such cynicism may be an impediment to a positive
treatment response, the civil commitment hearing constitutes an opportunity to
remove this barrier to effective treatment.

   Sydeman and her co-authors also point out that Tyler's analysis is open to
the criticism that the civil commitment hearing itself is merely one phase of
the commitment process, and from the patient's perspective, perhaps an
insignificant one.  n74 They suggest that the commitment process can be more
realistically viewed as a series of decision points between the patient and the
physician, including whether to detain the patient for an evaluation, whether to
petition for commitment, how to treat the patient in the hospital, etc. These
decisions, they note, as well as the way in which other disputes between  [*52]
the patient and physician are resolved, "could facilitate or undermine
procedural justice effects during the hearing" or significantly dilute them.
n75 Polite and respectful treatment of the patient during the hearing, they
suggest, therefore, might not have much of an impact if the patient is treated
unfairly and disrespectfully both before and after the hearing by the
psychiatrist and hospital staff.

   It may be that how patients are treated by the committing psychiatrist and
hospital staff is more important than how they are treated at the commitment
hearing. This observation, however, does not argue against conducting the
hearing so as to convey respect and a sense of fair treatment to the individual.
To the contrary, it argues that the actions of the committing psychiatrist
before, during, and after the hearing, as well as that of hospital staff, also
should be restructured along these lines. Clinicians conducting evaluations
concerning the need for commitment, testifying at commitment hearings, and
participating in the treatment process, no less than judges and attorneys,
should recognize the importance of treating patients with dignity and respect,
affording them voice and validation, and insuring that patients perceive their
actions as benevolently motivated. If anything, therefore, the work of Sydeman
and her colleagues suggests not only that the commitment hearing should be
reformed in line with Tyler's analysis but that the entire commitment process
should be changed in this way.

   VI. Restructuring the Role of the Actors in the Commitment Process

 Therapeutic jurisprudence is the study of law's therapeutic consequences.  n76
The rules of law and procedure, as well as how the actors in the legal system
apply them, pose inevitable consequences for the mental health and psychological
functioning of those affected. An important new direction in this approach
focuses attention on how laws are applied and calls for a heightened sensitivity
on the part of legal actors to the way they act in applying the law.  n77 In the
context of the civil commitment process, judges, lawyers, and clinicians need to
understand the potential they have for applying the law therapeutically  [*53]
and should restructure their behavior in order to realize this potential.

   Judges, lawyers, and clinicians need to understand that the way they play
their roles in the civil commitment process has inevitable therapeutic
implications for the patient. They need to heed the admonitions of the MacArthur
work on coercion and reframe their roles and practices in ways that produce in
the patient feelings of noncoercion. They need to make patients feel that they
are being treated fairly, with respect and dignity, and accord to them a greater
sense of voice and validation. Civil commitment proceedings need to be
restructured along this dimension in order to increase the potential therapeutic
value of such hearings and decrease their antitherapeutic consequences.

   The role of counsel in particular needs restructuring. In addition to
teaching counsel adversarial methods and arming them with more information about
the clinical aspects of the commitment process, which Poythress found
insufficient to change behavior,  n78 lawyers need to be provided with
information about the psychology of procedural justice  n79 and the recent
MacArthur work on coercion.  n80 In addition, they need to be provided with
information concerning the recent MacArthur work on competency, which
demonstrates that many people with mental illness, even schizophrenia, are
capable of decision making about mental health treatment within a relatively
normal range.  n81

   The need also exists for a more detailed specification concerning the law's
expectations about the role of counsel in civil commitment. Existing codes of
ethics for attorneys do not define the role of counsel in the representation of
mentally ill clients.  n82 In the absence of such guidance, attorneys
predictably will play their roles in different ways. Some play the traditional
adversarial role, but some relax their advocacy and play a more paternalistic
role.  n83 Every attorney engaged in the representation of individuals at civil
commitment hearings should be familiar with existing guidelines concerning the
obligations of counsel. These guidelines contemplate that the attorney
familiarize himself or herself with the facts of the case, learn the client's
objectives, interview  [*54]  the client, investigate the case, interview other
witnesses, determine the range of available alternatives, advise the client
concerning potential dispositions, engage in negotiations on behalf of the
client, protect the client's procedural rights, engage in effective advocacy at
the hearing, suggest dispositional alternatives to the court, and provide
appropriate post-adjudication representation.  n84

   In addition to training attorneys in their legal responsibilities in the
representation of clients at civil commitment hearings, lawyers need more
guidance on reconciling the interest in protecting their clients' legal rights
with that of promoting their clients' therapeutic needs. The attorney-client
relationship in this context needs to be reconceptualized in ways that augment
its potential therapeutic effects. Promoting the mental health of the client is
not the primary role of counsel. That role is the protection of the client's
legal interests. But the two roles need not be seen as in conflict. In many
ways, acting to promote the client's interest in a fair commitment hearing can
have positive therapeutic value. Indeed, attorneys who relax their advocacy role
in the commitment process based on a paternalistic motive to help the client who
they perceive as mentally ill and in need of hospitalization may do more harm
than good from the perspective of the client's mental health.

   Promoting the client's legal rights can be good for his or her mental health.
Attorneys in civil commitment proceedings should communicate and consult more
with their clients, thereby providing them with an increased sense of
"information control"  n85 and empowering them in ways that can increase their
mental health and psychological functioning. The attorney is a primary vehicle
for effectuating the client's participatory interests and therefore should never
act in ways that suggest betrayal of the client. The attorney also is in an
excellent position to diminish the potential for coercion and its perception by
the client in the admission process.  n86 By effectuating, rather than
compromising, the client's participatory interests in the commitment process,
the attorney can contribute to the client's sense that he or she was treated
fairly and to the client's ability to accept the outcome of the proceeding, even
if adverse, and to comply with the court's decision in ways that can better
achieve the goals of hospitalization.

   The tendency of attorneys to be uncertain concerning the role they should
play in the civil commitment hearing, particularly when they think that the
client is incompetent, can be diminished by increasing the  [*55]  attorneys'
awareness of their ethical responsibilities. Uncertainty also can be diminished
by providing attorneys with additional information about the issue of
competence. For purposes of civil commitment, competence is a legal rather than
a clinical concept.  n87 The standard, however, has been poorly defined in the
case law, resulting in predictable uncertainty in its application.  n88 At a
minimum, the concept of competency requires the ability on the part of the
individual to evidence a reasonably consistent choice.  n89 In addition, it
requires some degree of ability to appreciate information and to engage in
rational decision making.  n90 But how much appreciation and rationality are
required? Attorneys in the civil commitment process should understand that all
clients, even those in other areas of practice, have diminished abilities to
appreciate information and engage in rational decision making.  n91 Too high a
degree of appreciation and rationality should not be insisted upon as a
condition for competence.  n92

   Many attorneys in the civil commitment process tend to apply too demanding a
standard of competency, concluding, as a result, that their clients are
incompetent and that the attorneys, therefore, should not advocate against
mental hospitalization - a seemingly paternalistic intervention. If the client
can evidence a consistent choice concerning hospitalization and can justify it
in ways that are not obviously irrational or otherwise the product of mental
illness, the attorney should consider the client to be competent and should
respect his or her decision either to accept voluntary admission or to oppose
hospitalization.

   When the attorney believes that commitment is likely to be ordered and would
be appropriate for the client, he or she should recommend that course to the
client. When the client assents to voluntary admission or wishes to choose
voluntary admission and the attorney concurs, the  [*56]  attorney should
negotiate with the state the terms under which voluntary admission should occur,
including an agreed upon treatment plan. In this context, counsel can play what
has been described as a mediational role.  n93 This role is not unlike the one
played by criminal defense lawyers in negotiating guilty pleas for clients who
seem likely to be convicted and in attempting to convince them that such a plea
may be more advantageous than a guilty verdict and resulting sentence.  n94

   When the client opposes admission, the attorney should play the adversarial
role contemplated by the due process model, putting the state to its proof and
helping the client to achieve full participatory value from the hearing process.
The analogy of the role of defense counsel in criminal cases again is apt. Even
if the defense lawyer believes a plea bargain would be more advantageous, the
client might disagree. In such cases counsel then will mount a vigorous defense.

   What should the lawyer do when the client appears to be incompetent based
upon the attorney's discussions and consultations with him or her? If the client
is unable to express a consistent choice, the client should be considered
incompetent. When the client's expression of choice seems to the attorney to be
irrational or otherwise based primarily on mental illness, the client also
should be deemed incompetent. In such instances, however, the attorney may need
to have clinical consultation in order to make the judgment of incompetence, and
such consultation should be available at state expense when the client is
indigent.  n95 When the attorney is convinced that the client is incompetent,
voluntary admission should not be possible.  n96 Instead, the adversarial
process should go forth, and counsel should put the state to its proof. In these
cases, incompetence should not be difficult for the state to demonstrate by the
requisite clear and convincing evidence standard, but competency is not the only
issue. Counsel can play a constructive and important role in insisting and
assuring that commitment is in the client's best interests and is the least
restrictive alternative way of protecting the client's needs. If the attorney is
unsuccessful and the client is committed, counsel should attempt to enable the
patient to reframe the commitment experience in a positive way.

    [*57]  This more defined role for counsel can enhance the therapeutic
potential of the commitment process while fulfilling its accuracy, fairness, and
participatory goals. Moreover, it is more likely that counsel trained to play
this role and to understand its therapeutic value will adhere to it rather than
subvert it out of paternalistic motives. Lawyers who relax their adversary role
in order to achieve what they think will be a paternalistic outcome probably do
so because they feel an inner sense of conflict concerning their obligations to
promote their client's best interests as well as their legal rights. Yet a
commitment perceived to be coerced and unfair by the client, who may experience
the attorney's actions as betraying the client's real interests, may be less
therapeutic than one in which the client believed that the attorney was a
genuine ally who assisted in effectuating his or her participatory and dignitary
interests.

   When the attorney plays this adversarial role, he or she can gain the
client's trust and confidence in ways that might enable the attorney to help the
client to achieve whatever benefits hospitalization may offer. Such an attorney
also can play an important role in helping the client avoid future problems. In
this connection, the lawyer should consider having clients execute advance
directive instruments dealing with future instances of mental health treatment
or hospitalization.  n97

   Judges and clinicians also need training to sensitize them to the therapeutic
potential of the roles they play so that their conduct also can enhance the
therapeutic potential of the commitment hearing. Judges and clinicians need
education in the psychology of procedural justice and in the psychological value
of choice and disadvantages of coercion. Judges play an important symbolic role.
The literature on the psychology of procedural justice demonstrates that people
place a high value on how they are treated by legal authorities.  n98 They value
the affirmation of their legal status as competent citizens and human beings
entitled to be treated with dignity and respect. Judges who conduct commitment
hearings in ways that seem to assume that the person is an incompetent subject
of paternalism and that deny him or her respect frustrate the dignitary value of
the hearing. In furthering the dignitary goal, patients should be permitted to
dress appropriately for the hearing,  [*58]  rather than being required to
appear in hospital garb, as sometimes occurs.  n99 Through his or her actions,
the judge should affirm the patient's dignity and humanity. How the judge
conducts the proceeding can convey to the patient that it is a process designed
for his or her welfare and that he or she is valued and will be treated with
fairness and dignity.

   Both the judge and the expert witness can play an important role in providing
the patient with a sense of "information control."  n100 The patient, facing the
uncertainties of a hospital commitment that he or she is objecting to, will
predictably experience a high degree of stress and anxiety at the hearing. The
judge and clinical experts, by reassuring the patient and demonstrating concern
for his or her welfare, can help to relieve at least some of that stress. By
carefully and understandably conveying information to the patient about the
hearing process and what will occur at the hospital if commitment is ordered,
the judge can diffuse much of the stress that the commitment process itself
might produce.

   The patient should not be treated as invisible at the hearing. Rather, the
judge and expert witnesses should address the patient and attempt to communicate
in his or her language rather than in professional jargon. If the expert witness
recommends commitment, the reasons why this would be beneficial should be
explained in ways that are designed to be convincing to the patient. Moreover, a
sense of optimism should be conveyed to the patient. The patient should be told
that although he or she suffers from a mental illness, such illness is very
likely to respond to hospital treatment within a reasonably brief period. The
benefits of psychotropic medication and other forms of treatment should be
explained to the patient in ways that are calculated to persuade the patient as
to their value. The judge should listen attentively to the patient and convey
the impression that what he or she has to say is important and will be given
full consideration. According voice and validation in this way can considerably
enhance the patient's feeling of participation and can inspire trust in the
judge. Too often, the judge conveys the impression that what the patient has to
say will not be considered and that the results of the hearing are a foregone
conclusion. Such an impression can inspire distrust by the patient in the judge
and the belief that he or she is not being treated fairly and in good faith. In
addition to paying close attention to the patient's testimony, the judge should
ask questions of the expert witness in a way that demonstrates that the judge
will make an independent decision, rather than merely "rubber stamping" the
witness's recommendation.

    [*59]  At appropriate points in the proceedings, recesses should be taken to
give the attorney and client an opportunity to consider whether, in light of the
testimony, the client might wish to explore the possibility of a negotiated
voluntary admission in order to avoid what might appear to be the inevitable and
more restrictive and stigmatizing involuntary commitment. If commitment seems to
the attorney to be the likely outcome, counsel can explain the legal and other
advantages of accepting voluntary admission and recommend this option to the
client. Counsel should assure the client, however, that the decision is theirs,
and that if he or she continues to wish to resist hospitalization, that counsel
will attempt to achieve that result, even if it is unlikely. A client's choice
of voluntary admission at this point, as long as the client perceives it as
voluntary, may increase the potential that hospital treatment will be
efficacious.  n101

   If a negotiated settlement in favor of voluntary admission is not possible,
and if the judge concludes that commitment is warranted, the judge may consider
giving the patient a final opportunity to accept voluntary admission in view of
the judgment that the judge feels compelled to make as a result of the
testimony. If this final opportunity is not accepted, the judge should seek to
explain the commitment decision to the patient, addressing the patient directly,
and offering to answer any questions that the patient may have.

   Whenever possible, the treating clinician should not also function as the
expert witness testifying in favor of the patient's commitment. Such testimony
may give the patient the impression that the clinician is an enemy, a perception
that can seriously undermine the clinician's treatment role.  n102 Even if a
clinical expert witness not involved in the patient's treatment testifies in
court, the expert should be sensitive to how he or she is perceived by the
patient. Not only at the hearing, but throughout the commitment and
hospitalization process, clinicians should treat the patient with dignity and
respect and should demonstrate the genuineness of their benevolent motives.
Clinicians should always attempt to persuade rather than coerce, to involve the
patient in the decision making process rather than dictate treatment decisions
unilaterally, and to treat the patient as a person rather than as an object. In
this way, clinicians can inspire trust and confidence on the part of the patient
and form a caring therapeutic alliance, both of which may be  [*60]  essential
to a positive therapeutic outcome.  n103

   One final therapeutic jurisprudence consideration worth noting is the impact
that restructuring the civil commitment hearing in the way suggested could have
on the lawyers, judges, and clinicians who work in the commitment process.
Participating in a sham process that distorts the roles that they are supposed
to play may in the long run pose negative psychological consequences for these
professionals. In contrast, playing their assigned roles in ways that can help
to improve the psychological functioning of their clients/patients and increase
the likelihood that their hospitalization and treatment will be more effective
can bring personal and professional satisfaction that can increase the
professionals' own mental health.

   VII. Conclusion

 Under our basic notions of procedural due process, patients facing involuntary
commitment should be given hearings to protect against inaccurate deprivations
of liberty. In addition, however, hearings in this context serve an important
participatory or dignitary value that should not be neglected. Restructuring the
civil commitment process in the ways suggested can significantly increase
patients' perceptions of fairness, participation, and dignity, thereby
increasing the likelihood that they will accept the outcome of the hearing, will
view that outcome as being in their best interests, and will participate in the
treatment process in ways that will bring about better treatment results. Not
only must the legal rules governing the civil commitment hearing seek to
accomplish these values, but lawyers, judges, and clinicians should learn how to
play their roles so as to apply the law therapeutically and not
antitherapeutically. Restructuring the commitment hearing in these ways can
fulfill the promise of fair process, increase patient satisfaction and
compliance with the outcome of the hearing, and more effectively achieve the
goals of hospitalization when it is necessary.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Civil ProcedureCounselGeneral OverviewCriminal Law & ProcedureCounselRight to
CounselGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare LawHealthcareMental Health
ServicesCommitmentInvoluntary Commitment of Adults

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Parham v. J.R., 442 U.S. 584, 605 (1979).




n2.  John J. Ensminger & Thomas D. Liguori, The Therapeutic Significance of the
Civil Commitment Hearing: An Unexamined Potential, 6 J. Psychiatry & L. 5
(1978).




n3.  See generally Parham, 442 U.S. 584.




n4.  David B. Wexler, Therapeutic Jurisprudence: The Law as a Therapeutic Agent
243-305 (1990); Janet B. Abisch, Mediational Lawyering in the Civil Commitment
Context: A Therapeutic Jurisprudence Solution to the Counsel Role Dilemma, 1
Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 120 (1995); Alexander Greer et al., Therapeutic
Jurisprudence and Patients' Perceptions of Procedural Due Process of Civil
Commitment Hearings, in Law in a Therapeutic Key: Developments in Therapeutic
Jurisprudence 923 (David B. Wexler & Bruce J. Winick eds., 1996). See also 1
Michael L. Perlin, Mental disability Law: Civil and Criminal 2B-9, at 249 (2d
ed. 1998) (calling for a weighing of the therapeutic and antitherapeutic
consequences of the civil commitment hearing and the role of counsel).




n5.  See generally Wexler, supra note 4; David B. Wexler & Bruce J. Winick,
Essays in Therapeutic Jurisprudence (1991); Law in a Therapeutic Key:
Developments in Therapeutic Jurisprudence (David B. Wexler & Bruce J. Winick
eds., 1996) [hereinafter Law in a Therapeutic Key]; Bruce J. Winick, Therapeutic
Jurisprudence Applied: Essays on Mental Health Law (1997); Bruce J. Winick, The
Jurisprudence of Therapeutic Jurisprudence, 3 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 184
(1997).




n6.  Addington v. Texas, 441 U.S. 418, 425 (1979); Jackson v. Indiana, 406 U.S.
715, 731-39 (1972); Humphry v. Cady 405 U.S. 504, 509 (1972); Specht v.
Patterson, 386 U.S. 605, 608 (1966).




n7.  Foucha v. Louisiana, 504 U.S. 71, 80 (1992).




n8.  See Sumner J. Sydeman et al., Procedural Justice in the Context of Civil
Commitment: A Critique of Tyler's Analysis, 3 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 207
(1997); Eric Turkheimer & Charles D.H. Parry, Why the Gap? Practice and Policy
in Civil Commitment Hearings, 47 Am. Psychologist 646, 646 (1992). See also John
Q. LaFond, Law and the Delivery of Involuntary Mental Health Services, 64 Am. J.
Orthopsychiatry 209 (1994); Developments in the Law - Civil Commitment of the
Mentally Ill, 87 Harv. L. Rev. 1190, 1193 (1974).




n9.  See sources cited supra note 8.




n10.  See Alexander D. Brooks & Bruce J. Winick, Foreword: Mental Disability Law
Comes of Age, 39 Rutgers L. Rev. 235 (1987); Patricia M. Wald & Paul R.
Friedman, The Politics of Mental Health Advocacy in the United States, 1 Int'l
J.L. & Psychiatry 137 (1978).




n11.  Lessard v. Schmidt, 349 F. Supp. 1078, 1103 (E.D. Wis. 1972), vacated and
remanded on other grounds, 414 U.S. 473 (1974), on remand, 379 F. Supp. 1376
(E.D. Wis. 1974), vacated and remanded on other grounds, 421 U.S. 957 (1975),
reinstated, 413 F. Supp. 1318 (E.D. Wis. 1976).




n12.  See Addington, 441 U.S. 418; Samuel J. Brakel et al., The Mentally
Disabled and the Law 50-73 (3d ed. 1985); Michael L. Perlin, Law and Mental
Disability 53-113 (1994); Developments in the Law - Civil Commitment of the
Mentally Ill, supra note 8, at 1265-313; cf. Vitek v. Jones, 445 U.S. 480 (1980)
(specifying procedures required by due process for prison-hospital transfers).




n13.  See Brakel et al., supra note 12, at 50-73; Perlin, supra note 12, at
53-113; Douglas S. Stransky, Civil Commitment and the Right to Refuse Treatment:
Resolving Disputes from a Due Process Perspective, 50 U. Miami L. Rev. 413
(1996).




n14.  Perlin, supra note 12, at 88-89.




n15.  See, e.g., Abisch, supra note 4, at 128-32; Elliot Andalman & David L.
Chambers, Effective Counsel for Persons Facing Civil Commitment: A Survey, a
Polemic and a Proposal, 45 Miss. L.J. 43 (1974); Fred Cohen, The Function of the
Attorney and the Commitment of the Mentally Ill, 44 Tex. L. Rev. 424 (1966); Jan
C. Costello, Why Would I Need A Lawyer? Legal Counsel and Advocacy for People
with Mental Disabilities, in Law, Mental Health and Mental Disorder 15, 30-31
(Bruce D. Sales & Daniel W. Shuman eds., 1996); Virginia A. Hiday, The
Attorney's Role in Involuntary Civil Commitment, 60 N.C. L. Rev. 1027 (1982);
Michael L. Perlin, Fatal Assumption: A Critical Evaluation of the Role of
Counsel in Mental Disability Cases, 16 Law & Hum. Behav. 39, 43-44 (1992);
Turkheimer & Parry, supra note 8, at 646-47; Note, The Role of Counsel in the
Civil Commitment Process: A Theoretical Framework, 84 Yale L.J. 1540, 1542-43
(1975).




n16.  Abisch, supra note 4, at 128-32; Costello, supra note 15, at 30; Perlin,
supra note 15, at 43-44; Michael L. Perlin & Robert L. Sadoff, Ethical Issues in
the Representation of Individuals in the Commitment Process, 45 Law & Contemp.
Probs. 161, 179 (1982 ).




n17.  Paul S. Appelbaum, Paternalism and the Role of the Mental Health Lawyer,
34 Hosp. & Community Psychiatry 211 (1983); Samuel J. Brakel, Legal Aid in
Mental Hospitals, 1981 Am. B. Found. Res. J. 21, 92 (1981).




n18.  Norman G. Poythress, Psychiatric Expertise in Civil Commitment: Training
Attorneys to Cope with Expert Testimony, 2 Law & Hum. Behav. 1 (1978).




n19.  Michael L. Perlin, The Hidden Prejudice: Mental Disability on Trial
(forthcoming 1999); Michael L. Perlin, On "Sanism," 46 SMU L. Rev. 373 (1992)
[hereinafter On "Sanism"]; Michael L. Perlin, The Voluntary Delivery of Mental
Health Services in the Community, in Law, Mental Health, and Mental Disorder 150
(Bruce D. Sales & Daniel W. Shuman eds., 1996); Michael L. Perlin & Deborah A.
Dorfman, Is It More Than "Dodging Lions and Wastin' Time"? Adequacy of Counsel,
Questions of Competence, and the Judicial Process in Individual Right to Refuse
Treatment Cases, 2 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 114 (1996).




n20.  Costello, supra note 15, at 17; Perlin, supra note 15, at 43; Norman G.
Poythress, Mental Health Expert Testimony: Current Problems, 5 J. Psychiatry &
L. 201, 211 (1977).




n21.  Poythress, supra note 20, at 213 (Table 2, summarizing results of
published studies of concordance between judges' decisions and mental health
experts' recommendations in civil commitment hearings).




n22.  Perlin, supra note 12, at 63-64.




n23.  Turkeimer & Parry, supra note 8, at 647.




n24.  Id.




n25.  Parham v. J.R., 442 U.S. 584, 609 & n.17 (1979).




n26.  Id. The court cited Dale A. Albers & Richard A. Pasewark, Involuntary
Hospitalization: Surrender at the Courthouse, 2 Am. J. Community Psychol. 287,
288 (1974) (averaging 9.2 minutes); Dorothy Miller & Michael Schwartz, County
Lunacy Commission Hearings: Some Observations of Commitments to a State Mental
Hospital, 14 Social Probs. 26, 28 (1966) (averaging 3.8 minutes); Thomas Scheff,
The Societal Reaction to Deviance: Ascriptive Elements in the Psychiatric
Screening of Mental Patients in a Midwestern State, 11 Social Probs. 401, 408
(1964) (averaging 9.2 minutes). See also Perlin & Dorfman, supra note 19, at
125-26 (commenting upon the short duration of hearings in medication refusal
cases involving mental patients).




n27.  See, e,g., Turkheimer & Parry, supra note 8.




n28.  Costello, supra note 15, at 30.




n29.  Id.




n30.  Hiday, supra note 15, at 1039 (discussing study showing that only 2.3% of
appointed counsel challenged finding of mental illness).




n31.  Costello, supra note 15, at 30.




n32.  Id.




n33.  Id.




n34.  Andalman & Chambers, supra note 15, at 45; Costello, supra note 15, at 30.




n35.  Lewis Carroll, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the
Looking-Glass 113 (Hartsdale House n.d.) (1865).




n36.  See Marshall v. Jerricho, 446 U.S. 238, 242 (1980); Morrissey v. Brewer,
408 U.S. 471, 481 (1972); Lawrence H. Tribe, American Constitutional Law 10-7,
at 666 (2d ed. 1988); Jerry L. Mashaw, The Supreme Court's Due Process Calculus
for Administrative Adjudication in Matthews v. Elderidge: Three Factors in
Search of a Theory of Value, 44 U. Chi. L. Rev. 28, 50 (1976); Frank I.
Michelman, Formal and Associational Aims in Procedural Due Process, in 18 NOMOS
126, 127-28 (J. Roland Pennock & John W. Chapman eds., 1977); Bruce J. Winick,
Forfeiture of Attorneys' Fees Under RICO and CCE and the Right to Counsel of
Choice: The Constitutional Dilemma and How to Avoid It, 43 U. Miami L. Rev. 765,
801-03 (1989); see also Goldberg v. Kelly, 397 U.S. 254 (1970).




n37.  See Tom R. Tyler, The Psychological Consequences of Judicial Procedures:
Implications for Civil Commitment Hearings, 46 SMU L. Rev. 433 (1992); Bruce J.
Winick, Coercion and Mental Health Treatment, 74 Denver U. L. Rev. 1145, 1155-67
(1997).




n38.  John Thibaut & Laurens Walker, A Theory of Procedure, 66 Calif. L. Rev.
541 (1978); See, e.g., E. Allen Lind & Tom R. Tyler, The Social Psychology of
Procedural Justice (1988); Tom R. Tyler, Why People Obey the Law (1990); E.
Allan Lind et al., Voice, Control, and Procedural Justice: Instrumental and
Noninstrumental Concerns in Fairness Judgements, 59 J. Personality & Soc.
Psychol. 952 (1990).




n39.  Tyler, supra note 37.




n40.  Id. at 440.




n41.  Id.




n42.  Id. at 442.




n43.  See generally On "Sanism," supra note 19.




n44.  Tyler, supra note 37, at 440.




n45.  Greer et al., supra note 4, at 927.




n46.  Id.




n47.  See supra note 36 and accompanying text.




n48.  Greer et al., supra note 4, at 925.




n49.  See Bruce J. Winick, The Side Effects of Incompetency Labeling and the
Implications for Mental Health Law, 1 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 6, 14-23 (1995).




n50.  Greer et al., supra note 4.




n51.  Id. at 930.




n52.  Id.




n53.  Id.




n54.  Id.




n55.  Id.




n56.  Id.




n57.  Id.




n58.  Id. at 932.




n59.  Sydeman et al., supra note 8.




n60.  Susan T. Fiske & Shelley E. Taylor, Social Cognition 122 (1984); Sydeman
et al., supra note 8, at 211; Bruce J. Winick, Sex Offender Law in the 1990s: A
Therapeutic Jurisprudence Analysis, 4 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 505, 553 (1998).




n61.  Sydeman et al., supra note 8, at 210.




n62.  See generally Greer et al., supra note 4, at 930.




n63.  Nancy S. Bennett et al., Inclusion, Motivation, and Good Faith: The
Morality of Coercion in Mental Hospital Admission, 11 Behav. Sci. & L. 295
(1993); William Gardner et al., Two Scales for Measuring Patient Perceptions for
Coercion During Mental Hospital Admission, 11 Behav. Sci. & L. 307 (1993);
Steven K. Hoge et al., Perceptions of Coercion in the Admission of Voluntary and
Involuntary Psychiatric Patients, 20 Int'l J.L. & Psychiatry 167 (1997); Charles
W. Lidz et al., Perceived Coercion in Mental Hospital Admission: Pressures and
Process, 52 Archives Gen. Psychiatry 1034 (1995); John Monahan et al., Coercion
and Commitment: Understanding Involuntary Mental Hospital Admission, 18 Int'l
J.L. & Psychiatry 249 (1995); John Monahan et al., Coercion to Impatient
Treatment: Initial Results and Implications for Assertive Treatment in the
Community, in Coercion and Aggressive Community Treatment: A New Frontier in
Mental Health Law 13 (Deborah L. Dennis & John Monahan eds., 1996); Winick,
supra note 37, at 1158-59.




n64.  Sharon S. Brehm & Jack W. Brehm, Psychological Reactance: A Theory of
Freedom and Control 300-01 (1981); Bruce J. Winick, The right to Refuse Mental
Health Treatment 327-44 (1997); Bruce J. Winick, The Right to Refuse Mental
Health Treatment: A Therapeutic Jurisprudence Analysis, 17 Int'l J.L. &
Psychiatry 99 (1994) [hereinafter Right to Refuse]; Bruce J. Winick, On
Autonomy: Legal and Psychological Perspectives, 37 Vill. L. Rev. 1705 (1992)
[hereinafter On Autonomy]; Bruce J. Winick, Competency to Consent to Treatment:
The Distinction Between Assent and Objection, 28 Hous. L. Rev. 15 (1991)
[hereinafter Competency to Consent]; Bruce J. Winick, Competency to Consent to
Voluntary Hospitalization: A Therapeutic Jurisprudence Analysis of Zinermon v.
Burch, 14 Int'l J.L. & Psychiatry 169 (1991) [hereinafter Voluntary
Hospitalization].




n65.  Winick, supra note 64, at 327-44; Right to Refuse, supra note 64;
Competency to Consent, supra note 64; Voluntary Hospitalization, supra note 64.




n66.  Winick, supra note 64, at 344; Sydeman et al., supra note 8, at 220-21;
Right to Refuse, supra note 64, at 117.




n67.  Sydeman et al., supra note 8, at 216-19.




n68.  Paul S. Appelbaum & Thomas Grisso, The MacArthur Treatment Competence
Study. I: Mental Illness and Competence to Consent to Treatment, 19 Law & Hum.
Behav. 105 (1995); Thomas Grisso & Paul S. Appelbaum, The MacArthur Treatment
Competence Study. III: Abilities of Patients to Consent to Psychiatric and
Medical Treatments, 19 Law & Hum. Behav. 149 (1995). For commentary on the
MacArthur Study, see A Special Theme: A Critical Examination of the MacArthur
Treatment Competence Study: Methodological Issues, Legal Implications, and
Future Directions, 2 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L. 1-184 (Bruce J. Winick ed., 1996).




n69.  Grisso & Appelbaum, supra note 68, at 171; Bruce J. Winick, The MacArthur
Treatment Competence Study: Legal and Therapeutic Implications, 2 Psychol. Pub.
Pol'y & L. 137, 144 (1996).




n70.  Charles W. Lidz et al., The Validity of Mental Patients' Accounts of
Coercion-Related Behaviors in the Hospital Admission Process, 21 Law & Hum.
Behav. 361 (1997).




n71.  Jack Susman, Resolving Hospital Conflicts: A Study on Therapeutic
Jurisprudence, 22 J. Psychiatry & L. 107 (1994).




n72.  Id. at 115.




n73.  Greer et al., supra note 4, at 930.




n74.  Sydeman et al., supra note 8, at 219-20.




n75.  Id. at 219.




n76.  See supra note 5 and accompanying text.




n77.  E.g., David B. Wexler, Applying the Law Therapeutically, 5 Applied &
Preventive Psychol. 179 (1996); Winick, supra note 5, at 201-03; Winick, supra
note 37, at 1166-67; Dennis P. Stolle et al., Integrating Preventive Law and
Therapeutic Jurisprudence: A Law and Psychology Based Approach to Lawyering, 34
Cal. W. L. Rev. 15 (1997).




n78.  Poythress, supra note 18.




n79.  See supra note 18 and accompanying text.




n80.  See supra note 63 and accompanying text.




n81.  Perlin, supra note 4, 2B-10, at 249; see supra notes 67-74 and
accompanying text.




n82.  Abisch, supra note 4, at 137-38; Costello, supra note 15, at 25; Perlin &
Sadoff, supra note 16, at 162.




n83.  Abisch, supra note 4, at 128-32.




n84.  Perlin, supra note 4, 2B-8.1, at 231-37 (synthesizing various practice
manuals concerning the trial of civil commitment cases).




n85.  See supra note 60 and accompanying text.




n86.  Voluntary Hospitalization, supra note 64, at 205-12.




n87.  Competency to Consent, supra note 64, at 25-26.




n88.  Paul S. Appelbaum et al., Informed Consent: Legal Theory and Clinical
Practice 88 (1987); Thomas Grisso, Evaluating Competencies: Forensic Assessments
and Instruments 314 (1986); Winick, supra note 64, at 349; Paul S. Appelbaum &
Thomas Grisso, Assessing Patients' Capacities to Consent to Treatment, 319 New
Eng. J. Med. 1635, 1636 (1988); Loren H. Roth et al., Tests of Competency to
Consent to Treatment, 134 Am. J. Psychiatry 279, 279 (1977); Competency to
Consent, supra note 64, at 24.




n89.  See sources cited supra note 88.




n90.  See sources cited supra note 88.




n91.  Competency to Consent, supra note 64, at 39-40.




n92.  Winick, supra note 64, at 349-54; Competency to Consent, supra note 64, at
41-44; Voluntary Hospitalization, supra note 64, at 183-85.




n93.  Abisch, supra note 4, at 133-37.




n94.  See Dan A. Lewis et al., The Negotiation of Involuntary Civil Commitment,
18 Law & Soc'y Rev. 629 (1984);Robert D. Miller et al., The Use of Plea
Bargaining in Civil Commitment, 7 Int'l J.L. & Psychiatry 395 (1984).




n95.  See supra note 14 and accompanying text; cf. Ake v. Oklahoma, 470 U.S. 68
(1985) (discussing appointment of clinical evaluator to assist counsel in
determining whether to raise an insanity defense).




n96.  See Zinermon v. Burch, 494 U.S. 113 (1990) (holding an incompetent patient
may not consent to voluntary hospitalization).




n97.  See Bruce J. Winick, Advance Directive Instruments for Those with Mental
Illness, 51 U. Miami L. Rev. 57 (1996); see also Symposium, Advance Directive
Instruments for Health and Mental Health Care: Legal, Ethical, and Clinical
Issues, 4 Psychol. Pub. Pol'y & L . No. 3 (Bruce J. Winick ed., forthcoming
1998).




n98.  Tyler, supra note 38, at 71-84; Tyler, supra note 37, at 440-41.




n99.  See supra note 22 and accompanying text.




n100.  See supra note 60 and accompanying text.




n101.  Voluntary Hospitalization, supra note 64, at 191-99.




n102.  See Greer et al., supra note 4; supra notes 50-58 and accompanying text.




n103.  See Winick, supra note 64, at 338-42; Right to Refuse, supra note 64, at
111-16.


