                              45 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1989, American Health Lawyers Association,
                             Journal of Health Law

                                  April, 1989

                         Vol. 22, No. 4, HOSPLW Pg. 136

LENGTH: 341 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: PEER REVIEW: Where state elects to comply with federal act,
physician waiver of peer review provisions held ineffective

AUTHOR: Case submitted by: Frederick Wm. LaCava, Indianapolis, Indiana

TEXT:

   An Indiana trial court issued a declaratory judgment in favor of a hospital
which sought to alter its procedure for peer review of a suspended physician to
comply with the federal Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C.
11101 et seq. (Act).  The hospital filed the lawsuit after the suspended
physician refused to permit the hospital to substitute mandated procedural
provisions for conflicting peer review guidelines contained in the hospital's
bylaws.  The focus of the dispute centered on the grant of immunity to those
physicians sitting on the hearing panel under the bylaws.

   When the peer review matter arose, Indiana had already adopted provisions of
the Act, but the hospital had not revised its medical staff bylaws to conform
with the Act's procedural guarantees.  The bylaws required a hearing before a
hospital committee which was comprised of physicians who were in economic
competition with the suspended physician.

   To secure federal and state immunity, the hospital petitioned the court to
approve its compliance with the federal statute regarding the composition of a
hearing committee.  The hospital proposed to appoint a committee of physicians
who did not economically compete with the suspended physician.  The suspended
physician sought to compel the hospital to adhere to its bylaws.  Alternatively,
the physician attempted to waive his rights under the Act, but would neither
issue an indemnity nor release the medical staff members who would have heard
the matter under the hospital bylaws.

   The court found the physician's attempted waiver ineffectual and issued a
declaratory judgment approving the hospital's plan.  VanKirk v. Board of
Trustees of White County Memorial Hospital, No. 91C01-8809-CP-128 (Ind. Cir. Ct.
filed Nov. 9, 1988).S.W./P.R.

   [Ed. note: Mr. LaCava, counsel for the hospital, suggests that this case is
one of first impression involving the question of compliance with the federal
procedural rules as an alternative to compliance with existing medical staff
bylaws.]


