                              456 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            January 10, 2012 Tuesday

Medtronic CEO: 'business model has to be adjusted'

LENGTH: 922 words

Medical Device Daily Senior Staff Writer

In an economy where people are more careful with their money than ever before,
even the big guys in the industry have to take a disciplined approach with their
business model. That was the take-home message from Medtronic (Minneapolis) CEO
Omar Ishrak Monday at the 30th annual J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference in San
Francisco.

"The business model has to be adjusted without compromising the need for, and
the desire for, higher standard of care," Ishrak told his audience during a
presentation that was also webcast.

Ishrak said Medtronic has identified three key imperatives to improve its
growth: improved execution; optimizing innovation; and globalization.

"We want a business that moves quickly and is agile," he said in explaining the
first of these three imperatives, improved execution.

Doing so requires a business alignment "so that everyone is moving in the same
direction," he added. Things like quarterly assessments and constant market
connection are examples of this, Ishrak said, noting that he makes a point to
meet in person with customers in the U.S. a few days a month. "Me and my
management team want to stay in touch with customers," he said.

In order to optimize innovation, Ishrak said the company will aim to improve its
R&D spend and "optimize" its capability. "This is not about going and getting
engineers to work harder, nor is it about improving our technical capability,"
he said. "It really is more about what we work on and how we work on it . . .
working on things that don't have an effective value proposition has to be
de-focused. If there is no value proposition the innovation is not going to
succeed."

Doing this means providing economic value to customers, Ishrak said, adding that
the company aims to develop products that either improves the hospital's
standard of care, increases procedure volumes, or improves quality of care so
that the hospital's quality metrics go up. "All of this will provide more
revenue to a hospital," he said.

Products that improve workflow for hospitals is another way the company strives
to add value for its customers, Ishrak noted. "Reducing ICU stays . . . moving
the shift of care from one type of physician to another or moving the care from
the hospital to home," are examples of innovation that improves hospital
workflow, he said.

Finally, Ishrak noted, Medtronic will optimize product prices by providing
better value for the same price.

"Customer economics is something that is going to be a screen for all of our new
products," Ishrak said.

Of course the company also recognizes the need to reach emerging markets for
future growth. "Contrary to popular perception, our margins in emerging markets
are actually as good if not better than . . . other markets," Ishrak said.

Also, going forward, Ishrak told the audience that Medtronic will have to be
more disciplined in its approach to acquisitions - as it will be for new product
development and existing products - by first asking: Is it a growth market? Can
Medtronic win in that market? And finally, can Medtronic add value to that
market.

During another webcast presentation from the J.P. Morgan conference, the CEO of
a considerably younger company, CareFusion (San Diego), offered his perspective
on how companies like CareFusion can turn the current challenges in helathcare
into opportunities.

"As all of you know, this is certainly not new news in this room today, this is
certainly a challenging environment in healthcare markets in various parts of
the globe," CareFusion CEO Kieran Gallahue said. Specifically, he noted that
"30% of U.S. hospitals are running at negative operating margins . . . they
understand that they need to make some fundamental changes" including capturing
efficiencies in their supply chain, primarily in the areas of pharmaceuticals
and medical devices.

So while there is a lot of "doom and gloom" out there where healthcare is
concerned, Gallahue says that "actually, for those who can provide solutions
that are clinically differentiated and that are economically differentiated, the
changes that are occurring today and the challenges that are occurring today
actually represent opportunity."

CareFusion was born as a spin off from Cardinal Health (Dublin, Ohio) in 2009 (
Medical Device Daily, June 10, 2009) and the company offers both medical systems
and procedural solutions.

"We think of CareFusion as having three different stages to its life cycle,"
Gallahue said. "The first couple of years, the stand up phase . . . I often
think of it as a teenager moving away from home. We exited that phase in
approximately August of this past year, a landmark occasion for our company . .
. now we have moved into the second phase, which is building the foundation for
growth, and that sets the tone for the next phase, which is the acceleration of
growth."

Gallahue said the company's current phase, building the foundation for growth,
is about simplifying the business the company operates in. "It is not one silver
bullet, it is not one activity," he added.

"In many ways it's about going back to blocking and tackling, it's about
simplifying the business so you can make decisions more quickly," Gallahue said.
"Having a balance of medical systems business and a procedural solutions
business allows us the opportunity to grow in multiple ways . . . our intention
is to use the cash that is freed up in the simplification efforts in order to
drop part of that to the bottom line and what remains to innovation and market
expansion."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2012 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


