                              464 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      March 18, 2017 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Late-Breaking Data on Abbott's MitraClip System Show Continued Benefit for
People with Mitral Regurgitation, Most Common Heart Valve Disease

LENGTH: 529  words


March 18 -- Abbott (NYSE: ABT) today announced favorable one-year outcomes from
the largest study of real-world experience for the MitraClip system in
transcatheter mitral valve repair (TMVR) procedures in the United States.
MitraClip treats people with degenerative mitral regurgitation (DMR, also known
as leaky heart valve), a serious condition involving a dysfunction of the
heart's mitral valve, which regulates blood flow into the heart's main pumping
chamber.

The study analyzed data from the Transcatheter Valve Therapy (TVT) registry
involving nearly 3,000 DMR patients who were high-risk for surgery. Following
minimally invasive implantation with MitraClip, patients had significant
improvements, including 92.8 percent of patients achieving post-procedural
mitral regurgitation (MR) severity grade of less than or equal to 2 (acute
procedural success defined as MR 2). In addition, 80.0 percent of MitraClip
patients remained free from heart failure (HF) re-hospitalization in the year
after implantation. Most patients-85.9 percent of people treated-were discharged
to their homes after an average hospital stay of only two days. The average age
of patients was 82.

The data were presented by Paul Sorajja, M.D., director of the Center of Valve
and Structural Heart Disease at Minneapolis Heart Institute, cardiologist at
Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapolis and principal investigator of the
study, during a late-breaking featured clinical research session of the American
College of Cardiology's (ACC) 66th Annual Scientific Session.

"The consistent one-year results seen in this study validate that treatment with
MitraClip can provide meaningful reduction in the severity of mitral
regurgitation," said Dr. Sorajja. "The consistency of data over time in this
large patient registry underscore the valuable impact MitraClip has on the
overall health of very sick people living with this silent killer."

Mitral regurgitation is a debilitating, progressive and life-threatening disease
in which the leaflets of the mitral valve do not close completely, causing blood
to flow backward and leak into the left atrium of the heart during the cardiac
cycle. The condition can raise the risk of irregular heartbeats, stroke, and
heart failure, which can be deadly.

Nearly one in ten people over the age of 75 have moderate to severe MR1 , which
is frequently difficult to diagnose. Patients often may not be eligible for the
standard-of-care surgery because of advanced age, frailty, multiple
comorbidities or other complicating factors. Until the regulatory approval of
MitraClip, these high surgical risk patients could only manage their symptoms,
such as shortness of breath and fatigue, with medications that did not stop the
progression of the disease.

"Abbott's goal is to improve health, and our MitraClip therapy provides a
much-needed solution for gravely ill people who have very few options," said
Michael Dale, general manager of Abbott's structural heart business. "The
consistency in data across multiple trials reinforce the nearly immediate impact
that MitraClip has on people's quality of life, allowing them to lead fuller,
longer lives."

Source: Abbott

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


