                              466 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                February 6, 2002

Payout for nurse who suffered depression

BYLINE: sscott

SECTION: NEWS; OTHER; Others; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 467 words


Instructions:sub for p3mo Stuart Scott A FORMER Elgin nurse who was sacked after
being off work for four months suffering from depression has been awarded GBP
4,830 after winning her unfair dismissal claim.

Myra Nixon, 51, of 27 Lesmurdie Road, was sacked from Dr Gray's Hospital in
Elgin on grounds of incapacity after 30 years nursing experience and was
"extremely distressed" after losing her job.

An industrial tribunal held in Inverness on December 5 heard that Grampian
University Hospital NHS Trust had dismissed Ms Nixon on May 4, 2000, after she
was absent from her work for a prolonged period of time.

They claimed she was no longer capable of doing her job as a theatre nurse, and
was not going to return to her work in the foreseeable future.

They added there were no suitable alternative jobs and no vacancies had become
available since her dismissal.

The hearing was told that after her dismissal there was also a deterioration in
the "depressive anxiety state" for which she was being treated at the time.

As a result of her condition, four months after the termination of her
employment Ms Nixon began to lose her hair.

Ms Nixon's representative Frank Lefevre said a psychiatric report by Dr
Henderson and a doctor's report by Dr Stewart supported claims that there was an
"exacerbation of the applicant's mental condition and ability to work".

Dr Stewart confirmed that after the consultation with her, Ms Nixon was unable
to return to theatre work. That was prior to her dismissal on May 4, 2000. Mr
Lefevre added that there was a failure on the part of the respondents to obtain
any independent assessment of the applicant, and if they had something to say
about her condition they could have asked for a report to be carried out.

The tribunal finding said that the crucial procedural failure had been "omitting
to issue a warning of possible dismissal, but further failures were omitting to
obtain an independent medical report, which would have helped to focus on the
applicants health problems at the time".

The tribunal added that the reasons for the finding of unfairness were
procedural and occurred in the period just before and on the day of her
dismissal.

"These procedural omissions were the respondents failure to consult the
applicant, warn her of the possibility of losing her employment, discuss the
matter with her, inform themselves of the true medical position and give her an
opportunity to state her case before the decision to dismiss was taken." The
finding continued: "Had all these steps been taken, the tribunal had little
doubt the applicant would still have been dismissed in any event.

"She had been absent for four months, but no evidence was produced about the
likely further duration of her absence on that occasion."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2002 Aberdeen Press and Journal


