                              463 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        Progressive Media - Company News

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday

Cardiovascular Systems obtains FDA premarket approval for Diamondback 360
coronary OAS

SECTION: GAS STATIONS AND FORECOURT RETAILERS; Cardiovascular Devices

LENGTH: 352 words



HIGHLIGHT: Cardiovascular Systems, a US-based medical device company, has
obtained a premarket approval from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for
its Diamondback 360 coronary orbital atherectomy system (OAS), designed to treat
severely calcified coronary arteries.


Using an electrically driven 1.25mm diamond-coated crown, the Diamondback 360
coronary OAS reduces calcified lesions in coronary blood vessels and enables
successful stent deployment.

The Diamondback 360 system's effectiveness is backed by the ORBIT II clinical
data.

Cardiovascular Systems' ORBIT II study has been designed to assess the safety
and effectiveness of its orbital atherectomy technology in treating the
problematic subset of patients with severely calcified coronary lesions.

This study showed positive clinical outcomes in meeting primary safety and
efficacy endpoints.

The ORBIT II study results at 30 days demonstrated patient freedom from major
adverse cardiac events (MACE) was 89.8% and procedural success was 89.1%.

Excluding in-hospital MACE, procedural success was 98.6% with 97.7% of stents
successfully delivered.

Additionally, 92.8% of patients were free from severe angiographic
complications, and core lab assessed final procedure residual stenosis was 4.7%.

Cardiovascular Systems CEO David L Martin noted today is a landmark moment for:
patients suffering from calcified coronary artery disease, their families,
physician operators and everyone at CSI.

"FDA approval of our Diamondback 360 Coronary OAS allows us to bring to market
the first new coronary atherectomy system in more than two decades.

"Severe coronary arterial calcium is an underestimated problem in medicine, with
limited options for treatment. The ORBIT II trial proved our Diamondback
technology is safe and effective in treating this complex disease.

"Securing coronary approval is another key milestone in our mission to provide
primary tools for vascular intervention. I'm proud of our principal physician
investigators and scientific teams. Together, with the CSI team we're excited to
move forward to help a larger physician population treat these previously
underserved patients," Martin added.

With the FDA premarket approval, the company will now initiate a controlled
commercial launch of the Diamondback 360 Coronary OAS.

Image: Diamondback 360 coronary orbital atherectomy system Photo: Courtesy of
Businesswire.



LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Progressive Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


