                              469 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Times & Transcript (New Brunswick)

                             August 14, 2009 Friday

Court hears recent changes wouldn't have saved N.S. man; Procedural changes made
since death of mentally ill man inadequate, N.S. inquiry told

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C3

LENGTH: 607  words


A key procedural change made after the death of a mentally ill man while in
custody would not have helped Howard Hyde had it been in place when he was
arrested in 2007, the sheriff of Halifax told a fatality inquiry yesterday.

Laurel Purcell, whose responsibilities include court security and the transfer
of those in custody, was referring to revisions to a document known as a health
information transfer form, or HIT form.

The form, in use since 2002, is filled out each time someone in custody is
transferred from a health-care facility to a court or correctional facility. It
is supposed to alert police, corrections officers and the sheriff's deputies to
important medical information, including instructions for medications.

The use of the form has come under close scrutiny during the inquiry, mainly
because testimony from police and deputy sheriffs has revealed confusion over
instructions included on Hyde's form by an emergency room doctor.

Hyde, a 45-year-old musician with a long history of schizophrenia, died in jail
about 30 hours after he was arrested for an alleged assault and tasered during a
struggle inside a Halifax police station.

Immediately after the tasering, Hyde was taken to hospital. He was released into
police custody about six hours later to be arraigned before a judge.

The note on his HIT form, written by Dr. Janet MacIntyre, instructs police to
return Hyde to hospital if the judge failed to order a forensic psychiatric
examination.

Earlier, MacIntyre testified that she included the note because she wanted to
make sure Hyde received an assessment, something that wasn't done at the
hospital because the doctor was confident the court could provide one after the
arraignment.

Police and deputy sheriffs have testified they didn't have the authority to
bring Hyde back to the hospital, something MacIntyre said she was unaware of.

Purcell testified that on Nov. 21, 2007, one of her deputies called her to ask
about MacIntyre's note after police transferred custody of Hyde to the deputy
sheriffs at a local courthouse.

The sheriff said she told the deputy that regardless of what the note said, the
deputies did not have the authority to detain or transfer Hyde if he was
released or remanded into custody after the court hearing.

"If the court released Mr. Hyde from custody, we would have no authority to
arrest him or to detain him," she told inquiry counsel Dan MacRury. "We're not
even able to offer ... a ride in one of our secure vehicles."

She said the only way the deputies could legally transfer Hyde to the hospital
was if he had a medical emergency.

The deputy sheriffs escorting Hyde did not hand the HIT form to the Crown and
defence lawyers handling the case because the legislation at the time forbade
them from sharing such information with anyone but health-care providers.

In the end, the judge presiding over the arraignment did not order a psychiatric
assessment and Hyde was sent to the Central Nova Scotia Correctional Facility,
where he died the next day after a scuffle with guards.

Yesterday, Purcell testified that changes made to the form after Hyde's death
would not prevent a similar chain of events from happening again.

Under the new policy, the HIT form is to be shared with Crown and defence
lawyers if it contains information about a medical condition "that is unusual or
out of the ordinary."

Purcell said that rule would not apply in Hyde's case.

"I don't think that Mr. Hyde had a medical condition that was unusual," she
said.

"I think the (doctor's) remarks on the health information transfer form may have
been unique ... but I don't believe that the medical condition was unusual. "

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 The Times & Transcript.
                              All Rights Reserved


