                              468 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            November 7, 2016 Monday

Real-world US post-FDA approval usage of the Watchman device presented at TCT
2016

LENGTH: 608  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 Results from the U.S. real-world, post-FDA approval experience of the Watchman
device found high procedural success and low complication rates despite
implantations by a large percentage of new operators. The Watchman device was
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in March 2015 for left
atrial appendage occlusion (LAAC) to reduce the risk of stroke in patients with
non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF).





 Findings from the Watchman US Post-Approval Experience were reported today at
the 28th annual Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics (TCT) scientific
symposium. Sponsored by the Cardiovascular Research Foundation (CRF), TCT is the
world's premier educational meeting specializing in interventional
cardiovascular medicine. The results of the study were also published
simultaneously in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology (JACC).



 "While LAAC avoids the anticoagulant-related lifetime risk of bleeding,
implantation of the device can be associated with upfront complications," said
lead investigator Vivek Y. Reddy, MD. Dr. Reddy is Director of Cardiac
Arrhythmia Services for The Mount Sinai Hospital and the Mount Sinai Health
System, and The Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust Professor of
Medicine in Cardiac Electrophysiology at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount
Sinai. "Thus, enthusiasm for LAAC as a treatment option has been appropriately
tempered, particularly as the therapy is introduced into general clinical
practice."



 Despite the absence of a formal national prospective clinical registry, the
researchers were able to collect procedural data on all LAAC procedures since
FDA approval. The manufacturer required a clinical specialist be present at all
cases, and procedure parameters and major complications were collected and
reported using a standardized process and forms.



 In this multicenter, prospective registry, 3,822 consecutive patients underwent
device implantation by 382 operating physicians in the U.S. The operators
included both those who had previously performed LAAC procedures as part of
clinical trials (29%), as well as "naive" operators (71%) - those physicians who
had not previously performed any Watchman procedures prior to FDA approval. This
latter physician group performed 50% of all procedures in the 3,822 patient
cohort.



 The procedure was successfully performed in 3,653 of 3,822 patients (95.6%)
with an average duration of 50 minutes. The most prevalent complication reported
was pericardial effusion requiring intervention in 39 patients (1.02%).
Procedure-related stroke was 0.08% (n=3) and the mortality rate was 0.08% (n=3).
There were nine (0.24%) instances of device embolization; two-thirds (n=6) of
these required surgical removal, while the remaining third (n=3) were removed
percutaneously. All but one of the device embolizations were identified either
during the procedure (n=5) or while the patient was recovering in the hospital
(n=3).



 "The data shows that the U.S. clinical experience with LACC using the Watchman
device has been favorable," said Dr. Reddy. "Since the device was approved by
the FDA, the technology has been used in increasing numbers of patients and
procedural success rates remain high. In addition, despite a large percentage of
previously inexperienced operators performing the implantation procedures,
complication rates continue to improve compared to earlier clinical trials."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


