                              46 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Kalgoorlie Miner (Western Australia)

                            April 21, 2007 Saturday
                                    GENERAL

GP funds for Perth training

BYLINE: SAMANTHA CAIRNS

SECTION: MINER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 289  words


GOLDFIELDS GPs will now be better positioned to hone their skills in Perth each
year, thanks to extra Federal Government support announced this week.

The changes mean GPs will be supported for three days' training each year, which
equates to $6000 in funding, rather than two days or $4500.

Goldfields-Esperance GP Network chairman Mal Hodsdon said it was great news for
local GPs, who often faced high out-of-pocket expenses when travelling to Perth
hospitals for necessary training.

"Before the increase in funding there was a pretty good uptake in the training;
we saw a lot of GPs come back to the community and provide a better level of
care," he said.

"With additional support being provided, more doctors will be able to update
their procedural skills in Perth as treatments and techniques change.

"Host hospitals are charging for teaching these days and accommodation also
needs to be covered, so we welcome more money becoming available."

Federal Minister for Health and Ageing Tony Abbott said many communities outside
metropolitan areas relied on well-trained, experienced GPs to provide surgical,
anaesthetic, obstetric and emergency services.

He said by supporting rural GPs who provided these kinds of procedural and
emergency medicine services, the Commonwealth was giving rural families access
to high-quality health care.

The funding is available under the $75 million Training for Rural and Remote
Procedural GPs Program, which supports rural and remote GPs doing procedural
work that specialists carry out in urban areas.

The Australian College of Rural and Remote Medicine and the Royal Australian
College of General Practitioners will continue to assess GPs and training
eligibility funding will be administered by Medicare.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


