                              465 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                              April 7, 2017 Friday
                               FRI FINAL Edition

Brief filibuster over state budget

BYLINE: Brian Eason

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 4A

LENGTH: 790 words


At 10 p.m., there was no end in sight.

In a marathon debate on the state budget Thursday, the Colorado House of
Representatives took preliminary votes to spend millions of dollars to combat
homelessness, increase funding for substance abuse treatment and restore a
controversial film industry incentive program.

But on the day U.S. Senate Republicans invoked the "nuclear option" to abolish
the filibuster for Supreme Court nominees, Colorado House Republicans staged
something akin to a filibuster of their own. Through a procedural move, state
Rep. Dave Williams, R Colorado Springs, forced a clerk to read the 600 plus page
budget bill aloud, effectively derailing the debate just after 8 p.m.

Democrats accused Williams of throwing a "temper tantrum," while his fellow
Republicans defended the maneuver, saying Democrats had been using procedural
moves of their own to stifle debate on two Williams amendments: one to defund
colleges that traffic in aborted fetus parts and another to defund so called
"sanctuary cities" that don't enforce federal immigration law.

But even with dozens of amendments and untold hours of debate to go, the $26.8
billion spending plan was not expected to change significantly from the version
passed last month by the Senate. Even before the filibuster which lasted about
30 minutes House Democrats, who control the chamber, spent the vast majority of
the day on defense, beating back dozens of Republican amendments to boost
funding to roads and schools by cutting a slew of other state programs.

Lawmakers in both parties entered Thursday's debate unhappy with the proposed
budget, which despite growing by 4 percent from this year was balanced through
deep cuts to hospitals and by under funding schools by an estimated $50 million.
But a majority in both chambers have appeared willing to support it in the hope
that the state can address its transportation needs and restore funding to
hospitals through other bills still pending before the legislature.

"There are some major shortfalls in this budget as we've presented," said state
Rep. Millie Hamner, the top Democratic budget writer. " ... It isn't going to
work unless these other measures prevail."

From the outset of Thursday's debate, House Republicans made it clear that they
would use the exercise to make a political point about how the state funds its
roads and schools relative to other programs. The failed attempts to divert
funding included a $13.9 million cut from school testing, a slew of cuts to
Medicaid that included increasing co pays and eliminating coverage for adults
without children, and an across the board cut of a number of state government
agencies that would have sent an additional $314 million to schools.

Speaking on one proposed cut, Assistant Minority Leader Cole Wist likened the
growth of state government over the years to "empire building" and said it was
time to make difficult decisions about what programs to cut.

"It's time for us to start having these discussions, when we don't have money to
fund transportation or education and then wonder why we don't have money," said
Wist, R Centennial. "It's time to funnel the money to the principle functions
that our government should be doing."

Democrats beat back each of the most significant Republican proposals, with
House Speaker Crisanta Duran, D Denver, denouncing the cuts to Medicaid as an
attempt to fund roads "on the backs of the sick."

Democrats also added funding for a pair of Gov. John Hickenlooper's priorities a
$16 million grant program for housing to help the homeless and $1.5 million for
film industry incentives that his office says creates jobs and boosts tourism.
That's half of the $3 million he initially requested for the program, which has
been in place since 2012.

In a rare bipartisan accord, lawmakers also tapped the state's marijuana sales
tax funds to devote $8 million to substance abuse treatment.

The Senate already agreed to the money to assist the homeless, but it's not
clear whether the film incentives program or the substance abuse funding will
stay in the budget when it heads to conference committee to reconcile the
differences.

The dust up over Williams' filibuster was short lived; with as many as 11 people
reading simultaneously from different places, House staffers dispatched with
exercise in about 30 minutes. But tempers flared in the immediate aftermath.
Rep. Joe Salazar, D Thornton, accused the freshman lawmaker of throwing a
"temper tantrum."

"It seems like your nuclear option is pitching a fit," he added.

But Rep. Justin Everett, R Littleton, defended the move as necessary to protect
the right of the minority to debate its priorities.

"This isn't a temper tantrum," Everett said. "This is a valid use of the rules."

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


