                              476 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            November 7, 2003 Friday

Groups say ICD-9 irrevocably broken, urge ICD-10 adoption

LENGTH: 902 words


Groups say ICD-9 irrevocably broken, urge ICD-10 adoption

By KEVIN NEW  Medical Device Daily Washington Editor  WASHINGTON - A national
advisory group took a bold step earlier this week in an effort to bring the
nation's procedural and diagnostic medical coding classification system into the
21st century.

The National Committee on Vital and Health Statistics (NCVHS; Washington) has
made key recommendations attempting to end a six-year debate accompanied by
mounting pressure from trade organizations and professional societies and has
urged the government to adopt the latest version of an international coding
system. NCVHS is a statutory public advisory body to the Secretary of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS; Washington).

NCVHS is recommending that HHS issue a notice of proposed rulemaking to replace
the International Classification of Diseases, 9th Revision, Clinical
Modification (ICD-9-CM) and its counterpart, the ICD-9, Procedural
Classification System (ICD-9-PCS). The ICD-9-CM is used for diagnoses codes,
while the ICD-9-PCS is used for procedure codes for hospital inpatient services.
The ICD publications are owned by the World Health Organization (WHO; New York).

NCVHS approved a draft letter making the recommendation from John Lumpkin, MD,
chair of the committee and senior vice president and director of the healthcare
group at Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (Princeton, New Jersey), on Nov. 5.

The proposal, if approved, would replace the three volumes of the 9th revision
and constitute the first revision in 23 years, but not without significant
costs. Conversion costs are projected to range between $475 million to $1.15
billion nationally, plus $5 million to $40 million per year in lost
productivity, according to a study from RAND (Santa Monica, California).

The RAND study, commissioned by NCVHS, is believed to be the most thorough and
rigorous of a number of studies attempting to estimate the costs and benefits of
adopting ICD-10-CM and ICD-10-PCS, states the American Hospital Association
(AHA; Chicago, Illinois) in a letter to NCVHS supporting the recommendation.

But while the change would be costly, the RAND study concluded that the benefits
of transition would range from $700 million to as much as $7.7 billion, noted
the AHA.

"The RAND study concluded that the benefits in terms of more accurate payment,
fewer rejected claims, fewer fraudulent claims, better understanding of new
procedures and improved disease management clearly exceed the costs of
implementation," AHA wrote.

At almost a trillion and a half dollars per year, the U.S. healthcare industry
cannot afford to have inadequate information on the health of the population and
the care it receives, AHA said.

AHA isn't alone in its support for transitioning to a modernized coding system.
The Federation of American Hospitals (FAH; Washington), the American Health
Information Management Association (AHIMA; Chicago, Illinois), and the Advanced
Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed; Washington) are among those who have
joined in supporting the recommendation.

The ICD-9-CM system has severely limited reporting capabilities for today's
needs and growth capacity for future needs, Carol Kelly, executive vice
president of healthcare systems and federal legislative policy at AdvaMed, told
Medical Device Daily. The limitations "make it an increasingly unacceptable
coding classification system for the future for both inpatient and outpatient
diagnosis, as well as hospital inpatient services' procedure coding."

Continued use of ICD-9-CM threatens to jeopardize the ability of the U.S.
healthcare industry to effectively collect and use accurate, detailed healthcare
data and information for the betterment of domestic and global healthcare,
according to a position statement from AHIMA, and it added that the current
coding system is "irrevocably broken and must be replaced soon."

Tests on both CM and PCS versions show a vast improvement over ICD-9-CM and more
than satisfy the reporting requirements for hospital inpatient services and
other settings, the AHA said.

Improvements in the ICD-10-CM and ICD-10-PCS include additional content and
format changes. Information was added for ambulatory and managed care
encounters, injury codes were expanded, and combination diagnosis/symptom codes
were created to reduce the number of codes needed to fully describe a condition,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC; Atlanta,
Georgia).

Probably the most ambitious in terms of recommendations, AHIMA would like HHS to
adopt ICD-10-CM for diagnostic coding in all healthcare settings and ICD-10-PCS
for coding hospital inpatient services for implementation in 2005. AHIMA also
supports financial support to HHS and healthcare providers and plans through
Congressional legislative authority, if needed.

The NCVHS advises Secretary Tommy Thompson and HHS on health data and statistics
by serving as a forum where interested private sector groups can interact with
its members on a variety of health issues.

The 18-member committee is made up of experts in health statistics, healthcare
information technology, and purchasing and financing of healthcare services. The
HHS secretary appoints 16 members for a four-year term, resulting in four new
members being appointed each year. The remaining two members are selected by
Congress.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2003 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


