                              47 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             January 4, 2016 Monday
                            British Columbia Edition

HEALTH CARE;
Doctors paid for work not performed;
An anonymous letter prompted an audit into payments made to a small group of
cardiologists at two Lower Mainland hospitals

BYLINE: WENDY STUECK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. S1

LENGTH: 718 words

DATELINE: VANCOUVER


A small group of cardiologists at two Lower Mainland hospitals were compensated
over the past six years for procedures they did not perform, according to an
internal investigation.

But those payments amounted to about $1-million, not the $4-million alleged by
an anonymous complainant last year, and may have been offset by the doctors
performing more complex, time-consuming procedures for which they were not
adequately compensated, the investigation concluded.

It is not clear whether either of the two health authorities involved suffered
an overall financial loss as a result of the fees, the investigation found.

The investigation was triggered by an anonymous letter in June, 2015, that
alleged a small group of cardiologists at St. Paul's and Vancouver General
hospitals had charged the two facilities almost $4-million for procedures they
did not actually perform. Its report, dated Aug. 17, 2015, was obtained by The
Globe and Mail through a Freedom of Information request.

The anonymous complaint did not say over what time period those payments had
been made.

But it cited a 2012 report that flagged the issue of "unanticipated procedural
fees" being paid for some procedures and recommended those fees be eliminated.

The letter - which was also sent to The Globe - concerns a widely used procedure
known as a transesophageal echocardiogram, or TEE, which involves inserting a
probe into the esophagus to monitor a patient during heart surgery. TEEs used to
be done primarily by echocardiographers.

But over about the past decade, more cardiac anesthetists have been trained in
the procedure According to the complaint, anesthetists now routinely perform the
procedure as part of overall patient care.

However, the complainant alleged, "a few cardiologists who may or may not even
be in the hospital at the time of the procedures have been charging the
hospitals for years a procedural fee ... for performing as many as 10 per day of
the above procedures without actually performing or even being present for any
of them as required by the billing code."

That practice had resulted in the small group of doctors charging the hospitals
almost $4-million for performing procedures they never did, the complainant
alleged.

The anonymous complaint set off an investigation that found administrators had
been aware of TEE payment concerns even before the 2012 review, but that efforts
to tackle the issue had stalled - in part because specialists considered TEE
procedural fees as compensation for other "offset procedures" they might perform
during heart surgery.

"While there are no formal agreements or clear communication to support current
practice, it appears that there was implied agreement that the incorrect payment
for TEEs would continue as offset in recognition that the echocardiographers
perform other procedures that they are not adequately funded for," the
investigation found. It was carried out by Internal Audit Services, the audit
division for four of B.C.'s health authorities.

Investigators found that cardiographers do not submit invoices for the
procedures but that "fee codes" are automatically applied as part of a broader
billing system. As part of that system, expenses are reviewed, but the
documentation provided in that process "lacks sufficient information to be able
to provide meaningful oversight," the investigation found.

A tangle of billing and information management systems made it difficult for
investigators to sort out how many TEEs had been performed and by whom.

But after reviewing available records, IAS found TEE fees over the past six
years amounted to about $630,000 at St. Paul's and $441,000 at Vancouver General
Hospital, or about $1-million - far less than the $4-million mentioned in the
anonymous letter.

Since the complaint was received last year, both hospitals have stopped paying
the procedural fees.

In its report, IAS made four "improvement observations," including that
management at Providence Health Care, which runs St. Paul's, and Vancouver
Coastal Health, which operates Vancouver General, meet with echocardiography
groups at both sites to negotiate appropriate rates, "while ensuring that they
are not compensated for procedures they do not perform."

Investigators did not recommend disciplinary action against any of the doctors
involved in the probe.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2016 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


