                              472 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                              May 31, 2010 Monday

MDD's Cardio Extra

LENGTH: 1652 words


Keeping you up to date on recent headlines in cardiovascular healthcare.


JenaValve completes FIM procedure for TAVI in Germany . . .JenaValve Technology
(Munich, Germany) said it has completed first-in-man (FIM) procedures for its
transapical transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) system. The
procedures and implantations were performed in nine patients at the Heart Center
(Leipzig, Germany), JenaValve said. "I am very pleased that our
interdisciplinary team has achieved FIM for our transapical system. Our product
design and development team deserves our highest recognition for having produced
a safe, next-generation system," said CEO Helmut Straubinger said.

The goals of the study were to assess: (1) the deliverability of the prosthesis,
(2) repositioning and retrievability, and (3) new valve function in elderly,
high-risk patients with severe aortic stenosis and co-morbidities. Primary
endpoints of the trial were 30-day mortality and procedural success. "The
JenaValve FIM is an exciting milestone in the development of TAVI systems," said
Friedrich-Wilhelm Mohr, MD, director of the clinic for cardiac surgery at Hert
Center Leipzig and principal investigator of the trial. "As long-term data are
gathered and the next-generation technology is available, we expect that the
transcatheter approach will replace invasive surgical treatment in many
selective cases and become an alternative for high-risk patients that promises
faster recovery and enhanced quality of life." The trial enrolled a total of 12
patients, nine of whom were successfully treated. The company noted one
procedural failure (Type A dissection) and said two procedures were aborted due
to unsuitable anatomy, but following a catheter design modification continuous
procedural success. The patients' mean age was 86.3, and they were all female.
Implantation time was consecutively reduced from seven minutes to three minutes,
the company said. According to the company, the JenaValve system design enables
the physician to advance, rotate, reposition or retract the unique,
patent-protected feelers as necessary, leading to correct and precise placement
of the prosthesis.

First community hospital-based EP program in U.S. created . . .Lebanon
Cardiology Associates (Lebanon, Pennsylvania) and Good Samaritan Hospital
reported partnering to create the first community hospital-based
electrophysiology (EP) program in the U.S. (and only center in Pennsylvania) to
examine pacemaker and defibrillator device implant demographics and outcomes. A
recently presented study revealed an elderly, ill population with overall rates
of pacemaker and defibrillator implant complications lower than national trials
and available reports from single academic centers, the company said. Contrary
to current perceptions, the data suggest that community centers may subselect an
elderly, ill patient population and can provide high quality, cost-effective,
and more accessible pacemaker and defibrillator care than academic centers in
the U.S., the company noted. "There is a perception (yet very little substantive
data) that community hospitals cherry-pick less ill patients from
higher-performing academic centers. Our goal was to objectively analyze our
pacemaker and defibrillator implant patient demographics and complication rates
to shed light on the experiences in a 'real-world' community hospital," said
Jeffrey Williams, MD, the lead author in the study "Patient Demographics,
Complications, and Hospital Utilization in 250 Consecutive Device Implants of a
New Community Hospital Electrophysiology Program," presented at the American
Heart Association's (Dallas) Quality of Care and Outcomes Research in
Cardiovascular Disease and Stroke 2010 scientific sessions in May. This is the
first U.S. report of the demographics and complication rates of 250 consecutive
pacemaker and defibrillator implant patients (starting with program inception)
in a non-academic, community hospital EP program, according to the researchers.
There was one major early complication (0.4%) and seven minor early
complications (2.8%). Eleven of 250 patients (4.4%) were readmitted within six
weeks of the implant. Four of these eleven readmissions (36.4%) were not
device-related. In addition, the patients in this community hospital cohort were
7-10 years older with worse kidney function than those reported in national
trials and academic centers. The data suggest that Good Samaritan Hospital
subselected a more elderly, ill patient population than found at larger medical
centers and provided high quality, cost-effective, and more accessible pacemaker
and defibrillator care. Biventricular defibrillator implantation is the most
complicated device implant performed in EP laboratories and Good Samaritan had
lower rates of major and minor complications when to compared to national trials
and academic centers. Highly performing "niche" hospitals such as Good Samaritan
may offer improved quality care while reducing costs of pacemaker and
defibrillator implantation. The implementation of their EP program involved more
than two years of leadership analysis, strategic planning and work process
formulation culminating in the presentation of their outcomes, the company
noted.

HeartMate II has lower risk of infection than earlier model, researchers find .
. . A state-of-the-art heart pump recently approved for use in end-stage cardiac
patients has a significantly lower risk for infection than an earlier model of
the device, according to researchers at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit. Known as
a left ventricular assist device, the newest version of the HeartMate is much
smaller than the first and uses a tiny turbine with synthetic ruby bearings,
lubricated by the blood itself, to continually push blood through the body. Its
predecessor is larger, heavier, has more moving parts, and is designed to mimic
the pulsing of blood through a healthy heart. Implanting the latest version of
the pump is also less invasive, so researchers at the Henry Ford Heart &
Vascular Institute sought to find whether it offered less risk of infection.
"Left ventricular assist devices have become the standard of care for patients
with end-stage heart failure," said lead author Jeffrey Morgan, MD, associate
director of the Circulatory Assist Device Program and Cardiac Transplantation at
Henry Ford. "However, development of a device-related infection can be a source
of significant morbidity and mortality." The study, which ran from March 2006
through June 2009, included 58 patients with chronic heart failure who were
implanted with either the HeartMate II - which the FDA approved in January for
use in patients with severe heart failure who are not candidates for a heart
transplant - or its predecessor, the larger and more complicated HeartMate I
XVE. Of the study group, 41 patients were implanted with the HeartMate II and 17
with the older model. Those who developed infections were treated with
antibiotics, and the effects of those infections on their short- and long-term
survival were also studied. Two patients, or 4.9% of those who had HeartMate II
pumps, developed infections, compared to four patients, or 23.5% of those whose
hearts were assisted by the previous model. The researchers also found no
significant difference in survival between HM II patients with and without
infection at 30 days and one year. Both devices were developed by Thoratec
(Pleasanton, California).

Good dental hygiene linked to lower risk of heart disease . . . In case you need
another reason to maintain good dental hygiene, a report published in the
British Medical Journal last week found that people who brush their teeth twice
a day have a significantly lower risk of heart disease compared to those with
poor oral hygiene. Over the last couple of decades there has been a growing
interest in the link between heart and gum disease, the researchers noted. While
it has been agreed that inflammation in the body (including mouth and gums)
plays an important role in the accumulation of clogged arteries, this is the
first study to examine whether the number of times individuals brush their teeth
has any impact on the risk of developing heart disease, the researchers say.
Lead author, Richard Watt from University College London, and his team analyzed
data from more than 11,000 adults who took part in the Scottish Healthy Survey.
The team looked at information regarding the adults' lifestyle behaviors, such
as physical activity, oral health routines and smoking. People were asked how
regularly they went to the dentist - once every six months, two years, rarely,
or never. They were also asked how often they brushed their teeth - twice, once,
or fewer times a day. On a separate visit nurses gathered information on medical
and family history of heart disease, blood pressure and blood samples from
consenting adults. The samples helped the researchers to determine levels of
inflammation that were present in the body. The data gathered from the
interviews were linked to hospital admissions and deaths in Scotland until
December 2007. The results showed that oral health behaviors were generally
good, with 62% of participants saying they visit the dentist every six months,
and 71% reporting that they brush their teeth twice daily. Once the data were
adjusted for established cardio risk factors such as social class, obesity,
smoking and family history of heart disease, the authors found that individuals
who reported less frequent toothbrushing had a 70% higher risk of heart disease
compared to individuals who brushed their teeth twice a day, although the
overall risk remained quite low. Participants who had poor oral hygiene also
tested positive for inflammatory markers such as the C-reactive protein and
fibrinogen, the researchers reported.

-- Compiled by Amanda Pedersen, MDD Senior Staff Writer

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2010 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


