                              475 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                              March 8, 2010 Monday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

LOOK OUT FOR N.Y.'S HEALTH

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 472 words


President Obama is pressing Democrats to ram health care reform through Congress
or to give the bill a merciful death. That puts New York's representatives on
the spot to protect this state from taking a monstrous hammering.

Sens. Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand and every member of the House
delegation must refuse to vote for any legislation that deprives New York of
fair Medicaid funding.

The working version of the measure - the bill passed by the Senate - would do
just that by disqualifying New York from Medicaid support provided to other
states and by slashing Medicare payments that allow the city's hospitals to
shoulder a heavy load of uninsured patients.

To his credit, Bronx Rep. Eliot Engel has taken a hard stand against supporting
an anti-New York bill. "I'm for health care reform," Engel said. "But I am not
for any health care reform. And I'm definitely not for health care reform that
makes my state lose money."

Calling the Senate's plan "totally unacceptable," Engel last week arranged a
meeting for the state's delegation with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who is
struggling to build support for moving the legislation through a procedural
maze.

There, he said, the message was that the New Yorkers would dash Obama's hopes
for a massive health care overhaul if the President's dreams were a nightmare
for this state. Bully for Engel.

The threat stems from Schumer's and Gillibrand's earlier backing of a Senate
bill that discriminated against New York.

One provision required states to expand Medicaid coverage up to levels already
provided at a $1 billion annual price tag by New York. States that enrolled new
recipients would get federal aid, but New York would get nothing because the
state had already assumed the same costs.

A second Senate provision would slash special payments to hospitals that treat
high percentages of poor senior citizens covered by Medicare as well as
uninsured patients, who are sicker than average. The president of New
York-Presbyterian Medical Center has projected a loss of up to $45 million
annually - even if health care reform extends insurance to the degree promised.

Obama has released only the outlines of the legislation he hopes to drive
through the Senate on a majority vote. The details of his plan for New York are
thus in doubt. Schumer says he's confident that the specifics, when put down on
paper, will hold the state harmless. They had better.

Engel, meanwhile, said Pelosi "supports what we are saying." He also said he
wants guarantees in writing because, for procedural reasons, the House may be
called on to pass a bill that does not initially include protections for New
York.

"It's not only money, but the language," he said. "And the White House will not
show me the language. I'm not buying a pig in a poke. I don't want a promise, I
want paper." Damn right.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

