                              478 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             October 7, 2016 Friday

United States Courts Opinions: United States District Court Eastern District of
New Mexico: CHRISTUS ST. VINCENT REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER,
Plaintiff/Counter-Defendant, v. DISTRICT 1199NM, NATIONAL UNION OF HOSPITAL AND
HEALTHCARE EMPLOYEES, AFL-CIO, AFSCME Defendant/Counter-Plaintiff.

LENGTH: 3397  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: United States District Court Eastern District of New Mexico has
issued the following order:



  IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW MEXICO
______________________ CHRISTUS ST. VINCENT REGIONAL MEDICAL CENTER,
Plaintiff/Counter-Defendant, v. No. 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM DISTRICT 1199NM,
NATIONAL UNION OF HOSPITAL AND HEALTHCARE EMPLOYEES, AFL-CIO, AFSCME
Defendant/Counter-Plaintiff. MEMORANDUM OPINION AND ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT'S
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION and DENYING PLAINTIFF'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
AS MOOT THIS MATTER comes before the Court upon Defendant's Motion to Compel
Arbitration, filed May 17, 2016 (Doc. 28) and Plaintiff's Motion for Summary
Judgment or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication, filed August 26, 2016
(Doc.

43). Having reviewed the parties' briefs and applicable law, I find that
Defendant's motion to compel has merit and shall be granted, and that
Plaintiff's summary judgment motion shall be denied as moot. BACKGROUND This is
an action arising out of alleged breaches of the parties' 2014 collective
bargaining agreement ("CBA") for the Nurse bargaining unit ("Union"). Federal
jurisdiction is alleged pursuant to §301 of the LMRA, 29 U.S.C. §185 and 29
U.S.C. §185, as well as the National Labor Relations Act, 29 U.S. Code § 151, et
seq.; and the Labor Management Relations Act, 29 U.S. § 141, et seq.1 The
alleged CBA breach centers on the discipline and subsequent 1 29 U.S.C. §185(a)
states: Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 1 of 10 2
termination of employee and Union member Diane Spencer. The Union contends that
Plaintiff ("the Hospital") disciplined Ms. Spencer without just cause and in
retaliation for Ms. Spencer's engaging in Union activities. Count I of the
Complaint seeks a federal declaration of the meaning of a disputed clause of the
CBA, and Count II alleges that Defendant breached that clause, §30.12 of the
CBA, by seeking arbitration of Ms. Spencer's grievances ("Spencer grievances")
when it already selected the National Labor Relations Board ("NLRB") to
adjudicate the matter. Plaintiff contends that as a result, the grievances are
not arbitrable because the Union waived the right to grieve when it elected the
NLRB as an alternative forum to resolve the dispute. Defendant counterclaims
that Plaintiff has rejected the Union's request to arbitrate the Spencer
grievances and seeks a judicial declaration that Plaintiff is obligated to do
so. Doc. 12. The parties also disagree about whether this Court or an Arbitrator
should determine the arbitrability of the parties' dispute. Ms. Spencer was
disciplined on three separate incidents: July 25, 2012, January 17, 2013 and
October 28, 2014, with the latter being a final warning. The Union filed a
grievance about the final warning ("Discipline Grievance"), and on January 28,
2015, the Union filed demand for arbitration with Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service ("FMCS") regarding the Discipline Grievance. On April 8,
2015, the Union also filed an unfair labor practice charge ("ULP's") with Region
28 of the NLRB (the "Charge"). On April 21, 2015, Ms. Spencer was again
disciplined and subsequently terminated from her employment at Christus St.
Vincent. That same day, the Union filed a grievance concerning the termination
(the "Termination Grievance"). May 13, 2015, the Union filed an amended ULP
Suits for violation of contracts between an employer and a labor organization
representing employees in an industry affecting commerce as defined in this
chapter, or between any such labor organizations, may be brought in any district
court of the United States having jurisdiction of the parties, without respect
to the amount in controversy or without regard to the citizenship of the
parties. Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 2 of 10 3
charge with Region 28 of the NLRB (the "Amended Charge"), alleging that
Plaintiff had targeted Ms. Spencer within the last six months for discipline and
termination due to her "outspoken participation" in Union activities. The NLRB
declined to issue a complaint based on the Amended Charge, and the Union
withdrew the Amended Charge. DISCUSSION The threshold question is whether the
Arbitrator has the authority to decide issues of arbitrability, and if the Court
is to decide such matters, then the question is whether the Spencer Grievances
are arbitrable or waived. There are three bargaining units of Plaintiff's
employees which are represented by the Union, each with their own CBA. The
Hospital and the Union are parties to the Nurse CBA effective October 14, 2014
through August 31, 2017. 2 The parties' dispute involves the Nurse CBA. The
Nurse CBA contains a bargained-for provision concerning the parties' respective
rights to pursue grievances through arbitration, specifically, Article 30,
§30.12 of the Nurse CBA which provides as follows: 30.12. It is the intention of
the parties that the grievance procedure set forth herein shall be the sole and
exclusive remedy of the parties for any alleged breach of this Agreement.
Therefore, resort to any other remedy at law or at equity, administrative or
judicial, shall constitute a waiver of the grievance. See Compl., &para;9
(emphasis added); Doc. 12-1 at 2 (Ex. A to counterclaim). This section is also
referred to as the "Election of Forum Clause." Id. Defendant contends that the
Hospital incorrectly relies on §30.12 of the CBA to argue that the Union has
waived the right to arbitration because it did not seek to remedy an "alleged
breach of [the] Agreement" under the Election Forum Clause, but rather it
alleged a violation of federal law under the National Labor Relations Act. The
Union therefore argues that it has not breached that provision in the CBA. 2
Technical workers and Service and Maintenance workers make up the other two
bargaining units. Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 3 of
10 4 I. Arbitrator Should Decide Questions of Arbitrability The Union insists
that this matter is strictly a labor dispute which a long line of federal
precedent requires should be submitted for arbitration. See United Steelworkers
v. American Mfg. Co., 363 U.S. 564 (1960); United Steelworkers v. Warrior & Gulf
Navigation Co., 363 U.S. 574 (1960); United Steelworkers v. Enterprise Wheel &
Car Corp., 363 U.S. 593 (1960) (known collectively as the "Steelworkers
Trilogy"); see also Operating Engineers Local 150 v. Flair Builders, Inc., 406
U.S. 487 (1972). Section 301 of the LMRA assigns the courts the "duty of
determining whether the reluctant party has breached his promise to arbitrate."
Warrior & Gulf Nav. Co., 363 U.S. at 582. There are limits, however, to the
judicial inquiry: . . . arbitration is a matter of contract and a party cannot
be required to submit to arbitration any dispute which he has not agreed so to
submit. Yet, to be consistent with congressional policy in favor of settlement
of disputes by the parties through the machinery of arbitration, the judicial
inquiry under s 301 must be strictly confined to the question whether the
reluctant party did agree to arbitrate the grievance or did agree to give the
arbitrator power to make the award he made. An order to arbitrate the particular
grievance should not be denied unless it may be said with positive assurance
that the arbitration clause is not susceptible of an interpretation that covers
the asserted dispute. Doubts should be resolved in favor of coverage. Warrior &
Gulf Nav. Co., 363 U.S. at 582-83 (emphasis added). Plaintiff claims that a
result of the parties' negotiation over the grievance and arbitration procedure,
the parties agreed that an arbitrator would not have the authority to decide
issues of arbitrability. Plaintiff points to deposition testimony supporting its
position that certain language in the CBA had been proposed by the Hospital, but
rejected by the Union. Ex. D at 63:15-64:8, 72:7-20; Ex. G. Plaintiff proposed
to add the following provision: The Arbitrator shall decide issues of
arbitrability prior to hearing the merits of the case. If the Arbitrator
determines the case is arbitrable then the Arbitrator shall consider the facts
of the grievance. . . . Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16
Page 4 of 10 5 Id. (emphasis added). Notes taken during negotiations do show
that this provision was crossed out. Doc. 33-7 at 6. Defendant contends that the
Union's rejection of this language cannot be read to indicate that the Union
instead intended for a court to determine arbitrability questions, and explains
that Union's rejection of this language was based on a desire not to have the
Arbitrator consider arbitrability questions "prior to" rather than as a part of
the "hearing on the merits of the case." Defendant argues that Plaintiff's gloss
on that language--that the Union intended for a court to routinely determine
arbitrability issues--would be contrary to background black-letter case law. See
AT&T Technologies, Inc. v. communications Workers of America, 475 U.S. 643, 649
(1986) ("Whether 'arguable' or not, . . . the union's claim that the employer
has violated the collective-bargaining agreement is to be decided, not by the
court asked to order arbitration, but as the parties have agreed, by the
arbitrator."); American Mfg. Co., 363 U.S at 567-568 ("The function of the court
is very limited when the parties have agreed to submit all questions of contract
interpretation to the arbitrator. It is confined to ascertaining whether the
party seeking arbitration is making a claim which on its face is governed by the
contract."). The Court agrees with Defendant's position that the negotiations do
not show an intent to have the courts decide issues of arbitrability, nor have
the parties agreed to have a court decide those issues. Plaintiff advances the
argument that the Court should decide whether the parties have agreed to submit
a particular dispute to arbitration because that question is a "substantive"
matter. Substantive arbitrability deals with whether the dispute relates to
matters that the parties agreed to arbitrate, while procedural arbitrability
addresses whether parties have satisfied conditions that allow them to use
arbitration. Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc., 537 U.S. 79, 85 (2002). Here,
the "subject matter" of the dispute is whether the Hospital had just cause to
Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 5 of 10 6 terminate
Diane Spencer's employment, while the "procedural issue" is whether the Union
waived the grievance under §30.12 of the CBA. Plaintiff is correct that
substantive arbitrability--the question of whether parties have agreed to
"submi[t] a particular dispute to arbitration"--is typically an "issue for
judicial determination . . . ." Id. at 83. However, Plaintiff is
over-complicating what is actually a relatively straightforward issue. Here, it
is clear that under the CBA, the parties have agreed to submit "grievances" to
arbitration, and that such "grievances" includes charges "by either party that
the other has violated one or more expressed provisions of this Agreement or a
formal disciplinary action taken against a non-probationary associate which the
grievant alleges was taken without just cause." Doc. 12, Ex. A at §30.2. This
provision would include disputes about whether the employer had just cause to
terminate an employee to the arbitration clause of the CBA. Section 7.1.16 of
the Management Rights Article reserves as a management right "[d]ecisions
concerning the counseling, reprimanding, discipline and discharge of associates
for just cause with the specific understanding that any discipline must be for
just cause and that the Union may grieve and arbitrate any such decision under
this Agreement." Doc. 41-1 at 4 (emphasis added). As part of that same Article,
the Hospital agreed that it would not refuse to arbitrate a grievance "on the
ground that it is not arbitrable under this Agreement." See Doc. 41- 1 at 6.
Further, section 7.5 of the Management Rights Article provides: The exercise of
management rights in this Article is not subject to the grievance and
arbitration procedure of this Agreement, unless the management right is
otherwise restricted by a specific provision of this Agreement. Management will
not refuse to arbitrate a grievance under a specific provision of this Agreement
(outside of the management rights set forth above in this Article unless noted
otherwise above) on the ground that it is not arbitrable under this Agreement.
Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 6 of 10 7 Id.
(Emphasis added). The question whether parties have submitted a particular
dispute to arbitration--that is, the question of arbitrability--is "an issue for
judicial determination [u]nless the parties clearly and unmistakably provide
otherwise." AT & T Technologies, Inc. v. Communications Workers, 475 U.S. at
649. Based on the CBA provisions, it certainly cannot be said "with positive
assurance that the arbitration clause is not susceptible of an interpretation
that covers the asserted dispute." Warrior & Gulf Nav. Co., 363 U.S. at 582-83.
Therefore, the Court finds that the parties have agreed to submit the Spencer
grievance to arbitration and that Defendant's motion to compel shall be granted
on that issue. II. Waiver Issue is Matter for Arbitration Similarly, under the
express provisions of the CBA, the question of whether the Union waived its
right to arbitrate the Spencer grievances is also subject to an arbitrator's
determination. If parties have agreed that the "subject matter" would be
arbitrated, "procedural" questions which grow out of the dispute and bear on its
final disposition should be left to an arbitrator: We think that labor disputes
of the kind involved here cannot be broken down so easily into their
"substantive" and "procedural" aspects. Questions concerning the procedural
prerequisites to arbitration do not arise in a vacuum; they develop in the
context of an actual dispute *557 about the rights of the parties to the
contract or those covered by it. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. v. Livingston, 376 U.S.
543, 556-57 (1964) (rejecting argument that questions regarding whether "
procedural" conditions to arbitration have been met must be decided by the court
and not the arbitrator); Flair Builders, Inc., 406 U.S. 487, 490 (1972) ("
procedural" questions which grow out of the dispute and bear on its final
disposition should be left to the arbitrator). The Hospital's affirmative
defense that the Union waived the grievance pursuant to Section 30.12 is
precisely the type of "procedural" issue that John Wiley & Sons Case
1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 7 of 10 8 requires to be
resolved by an arbitrator. Id. (the policy behind federal labor law requires
that procedural disagreements should be regarded "not as separate disputes but
as aspects of the dispute which called the grievance procedures into play"). The
Hospital also claims that the Spencer grievance is not arbitrable based on its
interpretation of §30.12 of the CBA and the fact that the Union filed a NLRB
charge on Ms. Spencer's behalf which is factually parallel to the claims made in
the grievance. See Resp. at 21. Section 30.12 states that it is the intention of
the parties "that the grievance procedure set forth herein shall be the sole and
exclusive remedy of the parties for any alleged breach of this Agreement" and
resort to any other remedy at law or equity, "administrative or judicial, shall
constitute a waiver of the grievance." Doc. 12-1 (emphasis added). Defendant
contends that the filing of unfair labor practices with the NLRB does not seek
to remedy a claimed breach of the Agreement, but rather federal law, and
analogizes the situation to an employee who pursues statutory remedies if that
employee's termination was upheld by an arbitrator. See, e.g., McDonald v. City
of West Branch, 466 U.S. 284, 292 (1984) (discharged police officer was not
precluded by adverse arbitration decision issued pursuant to a collective
bargaining agreement from pursuing his Section 1983 claims in federal court);
Barrentine v. Arkansas-Best Freight System, 450 U.S. 728, 745 (1981) (adverse
arbitration decision issued pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement did
not preclude an employee's claim pursuant to the Fair Labor Standards Act);
Alexander v. Gardner-Denver Co., 415 U.S. 36 (1974) (adverse arbitration
decision issued pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement did not preclude
an employee's claim pursuant to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964).
Thus, despite the similarity of the factual grounds underlying the Union's claim
with the NLRB, Defendant contends that the Election Forum clause is not
violated. Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 8 of 10 9
The waiver issue rests on the meaning of §30.12 of the CBA as it applies to Ms.
Spencer's grievance, which in turn implicates contract interpretation. Because
§30.12 is susceptible of an interpretation that covers the waiver issue, and
because doubts should be resolved in favor of coverage, the Court finds that an
arbitrator should resolve the issue. See American Mfg. Co., 363 U.S. at 567-568
("Whether the moving party is right or wrong is a question of contract
interpretation for the arbitrator."). Waiver is also the kind of defense that an
arbitrator should decide. See Howsam, 537 U.S. at 79-80 (expectation is that
arbitrator would decide procedural questions such as "allegations of waiver,
delay or a like defense to arbitrability"); Flair Builders, Inc., 406 U.S. at
490-92 (defense of laches is for arbitrator to decide). Accordingly, the meaning
of §30.12 of the CBA as it applies to the Spencer grievance, and whether the
Union has waived arbitrability, is for the arbitrator to decide. Defendant's
motion to compel arbitration is granted on this issue as well. III. Plaintiff's
Motion for Summary Judgment and Defendant's Counterclaims Finally, the Court
turns to Defendant's motion for summary judgment, which needs little discussion.
In that motion, Plaintiff contends that it is entitled to the relief requested
in its complaint for declaratory relief because the undisputed evidence
demonstrates that the Spencer grievances are not arbitrable and also shows that
the Union has breached the CBA by pursuing duplicative claims. Plaintiff's
summary judgment motion must be denied as moot, based on the Court's findings
that Parties have agreed to submit the Spencer grievance to arbitration, and
that the waiver issue is for the arbitrator to decide. Case 1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM
Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 9 of 10 10 In addition, because the relief
requested in Defendant's counterclaims are the same as the relief requested in
Defendant's motion to compel, Defendant's counterclaims are also denied as moot.
CONCLUSION In sum, the Court finds and concludes that under the terms of the
CBA, the parties have agreed to submit the Spencer grievance to arbitration and
that Defendant's motion to compel shall be granted on that issue. The Court
further finds and concludes that the meaning of §30.12 of the CBA as it applies
to the Spencer grievance, and whether the Union has waived arbitrability, is for
the arbitrator to decide, and Defendant's motion to compel is granted on that
issue as well. Finally, Plaintiff's summary judgment motion and Defendant's
counterclaims are denied as moot for reasons described in this Memorandum
Opinion and Order. In addition, because the relief requested in Defendant's
counterclaims are the same as the relief requested in Defendant's motion to
compel, Defendant's counterclaims are also denied as moot. THEREFORE, IT IS
ORDERED that Defendant's Motion to Compel Arbitration (Doc. 28) is hereby
GRANTED for reasons described in this Memorandum Opinion and Order; IT IS
FURTHER ORDERED that Plaintiff's Motion for Summary Judgment or in the
alternative, Summary Adjudication (Doc. 43) is hereby DENIED as MOOT for reasons
described in this Memorandum Opinion and Order. A final judgment will be filed
separately. ________________________________ UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE Case
1:15-cv-00942-WJ-KBM Document 45 Filed 09/21/16 Page 10 of 10



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


