                              477 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           October 31, 2015 Saturday

EndoGastric Solutions Announces Assignment of Relative Value Units for New CPT
Code Covering TIF Procedure

LENGTH: 638  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Washington: Biotechnology Industry Organization has issued the following news
release:




 REDMOND, Wash.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--EndoGastric Solutions&reg; (EGS), a leader in
incisionless procedural therapy for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD),
today announced the Federal Register has posted coding and payment information
specific to the new Current Procedural Terminology (CPT)&reg; code covering the
Transoral Incisionless Fundoplication (TIF&reg;) procedure.




  &ldquo;The APC classification assignment is also a significant step in the
reimbursement process for the TIF procedure. We look forward to the increased
economic value of the procedure for healthcare systems to provide chronic GERD
patients this treatment option&rdquo;

 Physician payment for CPT 43210 EGD esophagogastric fundoplasty has been given
12.43 total relative value units (RVU); using the established Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) CY2016 conversion factor, 35.8279, this translates
to a national unadjusted payment amount of $445.34.
 For hospital outpatient payment, CPT 43210 has been grouped to APC 5331 Complex
GI Procedures. This has a national unadjusted payment amount of $3,613.57. APCs
are the federal government's facility payments for outpatient Medicare services.

 Physicians and hospitals will be able to reference CPT code 43210 EGD
esophagogastric fundoplasty and APC 5331 Complex GI Procedures for TIF
procedures on or after January 1, 2016.
 &ldquo;Now that RVU and APC assignments for the new Category 1 CPT code 43210
have been finalized for use, healthcare providers should have a more effective
pathway to appropriately receive reimbursement,&rdquo; said Philip Macdonald,
Vice President, Healthcare Economics, Policy and Reimbursement. &ldquo;A larger
percentage of GERD sufferers will have access to the TIF procedure as an option
to resolve their chronic symptoms and help improve their quality of life.&rdquo;

 The relative value unit (RVU) assignment is based on the amount of the
physician's work, practice expense and malpractice expense associated with the
procedure. The AMA formed the AMA/Specialty Society Relative Value Scale Update
Committee (RUC) to act as an expert panel in developing relative value
recommendations to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). The
purpose of the RUC process is to provide recommendations to CMS for use in
annual updates to the new Medicare RVS. Manufacturers have no impact or input
into the assignment of RVUs.
 &ldquo;EGS invested in obtaining Level 1 evidence from randomized controlled
trials to prove that the TIF procedure is an effective option to treat chronic
acid reflux,&rdquo; said Skip Baldino, President and CEO of EGS. &ldquo;The CPT
application was supported by four key surgical and gastroenterology
societies--American Gastroenterological Association, American College of
Gastroenterology, American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy and the
Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeon--who recognized the
body of clinical evidence supported a dedicated CPT code.&rdquo;
 All outpatient services grouped under a specific APC are annually updated by
the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). Each APC is composed of
services that are similar in clinical intensity, resource utilization and cost.
Many service codes are derived directly from the American Medical Association's
CPT&reg;.
 &ldquo;The APC classification assignment is also a significant step in the
reimbursement process for the TIF procedure. We look forward to the increased
economic value of the procedure for healthcare systems to provide chronic GERD
patients this treatment option,&rdquo; concluded Baldino.


 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


