                              482 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 29, 2015 Saturday

New York: Failure teaches best when blame is hard to pin down, study finds

LENGTH: 1057  words

DATELINE: Albany


Academy of Management has issued the following news release:

Which company problem is more likely to get fixed - one attributable to a
particular person or department or one with wider roots? Common sense would
suggest the former, since the solution in that case may involve nothing more
complicated than changing the way a single unit is run or setting an individual
or a few people straight.

But some new research casts doubt on this reasoning, obvious though it may seem.

In the words of a paper in the current issue of the Academy of Management
Journal,"concentrated failures prompt narrower attributions of responsibility
which, whether accurate or not, ultimately lead to less thorough investigations
and fewer of the system wide changes that are typically required to address
organizational performance problems."

The study goes on to explain that, "following multiple failures at the same
location or involving the same individuals, organizational leaders have a
well-recognized tendency to merely dismiss culpable parties or make other
relatively localized changes. While these simple changes may be sufficient in
some cases, the present study suggests the need for deeper exploration."

The paper, by Vinit Desai, an associate professor of management at the
University of Colorado Denver, comes to these conclusions through an analysis of
failures that are literally a matter of life and death - the improvement or lack
of it in death rates resulting from cardiac-bypass surgery in more than 115
hospitals in California, where the state gathers copious data on these
surgeries. The hospitals that made the greatest strides were those in which
deaths were dispersed among patients of a number of surgeons rather than being
concentrated in patients of one or just a few. The chance that the degree of
concentration did not influence death rates was less than 5%.

Asked for specific examples, Prof. Desai hesitates to draw conclusions about the
results of any single institution as distinct from the sample as a whole. With
this caveat, he cites the case of a hospital where over a two-year period about
half the surgeons lost patients who underwent this procedure, called Coronary
Artery Bypass Graft (CABG). According to the hospital, it responded with broad
procedural changes that involved "[putting] evidence-based protocols in place,
[providing] educational and skills-based training for staff, and [forming]
multidisciplinary committees to identify and resolve quality issues." The
following year, no patients died following CABG at the hospital, even though
about the usual number of procedures was carried out.

What about hospitals where bypass deaths were concentrated among a small
minority of surgeons? How the departure of subpar physicians affected such
institutions individually would be difficult to tell, the professor says. But
outcomes were quite clear for the study sample as a whole: greater concentration
of failures was associated with more subsequent departures but not with reduced
CABG deaths. In short, the exit of less competent surgeons did not, in general,
solve the problem.

Research, the study notes, "has identified a pervasive tendency to overweight
individual or dispositional factors and underweight situational ones...When
repeated failures primarily involve the same group or employee, organizational
decision-makers might suspect that the involved party played a causal or at
least a contributory role. This may initially seem reasonable, given the
frequency of failures involving this party and the relative rarity of failures
involving others within the organization. However, work on defensive
attributions would suggest the tendency for decision-makers in this situation to
ignore or undervalue any contributing situational factors, and even to
overweight the importance of individual or dispositional characteristics."

The paper is based on the performance of 116 to 118 hospitals (the number varies
over the length of the study) in two-year segments of the period 2003 through
2010. A mean of about five surgeons per hospital, but as many as 10, performed
CABG operations, with the doctors averaging about 63 such procedures per year. A
little less than three percent of patients died during or after surgery.

Desai analyzed the relationship between failure concentration (how failure was
apportioned among surgeons) in one period, say 2003-04, and the change in the
incidence of CABG deaths between those two years and the following two years,
say 2005-06. In all, the analysis embraced 468 hospital-period observations,
with findings including the following:

[#x25a0]   The more concentrated failure was in one period, the greater the
failure rate in the following period.

[#x25a0]  This relationship was stronger in larger hospitals, where
concentrations of poor performers stood out more than in smaller places. It was
weaker in institutions with CABG death rates either well above or well below the
average, the former group being highly motivated to improve their results and
the latter group to perpetuate their superiority.

[#x25a0]  Concentrated failure was associated, too, with increased incidence of
surgeon departures and fewer hospital efforts to refine CABG procedures.

Asked to sum up the study's principal lesson, Prof. Desai says, "Don't be too
quick to assign blame. In all likelihood, there is more to be lost in doing so
than there is in looking for a deeper cause. Difficult though they may be, deep
searches for underlying structural solutions or procedural changes can pay off
in a big way even in high-functioning organizations."

Indeed, in a 2011 study of the global launch-vehicle industry published in the
Academy of Management Journal, Prof. Desai and Peter Madsen of Brigham Young
University had occasion to cite a catastrophic instance of this - the tragic
loss of seven astronauts aboard the Columbia space shuttle from a structural
flaw that had been noticed in a previous shuttle liftoff but went uncorrected
because the earlier flight was successful. Organizations, the study concluded,
learn more effectively from failure than from success. Now the new research
takes the matter a step further, identifying the circumstances in which failure
teaches most effectively.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


