                              479 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                            June 25, 2008 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

New Children's Hospital chief quit U.S. job amid controversy

BYLINE: Pamela Fayerman, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1163  words


The new president of B.C. Children's Hospital resigned his nine-year CEO post at
a Connecticut hospital after a scathing indictment of hospital management and
policies by the state government's public health commissioner.

Larry Gold, who succeeds the retired Sharon Toohey, was chosen by a selection
panel headed by Lynda Cranston, CEO of the Provincial Health Services Authority
(PHSA), the governing authority over BC Children's Hospital and Sunny Hill
Health Centre, both of which Gold will lead.

Cranston said in an interview that Gold was honest and straightforward about the
events in Connecticut and the actions he took to prevent further occurrences.

Upon his resignation, Gold was praised by his colleagues as a down-to-earth,
energetic leader, revered for his fundraising abilities and interpersonal
skills.

Gold, a 55-year-old married father of two children (aged 21 and 19), is a social
worker who became a hospital executive. He will be paid $238,000 a year.

In 2005, Connecticut health commissioner Dr. Robert Galvin fined Gold's former
hospital, Connecticut Children's Medical Center (CCMC) $250,000 after multiple
unannounced inspections and investigations found numerous problems.

The hospital was placed on two years probation during which time it was ordered
to fix problems that violated state regulations.

In May of 2005, Gold signed a legal "consent agreement" to do that while not
admitting to wrongdoing.

In an interview, Gold said he thought his former hospital met and even exceeded
all standards but the findings were accepted and he resigned because, with
leaders, "the buck stops here."

The problems, over the course of about two years, had to do with care lapses in
the hospital's radiology and emergency departments, security, and trauma
services. The Vancouver Sun obtained a 100-page report detailing the procedural
lapses, which may have caused the deaths of three children and jeopardized other
patients' safety. Gold is not named specifically nor accused of being
responsible for the problems. He resigned seven months later and has spent the
last two years as a consultant.

In one case cited by Galvin, a 15-year-old car accident victim died after it
took a radiologist in the emergency room an hour and a half to read a diagnostic
exam that revealed a heart injury. The boy bled internally and died before
surgery to repair his torn aorta.

Another fatality was caused by a child, visiting a patient, who wandered
unsupervised and unnoticed by hospital staff into another patient's room, picked
up a baby, dropped it and caused its death.

In another security lapse, a drug addicted mother wrongfully removed her baby in
state custody from the hospital and emergency abduction protocols were not used.

In a case of misdiagnosis, a child with sickle cell disease died because of gaps
in emergency department diagnostic delays. The report also details numerous
other lapses including medications not being stored in locked carts, an
operation being done on the wrong side of the body, and fridges that weren't
kept cold enough.

Galvin, still the health commissioner, declined to be interviewed but had a
hospital spokesman send this e-mail statement: "During Mr. Gold's time with
CCMC, he was known as a strong advocate for the hospital and [Galvin] wishes Mr.
Gold success in his new position."

Before listing off situations in Toronto and Winnipeg where children died
because of procedural flaws and negligent care, Cranston said, "We have to
recognize there are no perfect hospitals out there."

She was reminded that a decade ago, when she was president of B.C. Children's
Hospital, she offered a tearful public apology to the parents of a
seven-year-old cancer patient who died after a doctor mistakenly injected a
chemotherapy drug into her spine instead of her veins. It was not the first time
a drug had been incorrectly administered but previous cases had not resulted in
deaths.

At a news conference at the time, Cranston admitted the hospital was
responsible.

She said: "There are no words that can adequately communicate our apologies or
regret to this girl's family. There is nothing that can bring their child back
to them, and we are devastated by that knowledge."

Cranston said she can relate to what Gold went through and hospital leaders have
to accept the ultimate blame when things go wrong.

"That's right, I had my own experience. So I am someone who has walked through
the fire and tried to make significant changes so that we came out better at the
other end," she said.

"There are 10,000 employees at PHSA and any day of the week untoward things can
happen in a highly labour intensive business because of the human factor," she
added.

Cranston said Gold was the best of several candidates because of his 30 years of
experience at pediatric hospitals.

Several months before Gold resigned, Galvin was quoted in the Hartford Courant
newspaper as saying: "We see a more than reasonable amount of supervisory
confusion over there. They simply have to get the place straightened out and put
on a full court press to do it."

Galvin said hospital leaders seemed unaware that a "bulldozer, not a shovel" was
necessary to protect children. When asked if he'd take his own grandchildren to
the hospital, he said no, adding "We have not seen to date the positive changes
I want to see there."

Apart from security concerns, Galvin said the 129-bed hospital (similar in size
to B.C. Children's) needed electronic medical records, more staff in the
emergency department, better security, more supervision of medical trainees,
more training in advanced trauma, cardiac and life support, and more clarity of
executive functions.

Cranston said she's not overly concerned Gold hails from the U.S.

"I'm a little biased as my preference is to find a Canadian whenever possible.
But after interviewing as many as 30 candidates that were brought to us by a
search firm, and then whittling the list down to six or seven, Larry rose to the
top," she said, referring to the selection process conducted by about 20 various
PHSA managers, doctors and nurses.

"There are just a few dozen pediatric hospitals in North America, so someone
with 30 years of experience is significant," Cranston added.

In fact, there are more than 100 pediatric hospitals in North America, including
about a dozen in Canada. In a recent issue of U.S. News and World Report,
pediatric hospitals in the U.S. are ranked. The Connecticut hospital where Gold
worked does not place in the top 30 hospitals in the areas of general
pediatrics, cancer, cardiac care and surgery, neonatal neurology and
neurosurgery, or respiratory disorders. But it does place 30th in digestive
disorders care.

Rankings are measured on hospital reputations (according to doctors surveyed),
nurse staffing levels, advanced technologies, patient volumes and re-admission
rates (patients who have to go back to hospital after discharge due to
complications or unresolved matters.)

Sun Health Issues Reporter

pfayerman@png.canwest.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

