                              480 of 999 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright 2017 GlobalData Ltd., All Rights Reserved
                              GlobalData - Events

                                  May 1, 2017

                              VIDA Diagnostics Inc

                 2500 Crosspark Road, BioVentures Center, W250
                                Coralville 52241
                                 United States

* * * * * * * * * * EVENTS * * * * * * * * * *


OneMedNet and VIDA Announce Global Partnership

   Dec 28, 2016

   OneMedNet Corporation, a leader in the provision of innovative Image Exchange
Solutions, announced a partnership with VIDA Diagnostics, Inc. (VIDA), the
leader in precision pulmonary imaging. Under the agreement, OneMedNet and VIDA
will incorporate image exchange into current and future diagnostic and
therapeutic procedural workflows to manage patients with pulmonary diseases.VIDA
will create an embedded VIDA|exchange data sharing solution within its
VIDA|visionTM software, using the BEAM SW and Network offering of OneMedNet to
provide their customers a seamless mechanism for exchange of studies for the
purposes of precision analysis provided by VIDA .&ldquoPrecision healthcare
requires precision informatics. We are delighted to be teaming up with OneMedNet
to simplify pulmonologists&rsquoaccess to advanced imaging analysis,&rdquosaid
Sandra Stapleton, COO of VIDA. &ldquoThe partnership enables integrated and
streamlined procedural workflows, essential for higher-value precision
care.&rdquo The collaboration covers North America, Europe, and Australia.
According to Catherine Forrester, Vice President, Operations of OneMedNet,
&ldquoOur companies share an overlapping healthcare vision and our complimentary
solutions blend seamlessly together, which certainly make for an ideal
relationship. We are pleased to expand our successful partnership program with
yet another industry segment leader.&rdquo


VIDA Diagnostics names new COO

   Dec 12, 2016

   VIDA Diagnostics, Inc., a provider of clinical imaging software and analysis
services, has named Sandra Stapleton as COO.Sandra will strengthen VIDA&#39s
operations and executive management team to support growth in pulmonary clinical
software and services."We are delighted to welcome Sandra to VIDA and strengthen
our operational and strategic core," said Susan A. Wood, Ph.D, President and CEO
of VIDA. &nbsp"Sandra is an established leader with a successful track record in
a confluence of sectors that influence our business: imaging informatics,
decision support and pulmonary medicine. Her strong and successful leadership is
a critical addition to VIDA for our next phase of growth." Sandra Stapleton has
over 20 years of experience successfully incorporating innovative clinical
solutions into the marketplace. &nbspShe has led strategic, clinical, operations
and technology functions, and post-acquisition transitional teams. &nbspShe
comes to VIDA from Lexmark International (following acquisition of Claron
Technology, Inc.), where she led the imaging platform business, corporate
quality and regulatory, and visualization engineering functions for Lexmark.
Prior to Claron, Sandra served as VP of Technology at R2 Technology (R2), where
she led development of R2&#39s mammography and lung computer-aided detection
products, both receiving FDA PMA approval. "I&#39m excited to be joining
VIDA&#39s executive team as we advance precision information into clinical
practice," said Sandra. "With the clinical evidence supporting its software and
services, VIDA is poised to improve the standard of pulmonary care."


VIDA and Olympus Expand Strategic Partnership

   May 16, 2016

   VIDA Diagnostics, Inc., the leader in precision pulmonary imaging, announced
an expanded collaboration with Olympus Respiratory America, a leading developer
of devices for the treatment of acute and chronic conditions of the lung and a
subsidiary of Olympus Corporation, at the 2016 American Thoracic Society
Meeting. Under the agreement, VIDA and Olympus will incorporate precision
informatics into current and future diagnostic and therapeutic procedural
workflows to manage patients with pulmonary diseases."Olympus' goals are to
develop more comprehensive technologies and tools to localize, diagnose and
treat the small pulmonary nodule," said Katsuyuki Saito, Executive Officer,
Olympus Corporation. "By unifying advanced procedural selection and planning
techniques using VIDA, we aim to offer a high value, efficient solution for the
physician and patient." The collaboration covers North America and Europe and
will include marketing and development programs in interventional pulmonology,
tightly integrating imaging informatics software and services to drive
diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. "Precision medicine requires precision
information and we are delighted to expand our partnership with Olympus to
advance interventional pulmonology," said Susan A. Wood, Ph.D., President and
CEO of VIDA. "The partnership enables integrated and streamlined procedural
workflows, essential for higher-value precision care and builds on the successes
of our Olympus partnership to date."


University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics Selects Local Startup, VIDA, for
Precision Pulmonology Imaging Solution

   Jan 05, 2016

   VIDA Diagnostics, Inc. ("VIDA"), the leader in precision pulmonary imaging,
announced an engagement to provide clinical imaging software and analysis
services to the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics. "VIDA's leadership
position was born from a vision of taking precision imaging from bench to
bedside," said Susan A. Wood, Ph.D., President and CEO of VIDA. "It is both
thrilling and fitting that the University of Iowa is VIDA's first direct
clinical sale. Together we will ensure that every pulmonary patient gets
precision care."VIDA's solution will support key pulmonary care initiatives at
University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, including lung cancer screening,
interventional pulmonology and other precision healthcare efforts. VIDA provides
a quality-controlled image analysis service, with advanced analytical software,
to provide clinicians rich quantitative lung measures that inform critical care
decisions. "The University of Iowa has always pursued advancements in pulmonary
care," said Joseph Zabner, M.D., Professor and Director, Division of Pulmonary,
Critical Care & Occupational Medicine. "Bringing advanced pulmonary analysis to
the bedside was always the focus of Geoff McLennan, M.D., who was critical to
our early successes in interventional bronchoscopy." VIDA's strong
commercialization momentum is an early outcome of support from the Iowa Economic
Development Authority (IEDA). VIDA was granted an IEDA Accelerate loan in
February 2015 through the Iowa Innovation Acceleration Fund to aid the company
in marketing and sales efforts. This loan was used to invest in early
commercialization efforts and this opportunity with the University of Iowa marks
the first commercial sale resulting from the State investment. "Iowa has worked
hard to create a continuum of innovation funding to help companies start and
grow in our state. We are thrilled that the investment in VIDA has enabled them
to advance their commercial efforts so rapidly and provide best-in-breed
opportunities for patients with or at risk of pulmonary disease," said Debi
Durham, director of the IEDA.


VIDA Wins Product of Outstanding Interest Award for Precision Pulmonary Imaging
Solution

   Sep 30, 2015

   VIDA Diagnostics, Inc. ("VIDA"), the leader in precision pulmonary imaging,
today announced it has received the European Respiratory Society's Product of
Outstanding Interest (POINT) award. The honor recognizes innovation in the area
of respiratory healthcare, with a focus on solutions solving clinical care
challenges."We are delighted and honored to receive the POINT award here at
ERS," said Susan A. Wood, Ph.D, President and CEO of VIDA. "We thank the ERS for
recognizing and supporting our mission of improving patient outcomes through
precision imaging."VIDA's solution transforms raw imaging data into concise,
quantified measures that inform highly personalized care decisions. For example,
VIDA's Lung Volume Reduction (LVR) workflow provides individual metrics for
fissure integrity, disease severity by lobe, and disease heterogeneity, all of
which are critical input in selecting and planning therapy. VIDA is
demonstrating this workflow and others at ERS, with its next-generation viewing
platform, VIDA|visionâ¢. "VIDA's solution captures the personalized medicine
theme of ERS," said Felix Herth, MD, Ph.D, Chairman, Department of Pneumology
and Critical Care Medicine at ThoraxKlinik, University of Heidelberg. "An
informed decision process is increasingly necessary as pulmonary diagnoses and
therapeutics become more personalized. VIDA takes into account the uniqueness of
the patient and helps us plan a unique care path to match."


VIDA Diagnostics Announces Expanded Board of Directors

   Dec 02, 2014

   VIDA Diagnostics, Inc. announced the expansion of its board of directors
appointing three new members.Craig Ibsen, Michael Minette, and Philip Smith,
join VIDA's board to add critical industry and financial expertise to help guide
VIDA's next phase of strategic growth."As VIDA advances its leading pulmonary
imaging informatics solution into routine clinical care, it is of great benefit
to have the advice of industry and financial leaders with unique understanding
of the role of advanced imaging analytics in healthcare," says Susan A. Wood,
Ph.D., President and CEO of VIDA. "I am grateful for the support and advice of
Craig, Mike and Phil as VIDA continues its growth trajectory." About Craig
IbsenCraig has over 25 years of investment, entrepreneurial and senior
management experience in the US and globally. He is a founder of Next Level
Ventures, a new $30M late stage venture capital firm located in Des Moines,
investing in growing companies that are based in Iowa. Craig currently serves as
Director of Industry People Group, Fitness on Request and was the former
Chairman of Global ID Group which was acquired by Inverness Graham in 2013. He
holds an MBA from Drake University and a BA from Luther College. About Michael
MinetteMike is a Vice President of Corporate Development & Strategy, supporting
and leading global growth and acquisition initiatives for Exact Sciences, and
formally for Covidien's Early Technologies division. With over sixteen years in
healthcare and transactions, Mike provides diverse operational experiences that
include: sales, marketing, project management, product development, general
management, and strategy consulting. He has executed over 40 M&A / transactions
in his career. Prior to Exact Sciences and Covidien, Mike led and managed
business development and M&A transactions across General Electric Healthcare's
portfolio of businesses. Mike holds a Bachelor of Arts in Finance from the
University of Northern Iowa, Master of Business Administration in Strategy,
Finance & Management from Loyola University of Chicago, and graduate of
University of Chicago's Mergers & Acquisition program. About Philip SmithPhil
has amassed extensive healthcare transaction expertise during his career as both
an investment banker and an executive officer of emerging medtech companies.
Prior to joining Greene Holcomb Fisher, he spent 11 years in various executive
roles in strategy and business development, and as CEO. In these capacities and
as a consumer of investment banking services, Phil obtained significant
acquisition and strategic partnering experience from the operating client
perspective. He has also served on boards both as an independent director and as
CEO. Previously, Phil was a healthcare investment banker at Piper Jaffray, where
he was heavily involved in M&A and public equity transactions with
industry-leading medical technology and health services organizations. Phil
holds an MBA from the Wharton School of Business and an BS in electrical
engineering from the University of Florida.


VIDA Diagnostics Appoints Philippe Raffy As CTO

   Mar 28, 2012

   VIDA Diagnostics, Inc. (VIDA) appointed Dr Philippe Raffy as CTO. Dr Raffy's
inclusion to the VIDA management team strengthens the technical leadership and
expertise in pulmonary image analysis.Prior to VIDA, Dr Raffy held technical and
management leadership positions at R2 Technologies, Inc. and Vital Images, Inc.,
where he was instrumental in commercializing innovative medical imaging
technologies. Dr Raffy has a masters and PhD in electrical engineering from
University of Nice-Sophia Antipolis and a postdoctoral fellowship at Stanford
University's Information Systems Laboratory. He is an inventor of seven US and
EEU patents and 37 peer reviewed publications.Dr Susan A Wood, president and CEO
of VIDA, said, "Dr. Raffy's unique background and experience in pulmonary
imaging and machine vision solidify VIDA's position as leading experts in
quantitative imaging of the lung. Philippe's experience in commercializing
medical imaging technologies into developing markets is an essential inclusion
to our team as VIDA continues its growth trajectory." Dr Raffy said, "I welcome
the opportunity to expand VIDA's quantitative imaging solutions for the early
detection, diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary disease into clinical practice.
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Diseases (COPD) and lung cancer cause increasingly
prominent public health disorders, creating major economic challenges for our
societies and healthcare systems. They require disruptive approaches to targeted
diagnoses and treatment planning."


VIDA Diagnostics Earns ISO 13485 And CE Certifications

   Sep 19, 2011

   VIDA Diagnostics, Inc. achieved International Organization for
Standardization (ISO 13485) certification and CE certification for its flagship
product, Apollo. The CE certification permits VIDA to sell Apollo for clinical
use in the European Economic Area (EEA) and Switzerland. Apollo currently has
FDA 510(k) approval for clinical use in the US.Apollo is VIDA's recently
released, pulmonary image analysis solution designed to assess pulmonary disease
objectively and repeatedly with unprecedented speed and accuracy. Used for the
early detection, evaluation and aiding of treatment of pulmonary disease
including COPD, emphysema, lung cancer, and asthmaVIDA's analysis methodology
has been successfully tested in multiple academic and clinical trials.Dr Susan A
Wood, president and CEO of VIDA Diagnostics, said, "Receiving these
certifications are significant milestones for VIDA Diagnostics in establishing
high quality standards and generating a solid platform for commercialization in
the worldwide market. We are excited to expand the reach of VIDA solutions."


Vida Enters Into Agreement With Veran Medical

   Nov 29, 2009




VIDA Diagnostics Appoints Susan A. Wood As President And CEO

   Sep 28, 2009

   VIDA Diagnostics Inc. (VIDA Diagnostics), a US-based developer of
quantitative imaging software for the advanced analysis of pulmonary diseases,
has appointed Susan A. Wood as president and chief executive officer (CEO). Wood
will focus on the continued development and commercialization of the Company's
FDA-cleared pulmonary applications and establishing quantitative pulmonary
imaging into routine clinical practice.Wood succeeds John Garber, who during his
tenure helped build VIDA from an academic concept to the leading pulmonary image
analysis tool in clinical research. Wood Brings extensive clinical and
commercial expertise in quantitative thoracic image analysis.Dr. Wood's
pulmonary research and imaging industry experience have helped establish the
seminal need for volumetric, quantitative CT imaging for pulmonary diagnosis and
treatment planning. We are delighted to add her domain knowledge and industry
experience to further build on VIDA's leadership position, and to establish
objective, quantitative measures for diagnosis, interventional therapies and
therapeutic response assessment, said Geoffrey McLennan,a founder of VIDA and a
practicing pulmonologist at the University of Iowa Healthcare. Used by over 40
research and clinical sites worldwide with more than 25,000 CT exams processed,
VIDA's PW2 is one of the most clinically validated quantitative pulmonary
analysis solutions in its class. I am thrilled with the opportunity to advance
VIDA to the next stage and to ingrain quantitative pulmonary review into routine
clinical practice, said Wood. John Garber successfully executed on the founders
vision and established a tremendous platform for VIDA, tapping into one of the
world's most talented teams of engineers, physiologists and clinicians focused
exclusively on pulmonary imaging. This talent and focus is a great platform from
which to advance the company. Wood, who joined VIDA's board in 2008, has a
proven track record in developing and marketing innovative medical technologies
into clinical practice. Her last position was executive vice president of
Marketing and Technology at Vital Images, where she was responsible for the
development and commercialization of the company's first clinical applications
for Toshiba's Aquilionâ¢ ONE, dynamic volume CT. Previously, Wood led marketing
and new product development at R2 Technology, now part of Hologic. In this role,
Wood championed the product and market development of the first-ever FDA-cleared
computer-aided detection (CAD) product for lung nodule detection in MDCT. She
earned her doctorate from the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, based on the
thesis, Analysis of Three-Dimensional Airway Trees during Inflation Using
Computed Tomography.
* * * * * * * * * * OTHER AVAILABLE REPORTS * * * * * * * * * *
Company Investment Analysis             Company Overview
Events                                  Investments
Key Employees                           Key Facts
Major Products and Services             Top Competitors

 * * * * * * * * * * NOTE * * * * * * * * * *

   GlobalData uses a range of research techniques to gather and verify its
information and analysis. These include primary research, in-house knowledge and
expertise, proprietary databases, and secondary sources such as company
websites, annual reports, SEC filings and press releases. Disclaimer: No part of
this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted
in any form by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or
otherwise, without the prior permission of the publisher, GlobalData. The facts
of this report are believed to be correct at the time of publication but cannot
be guaranteed. Please note that the findings, conclusions and recommendations
that GlobalData delivers will be based on information gathered in good faith
from both primary and secondary sources, whose accuracy we are not always in a
position to guarantee. As such GlobalData can accept no liability whatever for
actions taken based on any information that may subsequently prove to be
incorrect.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2017


