                              48 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                              May 13, 1985 Monday

DOCTOR FORECASTS MEDI-PEACE SOON

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPAUSNEWS

LENGTH: 561 words


Doctor forecasts Medi-peace soon CANBERRA._ The Australian Medical Association
president, Dr Lindsay Thompson, says he expects legislation for the Government's
Medicare peace package to be implemented next week. However, the militant
Council of Procedural Specialists said yesterday only a ""dismal group" was
going to accept the package and that many rebel surgeons would stay out until
they received a better deal from the Government. More than 600 of the 1363
doctors who resigned earlier this year are expected to go back to work under the
$166 million peace package negotiated by Dr Thompson with the Federal
Government. The Government's offer includes repeal of parts of the controversial
Section 17 which covers private practice in public hospitals. But the amending
legislation must be introduced soon if it is to be passed before Parliament
rises. The Council of Procedural Specialists said many of the 600 doctors
expected to return to work today would do so only because of financial pressure
or through frustration with the Australian Medical Association's negotiations
with the Government. ""They're a very dismal group going back," a spokesman, Dr
Peter Catts, said. ""Some doctors might be drifting back but the public hospital
system won't have the specialists it had before and it will end up being a
pretty lousy system." Dr Catts said many rebel surgeons were prepared to stay
out until doctors got a better deal from the Government. ""Of course, some
doctors will never go back," Dr Thompson said. ""But I think it is generally
conceded that the majority of doctors are going back to work." A vote of
no-confidence in Dr Thompson was defeated at a special meeting on Saturday,
clearing the way for a continuation of a return to work by doctors in New South
Wales. ""It was an excellent vote for me personally and it went better than many
people would perhaps have predicted," Dr Thompson said. He said the vote went
7232 to 1196 in his favor. Dr Thompson said nearly half the AMA's 19,000 voting
membership had voted at the meeting in person or by proxy. He said the vote
preserved the ""honor, stability and credibility of the organisation" and showed
the AMA continued to be the only representative body in the medical profession.
""I hope as a result of the meeting the Council of Procedural Specialists will
now work with and through the AMA. Under the AMA's constitution, Dr Thompson is
required to stand down as president when his three-year term expires on May 31.
In the light of this, the no-confidence motion appears to be an expression of
the hostility of militant NSW surgeons unwilling to accept the peace package or
the return to work. There were 116 doctors at the Canberra meeting, including
members of the Council of Procedural Specialists and Liberal Senator Peter
Baume, who spoke against the no-confidence motion. The motion of no-confidence
was organised by the Australian Orthopaedic Association secretary, Dr David
MacNicol. A recorded message on a ""Dial-a-Surgeons" telephone line in Sydney
reportedly has been urging procedural specialists not to offer their services to
NSW public hospitals under any circumstances. It claims restrictive contracts
have been drawn up by the NSW Health Department for doctors who returned to
work, including essential service and transfer clauses and billing by hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1985 Nationwide News Pty Limited


