                              483 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                           December 29, 2016 Thursday

Dutch fertility clinic checks for possible sperm mix-up;
Couples may have incorrect donor in IVF procedure.;
NETHERLANDS

BYLINE: Nina Siegal

SECTION: ; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 440 words


AMSTERDAM - Twenty-six couples in the Netherlands are waiting to find out if the
sperm that was used to fertilize their eggs at a reproductive technology clinic
might have come from the wrong men.

The clinic, at the University Medical Center in Utrecht, said Wednesday that a
procedural error might have led to a mix-up in sperm.

"In each of these cases there is a small risk, small but it cannot be ruled out,
that during the procedure, sperm cells of the mother's own partner have been
mixed with remaining sperm from a previous procedure," Paul Geurts, a spokesman
for the hospital, said in an interview.

In most cases, the egg will most likely have been fertilized by the intended
sperm, but "we will have to see" to know for certain, he said.

The situation was discovered in November, according to Geurts, when a technician
at the clinic noticed a problem in a kind of in vitro fertilization treatment
known as intracytoplasmic sperm injection, or ICSI, and reported it.

That procedural error might have occurred for couples treated from April 2015 to
November 2016, according to the clinic. Half the couples who had fertility
treatment during that time have already had children or are expecting them. The
other half have fertilized eggs that are frozen. The oldest child who might have
been conceived as a result of the possible mix-up is about a year old.

All of the couples possibly affected have been informed and have been offered
DNA tests, the clinic said.

Primarily used in cases of male infertility, ICSI involves injecting a single
sperm directly into a mother's egg. The technician, guided by a microscope,
injects the sperm using a glass pipette. The tip of the pipette is then
discarded.

Thetechnician,uponcompleting the procedure, discovered that there was still
genetic material on the tip of the pipette, Geurts said. She notified the
supervising technician, and upon further investigation, they discovered that
sperm from a previous procedure had somehow gotten into the pipette - evidently
because the technician had mistakenly used the wrong kind of rubber apparatus on
the end of the pipette.

Geurts declined to say whether the technician had been punished, calling it a
confidential personnel matter.

"The hospital regrets, of course, what has happened to the couples involved, and
we will provide counseling and a meeting with the medical staff with all of
these couples to work their way forward," Geurts said. "It was just an
unfortunate event."

Jesper Smeenk, a gynecologist and spokesman for the Dutch Federation of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists, said there were about 7,600 ICSI procedures
every year in the Netherlands.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


