                              485 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1993, American Health Lawyers Association,
                              Journal of Health Law

                                  April, 1993

                         Vol. 26, No. 4, HOSPLW Pg. 126

LENGTH: 410 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: STAFF PRIVILEGES: Exclusive contract no basis for terminating
another physician's privileges



AUTHOR: C. C./T. K.
Submitted by: John D. Buchanan, Jr., Tallahassee, Florida

TEXT:

   The Florida Circuit Court granted an injunction preventing the constructive
revocation of plaintiff physician's clinical privileges at defendant hospital.
The court enjoined defendant from using a subsequent exclusive contract with
another physician to revoke plaintiff's clinical privileges in therapeutic
radiology.

   As a member of defendant's medical staff, plaintiff performed medical
procedures consistent with his authorized clinical privileges.  Plaintiff's
clinical privileges in therapeutic radiology required access to defendant's
equipment, facilities, and personnel.  Defendant hospital contracted with
another physician to provide radiation therapy services at the hospital.
However, the contract permitted only the contract physician, or physicians hired
by him, to render radiation therapy services to patients using defendant's
equipment, facilities, and personnel.  The physician did not offer or intend to
offer plaintiff a position as a radiation therapy physician, which effectively
barred plaintiff from exercising his clinical privileges.  Plaintiff requested a
hearing pursuant to defendant's medical staff bylaws.  Defendant denied the
hearing because it did not intend to deviate from the contract arrangement.

   Plaintiff sued for injunctive relief, claiming procedural and substantive due
process provisions in defendant's bylaws protected his existing clinical
privileges.  Defendant argued plaintiff's loss of privileges constituted a
legitimate "ancillary effect" of its decision to enter into an exclusive
contract with another physician.

   The court addressed the issue whether the contract between defendant and the
physician constructively revoked plaintiff's clinical privileges.  The court
held the contract constituted a de facto or constructive revocation of
plaintiff's privileges and resulted in a denial of plaintiff's procedural and
substantive due process rights granted in defendant's staff bylaws.  The court
found defendant's bylaws a binding and enforceable contract between plaintiff
and defendant, protecting plaintiff's clinical privileges from revocation or
impairment without due process.  The court ordered defendant permanently
enjoined from any acts restricting plaintiff's medical staff membership or
clinical privileges in therapeutic radiology, and ordered plaintiff's access to
defendant's facilities, equipment and personnel be in accord with the full
exercise of his clinical privileges.

REFERENCE: Bilek v. Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Ctr., No. 91-973,
(Fla. Cir. Ct. Apr. 29, 1991).


