                              489 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                           Hong Kong Government News

                    December 14, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

LCQ15: Government Attaches Great Importance to Needs of Sexual Violence Victims

LENGTH: 1116  words


Dec. 14 -- Following is a question by the Dr Hon Fernando Cheung and a written
reply by the Secretary for Security, Mr Lai Tung-kwok, in the Legislative
Council today (December 14):

Question:

According to the Information to Adult Sexual Violence Victims published by the
Hong Kong Police Force in June this year, when victims of sexual violence, after
making a Police report, have been sent to any public hospital for consultation
and treatment and if the situation allows, they may choose to give their witness
statements and undergo forensic examinations in the same hospital.  In this
connection, will the Government inform this Council:

(1) whether victims of sexual violence may give their witness statements and
undergo forensic examinations in any public hospital at present; of the places
in a hospital where victims of sexual violence in general give their witness
statements and undergo forensic examinations;

(2) whether victims of sexual violence may first go to a public hospital on
their own for consultation, then make Police report, give their witness
statements and undergo forensic examinations there;

(3) of the criteria adopted by the Police for determining whether a situation
allows victims of sexual violence to give their witness statements and undergo
forensic examinations in a hospital, and the respective situations that allow
and do not allow such arrangements; and

(4) whether it has assessed if the places and facilities in various public
hospitals where victims of sexual violence give their witness statements and
undergo forensic examinations conform to the relevant guidelines of the World
Health Organization (WHO); if it has assessed and the outcome is in the
affirmative, of the details of such places and facilities, and whether it can
furnish the relevant photographs to this Council; if the assessment outcome is
in the negative, whether the authorities have plans to upgrade such places and
facilities so that they comply with WHO's relevant guidelines; if they have such
plans, of the implementation timetable?

Reply:

President,

The Government attaches great importance to the needs of sexual violence
victims.  In respect of sexual violence cases, police investigation will be
conducted in such a way that the victims will not be further traumatised.  The
Police will also introduce to the victims the counselling and support services
of the Social Welfare Department (SWD) and other relevant non-governmental
organisations.  Subject to the victims' consent, the Police will arrange for
referrals to appropriate follow-up services.

To provide victims reporting sexual violence cases with relevant information in
a timely manner, the Police compiled the "Information to Adult Sexual Violence
Victims" in June this year.  It explains the victims' rights and the procedures
that they may have to go through while assisting the police investigations.
This includes the arrangement under the One-Stop Service Model that a victim,
upon being sent to a public hospital for medical services after making a report,
may choose to give a witness statement and undergo forensic examinations at the
same hospital if the situation allows.  This service model has been put in place
since 2007.  It features a multi-disciplinary approach to ensure close
co-operation and collaboration amongst various professionals for the provision
of a customer-oriented and one-stop service, which enables the victims to
receive services and go through relevant procedures in a convenient, safe,
confidential and protected environment, thus minimising the need for them to
repeat their unpleasant experience.  For the implementation of the service
model, the SWD, in collaboration with related social service units, the Hospital
Authority (HA), the Hong Kong Police Force and the Forensic Pathology Service of
the Department of Health etc, has formulated an effective workflow and the "
Procedural Guidelines for Handling Adult Sexual Violence Cases".

The consolidated reply, prepared in consultation with the Labour and Welfare
Bureau and the Food and Health Bureau, to the Dr Hon Fernando Cheung's question
is as follows:

(1) At present, if an adult sexual violence victim chooses to give a witness
statement and/or undergo forensic examinations at the same time when receiving
medical services in any Hpublic hospitals with Accident and Emergency (A&E)
Departments, the Police will make arrangements accordingly.

Urgent medical services are provided at all A&E departments of Hhospitals for
victims of sexual violence where necessary.  With the victim's consent, the
designated nursing staff and/or medical officer will, ensuring the protection of
the victim's privacy, arrange a suitable place in the A&E department for the
forensic pathologist to conduct forensic examination and the Police to take a
statement.

(2) Upon receipt of a report by a victim (whether reported to the Police before
the victim is sent to a public hospital or when the victim is receiving medical
services at the A&E Department of a public hospital), the Police will, in the
light of the circumstances of the case, explain to the victim the investigation
procedures and his/her rights.  Should the victim opt for the one-stop service,
the Police will make appropriate arrangements for the victim to give a witness
statement and/or undergo forensic examinations at the same hospital.

(3) Whether a victim will give his/her statement and undergo forensic
examination at the same hospital is subject to the preference of the victim and
the professional advice of the medical officers.

(4) According to the Guidelines for Medico-legal Care for Victims of Sexual
Violence of the World Health Organization, the place for statement-taking and
forensic examination should be private, clean, secure and with 24-hour
accessibility to necessary services to provide victims with the necessary
protection.  The A&E departments under the Hprovide round-the-clock service with
police officers on duty and strict infection control measures in place to ensure
protection in the above-mentioned aspects.

According to the "Procedural Guidelines for Handling Adult Sexual Violence
Cases" issued by the SWD, if the victim has reported the case to the Police, the
Police will arrange forensic examination when situation warrants.  If it is
necessary to collect evidence at the hospital, the Hwill arrange a suitable
place for the forensic pathologist to conduct forensic examination and the
Police to take a statement.  In case forensic examination has to be performed in
the examination suites of the Forensic Pathology Service, the Police will
arrange transportation and provide escort service for the victim.

Source: Hong Kong SAR Government

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


      Copyright 2016 Hong Kong Government News, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


