                              490 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      November 7, 2014 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Stradis Healthcare Announces Definitive Acquisition Agreement with Medikmark,
Leading Provider of Medical Procedural Kits

LENGTH: 445  words


Nov. 7 -- US-based Stradis Healthcare issued the following news release:

Stradis Healthcare is pleased to announce that it has entered into a definitive
acquisition agreement with Medikmark, a leading provider of healthcare kits
based in Waukegan, IL, under which Stradis will acquire all shares of Medikmark.

Stradis provides large, custom procedural kits for the endovenous, oral health,
ophthalmic, plastic, tissue bank, OB/GYN, among other surgical markets, while
Medikmark is a leader in high volume production of smaller kits for wound
care/dressing change, IV start, suture removal, catheter/irrigation, trach care,
staff protection and other markets.   Combining the companies provides our
customers with a more extensive portfolio of solutions for virtually every
procedure.  Both companies have considerable talent and experience in all areas
of the industry. Stradis and Medikmark serve a vast array of customers in
ambulatory surgery centers, alternate care, private practices, hospital networks
and GPOs through a combination of direct channels and distributors.

"Our companies will work closely with our customers, suppliers, and employees to
make the integration process as smooth as possible.  During the integration, our
customers will continue to receive the same high quality service they have come
to expect," said Derrell James, Stradis Healthcare's President and Chief
Executive Officer.  "Stradis has proven itself as a leader in the custom
surgical packs market, and is well positioned to continue exceptional growth
into adjacent markets and with a growing portfolio of products and services.
With Medikmark, our commitment is to bring the right tools and support to the
medical community to ensure the best possible surgical outcomes for our clients
and the ultimate customer, the patient."

Jim Ronk, President of Medikmark stated, "We are particularly pleased to be
working with the quality of people that are part of Stradis Healthcare.  The
combination of Stradis Healthcare and Medikmark will offer customers the
advantage of one stop shopping for both small kits as well as large kits.
Furthermore, material acquisition cost savings will result from our enhanced
purchasing power."

Jeff Jacobs, Chairman of Stradis Healthcare, said "the acquisition of Medikmark
fits perfectly into our strategy of building our product portfolio and enhancing
the value we offer to our customers. The combination of these two great
companies puts Stradis in the position to further its reputation as a market
leader. We are committed to providing the solutions and products our customers
need to succeed in this new era of healthcare."

Source: Stradis Healthcare

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


