                              494 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             March 24, 2015 Tuesday

MCI warning falls on Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences' deaf ears

SECTION: RANCHI

LENGTH: 401 words


RANCHI: A week after the health department directed Rajendra Institute of
Medical Sciences (Rims) to fast-track the recruitment of faculty members by
month end, Rims authorities are yet to start the process.

The college authorities have not rolled out notices for hiring despite the
Medical Council of India (MCI) threatening to slash all the 60 out of 150 seats.

Earlier this month, the MCI had written to the state health department seeking a
report on the work done so far in three medical colleges - the Mahatma Gandhi
Memorial Medical College (MGMMC) Jamshedpur, the Pataliputra Medical College and
Hospital (PMCH) Dhanbad and Rims - to improve infrastructure since it had
recommended slashing of seats in Jharkhand.

Responding to the query, principal health K Vidyasagar asked for detailed
reports from the college authorities on March 16 and then ordered immediate
recruitment.

The colleges were asked to roll out advertisement within three days.

However, save the ongoing recruitments in its cardiology, urology and
cardiothoracic departments, no advertisements have been released by the Rims
management yet, which has blamed it on procedural delay.

"We have not been able to come up with ads, which has been a resultant of
procedural delay. We are working on it," Rims acting director Dr S K Choudhary
said on Sunday. However, Choudhary did not elucidate the procedural obstacles.

In sync with the shortage of faculty, the MCI had recommended the slashing of
150 seats in Jharkhand last August. Jharkhand High Court though has stayed the
recommendation, Rims since then has not been able to complete recruitments.

Out of the 150 medical seats in Jharkhand, 60 were of Rims. Though it recruited
24 senior residents in February, close to 35 posts are yet to be filled up.

The college management has blamed it on the poor pay which failed to attract
applicants. That apart, many faculty members have opted for voluntary retirement
that has further added to the sore.

The deadline for finishing the recruitments is March 30. The parameters if not
met , the college will become vulnerable to MCI axe despite government's
protective efforts.

A senior official in the health department said the situation was closely being
monitored. "The instructions have been given and it is the college's prerogative
to carry them out. We are watching and necessary action will be taken," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


