                              492 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The 'CSI' Treatment for the E.R.

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1094 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


SOMETHING terrible is about to happen to the two beautiful people who are
cruising down a street in South Beach in the first moments of ''Miami Medical.''

Maybe the convertible will be totaled by a tanker truck, or perhaps a bridge
will collapse beneath them. But whatever transpires, we know that tragedy will
befall them, because this is a Jerry Bruckheimer series.

Mr. Bruckheimer, the hugely successful film producer (''Pirates of the
Caribbean'' and ''National Treasure,'' to name two franchises), is also a
prolific player in the television business.  His name already adorns five CBS
series, making him the biggest individual supplier to the network.  On Friday he
adds a sixth on CBS, ''Miami Medical,'' about trauma-center doctors.

''Miami Medical'' has the same Bruckheimer signatures as ''CSI'' and its
spinoffs: a cinematic style and a by-the-numbers formula.  Episodes begin with a
violent act, the characters grapple with the aftermath, and most if not all of
the loose ends are wrapped up before the closing credits, leaving little to be
explained in future episodes. The formula is easy to malign, but little on TV is
more popular than the three ''CSI'' series, which all rank among the Top 20
shows on television each week. (Another Bruckheimer production, ''Cold Case,''
places 38th so far this television season.)

''Procedurals have done really well for us,'' Mr. Bruckheimer said casually in
an interview between casting sessions for the fourth ''Pirates of the
Caribbean'' movie.

But ''Miami Medical'' does represent a new twist on the Bruckheimer formula. Its
previous procedurals have focused on law enforcement; now, for the first time,
his production company is entering the well-trod medical genre.

Jeffrey Lieber, the day-to-day executive producer of ''Miami Medical,'' isn't
particularly interested in the medicine. He sees the world of hospitals and very
good looking doctors  as an entryway into the characters' stories.

''I've tried as hard as possible not to know how the body actually works,'' he
said while sipping matzo ball soup at a deli in Westwood last week.

In the first episode, for instance, Mr. Lieber created a scene involving a
pregnant woman in an elevator at the hospital. He recalled approaching the
show's medical consultant and saying: ''I've just written a scene where she's
bleeding out of her ears and nose. What could that be?''

Eventually a scenario was concocted. ''I knew what the act-out was going to be,
and I reverse-engineered from there,'' he said.

The characters Mr. Lieber is working with on ''Miami Medical'' include Dr.
Matthew Proctor, the enigmatic new head of the trauma unit, played by Jeremy
Northam; Dr. Eva Zambrano, the second in command, played by Lana Parrilla; and
Tuck Brody, a charge nurse played by Omar Gooding. ''These are the rock stars of
the medical profession,'' Mr. Bruckheimer said as he described the series,
repeating what Mr. Gooding's character says in the first episode.

For Mr. Lieber the signature of a Bruckheimer series is a visual one. ''They
expect a level of visual gloss that is the starting point,'' he said.

The producers achieve that look by relying on many of the same DP's, short for
directors of photography, across the Bruckheimer shows and films. ''We
cross-pollinate people,'' Mr. Bruckheimer said.

The director of photography for the first episodes of ''Miami Medical'' was
Eagle Egilsson, who had just finished filming a Bruckheimer series for TNT,
''Dark Blue.''

''They find the people who can do film on a TV timeline,'' which means a much
quicker turnaround, ''and they keep them hired, which works for everybody,'' Mr.
Lieber said.

''Miami Medical'' also leaned on Matthew Mungle, a longtime special-effects
artist for ''CSI,'' for its sometimes messy surgery scenes.

Mr. Bruckheimer said the talent sharing also applies in front of the camera:
''We meet so many actors when we're casting these movies. We find some terrific
people that we can slide into TV and the other way around.'' From there Mr.
Bruckheimer gives each program a wide berth.

In one instance Omar Miller, an actor Mr. Bruckheimer cast in ''The Sorcerer's
Apprentice,'' was added to the cast of ''CSI: Miami''  last fall.

Mr. Bruckheimer has branched out to other networks in recent years, placing
''Dark Blue'' on TNT last summer and ''The Forgotten'' at ABC last fall. But
except for ''The Amazing Race,'' his Emmy-winning reality show on CBS, Mr.
Bruckheimer has not ventured far from his television comfort zone. His two
pilots for the coming season are both procedurals:  ''Chase,'' about United
States  marshals, for NBC, and ''The Whole Truth,'' about court cases, for ABC.

''Miami Medical'' will have its premiere on a Friday night, generally an
afterthought of the weekly television  schedule. But CBS has managed to nurture
new shows on Fridays, including ''CSI,'' which had its introduction on that day
of the week. The producers have already finished eight episodes for the spring
and five more for a second season.

Mr. Lieber suggested that he and Mr. Bruckheimer did not set out to enter the
medical genre; the setting, he said, was a ''byproduct of the ideas on the
table.''

After being announced but before getting onto the air, the show underwent a name
change. Originally called ''Miami Trauma,'' CBS changed it to ''Miami Medical''
to distinguish it from the NBC paramedics drama ''Trauma,'' which made its debut
last fall and has teetered on the brink of cancellation ever since.

By any measure Mr. Bruckheimer spends more time on film than on television;
asked why he remains in the television  production business, he said, ''because
movies take forever to get made.''

Mr. Lieber said, ''Jerry is very efficient.''

Mr. Bruckheimer was only on the ''Miami Medical'' set for about an hour for the
pilot episode, and isn't heavy-handed with his production notes. But ''he brings
an every-man's eye to things,'' Mr. Lieber said.

While work was under way on a potential Season 2 episode, involving a sinkhole
at a construction site, the script called for a trauma doctor to tell a victim
that ''we're going to have to cut off your leg'' just before the commercial
break. Mr. Bruckheimer recommended an edit; he thought the statement was a step
too far for a Friday-at-10-p.m. audience because, as Mr. Lieber put it, ''you
know you're going to see a guy's leg get cut off at the other end of the act
break.''

''He's got an ability to look at things very simply and say, 'That might be too
much for people,' '' Mr. Lieber said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeremy Northam, center,  head of the trauma unit in ''Miami
Medical,'' Jerry Bruckheimer's new series that brings his crime-show formula to
a medical setting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY  ADAM TAYLOR/WARNER BROTHERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


