                              488 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             August 20, 1990 Monday

The major factors

LENGTH: 393 words


IN 1985, country doctors formed a committee aided by the Australian Medical
Association to redress severe stresses incurred by Federal Health Commission
policies. The only gains made for country doctors since then have been those
initiated by this committee or doctors in the Iron Triangle.

As explained by Advertiser correspondents, we now face a manpower shortage and
further country health budget reductions which are placing impossible strains on
hospital and nursing staff.

It is interesting to hear of Dr Hopgood's "several projects to better the
position of country doctors" (The Advertiser,

15/8/90).

The country doctors' elected negotiating committee has yet to meet him, and
therein lies the root cause of our plans for a national Rural Doctors
Association. It is fallacy to expect further inquiries into rural practice to
help. What is needed is practising country doctor representation on both the
Country Health Services division and those bodies involved in teaching and
preparation for rural practice.

Dr Hopgood has not stated that the most important factor in provision and
retention of country doctors is adequate procedural training to meet the
expectations and demands of the communities they serve.

The South Australian branch of the Family Medicine Program also has recognised
this and in the past two years has taken many steps to redress the problem. It
does not have control, however, over the allocation of hospital training
positions and the procedures or level of responsibility offered to FMP trainees
who gain these posts.

The RDA wants to work with the FMP and the teaching institutions to provide a
fail-safe plan to train doctors for longer in procedural skills to match their
locational demands for competent, confident obstetrics, anesthetics and surgery.

The specialist colleges have to recognise that time, roads and distance remain
major factors in medical service provision, not an elusive all-weather air
evacuation service to specialists gathered in major regional centres or the
city.

The teaching hospitals and specialists in Queensland have come to terms with
this; the Health Commission is making the right moves at last, and we, the
country doctors of South Australia, need to work together with the FMP to keep
up with the initiatives in Queensland.

(Dr) JOHN SHEPHERD, Jamestown.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


