                              491 of 999 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 10, 1999

Parents' campaign 'success';
Suspension of doctor who used video evidence to identify abused children was '
procedural' says hospital

BYLINE: Sarah Boseley Health Correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 627 words


Sarah Boseley Health Correspondent

Parents who have been campaigning against David Southall for several years were
jubilant yesterday at news of his suspension, which they claim vindicates their
stand even though the hospital says the suspension is procedural.

Although all sorts of accusations have been levelled against Professor Southall,
at the heart of it all has been the issue of Munchausen's syndrome by proxy -
mothers who harm their babies to seek attention for themselves.

Even medical opinion is divided over the existence of this syndrome, but Prof
Southall has no doubts. He pioneered covert video surveillance of mothers
suspected of abuse. The women and their babies were invited to stay for a few
nights in the hospital on a pretext, and their interactions were recorded on
film. Since 1986, on the basis of evidence gathered in this way and presented to
the courts, Prof Southall has been instrumental in the removal of abused
children from their families. Some of the children had siblings whose reported
cot death on re-examination was established as suffocation.

One published paper described 39 cases of children who arrived in hospital with
unexplained, life-threatening conditions. Evidence from the filming helped
establish 30 cases of intentional suffocation, two of poisoning, one deliberate
fracture and one of starvation. He has worked with 109 families, he said
recently, in which there have been 43 deaths and 184 children have been taken
into care.

In 1992, the campaign against him began. At its core are parents whose children
were removed from them, but they have been joined by other parents and some
semi-professional campaigners who refuse to believe in Munchausen's, are
convinced that families have been wrongly broken up and parents imprisoned.

The North Staffordshire hospitals NHS trust has been inundated with complaints
from the campaigners. One project under scrutiny has been the CNEP machine
(continuous negative extrathoracic pressure) - an innovative ventilator for
premature babies that Prof Southall and his team were trialling in the hospital
on tiny, sick infants. The changing pressure in the machine expanded the babies
lungs to help them breathe as an alternative to pushing tubes down very delicate
throats in the conventional ventilator.

Some babies died on the machine, but not significantly more than died on the
conventional ventilator. But recently parents have come forward to claim that
their babies were put in the CNEP without their consent. Some have alleged the
signatures on the consent forms were forgeries.

In response to the allegations against Prof Southall's work, a raft of inquiries
has been set up - some by the trust, one by government and others by the General
Medical Council and the UK Central Council for Nursing, Midwifery and Health
Visitors who have also had complaints from parents.

The Griffiths inquiry, requested by the department of health in response to the
allegations over lack of consent for the CNEP trial, but which has looked at
many other issues too, has finished and the report is with ministers. The GMC
and the UKCC are waiting for the results of Griffiths before they proceed much
further. A hospital inquiry into Prof Southall's personal conduct has cleared
him of any wrongdoing.

The trust says the suspensions are necessary because it is now going through an
internal disciplinary inquiry. It will not say what it is about, save that it
will look at 'a huge range of complex issues'.

But the parents say it is the Munchausen work, the covert video surveillance and
research work into experimental monitors for establishing the truth of cot
deaths that are under scrutiny. It is what they have wanted all along.


LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited


