                              495 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                             April 23, 2013 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Body of Proof on life support

BYLINE: Alex Strachan, Postmedia News

SECTION: ENTERTAINMENT; Fine Tuning; Pg. C16

LENGTH: 459 words


It's hard to prove something until it actually happens. Take Body of Proof, for
example. The third-year forensic procedural stars Dana Delany as Dr. Megan Hunt,
a disgraced former neurosurgeon now forced to make ends meet as a forensic
examiner. She can't be trusted with live bodies, you see, so now she has to
apply her medical knowledge to dead ones.

Body of Proof kicked around on the schedule its first two seasons, like so much
dead weight.

Its return was delayed until midseason, earlier this year - never a good sign -
and it struggled to make an impression. There are so many forensic procedurals
on TV now, it's hard to keep track. The prognosis didn't look good for Proof's
future beyond this season, which ends May 28. The last-minute addition of new
cast members - Human Target's Mark Valley as Det. Tommy Sullivan, to name just
one - didn't have much of an effect on viewers used to watching Bones, Castle
and all the others.

It wasn't long before Proof appeared on lists of shows expected to be cancelled.
Cancellation decisions aren't final until they're announced, however. And last
week, for the fourth consecutive Tuesday, Proof topped all competitors in the
same time period in the U.S. ratings, including highly touted new police drama
Golden Boy, which airs on CTV here at home.

The large broadcast networks often look at factors other than same-night viewing
when deciding whether to keep a show. They often look at how a show was
performing on the same day and time the previous year, for example, and in this
case Body of Proof improved over the same night last year by nearly 40 per cent.
What this means is that its condition has gone from critical to fair in less
time than some new series manage to stay on the air.

Proof is still on life support, but at least there are signs of life. And
there's no question the injection of new characters and bigger, bolder stories
has helped keep what audience it had to begin with. Tonight's episode finds Hunt
and Sullivan talking to the residents, doctors and patients at a mental
institution after a schizophrenic teenage girl is found murdered. Another young
patient (guest star Hannah Leigh) claims to have seen the killer, and insists
she was the intended victim. She's articulate and calm, and seems perfectly
sane, but they start to wonder after the ward doctor (Craig Bierko) obstructs
the investigation. (Citytv - 8 p.m., ABC - 11 p.m.)

Look Who's Talking

10 a.m. 3 5 Live! With Kelly and Michael Kate Hudson; Christina Hendricks. (N)

Noon 13 The Ellen DeGeneres Show Diane Keaton; Jon Bon Jovi; Bon Jovi. (N)

12: 34 a.m. 13 16 The Tonight Show With Jay Leno Carol Burnett; Stephen Amell.
(N)

12: 35 a.m. 12 Late Show With David Letterman Jenna Fischer; Steve Martin and
Edie Brickell. (N)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: / Delany: signs of life;

