                              493 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                             April 29, 2005 Friday

Deals roundup

LENGTH: 765 words


Deals roundup

IDX to buy RealTimeImage in deal valued at about $15.5M

A Medical Device Daily Staff Report  IDX Systems (Burlington, Vermont) reported
that it has agreed to acquire the assets of RealTimeImage (RTI; San Bruno,
California/Tel Aviv, Israel), a developer of web-based medical specialty imaging
solutions, for an estimated deal value of $15.5 million.

RT's Pixels-on-Demand image streaming and multi-frame, cinemotion image viewing
technology is integrated into the recently unveiled IDX Imagecast for cardiology
product offering, and IDX said the agreement is part of its strategy to acquire
"leading-edge technology and expertise."

With RTI technology, Imagecast for Cardiology integrates cardiology information
and imaging data across multiple modalities and locations. IDX said that the
technology extends its own technology, named Infrastructure for Procedural
Medicine, which it terms "a strategy for providing specialists with procedural
medicine and workflow-based solutions operating on a common architecture."

James Crook Jr., CEO of IDX, called the proposed purchase of RealTimeImage "the
latest milestone in our 36-year track record of innovation . . . The Imagecast
product offerings have been ranked as a leading solution in the diagnostic
imaging market. We expect that increased focus in this area will result in
greater customer success and enhanced value for our shareholders."

Zvi Eintracht, CEO of RTI, said that the merger enables his company to take its
technology to a wider market. "Our company's vision for delivering cardiologists
secure, real-time access to image data over any network connection can be
realized through integration into IDX's leading healthcare technology
solutions."

Imagecast for Cardiology's PACS system features unified database architecture
with the Imagecast workflow product line. This approach provides role-based
workflow and access to all related images.

The deal is expected to close in the second quarter.

RTI was established in 1996 and reports more than 500 organizations using its
technology.

Founded in 1969, IDX Systems reports its systems are used by about 150,000
physicians and that they are installed at more than 3,400 sites, including more
than 850 group practices and about 370 integrated delivery networks serving more
than 500 hospitals.

In other dealmaking news:

· Speech recognition specialist Wizzard Software (Pittsburgh) reported being "in
the final stages" of due diligence to acquire the assets of Interim Health Care
of Wyoming (Casper) for its MedivoxRx Technologies subsidiary. Interim provides
visiting nurse services to the elderly, wounded and sick. Interim is the largest
home healthcare agency in central Wyoming and is one of the 300 home health
agencies comprising Interim Health Care.

Wizzard said it has noted that the healthcare industry has proven to be an
aggressive adopter of speech technologies and that over the next 18 months it
plans to acquire several more home health agencies to complement its speech and
talking pill bottle products. Wizzard pointed to "major opportunities" in speech
recognition for visiting nurses; for patient medication reminder services; and
for its "talking products," such as blood pressure monitors, medication alerts
and other talking medical devices.

·ResCare (Louisville, Kentucky), a provider of education and support services
for people with disabilities and special needs, said it has signed agreements to
purchase the operations and certain assets of Home Caregiver Services in four
states: California, Nevada, Colorado and Illinois. The acquisition will total 12
operations with expected combined revenues of about $13.2 million annually.

Ronald Geary, ResCare's president and CEO, said that Home Care-giver Services
provides ResCare "a platform for building our periodic in-home services into
four more ResCare states and further expands our private pay revenues."

ResCare offers services to about 34,000 people in 33 states, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico and Canada.

· Diagnostics firm Motion DNA (Phoenix) yesterday reported that Formula 51-2, an
Arizona investment company, has made an offer to acquire all of the firm's
outstanding shares for $2.50 a share. Motion DNA said that its board is
considering the offer, which requires a response or counteroffer by today.Motion
DNA says that its biomechanical analyses testing and reports provide solutions
for preventing injuries, identifying physical limitations, diagnosing
pre-existing injuries related to biomechanics and improving physical performance
levels.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2005 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


