                              496 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                Stamford Mercury

                            January 2, 2014 Thursday

Whitefriars care home in Stamford fined £140,000 over woman's death

LENGTH: 498  words


The owners of a Stamford care home where an elderly woman died have been fined
£140,000 and ordered to pay £65,000 costs.

Staff at the Whitefriars Care Home in St George's Avenue failed to notice that
pensioner Dorothy Spicer, 84, had gone missing on the evening of November 25,
2009.

She was found eight hours later lying on the ground in the garden of the home
still wearing her day clothes.

Yesterday at Lincoln Crown Court, The Order of St John Care Trust, which owns
the home, admitted failing to ensure the safety of Mrs Spicer in breach of the
Health and Safety at Work Act in November, 2009.

The court was told that Mrs Spicer had apparently walked out of a door which had
its alarm disabled.

No check had been carried out to establish the whereabouts of any of the
residents when the day shift handed responsibility over to the night shift at
the home.

And the alarm system should have triggered pager messages to staff if a resident
left the premises but this did not happen because the individual door alarm was
not on.

Mrs Spicer was discovered at 5.20 am but staff simply took her inside the home
and tried to warm her up. No ambulance was called for another 80 minutes and
when she was finally  admitted to Peterborough Hospital she was suffering from
hypothermia.

She never fully recovered and although she was later transferred to Stamford
Hospital she passed away two months later in January, 2010.

Judge Michael Heath, passing sentence, said: "In this case there were corporate,
systematic and procedural failings which were ultimately a significant and
substantial cause of Mrs Spicer's death.

"The trust fell far short of providing a safe standard. Serious injury or worse
was plainly foreseeable.

"It is only a matter of good fortune that no tragedy occurred before that which
befell Mrs Spicer."

Bernard Thorogood, prosecuting for South Kesteven District Council, said Mrs
Spicer was last noticed at 8.30pm on the evening of November 25, 2009 sitting in
her usual chair in a communal lounge at the care home. No-one saw her leave and
she was only found the following morning.

Mr Thorogood said "This was exposure of vulnerable residents of a care home to
avoidable risks.

"The investigation found failings that were corporate, systematic and procedural
. These were a substantial cause of the loss of Mrs Spicer's life.

"There was a lack of adequate leadership. There was a failing by management at
the care home and from higher up within the trust."

Prashant Popat QC, in mitigation, said the trust had an exemplary health and
safety record prior to the incident and had since taken all steps to ensure a
similar tragedy did not happen again.

He told the court: "The trust did consider and assess the risks to safety. It
had in place a number of measures that it considered were sufficient to provide
adequate protection. It could and should have done more.

"It's health and safety record is excellent. The tragic incident involving Mrs
Spicer is the first in it's 22-year history."

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MSMP


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


