                              51 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                      Commercial-News (Danville, Illinois)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday

Provena's surgery suites limited for the week

BYLINE: Brian Huchel, Commercial-News, Danville, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 364 words


Aug. 17--DANVILLE -- The Surgical Department at Provena United Samaritans
Medical Center is rescheduling appointments for the remainder of the week.

Although not closed, the department will be handling only emergency cases for
the next three days.

Gretchen Wesner, director of public relations at Provena USMC, said the
rescheduling of elective surgeries is intended to allow the hospital to conduct
some reconfiguration of the department rooms.

In addition, the hospital will use the surgical suites to conduct procedural
reviews with the hospital staff, she said.

The reschedulings and procedural reviews are in connection with an incident that
took place at the hospital, Wesner confirmed.

The incident -- the details of which have not been released -- happened recently
and prompted the Illinois Department of Public Health to conduct a survey of the
hospital.

As a result of the survey, the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services
printed a legal notice last week saying the Danville hospital was not in
compliance with Medicare conditions of participation for patients' rights.

The legal notice contended "the deficiencies are so serious they constitute an
immediate jeopardy to patient health and safety" and indicated the federal
intent to terminate Medicare services as of Aug. 26.

Hospital representatives have said it is aggressively pursing a re-survey by the
state health department so that it may continue to offer the Medicare services
past Aug. 26.

In a statement last week, Provena President and CEO Mike Brown said changes were
being implemented to address the concerns raised by the incident.

Wesner said Tuesday the reschedulings will allow the hospital to "review these
procedures with staff and demonstrate back in their normal clinical setting."

She reiterated that patient safety is of the "utmost importance" to the
hospital.

To see more of the Commercial-News, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://commercial-news.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Commercial-News, Danville, Ill.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110817-DQ-Provena-s-surgery-suites-limited-for-the-week-0817-20110817

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DQ


                         Copyright 2011 Commercial News


