                              52 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                         The Gympie Times (Queensland)

                             June 4, 2014 Wednesday

Local health service given $55.6m boost

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 260  words


A $55.6 million budget increase has been welcomed by the Sunshine Coast Hospital
and Health Service, under which Gympie hospital operates.

Sunshine Coast Hospital and Health Service Board Chair Professor Paul Thomas
said the $695.5 million operating budget for 2014-15 would expand services for
the region.

"Our ever-growing and ageing population means we need to use our budget
allocation to expand both the range of services and capacity within the Sunshine
Coast HHS," Professor Thomas said.

"As we work towards the opening of the Sunshine Coast Public University Hospital
in 2016 we will further increase the range and capacity of services as part of
the transition.

"For example, over the last three years there has been a significant increase in
the cardiology service provided to public patients within the Sunshine Coast
HHS.

"Public patients requiring intervention for cardiac conditions are now able to
access the service locally, rather than having to be admitted to a Brisbane
hospital.

"A dedicated endoscopy procedural unit at Nambour General Hospital has also
significantly improved waiting times, with 3000 more endoscopic procedures per
year since the opening of new procedural suites."

Professor Thomas welcomed the increase in access to local services.

"~"~More than 4700 staff work around the clock to deliver high-quality
healthcare to the Sunshine Coast and Gympie communities,'' he said. "~"~Every
day staff from Sunshine Coast facilities treat 320 people who present to
emergency departments and more than 2000 pathology tests are performed."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GGT


                    Copyright 2014 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


