                              53 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        Townsville Bulletin (Australia)

                           November 14, 2015 Saturday
                               Townsville Edition

Private cover's taken ill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 489  words


THE general public who choose to carry private hospital health -insurance are
being horribly misled by the insurers. Think about it.

The Federal Government sets a basic fee structure for hospital procedures
treatments.

The private health insurers will only reimburse to the level set by the
Government for those -procedural costs. These costs are not changed with any
regularity.

Any procedural expense -beyond the set levels is borne by the patient, often
costing those using private health insurance many thousands of dollars extra.

Levels of hospital cover are chosen by any individual or family who bear the
risk of needing that insurance in that year. If it's not required, then the
premium is a monetary loss to the person/s -insured.

That's the consumer's own risk of monetary loss.

Annual premiums could -ultimately accumulate to significant amounts over time,
and if so, are effective losses to the persons taking out the insurance.

There are no avenues for -recovery of these amounts and the personal losses
stand.

If the Government does not -increase the basic fee structure, there should be no
reason for the private health insurers to have to increase their premiums and as
with the public, they should suffer any losses due to obviously incorrectly
determined level of risk in each category.

From historical records and reasonable projections, competent insurers must be
able to -determine financial requirements in any given year.

It is not age that causes insurers issues, it is the number of each procedure
that arise during the year, and the errors in assessment or projection of those
numbers by the insurers. Premiums should be set for each procedure not based on
age, but on usage.

If insurers incorrectly derive a loss situation they should carry the loss.
Today, the insurers, being only mindful of the profit motive, -increase premiums
to cover their internal operational inefficiencies.

They are not prepared to carry losses as any equitable contract arrangement
should. If their costs continually exceed their revenue, then they should look
carefully at their operational manuals and make internal adjustments.

They should not cry wolf and pass the costs on to policy holders. Excepting
annual review adjustments due to movements in the economy, properly determined
levels of premiums should not need the ongoing adjustments that are so prevalent
today.

Senior executives should have the intestinal fortitude to tell their
shareholders that losses occur and provide truthful explanations as to why.

Continually passing the buck to consumers will ultimately cause loss of faith in
the system of -insurance and significant financial difficulties to the insurers.

The health industry, and -particularly governments' public health systems, will
become even more overloaded as a result and the general public will suffer.

I hope this is taken as a wake-up call to action and not as a cry in the
wilderness.

KEITH BAGLEY,Townsville.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Townsville Bulletin


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


