                              56 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                        The Hawk Eye (Burlington, Iowa)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 16, 2014 Wednesday

Lee Supervisors Rescind Hospital Funds to Avoid Legal Trouble

BYLINE: Sarah Tomkinson, The Hawk Eye, Burlington, Iowa

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 378 words


April 16--MONTROSE -- At a meeting Tuesday, Lee County supervisors took back
their vote to give funds to Keokuk Area Hospital due to legal concerns.

Last week, the board approved $103,000 for Keokuk Area Hospital so it could
qualify for state matching funds. The board amended its agenda to approve the
funds, but it did not meet the 24-hour notification rule mandated by the state.

That being the case, Lee County Attorney Mike Short said supervisors needed to
rescind their previous vote approving the funds.

"The idea is we are removing any controversy with any procedural issues," Short
told the board. "Whatever the board decides to do then, procedural, we did
right."

Supervisor Gary Folluo hoped to have the funds approved quickly since the
hospital is in financial trouble.

"When you look at urgency and you have a hospital administrator with only three
days of actual cash at hand, that's a pretty urgent situation. This is just
cleaning up," he said

Chairman Ernie Schiller said approving money transfers such as this one requires
a resolution since it's not considered an annual contribution.

The supervisors set a special meeting at 9 a.m. Thursday at the Lee County jail
complex in Montrose to approve a resolution for the funding,

Last week, Duane Fitch, president of Fitch Healthcare, the consulting company
that manages the Keokuk Hospital, addressed the board and encouraged them to
contribute to the hospital for the second year.

"We are an underfunded agency of the government," he said.

Keokuk also agreed to give similar funds to the hospital.

More than 70 percent of the hospital's patients are on Medicare or Medicaid.

This will be the second year time the board has contributed to the hospital.

Last year, Keokuk Area Hospital received contributions from the county board and
the city of Keokuk to put the funds towards a match program through the Iowa
Department of Human Services and Iowa Medicaid Enterprise.

The hospital will receive more than $490,000 once all the funds are matched.

Financial trouble became persistent in 2011 when hospital officials announced
they were in danger of closing the hospital's doors.

___ (c)2014 The Hawk Eye (Burlington, Iowa) Visit The Hawk Eye (Burlington,
Iowa) at www.thehawkeye.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140416-QW-Lee-Supervisors-Rescind-Hospital
-Funds-to-Avoid-Legal-Trouble-0416-20140416

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QW


                          Copyright 2014 The Hawk Eye


