                              60 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                      Khaleej Times (United Arab Emirates)

                              June 22, 2014 Sunday

'Paralysed' man gets Dh300,000 compensation for faulty treatment

LENGTH: 339 words


He went for a procedural medical examination to obtain a disability permit and
was told that he was not suffering from paralysis.

He thought he had become paralysed and tried to adjust to his wheelchair-bound
state and start life afresh.

However, fate had another shock in store. He went for a procedural medical
examination to obtain a disability permit and was told that he was not suffering
from paralysis but a condition caused by faulty medical treatment.

The chain of incidents started when the young man returned from a trip abroad.
He developed a severe breathing problem and the attending physician advised him
to get admitted in a hospital. He spent three days in a hospital but still his
condition did not improve. Then he went into a coma briefly and the doctors
decided to refer him to another hospital with better facilities.

When he was discharged, he was unable to walk. The young man thought he had
paralysis and tried to adapt to his new condition.Subsequently, he approached
the traffic department for a permit that would allow him to use the car parking
lots meant for the disabled. The department referred him to a medical committee
which examined him  and told him, to his shock, that he was not suffering from
paralysis.

His ailment, the committee told him, was due to wrong medication which had
resulted in avascular necrosis - the death of bone tissue due to lack of blood
supply - and made him wheelchair-bound.

The aggrieved young man then sued the two hospitals, asking for Dh3 million in
damages. However, the Abu Dhabi Court of First instance ordered the second
hospital to pay him Dh300,000 as compensation.

Unhappy with the ruling, the patient said he should be paid Dh3 million as the
two hospitals had caused him to become wheelchair-bound and needing long-term
medication and surgery. However, the Court of Appeals said the second hospital
had diagnosed his ailment correctly and his condition had improved.

(This report was filed in collaboration with the Abu Dhabi Judicial Department)

news@khaleejtimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 44


   Copyright 2014 Khaleej Times - Galadari Printing and Publishing Co. L.L.C.
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


