                              61 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         North Carolina Lawyers Weekly

                                 April 25, 2005

N.C. Court of Appeals Case Summaries: April 25, 2005

BYLINE: North Carolina Lawyers Weekly Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 7723  words


Administrative

Hospitals - Certificate of Need - Settlement - Final Agency Decision

Where the Department of Health and Human Services considered new evidence after
the administrative law judge's recommended decision, DHHS violated G.S.
150B-51(a).

DHHS's final decision upholding settlements with Presbyterian Hospital is
affirmed in part, reversed in part.

DHHS denied Presbyterian's application for a certificate of need (CON) to build
a new hospital. The decision was upheld upon judicial review. Thereafter, the
parties settled, and DHHS granted the CON.

Based on prohibited new evidence, DHHS, in effect, rendered a second "final
agency decision" regarding Presbyterian's 1999 certificate of need application
through settlement, countermanding its original final agency decision. We
reverse DHHS's final decision upholding the settlement, which granted
Presbyterian a CON.

DHHS's ability to settle and, through settlement, to exercise powers granted it
by the legislature in the CON Act may not supersede other express requirements
and limitations placed upon its exercise of those powers. The legislature
granted DHHS the authority to issue CONs only after a procedural process
consisting, in relevant part, of application, agency review, administrative
appeal, final agency decision, and judicial appeal.

G.S. 131A-188(a) refers to approval of a settlement as "a decision" by DHHS "to
issue a certificate of need pursuant to a settlement agreement.... " Therefore,
we construe such an approval to occupy the same procedural position as an
initial decision to approve or approve with conditions an application under G.S.
131E-186(a). This also compels construing the settlement agreement itself as
being equivalent to a new application. Therefore, all procedural safeguards
applying to application approval and initial decisions apply equally to approval
of settlements.

New evidence was submitted. DHHS officials were not satisfied that all statutory
criteria were met by the hospital project, as referenced in the settlement, at
the time of approval. Nevertheless, DHHS issued the CON in violation of G.S.
131E-183(a).

Furthermore, DHHS issued the CON immediately after approval of the hospital
settlement in violation of G.S. 131E-188(a) and its own agency rule. Affected
parties were not permitted the required 30-day time period to petition for a
contested case hearing for the purpose of substantively challenging the
settlement prior to issuance of the CON.

Moreover, affected parties adverse to Presbyterian's position were excluded from
presenting any argument as to non-compliance prior to issuance of the CON.

Neither the statutes nor case law cited by the dissent have allowed an agency in
North Carolina to effectively countermand its original final agency decision
with a different final agency decision.

DHHS must adhere to the procedural safeguards for application approval and
initial decisions when issuing CONs pursuant to settlements.

Presbyterian's relocation of its operating rooms met the requirements of the
"grandfather clause" applicable to G.S. 131A-176(16)u. DHHS did not err in its
final decision by affirming the settlement allowing the OR relocation.

To the extent the positron emission tomography (PET) settlement forms the basis
of Presbyterian and Forsyth Medical Center's acquisition of PET scanners or
implies permission to acquire a PET scanner irrespective of whether that
acquisition is consistent with the CON act, DHHS exceeded its statutory
authority.

Nevertheless, Presbyterian and Forsyth may obtain PET scanners separate from the
PET settlement by submitting new applications in accordance with normal CON
procedure. We take judicial notice that Presbyterian and Forsyth have, in fact,
submitted new CON applications for the acquisition of PET scanners.

Presbyterian Hospital North became fully operational during the pendency of this
appeal. It would be imprudent to close the hospital due to procedural
irregularities in light of the hardship to the community. It appears that DHHS
and Presbyterian proceeded in good faith, albeit erroneously, in attempting to
settle this matter after the original final agency decision concerning the 1999
application. Presbyterian Hospital North may continue to operate (1) until the
hospital settlement has upon remand been considered anew by DHHS and (2) in the
event a contested case hearing should occur following DHHS' initial decision,
until DHHS enters a final agency decision.

Affirmed in part, reversed in part and remanded.

Concurrence & Dissent

(Steelman, J.) Pursuant to G.S. 131E-188(a) and G.S. 150B-22, DHHS was permitted
to enter into settlement agreements with Presbyterian and Forsyth. Following
these settlements, the petitioner had a full and complete opportunity to
litigate and challenge the settlement agreements.

I would hold that the specific reasons cited in the final decision of DHHS for
rejecting the ALJ's findings of fact were sufficient.

Finally, the majority authorizes Presbyterian Hospital North to continue in
operation without a CON pending DHHS' reconsideration of this matter. The
majority cites no authority for this directive, and I know of none.

I would affirm the final agency decision.

Mooresville Hospital Management Associates, Inc. v. North Carolina Department of
Health & Human Services. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0482, 25 pp.) (Ann Marie
Calabria, J.) (Sanford L. Steelman Jr., J., concurring in part & dissenting in
part) Appealed from the N.C. Department of Health & Human Services. N.C. App.

Civil Practice

Constitutional - Due Process - Personal Jurisdiction - Minimum Contacts -
Corporate - Contract

Where the plaintiff offered evidence that the defendants solicited the plaintiff
in North Carolina to perform services for them, the plaintiff agreed to do so in
North Carolina, and the contracts were substantially performed in North
Carolina, our courts can exercise personal jurisdiction over the defendants.

We affirm the trial court's denial of the defendants' motion to dismiss for lack
of personal jurisdiction.

Which party initiates the contact is taken to be a critical factor in assessing
whether a nonresident defendant has made purposeful availment of the privilege
of conducting activities within the forum state. The trial court could properly
conclude that the defendants purposefully acted in a manner so as to avail
themselves of the privilege of conducting activities within North Carolina and
thus invoked the benefits and protections of N.C. laws.

Even though this state has an interest in providing a forum for resolution of
conflicts arising in North Carolina, the parties provided that New York law
would apply to any dispute. Choice of law clauses are not determinative of
personal jurisdiction, but they express the intention of the parties and are a
factor in determining whether minimum contacts exist and due process was met.
This factor does not favor one party over the other.

With respect to the convenience of the parties, the evidence is also
conflicting. Of course, engaging in litigation in North Carolina would not be
convenient for the defendants' employees located in Oregon, yet by the same
token, litigation in another state would not be convenient for the plaintiff's
witnesses. The record does not indicate that any one state would be more
convenient to all of the parties and witnesses than another.

Since each defendant was a party to at least one contract made and/or carried
out in North Carolina, the N.C. judicial's system's exercise of specific
personal jurisdiction over each defendant is appropriate.

Affirmed.

Banc of America Securities LLC v. Evergreen International Aviation, Inc.
(Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0486, 20 pp.) (Martha A. Geer, J.) Appealed from
Mecklenburg County Superior Court. (Yvonne M. Evans, J.) N.C. App.

Contract

Construction - Little Miller Act - Second- Tier Subcontractor - Mitigation -
Timely Filing - Settlement - Accord & Satisfaction

Where the plaintiff-supplier furnished materials to the defendant-subcontractor,
and where the defendant-subcontractor fits within the statutory definition of a
second-tier subcontractor, the supplier had a right under G.S. 44A-27 to seek
payment from the remaining defendants (first-tier subcontractor, general
contractor and surety).

Summary judgment for the supplier affirmed.

G.S. 44A-25 through -35 control payment and performance bonds for state
construction contracts. This "Little Miller Act" defines the term
"subcontractor" in Sec. 44A-25(6) as "any person who has contracted to furnish
labor or materials to, or who has performed labor for, a contractor or another
subcontractor in connection with a construction contract. "

The legislature has specifically defined "subcontractor" to include both
individuals who have contracted to provide materials directly to the contractor,
as well as those who have contracted with subcontractors, sometimes referred to
as first- and second-tier subcontractors, under the construction contract.
Further, the language of Sec. 44A-27 specifically provides that a claimant who
has a direct contractual relationship with any subcontractor may bring an action
on the payment bond. By its plain language, therefore, the statutory definition
includes first- and second-tier subcontractors to the construction contract.

Here, the plaintiff contracted to furnish materials to the second-tier
subcontractor, who had subcontracted with a first-tier subcontractor to install
the fire protection system under the first-tier sub's contract with the prime
contractor. Under Sec. 4A-25(6), the first-tier sub qualifies as a
subcontractor, that is a party who had contracted to perform labor for a prime
contractor in connection with a construction contract. Likewise, the defendant
second-tier sub also qualifies as a subcontractor, that is a party who had
contracted to perform labor for a subcontractor, in connection with a
construction contract. Therefore, under the plain language of the statute, the
plaintiff-supplier is a claimant with a direct contractual relationship with a
subcontractor, but with no contractual relationship, express or implied, with
the contractor. Thus, under Sec. 44A-27(b), the supplier is entitled to bring an
action on the payment bond if notice to the contractor was given within the
requisite 120 days.

The defendants contend that as our courts have not previously interpreted this
provision of the Little Miller Act, federal precedent must control. Such is not
the case. Unlike the federal Miller Act, which provides no definition of
"subcontractor", our statute specifically defines "subcontractor" in the context
of the statute.

Where the supplier has a statutory right to seek payment from the defendants
under G.S. 44A-27, the trial court did not err in denying the defendant's
summary judgment motion.

Our courts have not yet addressed the issue of whether a claimant under a
performance bond has a duty to mitigate damages through notification prior to
the statutory requirements of Sec. 44A-27.

Our legislature has instituted specific time limitations for notification to
provide certainty for all parties as to claims for payments upon a performance
bond. To require other, less definite requirements for notification would create
uncertainty and undermine our statutory scheme. As the supplier's notice was
timely given according to the statutory requirements, the trial court properly
found no estoppel for failure to mitigate in the supplier's lack of earlier
notification.

The supplier executed a settlement agreement which settled all claims between
itself and the second-tier sub, with the exception that the supplier would
continue to pursue its claim against the prime contractor and its surety for the
project account, and that if such suit were unsuccessful, the second-tier sub
would remain liable for the remainder of the debt.

As the supplier had a statutory right to pursue a claim against the defendants
under Sec. 44A-27, and as the supplier specifically did not extinguish the
underlying debt as to the project in its settlement agreement, we find the trial
court properly rejected the defense of accord and satisfaction.

Affirmed.

HSI North Carolina, LLC v. Diversified Fire Protection of Wilmington, Inc.
(Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0489, 11 pp.) (Robert Hunter, J.) Appealed from New
Hanover County Superior Court. (Jay D. Hockenbury, J.) N.C. App.

Mediation - Settlement Agreement - Unsigned - Summary Judgment

Where the plaintiff never signed the handwritten agreement from the mediated
settlement conference, the defendants' motion for summary judgment was not
mooted by the settlement agreement.

Summary judgment for the defendants affirmed.

The only alleged agreement between the parties is a handwritten documents from
the mediated settlement conference, which the plaintiff never signed. A written
settlement agreement arising out of a mediated settlement conference will not ve
enforced unless it has been reduced to writing and signed by the parties.
Indeed, the terms of the handwritten document state that it is a "binding
contract between signatories in lieu of [a] forman agreement" and that
"signatories otherwise release any and all claims against each other arising out
of [the] transactions alleged in the complaint. " The plaintiff, who now urges
that the settlement was valid and should have barred summary judgment, was not a
signatory to the agreement. The plaintiff's argument that the defendants'
summary judgment motion was mooted by the settlement agreement is without merit.

The trial court did not err in not enforcing the purported settlement agreement
where the plaintiff neither signed the document nor asked the court to enforce
it.

Cohen Schatz Associates, Inc. v. Perry. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0492, 6 pp.)
(Robin E. Hudson, J.) Appealed from Wake County Superior Court. (Donald W.
Stephens, J.) N.C. App.

Criminal Practice

Search & Seizure - Motor Vehicle Stop - Public Vehicular Area - Reasonable
Suspicion

Where the defendant gave an officer permission to move the defendant's van out
of traffic in a store parking area, and where the officer detected the smell of
cocaine while he was in the van, the officer had probable cause to search the
van and did not need a warrant.

We affirm the trial court's denial of the defendant's motion to suppress.

An investigatory stop must be based on a reasonable articulable suspicion that a
person is, was, or will be involved in criminal activity.

Here, officers had a reasonable articulable suspicion that the defendant was
involved in illegal activity at the time they made the investigatory vehicle
stop. The uncontested findings of fact show (1) a confidential informant told
police that the defendant would be transporting cocaine that day, (2) the
defendant was driving a vehicle that matched the description given by the
informant, (3) the tag numbers on the vehicle matched that of the vehicle
registered to the defendant, (4) the defendant was driving on the suspected
route for drug transportation, and (5) the defendant crossed into Dare County at
the approximate time indicated by the informant. Therefore, the vehicle stop did
not violate Defendant's federal or state constitutional rights.

An officer does not need to obtain a warrant or have probable cause to enter a
vehicle if the owner of the vehicle gives consent. The findings of fact
explicitly state that the defendant "gave Sgt. Johnson permission to move the
van.... " As the defendant did not assign error to this finding of fact, it is
presumed correct. As consent was given, the defendant's federal and state
constitutional rights were not violated when Sergeant Johnson entered and moved
the vehicle.

A search warrant is not required before a lawful search based on probable cause
of a motor vehicle in a public roadway or in a public vehicular area may take
place.

Upon lawfully entering and moving the vehicle, Sergeant Johnson "smelled a
strong odor of what smelled like cocaine. " Plain smell of drugs by an officer
is evidence to conclude there is probable cause for a search.

The totality of the circumstances of the defendant's vehicle and identity match
to the informant's tip along with the odor of cocaine gave the officers probable
cause that an offense was being committed. Therefore, the officers did not
violate the defendant's federal or state constitutional rights when searching
the vehicle.

Affirmed.

State v. Downing. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0596, 10 pp.) (James A. Wynn Jr.,
J.) Appealed from Dare County Superior Court. (Cy Anthony Grant Sr., J.) N.C.
App.

Murder - Attempted Robbery - Evidence - Deposition - Constitutional

Even though Dr. Likonicci's deposition was testimonial in nature, and even
though the defendant availed himself of an opportunity to cross-examine Dr.
Lidonicci during the deposition, since the trial court failed to receive
evidence on or make a finding of unavailability, the trial court erred in
admitting Dr. Lidonicci's deposition.

However, the state presented other overwhelming evidence from which the jury
could find that the victim died from injuries caused by a shotgun wound to the
chest and that the defendant fired the shotgun inflicting the wound. Thus, any
error in admitting Dr. Lidonicci's deposition testimony was harmless beyond a
reasonable doubt.

No prejudicial error in the defendant's convictions of first-degree murder and
conspiracy to commit robbery with a dangerous weapon.

Even though, after being advised of his Miranda rights, the defendant asked for
his lawyer, when he was advised that the lawyer who was representing him on a
pending but unrelated charge had nothing to do with what the police wished to
talk to the defendant about, the defendant responded, "Oh, okay," and signed the
waiver of rights form. The defendant did not unequivocally assert his right to
counsel.

State v. Ash. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0495, 19 pp.) (John M. Tyson, J.)
Appealed from Cumberland County Superior Court. (James Floyd Ammons Jr., J.)
N.C. App.

Murder - Evidence - Lay Testimony - Mental Retardation

Where witness Lowery had ample opportunity to observe the defendant and to form
an opinion as to his mental condition, her shorthand comment that he "wasn't
mentally retarded" was admissible to describe the defendant's ability to
function on a daily basis.

No error in the defendant's conviction of first-degree murder.

The witness had lived with the defendant, saw him on a daily basis, and had the
opportunity to observe him in various situations. This testimony was relevant as
to whether the defendant had the necessary mens rea for first-degree murder and
helpful to a clear understanding of a fact in issue. Even though Lowery
testified that the defendant was not mentally retarded, when read in context, it
is apparent that she was not giving an expert opinion. Furthermore, it is clear
the state was not attempting to elicit expert testimony from Lowery regarding
the defendant's mental retardation. Thus, the trial court did not err in
permitting Lowery to give her opinion as to the defendant's mental capabilities.

Concurrence

(Wynn, J.) Lowery testified as to her observations of how the defendant
functioned on a daily basis and how he acted in certain situations. Such
testimony was clearly admissible under N.C. R. Evid. 701. However, Lowery also
stated that the defendant "wasn't mentally retarded," i.e., that the defendant
did not have a significantly subaverage general intellectual functioning. I do
not believe that Lowery's statement that the defendant was not mentally retarded
could rationally be based on the perception of the witness and therefore believe
the statement constituted improper lay opinion testimony.

While I believe the admission of such testimony was error, the error was
harmless. The record reflects that it was clear that Lowery was not an expert on
mental retardation, and the state proffered expert testimony that the defendant
was not mentally retarded and was capable of forming a plan and specific intent.

State v. McClain. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0500, 24 pp.) (Sanford L. Steelman
Jr., J.) (James A. Wynn Jr., concurring) Appealed from Mecklenburg County
Superior Court. (Ronald K. Payne, J.) N.C. App.

Breaking & Entering - Evidence - Out-of- Court Statement - Purported Accomplice

Where the defendant's pretrial statement to police implicated Curtis Dixon as an
accomplice, police Captain Peele's testimony regarding his impression of Dixon's
denial of involvement was admissible not as to Dixon's general credibility and
character, but rather as an explanation for why Dixon was not arrested.

No error in the defendant's convictions of felonious breaking and/or entering,
robbery with a dangerous weapon, and misdemeanor assault inflicting serious
injury.

State v. Carmon. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0498, 12 pp.) (Rick Elmore, J.)
Appealed from Greene County Superior Court. (Cy Grant, J.) N.C. App.

Bail - Bond Forfeiture - Notice - Mailing Certificate - Presumption of
Regularity

Even though the surety put on evidence that it did not receive notice of the
bond forfeiture, given the presumption of regularity accorded official actions
by public officers, the clerk of court's certificate of service was sufficient
evidence to support the trial court's order denying the surety's motion to
vacate the forfeiture.

Affirmed.

State v. Lopez. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0494, 8 pp.) (Robin E. Hudson, J.)
Appealed from Alamance County Superior Court. (Kenneth C. Titus, J.) N.C. App.

Heroin Trafficking - Conspiracy - Evidence - Drug Paraphernalia

Where the record reveals evidence of only one agreement between the defendant
and any other person (witness Batten), which encompassed both the transportation
of heroin from New York to Greensboro and their possession and sale of the
heroin once it arrived, the defendant may be convicted of only one conspiracy.

No error in the defendants' convictions of trafficking heroin by possession,
trafficking heroin by transportation, conspiracy to traffic heroin by
transportation, and possession with intent to sell or deliver heroin. Judgment
is arrested on the defendant's conviction of conspiracy to traffic heroin by
possession.

Since the second conspiracy offense was consolidated for judgment with other
offenses of the same class for sentencing purposes, and since the trial court
imposed the statutory sentence for trafficking in more than 14 grams but less
than 28 grams of heroin, the defendant's sentence is not affected.

Where, in her statement to the police, the defendant admitted that she brought
heroin from New York to sell and that she stayed at Ms. Batten's house on these
bimonthly trips, drug paraphernalia seized from Ms. Batten's house was
admissible.

State v. Howell. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0499, 13 pp.) (John C. Martin, Ch.J.)
Appealed from Guilford County Superior Court. (Henry E. Frye Jr., J.) N.C. App.

Cocaine Possession - Evidence - Prior Incidents - Common Plan or Scheme

Where two prior incidents were notably similar to the one which resulted in the
defendant's arrest in this case, the trial court properly admitted evidence of
the prior incidents pursuant to N.C. R. Evid. 404(b).

No error in the defendant's conviction of possession of cocaine with intent to
sell.

First, all three incidents occurred on premises of the Winston-Salem Housing
Authority, from which the defendant was banned. Second, the incidents all
involved crack cocaine. Third, in each instance, Officer Anthony approached the
defendant. Fourth, in each instance, the defendant attempted to flee when
approached by the police. These similarities allowed the jury to make a
reasonable inference that the defendant committed both the prior and present
acts.

The 1996 and 1997 incidents took place six and five years, respectively, prior
to the offense charged here. The defendant spent part of the time between the
1996 and 1997 incidents and the 2002 incident in prison. The 1996 and 1997
incidents were not too remote to be admissible.

State v. Stevenson. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0497, 9 pp.) (James A. Wynn Jr.,
J.) Appealed from Forsyth County Superior Court. (Lindsay R. Davis Jr., J.) N.C.
App.

Domestic Relations

Parent & Child - Parental Rights - Termination - 30- Day Limit - Indian Child
Welfare Act.

Where the hearing concluded on Aug. 22, 2002 and the order terminating parental
rights was not filed until Oct. 7, 2002, the district court's delay violated the
30-day provision of G.S. 7B-1109(e) and -1110(a); however, a reversal would
simply add further delay, and the respondent has failed to show any prejudice to
her as a result of the late filing of the order.

We affirm the order terminating the respondent's parental rights.

Even though the respondent's children are registered members of the Lumbee
Tribe, a state-recognized Indian Tribe, since the Indian Child Welfare Act only
applies to Indian children of federally recognized tribes, and since the Lumbees
are not a federally recognized tribe, the ICWA does not apply.

Concurrence

(Tyson, J.) I agree with the majority's holding that a 16-day delay, standing
alone, is insufficient to warrant a reversal where the respondent failed to
argue or show prejudice. However, our decision does not condone the delay in
entering the adjudication and disposition order beyond the time limits in the
statutes.

In re A.D.L. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0484, 20 pp.) (Wanda G. Bryant, J.)
Appealed from Guilford County District Court. (Wendy M. Enochs, J.) N.C. App.

Municipal

Housing Standards - Demolition Costs - Personal Property - Sale Proceeds

Where the parties dispute whether there were valuable personal property and
appurtenances on the defendants' property when the plaintiff-town demolished the
mobile homes thereon, summary judgment was improper.

Summary judgment for the town reversed. Remanded.

Under G.S. 160A-443(6)(c), the town was required to salvage any personal
property or appurtenances on the property, sell them, and apply the proceeds to
the cost of removal or demolition. The defendants alleged that the removed
mobile homes and their contents had a value of $5000, compared to the town's
demolition costs of $3284. The town contended that there was no salvageable
material on the property when the mobile homes were removed.

Because the existence and value of any personal property and appurtenances on
the defendants' property are genuine issues of material fact, summary judgment
for the town was not proper.

Town of Hertford v. Harris. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0490, 5 pp.) (Robin E.
Hudson, J.) Appealed from Perquimans County District Court. (Grafton G. Beaman,
J.) N.C. App.

Real Property

Easements - Railroad - Scope - Servient Estate Use - Injunction

Where a railroad bisects the defendant's land, the defendant may not construct a
mobile home park on his land in a way that interferes with the railroad's right
of way of 100 feet to either side of the tracks.

We affirm the injunction in favor of the plaintiff-railroad.

Where there is no record of state condemnation of the defendant's land or
ownership of the land by the Western North Carolina Railroad Co. (WNC), but
where WNC did build a railroad across the land, there is a statutory presumption
that the railroad has a right of way of 100 feet to either side of the tracks as
long as it continues to be used for a railroad.

Even though WNC's corporate existence lapsed, this did not eliminate the
easement gained by statutory presumption. Easements run with the land and are
not personal to the landowner. The plaintiff, as WNC's successor in interest,
succeeded to all the rights that WNC had in the right of way on the defendant's
land.

Areas of a right of way not required for railroad purposes may be used by the
servient owner in manners not inconsistent with the right of way. However,
further appropriation and use by the railroad of the right of way for necessary
railroad business may not be destroyed or impaired by reason of the occupation
of it by the owner or any other person.

"Use" by the railroad includes managing safety risks on its right of way. A
railroad is held accountable for the condition of the right of way; therefore, a
servient landowner may not unilaterally create risks that interfere with the
railroad's maintenance of the right of way.

It would be unreasonable to permit a railroad company to acquire a right of way
for the purpose of constructing its track and necessary buildings and, when it
is invaded or its enjoyment interfered with, confine the company to an action
for damages. In this way the operation of railroads might be so much hindered
that they would not be able to discharge their public duties, the primary object
for which they are chartered. Therefore, injunctive relief is an appropriate
means for preventing servient landowners from creating risks or other
interferences on a railroad's right of way.

The trial court's permanent injunction preventing the defendant from
construction or grading work within 25 feet of the center line is reasonable.
The close proximity of buildings or grading work to the tracks might obstruct
the view of the automobile crossing, making it unsafe and interfering with the
railroad's duty to maintain safe crossings.

Similarly, the trial court properly enjoined excavation near the tracks and use
of the water pipe beneath the tracks. Excavation and unapproved pipe
installation might damage the track bed and create risks to railroad operation.
Therefore, the injunction addresses legitimate risks related to the safe
maintenance of the roadbed, and the management of such risks is within the sound
business judgment of the railroad.

The trial court ordered the defendant to construct a safety fence to separate
the mobile home community from the plaintiff's track and to cap the water lines
running underneath the railroad bed. Because the defendant's actions created
foreseeable risks to the plaintiff's safe operation of the railroad, these
mandatory injunctions were proper to protect the enjoyment of the plaintiff's
easement.

Affirmed.

Norfolk Southern Railway Co. v. Smith. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0485, 11 pp.)
(John C. Martin, Ch.J.) Appealed from Jackson County Superior Court. (James U.
Downs, J.) N.C. App.

Condominium Complex - Declaration Amendment - Timeshare Prohibition - Civil
Practice - Standing - Potential Purchaser

Where the plaintiff withdrew its offer to purchase a condominium unit after the
defendant-homeowners' association amended the condo declaration to prohibit the
sale of timeshares, the plaintiff lacks standing to challenge the amendment.

We affirm the trial court's order granting the defendant's motion to dismiss.

The plaintiff has no legally protected interest, or "injury in fact," and
therefore lacks standing to bring this declaratory action. At the filing of the
complaint, the plaintiff was neither a party to a contract to purchase a
condominium, nor a property owner. Absent an enforceable contract right, an
action for declaratory relief to construe or apply a contract will not lie.

Although the plaintiff had entered into an offer to purchase contract for a
condominium, intending to convert the unit into a timeshare, the contract was
terminated. Thereafter, the plaintiff commenced this action. Perhaps the
sellers, who at all times owned the condominium, had standing to bring a
declaratory action against the defendant. However, the plaintiff, as a potential
purchaser, did not have standing.

Without a legally protected interest in the property, the plaintiff cannot
achieve the relief it now seeks. Consequently, the plaintiff has failed to
satisfy its burden of showing it had standing to bring an action against the
defendant for the amendment prohibiting timeshare units on the property.

Affirmed.

Beachcomber Properties, L.L.C. v. Station One, Inc. (Lawyers Weekly No.
05-07-0488, 8 pp.) (Wanda G. Bryant, J.) Appealed from New Hanover County
Superior Court. (Russell J. Lanier, J.) N.C. App.

Municipal - Nuisance - Abatement Action - Insufficient Incidents

Even though police made many trips to the defendant's property, since only three
incidents over the course of 30 months constituted breaches of the peace, and
since confirmed drug activity only occurred on the property three times, the
plaintiff-city failed to establish a nuisance.

Judgment for the defendant affirmed.

Pursuant to G.S. 19-1, a public nuisance includes the "use, ownership or leasing
of any building or place for the purpose of ... illegal possession or sale of
controlled substances.... " G.S. 19-1.2, entitled "Types of Nuisances," provides
that where conduct prohibited in Sec. 19-1(a) is involved, a nuisance may be
declared at "every place which, as a regular course of business, is used for the
purposes of ... the illegal possession or sale of controlled substances ... and
every such place in or upon which ... the illegal possession or sale of
controlled substances ... [is] held or occur[s]. "

The requirement of "regular course of business" in Sec. 19-1.2(6), although not
set forth in Sec. 19-1(a), is to be given effect and interpreted as consistent
with the requirement of the owner's purpose.

In order to establish a nuisance, the city must show that the defendant leased
or used his property for the purpose of the illegal possession and sale of
drugs. As a means of showing the defendant's purpose in leasing or operating the
building, the city may present evidence that the sale of controlled substances
occurred regularly.

Confirmed drug activity occurred on the property three times since the year
2000. Although these events establish that some drug activity occurred at or
near the defendant's property, they are not sufficient to establish that drug
possession and sales occurred as a regular course of business. The city points
to no other evidence tending to show that the purpose of the defendant's leasing
the property was to conduct illegal drug sales. Therefore, the city has not
established a nuisance under G.S. 19-1(a) and 19-1.2.

G.S. 19-1(b) provides, "The ... use, ownership or leasing of any building or
place wherein or whereon are carried on, conducted, or permitted repeated acts
which create and constitute a breach of the peace shall constitute a nuisance. "
Accordingly, the city must establish that repeated breaches of the peace
occurred on the defendant's property.

Out of 24 trips to the property by police officers, seven involved service of
misdemeanor warrants and one involved a search warrant. There is no evidence
that these events involved any threats to other citizens or disturbed the public
order.

Six of the police officers' trips were in response to phone calls reporting
domestic disturbances. The nature of a domestic disturbance call is ambiguous,
and the evidence does not establish that these disturbances involved an assault
or any other unlawful activity that might be considered a breach of the peace.

Of the remaining trips, two involved assaults and one involved a disturbance
with shots fired.

These unlawful acts constitute breaches of the peace. However, these three
instances occurred over the course of approximately two and a half years. The
most recent of these instances happened nearly a year and a half before this
action was filed.

Pursuant to G.S. 19-1(b), only repeated acts that disturb the public order
constitute a nuisance. We do not believe that three incidents over the course of
two and a half years meets the standard of "repeated acts" set forth in G.S.
19-1(b). As such, the city has not established that the defendant's property
constitutes a nuisance under G.S. 19-1(b).

Affirmed.

State ex rel. City of Salisbury v. Campbell. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0491, 7
pp.) (Rick Elmore, J.) Appealed from Rowan County Superior Court. (Christopher
M. Collier, J.) N.C. App.

Tort/Negligence

Damages - Pain & Suffering - 'Severe Emotional Distress' - Defamation - Slander
- Oral Statements - Statute of Limitations

Even though the plaintiff offered no proof of "physical pain and suffering," she
may recover for emotional suffering.

The trial court erred by granting partial summary judgment for the defendants on
the issue of compensatory damages. The trial court correctly dismissed the
defendant-doctor's counterclaims. The trial court erred by failing to dismiss
the doctor's claim for punitive damages.

The plaintiff was the defendant-doctor's patient, and they entered into a
personal relationship. The plaintiff alleged claims of professional negligence,
breach of fiduciary duty, and intentional and negligent infliction of emotional
distress. The doctor asserted counterclaims, including one for slander per se.

The trial court granted summary judgment for the defendants as to the
plaintiff's claim for compensatory damages. The trial court dismissed the
doctor's counterclaims.

Compensatory Damages

The plaintiff did not allege "special damages" such as medical expenses, lost
wages, or other direct financial injury.

"Pain and suffering" may be a discrete basis for recovery. Moreover, physical
injury is only one aspect of "pain and suffering", which also may include
emotional suffering.

The doctor cites no cases in support of the proposition that the psychological
component of damages for "pain and suffering" must meet the same standard as the
element of "severe emotional distress" that is part of claims for infliction of
emotional distress, and we find none.

Counterclaims

The doctor's counterclaim sought damages for slander per se and did not assert a
claim for damages based on libel.

Under G.S. 1-54(3), the statute of limitations for a claim of slander or libel
is one year. Because the doctor's counterclaim was filed on Mar. 10, 2003, any
slanderous statements made before Mar. 10, 2002 are barred by the statute of
limitations. Review of the counterclaim reveals no allegations of any oral
defamation occurring after Mar. 10, 2002.

Indeed, the counterclaim includes only one allegation of behavior that is
arguably within the statute of limitations: "32. In the fall of 2002, Dr.
Harper's partner began receiving unsigned letters advising him that he had made
a mistake entering into a partnership with Dr. Harper and should reconsider that
partnership. "

Paragraph 32 refers only to "unsigned letters" and not to any spoken or oral
communication. Regardless of their content, "unsigned letters" cannot constitute
slander because they are written rather than spoken. The trial court properly
dismissed the doctor's complaint for slander per se as barred by the statute of
limitations.

Where the trial court properly dismissed the doctor's counterclaims, the doctor
has no basis on which to claim punitive damages. The trial court should have
dismissed the doctor's counterclaim for punitive damages.

Affirmed in part; reversed and remanded in part.

Iadanza v. Harper. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0493, 12 pp.) (Eric L. Levinson,
J.) Appealed from Wake County Superior Court. (Evelyn W. Hill, J.) N.C. App.

(See accompanying story on page one.)

Civil Practice - Statute of Limitations - Fraud - Attorneys

Where the plaintiff learned of the acts about which he complains more than six
years before he sued the defendant-attorney, the plaintiff's claims against the
attorney are barred by the statute of limitations.

We affirm the trial court's order granting the attorney's motion to dismiss.

The plaintiff sued the attorney "as attorney for [Hatteras Island Plaza
Partnership and] its partners, one of whom was [the plaintiff]. " A breach of
fiduciary duty is a species of negligence or professional malpractice.

The plaintiff has alleged that the attorney's "last act" giving rise to damages
sustained by the plaintiff in connection with the partnership's sale of a the
Hatteras Island shopping center occurred in February 1997-more than six years
before the attorney was sued on Apr. 22, 2003. Moreover, the Forrestbrook
Subdivision transaction is alleged to have occurred two years earlier, or some
eight years before the attorney was added to the plaintiff's lawsuit. Whether
the three- year statute of limitations or the four-year statute of repose
applies is immaterial as both had long passed by the time the plaintiff sued the
attorney.

The statute of limitations for actions for fraud is three years pursuant to G.S.
1-52(9). A cause of action alleging fraud is deemed to accrue upon discovery by
the plaintiff of facts constituting the fraud.

The core of the plaintiff's claim is that he has suffered damages by agreeing to
sell his partnership interest to defendant Keith, which he would have refused to
do had he known of Keith's ownership interest in the buyer. However, the
plaintiff received actual notice of Keith's ownership as of February 1998. Any
fraud claim predicated on the attorney's alleged failure to reveal or
misrepresentation concerning Keith's interest accrued then and had to have been
brought within three years or by February 2001. The plaintiff waited until Apr.
22, 2003 to bring his action against the attorney.

The plaintiff's claim that he is not required to adhere to the discovery
provisions of the statute of limitations because he has sued a lawyer with whom
he had an attorney-client relationship simply cannot be sustained. In Sharp v.
Gailor, 132 N.C. App. 213, 510 S.E.2d 702 (1999), this court refused to extend
the "continuing course of treatment doctrine" to legal malpractice claims.

Thus, the plaintiff's assertion here that "it is not alleged in the Complaint
when [the attorney] stopped acting as counsel for Carlisle or Stonehaven," is of
no relevance. The issues are when the last act of the attorney occurred and when
the plaintiff learned of Keith's ownership in the buyer of the property. A
review of the plaintiff's allegations establishes that date to be February 1998
(at the latest)-more than three years preceding the institution of this action
against the attorney.

The statute of limitations for negligent misrepresentation is three years
pursuant to G.S. 1- 52. A claim for negligent misrepresentation accrues and the
statute of limitations begins to run as soon as the right to institute and
maintain a suit arises.

Inasmuch as the plaintiff knew of Keith's ownership interest not later than
February 1998, he experienced "damage" which was "apparent or reasonably ought
to have become apparent to the claimant" no later than that time. Since this
action was not instituted until more than five years later, the trial court
properly concluded that the claim for negligent misrepresentation was barred by
the applicable statute of limitations.

This court has applied the three-year limitations period of G.S. 1-52(5) to a
civil conspiracy claim. Because the plaintiff brought his conspiracy claim more
than six years after the date of the shopping center transaction and eight years
after the subdivision transaction, this claim was time barred.

The statute of limitations in actions for constructive fraud is three years
pursuant to G.S. 1-52, which accrues upon discovery of the facts constituting
the fraud.

The plaintiff learned that Keith was involved in the ownership of the shopping
center purchaser in February 1998. His cause of action for constructive fraud
accrued then, and any claim predicated on the attorney's alleged failure to
reveal information about or misrepresentation concerning Keith's interest in the
purchaser had to have been brought by February 2001-two years before the
plaintiff added the attorney to this lawsuit.

The plaintiff now argues that the attorney failed to affirmatively plead the
statute of limitations defense in his written motion. However, the defense was
argued in the attorney's brief, and the plaintiff's brief responded to the
defense.

A trial court may consider a statute of limitations defense, though not raised
in a motion to dismiss, when the non-movant has not been surprised and has full
opportunity to argue and present evidence on the affirmative defense.

The plaintiff received the attorney's briefing on his statute of limitations
defense prior to the hearing on the motions, presented argument on that issue
before the trial court, and did not object that the attorney had identified the
defense in his memorandum rather than in his motion. The trial court properly
considered the attorney's statute of limitations defense as to the plaintiff's
claims for fraud, negligent misrepresentation and civil conspiracy.

The parties' memoranda did not present any factual evidence or allegations which
the trial court only properly address pursuant to a hearing for summary
judgment. Rather, the memoranda reiterated the current status of the law and
only presented the legal issue of whether the plaintiff's claims against the
attorney were barred by the statute of limitations. The trial court was not
required to convert the hearing to one for summary judgment.

Affirmed.

Carlisle v. Keith. (Lawyers Weekly No. 05-07-0487, 23 pp.) (Wanda G. Bryant, J.)
Appealed from Mecklenburg County Superior Court. (W. Erwin Spainhour, J.) N.C.
App.

Zoning

Municipal - Billboards - Neighborhood Compatibility - EMC Regulations

Where billboards were included as a conditional use in the relevant zoning
district, there was a presumption that billboards were in harmony with the
general zoning plan, and speculative assertions and mere opinion evidence were
insufficient to rebut the presumption.

The Town of Franklinton is directed to issue the permits, and the ruling of the
trial court is reversed.

Testimony that a billboard could be seen from a particular location is simply
irrelevant as to whether or not the billboard is incompatible with the
neighborhood. Anyone who could see the billboards could also see the commercial
businesses, which had signage as well. The permit should have been issued as the
record does not contain substantial evidence that the proposed billboards were
incompatible with the surrounding areas.

One proposed billboard would have been too close to a stream, thus violating the
rules of the N.C. Environmental Management Commission. During the hearing, the
petitioner agreed to relocate the billboard in order to comply with the EMC
rules. Instead of denying the permit, the Town should have issued the permit
subject to a condition that the billboard comply with EMC rules and its location
be approved by that agency.

Reversed.

MCC Outdoor, LLC v. Franklinton Board of Commissioners. (Lawyers Weekly No.
05-07-0483, 9 pp.) (Douglas McCullough, J.) Appealed from Franklin County
Superior Court. (Robert H. Hobgood, J.) N.C. App.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

