                              62 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                             Kirkus Reviews (Print)

                           October 15, 2013, Tuesday

HOW TO SURVIVE WITHIN OUR HEALTHCARE SYSTEM

SECTION: NONFICTION; Health Care

LENGTH: 427  words


This short booklet of 12 chapters serves a clear purpose: to raise awareness
about individual accountability in the fields of health care and medicine.
Physician PhilipScheinberg and his wife, Linda, a nurse, succinctly illuminate
the dangers of a health care system in which patients are too trusting of their
practitioners and too oblivious to rapid changes that can impact daily medicine.
For example, in one revealing chapter, the authors warn of hospital-acquired
infections resulting from improper sanitation methods and procedural mistakes.

The authors warn readers to head to the hospital equipped with sanitary wipes
and disinfectant, since hospital beds and equipment are often not sanitized
between patients, causing bacterial infections to spread and impacting a
multitude of patients each year. Perhaps these candid suggestions wouldn't be so
powerful were they not informed by the authors' several combined decades of
hospital experience. Aside from these types of invisible dangers, the book also
discusses procedural mistakes made in physicians' offices and surgery rooms. As
the authors explain, these mistakes, which are generally due to patient overload
and understaffing, can range from medication mix-ups to surgery on the wrong
limb or wrong side of the body. In short, the book reveals much in a small
number of pages. Rather than overwhelming the lay reader with medical facts and
statistics, the authors instead seem intent on raising awareness among patients
about the need for more self-accountability. The book also suggests a few
remedies: For example, researching your physician and boldly asking necessary
questions about training and expertise can aid in receiving the appropriate
treatment. The book points out that in modern health care, no family physician
or general practitioner can be expected to have specialized knowledge about all
diseases and conditions. Furthermore, the book suggests that readers learn as
much as they can about health care policy and insurance plans, since each
individual necessitates a different approach to care, depending upon conditions
and finances. All in all, this book serves an important role in showing the
flaws in a system that is perceived, by many, to be sterile and infallible.
Readers will likely be grateful for a breath of candid reality spoken from the
doctors themselves. A blunt, useful guide to approaching health care with more
knowledge and less blind trust

Publication Date: 2013-04-12

Publisher: CreateSpace

Stage: Indie

ISBN: 978-1480118959

Price: $9.95

Author: Scheinberg, Philip A.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                        Copyright 2013 Kirkus Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


