                              63 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Northern Daily Leader

                            March 18, 2015 Wednesday

Doctors call on pollies to 'think rural'

SECTION: EARLY GENERAL NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 288 words


THE peak lobbying body for rural doctors has called on the major parties to
commit to better support of NSW rural hospitals if elected on March 28.

Rural Doctors Association of NSW (RDANSW) president Christopher Gittoes said in
the past two election campaigns, the association had continually called for more
support for rural hospitals, only to have those pleas ignored.

"People living in smaller rural towns don't expect that they will have their
coronary bypass surgery in their town, but they deserve and warrant access to
solid primary and initial hospital care, and to have day surgery and simple
procedures performed as closely to home as possible," Dr Gittoes said. "Women
should be able to safely give birth as close as possible to home without having
to travel hours for weeks on end to a distant maternity unit.

"Time and again it has been shown that district hospitals are both a safe and
cost-effective setting in which to provide hospital and basic procedural and
obstetric care.

"And furthermore, without strong local foundations of primary care, both patient
care and health budgets explode."

He said the development of the NSW rural generalist program which provides GPs
with training in obstetrics, anaesthetics and emergency medicine was a step in
the right direction, but that the incoming state government would "need to put
its money where its mouth is" to ensure there were viable rural hospital in
which these doctors could work.

"They are the future, the pipeline, of rural medicine," Dr Gittoes said.

"This will require an investment in rural hospitals to ensure that current
services are maintained and not reduced as has happened and even be expanded to
enable more procedural work to be undertaken at them."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2015 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


