                              64 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                              May 23, 2008 Friday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

EDITORIAL;
NOT ANOTHER `KILLER KING';
COUNTY OFFICIALS MUST NOT ALLOW OLIVE VIEW TO HAVE SAME LACK OF OVERSIGHT AS
KING-DREW

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A18

LENGTH: 310 words


DESPITE two unfortunate and apparently avoidable patient deaths last year that
caused the state to levy $50,000 in fines, many patients have received excellent
care at Olive View-UCLA Medical Center in Sylmar.

And county officials should do everything they can to make sure the care stays
excellent.

Indeed, it's not clear that the deaths signal anything more than a couple of
tragic but normal mistakes. Even the most skilled health-care workers are human,
and thus prone to error from time to time. These are the first fines for Olive
View since 2006 legislation that allowed the state Department of Health to start
issuing $25,000 fines to hospitals for procedural and other violations. Other
hospitals have also been cited.

Still, after recent events at King-Drew Medical Center (which has since changed
its name to Martin Luther King-Harbor Hospital), even the suspicion that there's
mismanagement brewing should send county officials scrambling to ensure that
proper oversight is firmly in place at Olive View.

The county can't afford to let the kind of mismanagement that nearly took down
the South Los Angeles hospital gain even the slightest foothold at Olive View.

The wake-up call to pay attention does not let the county off the hook. The two
deaths were avoidable: One patient died from delay in getting an antidote for
oleander poisoning; the second death was the result of lack of communication
among hospital staffers.

Regardless, it behooves county health officials and the Board of Supervisors to
closely monitor procedural changes at Olive View. Lack of

accountability and oversight in county administration allowed the former
King-Drew hospital to fall into such a state that it was reviled by patients and
will forever be known as ``Killer King.''

County officials cannot allow the same to happen at Olive View. Whatever it
takes, they cannot allow it.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved


