                              66 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                           December 7, 2011 Wednesday

Cardiac clinic to be part of hospital

BYLINE:  Bianca Clare

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 347  words


A SPECIALISED clinic to diagnose and treat patients with heart disease will open
on the Sunshine Coast within six months.

The establishment of a cardiac catheter laboratory at Nambour General Hospital
is part of the region's health services ramp-up ahead of the opening of Sunshine
Coast University Hospital in 2016.

Health Minister Geoff Wilson officially opened Nambour's new 96-bed Block 3 ward
yesterday.

The new block, which will improve patient flow over the next five years,
contains a specialist outpatients department, ante-natal and paediatric clinics,
a special care nursery, a paediatric ward, and respiratory and general wards.

Mr Wilson said the new block had been specifically designed to improve the flow
of patients through the hospital.

"By focusing on things like design and layout we can make the hospital run more
efficiently and improve patient outcomes," he said.

"The new outpatients department has been designed in four colour coded pods,
with consulting, interviewing and treatment rooms.

"The department also has its own satellite x-ray facilities.

"This will allow patients to have their x-rays within the outpatient department
rather than having to walk or be transferred to the existing medical imaging
located in another area of the hospital."

The cardiac laboratory, plus a vascular surgery procedural suite and a dedicated
endoscopy procedural unit, are already under construction.

Those services will transfer to the university hospital come 2016.

The State Government has allocated a budget of $96 million every year for four
years to attract the equivalent of 240 full-time new staff needed for the new
450-bed hospital.

Sunshine Coast Health District CEO Kevin Hegarty said Nambour hospital would
continue to provide a range of acute services post 2016, including emergency.

HOW IT GREW

 Demolition of the old Block 3 started in January, 2009

Construction of new Block 3 building started in April, 2009

At the peak of construction more than 200 people were employed on site

Construction used 8500 m³ concrete, 1033 tonne reinforcing bar, 3860 m²mesh

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


