                              67 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                          Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly

                                January 21, 2002

U.S. Court of Appeals 1st Circuit Case Summaries: January 21, 2002

BYLINE: Massachusetts Lawyers Weekly Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 4641  words


Administrative

Hospital - Medicare Reclassification

Where a hospital filed a complaint in U.S. District Court seeking judicial
review of an administrative decision which dismissed as untimely its request for
Medicare reclassification, the District Court acted properly in dismissing the
complaint based on a statutory provision precluding judicial review.

Dismissal order affirmed

Bar To Review

"Plaintiff-Appellant, Jordan Hospital, Inc., filed this lawsuit challenging the
dismissal of its request for reclassification into a neighboring geographic
region. Success in obtaining reclassification would have entitled Jordan to an
additional $1.8 million in Medicare reimbursements for the fiscal year in
question. The district court dismissed Jordan's complaint for lack of subject
matter jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. Sect. 1331, and Jordan now appeals.

"First, Jordan disputes the district court's conclusion that judicial review of
this administrative decision is precluded by law. Second, Jordan challenges the
validity of the implementing regulations underlying the reclassification process
... as inconsistent with the statutory scheme set forth in 42 U.S.C. Sect.
1395ww, and alleges that its procedural due process rights have been violated.
Finally, Jordan posits that the district court erred because the statutory
deadline for filing a reclassification application is subject to the doctrine of
equitable tolling. Finding all of Jordan's arguments meritless, we affirm. ...

"Defendants argued, and the district court agreed, that Jordan's claim was
barred by the 'no review' provision of the Medicare Act, 42 U.S.C. Sect.
1395wW(d)(10)(C)(iii)(II), which specifically states that '[t]he decision of the
[Administrator] shall be final and shall not be subject to judicial review. '
...

"In the face of this clear congressional mandate against review, Jordan lodges a
constitutional challenge, arguing that its procedural due process rights were
violated because it was denied an opportunity to be heard on the merits of its
reclassification application. More specifically, Jordan alleges that [Health
Care Financing Administration]'s publication of erroneous information gave it
inadequate notice of its eligibility, thus causing Jordan to file late. ...

"To prevail on its procedural due process claim, Jordan must show both that it
had a recognized liberty or property interest, and was deprived of that interest
without adequate notice or a meaningful opportunity to be heard. ... Assuming,
without deciding, that Jordan has a legitimate property interest in receiving
reimbursement payments, we must then determine whether Jordan raises a colorable
constitutional claim. We find that it has not.

"HCFA's regulatory scheme provides hospitals with a meaningful opportunity to be
heard on reclassification, and accords them sufficient procedural protections.
HCFA's publication of erroneous data, while unfortunate, did not deprive Jordan
of its rights. HCFA takes significant steps to insure that the wage data
obtained from hospitals subject to [the prospective payment system] are
reasonably accurate. ... Jordan could not realistically have assumed that the
wage index information would always be accurate, and that if an error were
found, it would be remedied in time to permit a reclassification request. ... "

Jordan Hospital, Inc. v. Shalala (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-011-02) (16 pages)
(Stahl, Sr. Cir. J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a decision by Zobel, J., in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Bruce A. Singal, with
Paul M. Barrett and William C. Athanas on brief, for the plaintiff-appellant;
Anita Johnson, with James B. Farmer on brief, for the defendants-appellees
(Docket No. 01-1614).

Civil Practice

Dismissal - Res Judicata

Where (1) in 1999, the plaintiffs filed suit in district court claiming that the
defendants had defrauded them by submitting false documents to the Superior
Court of Puerto Rico in a previous lawsuit, (2) the court granted the defendants
summary judgment on the ground that the plaintiffs had failed to raise a genuine
issue of material fact by not satisfying the heightened pleading requirements of
Fed. R. Civ. 9(b), (3) the plaintiffs did not appeal but instead filed the
present suit in Puerto Rico Superior Court and (4) after the suit was removed to
federal court, the defendants moved to dismiss, we hold that a judge correctly
allowed the defendants' dismissal motion on the basis of res judicata.

Affirmed.

Analysis

"The doctrine of res judicata promotes the goals of fairness and efficiency by
preventing vexatious or repetitive litigation. ... A claim will be precluded by
res judicata if the following elements are demonstrated: '(1) a final judgment
on the merits in an earlier suit, (2) sufficient identicality between the causes
of action asserted in the earlier and later suits, and (3) sufficient
identicality between the parties in the two suits. ' ...

"In the instant case, all three factors are so clearly present that only a brief
discussion of them is necessary. First, the summary judgment ruling that
disposed of plaintiffs' earlier claim constitutes 'a final judgment on the
merits. ' ... Second, by plaintiffs' own admission, the instant case is
identical to the previous suit. Third, there is no question that the two suits
contain the same parties.

"Because we find no error in the district court's application of res judicata,
we affirm. "

Caballero-Rivera, et al. v. The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., et al. (Lawyers
Weekly No. 01-013-02) (4 pages) (Per Curiam) (1st Circuit) Appealed from the
U.S. District Court for the District of Puerto Rico (Docket No. 01-1985).

Civil Rights

Fair Housing Act - Town's Rescission Of Support For Housing Project

Where plaintiff landowners brought suit alleging that the defendant town, by
rescinding its support of the plaintiffs' affordable-housing project, violated
the Federal Fair Housing Act, we hold that the failure of the plaintiffs' to
show either discriminatory intent or discriminatory impact requires that a
summary judgment for the town be affirmed.

In addition, finding no violation of the plaintiffs' rights to due process and
equal protection, we go on to affirm a judgment for the town on a 42 U.S.C.
Sect. 1983 count.

Macone, et al. v. Town of Wakefield (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-009-02) (19 pages)
(Torruella, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a judgment by Keeton, J., in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. David J. Gallagher for
the plaintiffs-appellants; Patrick J. Costello for the defendant-appellee
(Docket No. 01-1414).

Criminal

Conspiracy - Distribution Of Crack Cocaine - Presence Of Alternate Juror

Where a defendant has appealed his convictions for distributing crack cocaine
and conspiring to distribute crack cocaine, the appeal must be rejected, as the
defendant's claims - that the presence of an alternate juror tainted the jury's
deliberations and that the evidence presented at trial was insufficient to
support the verdict - have been forfeited and, in addition, are without merit.

Analysis

"The jury that heard [defendant Felix C.] Reynoso's case consisted of twelve
jurors and two alternates. The alternates were dismissed after the jury was
charged, but one of them stayed with the jury during its deliberations, contrary
to the court's instructions. When the alternate's presence was brought to the
court's attention, the district judge interviewed all twelve jurors and
determined that the alternate had taken no part in the deliberations. He
nevertheless offered to grant Reynoso a mistrial, but Reynoso declined after
consulting with his lawyer. The jury later convicted Reynoso on all four counts.

"Whether or not the presence of the alternate during deliberations was a
violation of the current Fed. R. Crim. P. 24(c), which was amended in 1999 to
permit alternates to be retained in certain circumstances, it creates no grounds
for reversal. Arguably, Reynoso's decision to forego a mistrial constitutes
waiver of any claim of error. ... However, there is some authority under the old
version of the rule suggesting that - in order to preserve the integrity of the
jury system - errors of this kind should not be excused by agreement of the
parties. ...

"Whether or not the claim is deemed waived, it was certainly forfeited by
Reynoso's failure to object and is reviewable only for plain error - requiring
far more than just that the error be clear. Among other requirements, Reynoso
must show that the alternate's presence created actual prejudice. ... But after
due investigation the district court supportably found that the alternate had
not affected the deliberations, and Reynoso offers no evidence or arguments to
the contrary.

"Reynoso's sufficiency claim is also forfeit because he failed to renew his Rule
29 motion after the presentation of his defense. ... The evidence implicating
Reynoso included testimony of an undercover police officer who bought crack from
Reynoso on three occasions, and of two co-conspirators who helped Reynoso sell
crack. This was more than sufficient to support the verdict; there was thus no
error at all, let alone the gross injustice needed to avoid the forfeiture. ...

"Affirmed. "

United States v. Reynoso (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-018-02) (3 pages) (Per Curiam)
(1st Circuit) (Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District of New
Hampshire (Docket No. 01-1339).

Convictions Under RICO And VICAR

Where two defendants have appealed their convictions under the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act and the Violent Crimes in Aid of
Racketeering statute, the convictions must be affirmed despite the "multitude"
of issues raised by the defendants.

"Defendants have been very ably represented but their arguments do not prevail.
We outline some of the significant rulings of law in this opinion.

"1) We hold on the facts of this case that statements made by defendants' fellow
members of a larger conspiracy in furtherance of that larger conspiracy are
admissible as coconspirator statements under Rule 801(d)(2)(E), even when the
declarants are members of an opposing faction fighting over control of the
larger conspiracy.

"2) We interpret the 'through a pattern of racketeering activity' requirement
under RICO, and hold that a sufficient nexus for the purposes of a substantive
RICO violation under 18 U.S.C. Sect. 1962(c) exists between the racketeering
acts and the enterprise when the defendant was able to commit the predicate acts
by means of, by consequence of, by reason of, by the agency of, or by the
instrumentality of his membership in the enterprise.

"3) We hold that the jurisdictional requirement of both RICO and VICAR require
only that the crime have some effect on interstate commerce.

"4) We hold that a substantive RICO violation under 18 U.S.C. Sect. 1962(c) and
a RICO conspiracy under 18 U.S.C. Sect. 1962(d) are not the same offense for the
purposes of double jeopardy analysis, and can therefore be punished separately.
"

United States v. Marino, et al. (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-017-02) (49 pages)
(Lynch, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a judgment entered by Gorton, J., in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. Robert L. Sheketoff for
defendant-appellant Vincent Marino; Terrance J. McCarthy for defendant-appellant
John J. Patti III; Cynthia A. Young, with James B. Farmer on brief, for the
United States (Docket Nos. 00-1739 and 00-1813).

Narcotics Conspiracy - 'Ineffective Assistance' Claims

Where a defendant, who has been convicted of conspiracy to possess heroin with
intent to distribute, has filed an appeal, we reject that appeal because we find
no merit in any of the defendant's several allegations of ineffective assistance
by trial counsel.

Reyes-Vejerano v. United States (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-016-02) (12 pages)
(Lynch, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District
of Puerto Rico (Docket No. 01-1187).

Possession of Explosives

Where a defendant has appealed his conviction for being a felon in possession of
explosives, we hold that the appeal must fail.

We so decide because: (1) the evidence presented at trial was sufficient to
demonstrate the defendant's knowing possession of explosives in violation of 18
U.S.C. Sect. 842(i)(1); and (2) the trial judge acted permissibly in admitting
evidence of the defendant's prior uncharged misconduct relating to his
involvement in a burglary of an explosives depot in 1993, as such evidence was
relevant to show the defendant's predisposition to commit the crime alleged in
the present case and was not unduly inflammatory.

Affirmed.

United States v. Van Horn (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-015-02) (21 pages) (Lipez, J.)
(1st Circuit) Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District of New
Hampshire (Docket No. 00-2275).

Employment

Discrimination - National Origin - Pretext

Where a plaintiff filed suit under Title VII alleging that the defendant
employer committed national origin discrimination by not promoting him and by
subsequently firing him, a summary judgment for the defendant should be affirmed
because of the plaintiff's insufficient evidence that the defendant's stated
reasons for its actions were a pretext for discrimination.

Insufficient Showing

"[Plaintiff] Ramon Zapata-Matos was terminated in 1993 from his position with
L&F Products as General Manager for all operations in Puerto Rico, Mexico, and
the Caribbean. He had been with the company since 1983 and had received a number
of promotions, although in 1992 the company declined to create and promote him
to a Regional Director's position as he had requested. Zapata's employment was
terminated on September 28, 1993. He sued under Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. Sect. 2000e-2 (1994), saying he had been discriminated
against on the basis of his national origin as a Puerto Rican.

"In a thoughtful opinion and order, the magistrate judge granted summary
judgment for defendant L&F. The court concluded that Zapata had 'presented
insufficient evidence from which a rational fact finder could conclude that in
failing to promote, and subsequently terminating Zapata, L&F Products
discriminated against him on the basis of his Puerto Rican heritage. ' We agree,
and affirm. In so doing we clarify what is meant by evidence of pretext and the
ultimate issue of discrimination. ...

"Reeves [v. Sanderson Plumbing Products, Inc., 530 U.S. 133, 147 (2000)]
reinforced the prior law in this circuit that even if the trier of fact
disbelieves the nondiscriminatory explanation given by the employer, the trier
is not compelled to find that the real reason was discrimination. ... That is
because the ultimate question is not whether the explanation was false, but
whether discrimination was the cause of the termination. We have adhered to a
case by case weighing. ... Nonetheless, disbelief of the reason may, along with
the prima facie case, on appropriate facts, permit the trier of fact to conclude
that the employer had discriminated. ... Ultimately, the question is one of the
sufficiency of plaintiff's evidence. ...

"In this case, ... no reasons were given at termination and no contemporaneous
documents stating a reason at the time of termination have been introduced. No
reasons are given in the answer to the complaint, save for a pleading that
plaintiff was terminated for just cause. We thus turn to the explanations that
the managers involved gave at their depositions for terminating Zapata. Those
explanations ... are themselves consistent and not contradicted by either
contemporaneous documents or statements made at termination, or statements made
later. Further, the explanations are quite credible in light of the preceding
events.

"Zapata argues that the four L&F employees who resigned right before his
termination did not make negative comments about his management style to the
decisionmakers, because neither the four employees nor the management voiced
these complaints to him. That is not a serious argument. It is human nature for
a person not to tell someone to his face about complaints he has just made about
him. And management did not give him any reasons, he says.

"More serious is the argument that nothing in the prior work history suggests
that Zapata was a poor manager. A trier of fact could reasonably think that this
raises questions about the sudden emergence, albeit in a time of extreme
pressure, of a managerial style problem on Zapata's part. On the other hand, a
trier of fact could much more readily conclude that the employer's explanation
was not a pretext, was quite true, and was reinforced by two facts: four top
employees had just resigned rather than work with Zapata in a difficult period,
and the company well knew Zapata had been balking at the directives from the
parent company.

"The question on summary judgment is whether the slight suggestion of pretext
present here, absent other evidence from which discrimination can be inferred,
meets plaintiff's ultimate burden. We hold it cannot. This case fits into the
category Reeves described of plaintiff creating (at best) a weak issue of fact
as to pretext on the face of strong independent evidence that no discrimination
occurred. ... Considering, as Reeves, 530 U.S. at 158, mandates, the strength of
plaintiff's prima facie case, the probative value of the proof that the
employer's explanation is false, and other evidence supporting the employer's
case, the employer is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. "

Zapata-Matos v. Reckitt & Colman, Inc. (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-014-02) (15 pages)
(Lynch, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District
of Puerto Rico (Docket No. 00-2546).

Habeas Corpus

Time Limit - Equitable Tolling

Where a petitioner convicted of gross sexual assault in Maine filed a request
for federal habeas corpus relief, the application for relief was properly
dismissed as time-barred under the controlling one-year limitation period.

Untimely Request

"This appeal is the latest in an ever-lengthening line of cases trailing in the
wake of Congress's enactment of a limitation period for the filing of federal
habeas petitions. ... The limitation period is part of the Antiterrorism and
Effective Death Penalty Act (AEDPA), Pub. L. No. 104-132, 110 Stat. 214 (1996).
The statute of limitations for federal review of state prisoners' habeas
applications is codified at 28 U.S.C. Sect. 2244(d)(1). ...

"Any discussion of timeliness must start with the Law Court's rejection of the
petitioner's direct appeal on August 8, 1997. Giving the petitioner the benefit
of the ninety-day grace period for seeking certiorari review by the United
States Supreme Court, 28 U.S.C. Sect. 2101(c), the district court ruled that the
one-year statute of limitations began to accrue on the day after this grace
period ended: November 7, 1997. The court counted forward 101 days and then
stopped the accrual process as of February 17, 1998 - the date on which the
petitioner filed for state post-conviction relief. ...

"Noting that the Law Court denied a [certificate of probable cause] (and, thus,
ended the petitioner's quest for state post-conviction relief) on December 22,
1999, the court resumed the count as of December 23. At that point, there were
264 days left within which to seek federal habeas review. The court determined
that this 264-day window closed on September 11, 2000 The petitioner's federal
habeas application is deemed filed, under the prisoner mailbox rule, on
September 23, 2000. ... The petitioner did not act until after that date. Thus,
the court considered his federal habeas action time-barred (twelve days late)
absent a showing of some sufficiently excusatory set of circumstances.
Discerning none, the court dismissed the application. ...

"The petitioner premises his claim of equitable tolling on a delay in obtaining
the transcript of the evidentiary hearing held in the state superior court in
connection with his state petition for post-conviction review. ...

"To sum up, the district court found that the petitioner had no compelling need
for the hearing transcript in order to prepare his federal habeas application;
and that, in all events, the petitioner dawdled for nearly two months after
receiving it before he filed his application. In view of these supportable
findings, we discern no abuse of discretion in the court's ultimate conclusion
that the petitioner did not establish the kind of extraordinary circumstances
that are necessary to justify equitable tolling. After all, 'equitable tolling
is strong medicine, not profligately to be dispensed,' ... and the trial court's
judgment about so factbound a matter is entitled to considerable respect. ...

"We need go no further. As the district court found, the habeas petition was
time-barred and equitable tolling was not available to salvage it. The court,
therefore, properly terminated the proceeding. "

Donovan v. State (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-010-02) (15 pages) (Selya, J.) (1st
Circuit) Appealed from the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine (Docket
No. 01-1367).

Negligence

Injury Aboard Rescue Boat - Jury Instructions

Where (1) a plaintiff cruise ship captain sued the defendant ship operator for
negligence after he fell out of a small rescue boat and was struck in the leg by
the boat's outboard motor, (2) a jury returned a verdict for the defendant and
(3) the plaintiff now appeals, claiming errors in the trial judge's jury
instructions, we decide that the verdict for the defendant must be upheld
because the jury instructions given, taken as a whole, correctly stated the law.

Jury Instructions Examined

"[Plaintiff Robert F.] Gifford contends that the judge's final comment - that
the jury should focus on the time 'when he was being hurt' - was an incorrect
statement of the law because it gave the jury the erroneous impression that it
had to find the [rescue boat] Zodiac unseaworthy at the precise moment of
Gifford's injury (when the propeller hit his leg) to hold [defendant American
Canadian Caribbean Line, Inc.] liable. He points out that although the Zodiac
was unseaworthy when it allegedly hesitated and surged forward, tossing him
overboard, the engine was running smoothly at the precise moment the propeller
hit his leg, and the jury could therefore have found that the Zodiac was
seaworthy.

"'Our review of jury instructions is de novo to ascertain whether the challenged
instruction has "a tendency to confuse or mislead the jury with respect to the
applicable principles of law. "' ... However, 'it is axiomatic that "a single
instruction to a jury may not be judged in artificial isolation, but must be
viewed in the context of the overall charge. "' ...

"We agree with Gifford that it would have been an error of law for the district
court to require that the Zodiac be unseaworthy at the precise moment of his
injury, rather than at the time he fell out of the boat. Unseaworthiness at the
time Gifford fell out of the Zodiac could obviously have been a direct and
substantial cause of his subsequent injury. We conclude, however, that the
district court's instructions, taken as a whole, did not suggest that the jury
should focus on the precise moment of Gifford's injury.

"In her initial charge to the jury, the judge explained that Gifford had to show
that the boat's unseaworthiness was 'a substantial direct cause of his injuries.
' In response to the jury's question - 'At what point are we determining the
seaworthiness of the Zodiac?' - the judge explained three times that the jury
should focus on the condition of the Zodiac 'at any time surrounding the
accident and leading up to the plaintiff's being hurt. ' She also suggested,
consistent with that instruction, that the jury focus on the time 'when he fell
out of the boat. ' In the specific context of this case, these explanations are
consistent with the general requirement that the Zodiac's unseaworthiness be a
direct and substantial cause of Gifford's injury. Based on the evidence at
trial, Gifford would not have been injured if he had not fallen out of the boat.
The critical question on the unseaworthiness claim was whether the
unseaworthiness of the Zodiac was a direct and substantial cause of that fall.
The district court was therefore correct to direct the jury's attention to the
'time surrounding the accident and leading up to the plaintiff's being hurt,' or
'when he fell out of the boat. ' The parties agree with this focus.

"Only after these explanations did the court say that the jury should focus on
'when he was being hurt. ' In this context, the jury would have understood the
phrase 'when he was being hurt' to be simply another reference to the 'time
surrounding the accident' or 'when he fell out of the boat. ' While a more
precise formulation would have been preferable, we are unpersuaded that this one
remark, taken in the context of the instructions as a whole, had a tendency to
confuse or mislead the jury. ...

"The alternatives the jury set out in its question to the judge buttress our
conclusion that the jury was not misled by the judge's final comment. The jury
asked if unseaworthiness should be determined 'from the time the Zodiac was
dropped into the water' (at which time the engine was indisputably not working),
or 'at the point of the accident,' defined by one juror during the colloquy with
the judge as 'when the boat was moving and he fell out of the boat' (at which
time the engine's condition was disputed). In other words, the jury appears to
have been uncertain what to do if - as some of the evidence suggested - the
Zodiac was unseaworthy when it was dropped into the water, but seaworthy when
Gifford fell out of it. The jury's question does not evidence any concern about
the distinction between the point at which Gifford fell out of the boat and the
point at which the propeller hit Gifford's leg, a distinction upon which Gifford
claims the verdict turned.

"Nor do we believe that the judge's final words precipitated a sudden shift in
the jury's focus. Gifford argues that the jury must have taken her final comment
to mean it should focus on the precise moment of his injury, because 'the
members of this jury had proven themselves to be unafraid of questioning the
Court, asking five follow up questions during the brief time in which they had
returned to the courtroom for the response to their original written question. '
Gifford reasons that 'there can be no doubt that they would have asked more
questions if they felt that they did not understand what the District Court was
saying. ' We believe that the opposite inference is more compelling: if the jury
thought that the judge's final comment required it to disregard the instruction
she had just repeated three times, it would have requested clarification. We
deem it most improbable that the jury would have engaged in a fundamental
reorientation of its deliberations, with no further questions, based on the
judge's ambiguous final remark. Therefore, the absence of such questions
supports our determination that the jurors interpreted the judge's final comment
as a reiteration of her previous explanation. They would have understood 'when
he was being hurt' as a shorthand for the 'time surrounding the accident and
leading up to the plaintiff's being hurt. ' Reading the instructions in their
entirety and in the context of the question the jury posed, as we must, we
conclude that the instructions did not have a tendency to confuse or mislead the
jury. ...

"Affirmed. "

Gifford v. American Canadian Caribbean Line, Inc. (Lawyers Weekly No. 01-012-02)
(10 pages) (Lipez, J.) (1st Circuit) Appealed from a judgment entered by Zobel,
J., in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. David F.
Anderson, with whom David J. Berg was on brief, for the plaintiff-appellant;
Brian B. Kydd for the defendant-appellee (Docket No. 00-1688).

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

