                              70 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                             Herald Sun (Australia)

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                               1 - FIRST Edition

Busy nurses bungle

BYLINE: Danny Rose

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 301  words


A MAJOR study of how medicines are administered in Australian hospitals has
found a high rate of ``procedural failure and clinical error'' by nurses.

Nurses made at least one error or oversight in 80.2 per cent of cases in which
they gave a drug or other treatment to a patient.

The mistakes ranged from forgetting to wash their hands or not reconfirming a
patient's identity through to administering the wrong drug dose, and in some
cases the oversight was life-threatening.

Prof Johanna Westbrook said nurses faced a multitude of competing demands while
in a hospital ward, and the more they were interrupted the more mistakes they
made.

``In 80 per cent of administrations of medication there was at least one
procedural failure or one clinical error,'' said Prof Westbrook, from the
University of Sydney's Health Informatics Research and Evaluation Unit.

``What we showed is that if you were interrupted you were more likely to make
one of those errors.''

Prof Westbrook and her colleagues tracked almost 100 nurses based at two unnamed
Australian hospitals over about two years.

The nurses administered almost 4300 medications to patients amid usually hectic
work environments.

Prof Westbrook said their typical interruptions included ``someone came to ask
them a question and so they stopped what they were doing, or a patient asked
them something or an alarm went off in the room and so they stopped
administering a drug''.

The nurses' most common error was giving a drug at the wrong time and in a
fraction (4.1 per cent) of these cases the risk this posed to a patient was
``severe''.

Setting intravenous drips at the wrong dosage rate was the second most common
error and 35.7 per cent of these cases fell into the severe category.

The research is published today in the journal Archives of Internal Medicine.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DHS


                   Copyright 2010 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


