                              72 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                            August 28, 2014 Thursday

Rule change for foreign hospital investors

BYLINE: Xin Zhiming

LENGTH: 395  words


Now foreign investors will be able to take a share of the big cake. To make
their entry smooth, however, China still needs to clear some systematic and
procedural obstacles.

China is to allow foreign investors to wholly own hospitals in seven provinces
and major cities in a move aimed at providing better medical services.

They will be allowed to establish hospitals in Beijing, Tianjin and Shanghai and
the provinces of Jiangsu, Fujian, Guangdong and Hainan in a pilot program.

Previously, foreign investors have eyed the lucrative section of the vast China
market, but have failed to enter it. There have been large numbers of domestic
privately-owned hospitals and foreign capital-owned clinics, but wholly-owned
foreign hospitals are yet to be established on the Chinese mainland.

For foreign hospital operators, it will provide a good profit-making
opportunity, as domestic hospitals have been unable to satisfy demand from the
public.

As a sign of increasing demand for high-quality medical services, more private
hospitals have opened in China. There were 11,300 last year, a massive rise from
just 3,200 in 2005, according to Reuters, citing a Deutsche Bank report in June.
The report said 8,000 more public hospitals will likely be privatized over the
next 5 to 10 years.

China's healthcare spending is set to hit $1 trillion by 2020, according to
Reuters, citing McKinsey & Co.

Now foreign investors will be able to take a share of the big cake. To make
their entry smooth, however, China still needs to clear some systematic and
procedural obstacles.

If foreign-owned hospitals are to hire overseas medical practitioners, they
would only be allowed to stay in China for one year, according to existing rules
on management of foreign physicians in China. There should be new rules
governing renewal of licences and other related matters to make possible the
operation of foreign hospitals.

The purchase of high-end medical equipment from abroad, meanwhile, will also be
subject to the approval of relevant government agencies, making it a challenge
for the normal operation of foreign hospitals.

The decision to allow foreign investors to enter the medical service sector is a
good start for China to open the market and provide better medical services for
its people. Relevant rules, meanwhile, must be revamped accordingly to smooth
the entry of foreign medical investors.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2014 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


