                              75 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Carleton Place

                           November 4, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Are hospital workers too busy to look at my chart?

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 367  words

DATELINE: ARTICLE


(Nov 4, 2009)

Q: I was recently a patient in the hospital having a minor procedure and became
very concerned as different health-care providers kept asking me the same
questions: What is your name? When is your birthday? What procedure are you
having? Do you have any allergies? I was worried. Why don't they take the time
to look at my chart?

A: Being asked the same questions over and over can be confusing. But there is a
reasonable explanation.

Incorrectly identifying a patient can lead to serious errors. These errors can
lead to injury or death, so it is important that health-care professionals
properly identify their patients.

For example, if you are ordered to have a blood transfusion, the nurse needs to
be sure that you are the right patient who receives the right unit of blood.

To make sure that this happens, hospitals have recently started a way to ensure
we match the correct patient with the correct service or treatment. This is
called "patient verification."

This means that your health-care provider will ask you for two pieces of
information. These can include your first and last name, date of birth or
hospital identification number.

A patient's room number or examination room number are not acceptable ways to
identify a patient as these can change on a daily basis.

You should expect that patient verification will happen every time medications
are given, tests or procedures are done or blood work is taken.

The health-care team may also do a "surgical/procedural pause." This is when the
surgical team takes a "time-out" before they start the procedure. This will make
sure that everyone on the team knows what procedure is being done, all the
equipment needed is gathered and that they have the correct patient. Hospitals
across the world are doing this.

Although double checking these things may seem obvious, hospitals are a busy
place. And patient verification and the surgical procedural pause will help keep
you safe as a patient.

You should feel comforted in knowing that being asked to confirm who you are,
why you are at the hospital and what procedure is taking place mean that we care
about your safety.

Carole Caron is a patient safety specialist at Hamilton Health Sciences.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

