                              76 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 26, 2017 Wednesday

Adverse Events After Catheter-Based Procedures in Congenital Heart Disease

LENGTH: 465  words

DATELINE: New York



Washington: American College of Cardiology has issued the following news
release:
What are the factors associated with major adverse events (MAEs) after cardiac
catheterization in adolescents and adults with congenital heart disease (CHD)?


 Methods:
Hospitals that perform catheterizations on children or adults with CHD were
invited to participate in the Improving Pediatric and Adult Congenital Treatment
(IMPACT) database, a National Cardiovascular Data Registry. The registry
contains congenital catheterization data from over 87 hospitals in the United
States. Demographics, pre-procedure, and procedural variables were collected for
patients over age 10. Multivariable logistic regression was used to identify
significant predictors of MAEs, a composite of death, urgent surgery, or
procedure due to a catheterization complication, transfusion, embolic stroke,
tamponade, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation or ventricular assist device
placement, and device embolization, malposition, or thrombosis requiring
surgical intervention. A risk score was built based on the effect sizes of each
predictor and validated in a split sample.
 Results:
A MAE occurred in 686 (2.5%) of the 27,293 index procedures meeting inclusion
criteria. The independent multivariate predictors of MAEs were older age, pre-
procedural anticoagulation use, renal disease, lower hemoglobin, lower oxygen
saturation, nonelective procedure, higher index procedure risk, and having had
no prior cardiac procedures. Being underweight or overweight had borderline
significance and was added to the model. The C-statistic for the model was
robust at 0.787 in the derivation and 0.773 in the validation cohort.
 Conclusions:
The authors concluded that factors predicting adverse events after cardiac
catheterization in adolescents and adults with CHD are different than in the
general population.
 Perspective:
This study reports a set of new risk factors that are strong predictors of MAEs
after cardiac catheterizations in adolescents and adults with CHD. Of note,
independent risk factors for MAEs were different than those described in either
pediatric population or adults with acquired heart disease. Procedural
variables, nonelective and more complex procedure, no history of prior
catheterizations or cardiac surgery had the strongest predictive effect,
followed by factors related to patient medical complexity (i.e., history of
renal disease, pre-procedural anticoagulant use, lower hemoglobin, older age,
being underweight, and increased severity of congenital disease). It appears
that this model can be useful to individualize the risk/benefit discussion in
this population prior to a catheterization, while additional studies are
conducted to validate this risk score in prospective multicenter databases.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


