                              77 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                Evening Gazette

                          December 23, 2006, Saturday
                                 Final Edition

'Errors' led to tragedy

SECTION: NEWS LOCAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 524 words


An investigation into the death of a drug addict in Cleveland Police custody has
found police officers were guilty of "procedural failures".

The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) investigated the death of
Darren Bennett, 25, from Stockton, who died in December 2004.

The report found police could not have prevented the death but "a mixture of
complacency and ignorance led to a number of procedural errors."

As a result a custody sergeant was reprimanded and a police constable and
civilian detention officer received words of advice for breaching codes of
practice and force policy.

Mr Bennett, also known as Darren French, died at the University Hospital of
North Tees after collapsing in custody at Stockton Police Office.

The habitual drug-user had been released from Holme House Prison days earlier.
He started taking drugs again and collapsed and stopped breathing at a friend's
house.

He was rushed to hospital at 3pm on December 6. He was resuscitated, but
discharged himself against medical advice.

At 6.30pm Cleveland Police were called to the Stockton Riverside where they
found Mr Bennett lying conscious on the footpath, but with slurred speech.

Police left when a friend of Mr Bennett's offered to take him home but shortly
afterwards an ambulance was called to attend him at the same place.

He refused treatment but, when he threatened to jump in the river, police
returned and arrested him under the Mental Health Act at 7.10pm.

He was transferred to Stockton Police Office and was found collapsed in his cell
at 9pm.

Resuscitation was attempted by officers and he was transferred to hospital where
he died at 10pm.

The IPCC said that certain staff should be commended for their attempts to
resuscitate Mr Bennett but some procedural failures were uncovered.

These included:

* No prisoner risk assessment was undertaken;

* There was a failure to ensure Mr Bennett was visited and roused every 30
minutes as is standard procedure for detainees suspected of being intoxicated;

* There was failure to complete accurate records of detention.

The report recommended that Cleveland Police reviewed its procedures regarding
the use of CCTV in cells, that all custody officers have a clear understanding
of their responsibilities and a new protocol be created regarding prisoners
arrested under the Mental Health Act.

Gary Garland, IPCC Commissioner for the North-east, said: "The investigation was
extremely thorough and identified that although nothing could have been done by
staff to prevent Mr Bennett's death, a mixture of complacency and ignorance led
to a number of procedural errors.

"These failings needed to be addressed and Cleveland Police did review their
procedures to ensure as far as is possible these failings do not repeat
themselves in the future."

A Cleveland Police spokeswoman said: "The IPCC investigation showed that staff
were not responsible for the death of Darren Bennett.

"However it did highlight some areas of concern.

"Those areas have been fully reviewed and action has been taken to ensure that
points raised have been addressed."

An inquest into Mr Bennett's death returned a verdict of death by natural
causes.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Gazette Media Company Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


