                              79 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            February 9, 2015 Monday

Washington: Hospital Finance Unit Manager 71029046/RF74

LENGTH: 862  words

DATELINE: Olympia


The State of Washington has issued the following Job Vacancy:

Job Title:  Hospital Finance Unit Manager 71029046/RF74
Opening Date/Time:  Thu. 12/19/13 12:00 AM Pacific Time
Closing Date/Time:  Continuous
Salary:  $56,532.00 - $75,372.00 Annually
Job Type:  Full Time - Permanent
Location:  Thurston County - Olympia, Washington
Department:  Health Care Authority

Description Benefits Supplemental Questions


Hospital Finance Unit Manager


The Health Care Authority (HCA) is Washington's largest health care purchaser,
responsible for providing comprehensive health coverage to more than 1.5 million
residents through the Public Employees Benefits and Medicaid programs. The
agency provides health purchasing leadership, benefitting both public and
private sectors with a focus on moving the health delivery system away from
volume toward higher value and better outcomes.

The HCA is currently implementing the Medicaid Expansion component of the
Affordable Care Act and anticipates more than 300,000 new clients over the next
two years.

Position Objective:

This position manages the DSH, CPE, NH Proshare, CAH, Major Trauma, Air and
Ground Ambulance, and Out-of-State Medical Services contracting programs within
the Hospital Finance section. With four professional positions reporting to this
position, this group is responsible for:

Fiscal and procedural management of the DSH, CPE, Nursing Home Proshare
programs, and special projects as they arise. These programs account for
million's annually, and they receive a great deal of stakeholder and federal
scrutiny.

Fiscal and procedural management of the thirty-eight hospitals participating in
our CAH program.

Fiscal and procedural management of the Major Trauma Program, Air and Ground
Ambulance transportation, and out-of-state medical services contracting.

Oversight of the DSH application process and the complex calculations to
determine hospital DSH payments; oversight of the Inpatient Hospital and Nursing
Home Proshare CPE programs involving complex calculations and federal
settlements.

Representation of HCA to external entities, hospitals, the Washington State
Hospital Association (WSHA), and stakeholders within state government, in
coordination with the Section Manager.


This position requires expert knowledge of federal rules governing these
programs; expert knowledge of state laws and regulations; advanced level skills
for data mining and analysis; and knowledge of hospital payment methodologies.
It also requires advanced project management, supervisory, communication and
analytical skills to meet the challenges of this position.

The position is authorized to work with various stakeholders on program and
policy issues in representing HCA as the subject matter expert.

This position is has full decision making authority to authorize payment within
budget limits for the programs it manages.

This position reports to the Section Manager for the Hospital Finance Section
and may have delegated authority to act on behalf of the Section Manager.

This position performs legislative bill analysis and may be assigned to draft
legislation.

This position takes a leadership role or actively participates in agency-wide
quality improvement projects.

This position is responsible for overseeing the annual federally-required DSH
audit, and works with the independent auditors for ensuring accuracy and
regulatory compliance with the DSH rules.

 Duties:
Supervises four professional staff within the Hospital Finance section that are
responsible for programs worth over $516 million annually.

Manage the annual DSH process including the DSH application process, calculation
of DSH payments, DSH Data Reporting File (DRDF), budget impacts, and changes to
processes, Washington Administrative Codes (WAC) and State Plan Amendments
(SPA). Data mining and analysis, review and analysis of hospital payment
methodologies and hospital financial reports; review of federal regulations and
understanding of changes to these regulations. Develops strategies for
implementation of new and existing regulations. Manages, coaches and mentors
staff responsible for carrying out the objectives of the DSH program.

Manage the annual CPE processes including the calculations of the Inpatient and
Nursing Home Proshare programs, the hold harmless grants, budget impacts, and
changes to processes, WAC and SPA. Data mining and analysis; review and analysis
of hospital payment methodologies and hospital financial reports; review of
federal regulations and understanding of changes to these regulations. Develops
strategies for implementation of new and existing regulations. Manages, coaches
and mentors staff responsible for carrying out the objectives of the CPE
program.

Manage the CAH processes including calculations of interim and final settlements
based on review and analysis of the hospital's Medicare cost reports, budget
impacts, changes to processes, and updates to WAC.

Manage the Major Trauma, Air and Ground Ambulance, and out-of-state medical
services contracting programs, budget impacts, and changes to processes, WAC and
SPA.

For Further information please visit:
http://agency.governmentjobs.com/washington

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


