                              81 of 999 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1992, American Health Lawyers Association
                              Journal of Health Law

                                  April, 1992

                         Vol. 25, No. 4, HOSPLW Pg. 127

LENGTH: 600 words

TITLE: CASE NOTES: STAFF PRIVILEGES: Suspension prior to formal proceedings
proper under public safety exception

TEXT:

   The United States District Court for the Fifth Circuit affirmed the district
court's dismissal of plaintiff anesthesiologist's 42 U.S.C. § 1983 (1988)
complaint, holding defendant public hospital officers and employees afforded
plaintiff sufficient procedural due process in suspending his clinical
privileges prior to a formal hearing.  The court also affirmed the district
court's denial of plaintiff's motion for leave to amend his First Amendment
claim, finding the speech unprotected.

   In accordance with hospital bylaws, the hospital's chief of anesthesiology
met with plaintiff to discuss his treatment of a patient who had died while
under his care.  Plaintiff then met twice with an ad hoc investigating committee
which found plaintiff's care was significantly deficient.  Those findings were
reported to the executive committee which suspended plaintiff's staff privileges
with an offer for reapplication at a later date.  Plaintiff requested a formal
hearing, twice sought continuances, and ultimately declined to participate in
any of the post-suspension procedures.

   Plaintiff sued defendants, alleging his suspension was tainted by bias and
motivated by his opposition to a proposal by certain ad hoc committee members to
obtain an exclusive anesthesiology contract.  Further, he unsuccessfully
campaigned for chief of anesthesiology against defendant, who initially
approached him with charges of improper treatment.  Moreover, plaintiff insisted
procedural due process required a formal pre-suspension hearing.  Finally,
plaintiff asserted he was disciplined in violation of his First Amendment right
to speak freely on matters of public concern.  The district court granted
defendant's motion to dismiss and denied plaintiff's request for permission to
amend his pleadings to include his First Amendment claim, finding the speech in
question was not constitutionally protected.  Plaintiff appealed.

   In concluding the level of procedural due process afforded plaintiff was
constitutionally acceptable, the court stated a brief pre-termination hearing
must generally be followed by a more formal hearing.  However, a deprivation
undertaken to protect public safety does not require informal pre-termination
procedures.  Because plaintiff was sanctioned under the hospital bylaw
authorizing quick action to protect lives of patients, the court concluded
defendants' informal pre-suspension actions did not deprive plaintiff of
procedural due process.

   Next, plaintiff asserted, under recent United States Supreme Court precedent,
the deliberate misuse of preand post-suspension procedures represented a denial
of due process.  The court emphasized plaintiff's concession that the hospital's
bylaws authorized quick action to protect patients' lives, and also stressed the
state could not be held to guarantee faultless decision making.  Further,
because detailed hospital regulations were followed, the alleged deprivation
was, at most, a random and unauthorized event.  The court, noting the risk of
erroneous deprivation through the use and misuse of detailed bylaws was
tolerable, affirmed the district court's dismissal of plaintiff's claim.

   Addressing the First Amendment issue, the court held plaintiff's speech was
not a matter of public concern and his comments were related only to internal
hospital management.  Although the court acknowledged the public's potential
interest in the exclusive anesthesiology contract, it held this reasoning, taken
to its extreme, would deem any activity occurring in a government office a
matter of public record.

   V.S./H.N.

REFERENCE: Caine v. Hardy, 943 F.2d 1406 (5th Cir. 1991). #LS930223SP#
#LS930225LEufishmx#


