                              82 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                 The Morning Bulletin (Rockhampton, Queensland)

                             March 10, 2017 Friday

Team's sights set on future

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 423  words



HIGHLIGHT: Specialist eye service celebrates first year


MORE than 700 eye procedures have been completed at Rockhampton Hospital in the
first year having a full-time specialist ophthalmologist.

Dr Devaraj Supramaniam started work at the hospital in March last year, marking
the return of full-time ophthalmology services for the first time since 2009.

"It's been an interesting and enjoyable challenge for me coming from a tertiary
setting where in any one day there were more than 15 ophthalmologists working,
to a sole specialist role where we have had to build the service from the ground
up," he said.

Rockhampton Hospital has offered public ophthalmology services since 2014 using
visiting specialists, but the full-time service has grown in the past 12 months
to include:

a full-time junior doctor for ophthalmology

a full-time orthoptist

emergency outpatient and procedural support.

CQ Hospital and Health Services has also invested in the latest diagnostic
equipment to support the ophthalmology services at Rockhampton Hospital to
enable patients to be diagnosed and followed up locally. These include:

integrated slit lamp and anterior segment imaging system (for diagnosis and
minor eye treatments)

corneal topography machine (to assist in diagnosis of corneal conditions and
surgery preparation)

visual field machine (to assist in the diagnosis of eye disease such as glaucoma
and neurological conditions)

A/B scanner for ultrasound images and diagnosis of other eye diseases and dense
cataract measurements.

These are just some of the many capital expenditure investments to the service
since 2014.

"CQ Hospital and Health Service has done a fantastic job to recruit a highly
professional eye team and purchase cutting-edge diagnostic and procedural
equipment, which is showing tremendous results for the people of Central
Queensland," Dr Supramaniam said.

"I would particularly like to acknowledge the clinical and administrative team
which has supported the development of the eye service to date.

"Starting up a new service is not without its challenges and it has only been a
success as a result of the tremendous effort and commitment of the whole team."

In the past year, the Rockhampton ophthalmology team has done more than 700
elective and emergency procedures including complex retinal surgeries, screened
nearly 50 premature infants and held more than 3500 outpatient consultations.

"We are very focused on continuing to develop and expand the eye service to
ensure we are able to sustainably meet the eye health needs of Central
Queenslanders now and into the future," Dr Supramaniam said.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RMB


                    Copyright 2017 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


