                              83 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                                 Newcastle Star

                               November 17, 2014

John Hunter Children's Hospital prescribes play

BYLINE: MARK CONNORS

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 260  words


THE Camp Quality team at the John Hunter Children's Hospital has received a
massive boost, adding resources to its play specialist kit.

Last week a Sony PlayStation 4, games, an additional controller and charging
station were donated through a local business.

Camp Quality play therapists will use the resources to help children with cancer
who are in the hospital.

Hospital play specialist Cara Dahl said the Camp Quality team had a three-prong
approach when children were in the ward.

"Firstly, we make sure the children have an opportunity to play. Some of them
are here for long periods of time," she said.

"We also give procedural education - we play and have other tools to help the
kids understand any medical treatments they will go through - such as an MRI
[magnetic resonance imaging scan] or an X-ray."

The third revolves around procedural distractions and coping skills. The
children often need blood tests or a dressing change.

Two-year-old Aiden Jelenic and his mother Sharon Jelenic, from Edgeworth, were
in the ward when the donations from Greater Building Society were presented.

Aiden was diagnosed with leukaemia last month and is undergoing chemotherapy and
blood transfusions.

Ms Jelenic said play therapy helped brighten his day.

The Greater managed to raise another $1190 for the program through a staff
auction, and also donated the cheque to the play specialist unit last week.

The financial institution has a long-standing relationship with the unit, and
this year the Greater Charitable Foundation funded a play therapist to work at
the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2014 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


