                              84 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                              June 1, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

He's there in spirit on 'Saving Hope'

BYLINE: Brian Gorman, Special to The Citizen

SECTION: A & E; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 307 words


Medical procedurals usually deal with the hospital staff, the patients and their
friends, enemies and relatives.

The one group that has always been left out is the dead and dying -until now.

In "Saving Hope," debuting Thursday, June 7, on CTV and NBC, one of the main
characters is a doctor in a coma. The series is the latest Canadian network show
to be sold to a U.S. broadcaster.

Dr. Charlie Harris is doomed to lurk around the hospital where he used to work,
talking to other coma patients and the recently dead.

The situation is almost as creepy and lonely for the actor playing the role as
it is for the character, says Michael Shanks, who plays Harris, chief of surgery
at the fictional Toronto Hope-Zion hospital.

"You do feel like you're off in your own little world," he says. "You start to
find yourself as an actor feeling the same kinds of things the character feels:
isolation and frustration and things like that.

"You watch all the consultation and surgery, and you start to think, 'I want to
do that, too.' It's a very strange thing."

A native Vancouverite, Shanks has carved out a place for himself as a regular in
the subgenre of science-fiction series made in his hometown, including "Stargate
Atlantis" and "Smallville" (in which he was Hawkman/Carter Hall).

Now he's playing a doctor in a medical procedural -with one catch. His character
fell victim to blunt-force trauma after a car accident on his wedding day.

So he hangs around the hospital in a tuxedo, occasionally talking to other
disembodied spirits. Mostly, though, he delivers monologues on his situation,
like a morose comic playing for an audience who can't hear him.

The one person he wants to reach, though, is his fiancee, fellow surgeon Alex
Reid (Erica Durance), who struggles, with the help of new star surgeon Joel
Goran (Daniel Gillies), to save Charlie's life.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Erica Durance;

