                              86 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                     The Minnesota Lawyer (Minneapolis, MN)

                              April 5, 2013 Friday

8th Circuit says county not liable in CHIPS case

BYLINE: Barbara L. Jones

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1022  words


A Plymouth couple who believed their civil rights were abused by the Hennepin
County child protection process has lost their bid for redress from the federal
courts.

The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the dismissal by U.S. District
Court Judge Ann Montgomery of an action under 42 U.S.C. sec. 1983 for violations
of the plaintiffs' procedural due process rights.

"Hennepin County lacks any policymaking authority regarding the handling and
scheduling of the [emergency protective custody] hearing and formal hearing. The
[plaintiffs'] complaint essentially alleges that Minnesota law, and the state
court judge's application of that law--not an independent Hennepin County
policy--caused the procedural due process violations. Hennepin County cannot be
liable to the [plaintiffs] under sec. 1983 for the violation of their procedural
due process rights based on the allegations contained in this complaint," the
court said. (Emphasis in original.)

The underlying child protection case began in 2009 when plaintiff Julie Slaven
was carrying her son, C.S., then 2 months old, in his car seat up the steps into
the family home when the infant accidentally fell out of the seat. Slaven called
911, and the baby was taken to the hospital as a precautionary measure.

At the hospital, C.S. had two CT scans that revealed blood in his bilateral
frontal lobes, an injury not consistent with a fall from a car seat. The
hospital then filed a report of suspected child abuse with Hennepin County. A
child abuse pediatrician reviewed the scans and said that the baby's ongoing
safety was a concern but that there was "no single finding here diagnostic of a
nonaccidental injury. "

Hennepin County opened a child protection investigation. The pediatrician said
that C.S. 's injuries could have been caused by shaking and that the parents had
refused a bone scan for fear of excessive radiation. The police placed C.S. on a
72-hour emergency hold, preventing the Slavens from seeing him except for
feeding times with supervision. The next day, a Friday, C.S. had a bone scan.

An emergency protective custody hearing was scheduled for the following Tuesday,
Aug. 25. At that time, the Slavens were served with a summons and petition
stating that there was no finding of a nonaccidental injury but also said that
they would not allow a bone scan, even though they had consented after initially
refusing.

The assistant Hennepin County attorney asked the court to find that there had
been a prima facie showing and that not only C.S. but the Slavens' other
children were in danger.   The judge ordered that Julie Slaven move out of the
home and the grandparents move in and supervise the Slavens' visitation.

A trial date was scheduled for Oct. 26, slightly more than the 60 days after the
EPC as required by the rules.   While it was pending, the Slavens' supervision
was phased out.   Eventually, the county told the court that it appeared the
fall was an accident. The case was dismissed in December.

In a civil suit against Hennepin County officials, the Slavens alleged that they
were denied adequate notice of the EPC hearing and also that they were deprived
of a meaningful hearing because they could not present evidence or
cross-examine. They also alleged that the investigation and other procedures
after the EPC deprived them of an opportunity to be heard at a meaningful time
or a meaningful manner.

Montgomery concluded that Hennepin County was not liable under sec. 1983 for
implementing or enforcing Minnesota law because it was required to do so.

The 8th Circuit, in an opinion written by Judge Lavenski Smith, agreed. A party
seeking to impose liability on a municipality (which includes a county) must
identify a policy or custom that caused the plaintiffs injury. The complaint is
devoid of any allegations of an unconstitutional policy that is separate and
distinct from Minnesota law, the 8th Circuit said.

Parents may submit evidence

But Montgomery criticized Hennepin County's practices and said the proceeding
may have been unjust. She also was "troubled" by parents' inability to produce
evidence at an EPC hearing.

"[A]ny attempt by parents to admit ... evidence [at an EPC] is entirely futile
because those same rules instruct courts to continue with protective care if it
finds 'endangerment' exists, which is determined by considering whether the
petition makes a prima facie showing of endangerment. (Cite omitted.) The court
is not reassured by the fact that the juvenile court's determination is a
two-step process. Under the rules, both steps are evaluated on a prima facie
basis," the judge wrote.

However, she declined to rule on the question of whether the use of a prima
facie case is unconstitutional.

Assistant Hennepin County Attorney Dan Rogan said that Montgomery's comments did
not reflect the Hennepin's practices. "Parents can put in evidence at the [EPC}
hearing if the evidence relates to whether there should be continued protective
care or the child should be returned to the home.   That often will involve not
only evidence of how the family would deal with the child [but also] at the
circumstances leading to the removal of the child from the home," he said.

Looking at the case with hindsight, it's unfortunate that Hennepin County had to
take the actions that it did, but everyone was acting in the best interests of
the child, he said.

But everyone knows that the EPC hearing is only about the prima facie case and
is not due process to the parents, said the Slaven's attorney, Erick Kaardal.
He said he is looking for more innocent parents who got caught up in the child
protection system. "The parents need to have a shot" at presenting their case
early on, he said.

What happened to the family was really wrong, said plaintiff Julie Slaven.
"Our biggest hope was that truth and justice would prevail.   We sort of thought
it was our responsibility to do something, since we were in a position to, and a
lot of people that this happens to couldn't. "

<a href="http://www.minnlawyer.com/be-the-first-to-know/">Click here for more
from this resource. </a>

© 2013 Dolan Media Newswires. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

