                              87 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                              chroniclelive.co.uk

                        June 7, 2016 Tuesday 6:34 PM GMT

North East hospital blunders which should never have happened revealed in
report;
The so-called 'never events' recorded in the region included wrong site surgery
and foreign objects left in patients' bodies

BYLINE: By Katie Dickinson

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 612 words


They're called 'never events' - incidents in hospital that are so serious they
should not happen.

However in the 12 months to April, there were nine such incidents in the
region's NHS Trusts, including four of medics operating on the wrong part of the
body.

The figures were released in a report by NHS England Patient Safety.

Newcastle Upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (NUHT) and City Hospital
Sunderland NHS Foundation Trust recorded three 'never events' each.

Incidents at NUHT included a nerve block being administered to the wrong eye
before cataract operation surgery, and an incision for spinal surgery being
extended to the next disc, leaving the patient with a longer scar.

An NUHT spokesperson said the figures needed to be viewed in the context "of the
many hundreds of thousands of care/procedural actions taken in a hospital
setting".

The spokesperson added that: "Each involved an error by the attending clinical
practitioner and documented accordingly to ensure consistent adherence to
procedural routine reinforced with lessons learnt."

At Sunderland, two 'foreign objects' were accidentally left inside patients'
bodies after procedures, while in another incident a feeding tube was placed
down the patient's windpipe rather than their oesophagus.

A Trust spokesperson said: "All never events are reported via our serious
incident reporting process and are subject to detailed investigation so we can
determine what went wrong and how we can ensure this does not happen again.

"The Trust actively encourages staff to report all incidents and has an open and
honest approach to such incidents."

Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust and South Tyneside NHS Foundation Trust
each recorded one case of surgery on the wrong site, while one patient at
Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust had a foreign object left in their
body after a procedure.

A spokesperson for Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Gateshead said: "These types of
incidents are incredibly rare in Gateshead but it's important to highlight that
in this case no harm came to the patient and the procedure was completed
normally.

"We carried out a review of the case, in which the anaesthetic was initially
applied to the wrong area, and have put in place new measures to ensure it won't
happen again."

Birju Bartoli, deputy chief executive and executive director of performance and
governance at Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, said: "We take any
level of harm to our patients extremely seriously and any never event is one too
many. Our positive patient safety culture means we have created a supportive
learning environment where our staff feel able to openly report any incidents,
no matter how big or small, so that we can learn from them and, as far as
possible prevent them from recurring in the future."

South Tyneside NHS Foundation Trust's Medical Director Dr Shaz Wahid said:
"Fortunately, never events are rare but just one is one too many and our target,
clearly, is to have no such events. Including this latest one, we have had only
two never events in the last decade.

"When one does occur, we want to make sure that we learn from it to prevent it
ever happening again. Our staff are dedicated to providing safe, high-quality
care and we encourage openness and transparency as part of our commitment to
reporting of all patient safety incidences."

Across England, 316 never events were recorded over the same period.

Surgery on the wrong site was the most common never event, happening 132 times.
Meanwhile 79 foreign objects, including part of a chisel and a surgical clamp,
were left inside patients, while 39 incorrect implants or prosthetic limbs or
devices were inserted.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBNEC


                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


