                              88 of 999 DOCUMENTS



                        The Reporter (Logan, Queensland)

                                  June 5, 2013

Services restored ahead of schedule

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 368  words


PROCEDURAL services at Beaudesert Hospital have been reopened, more than a year
ahead of the Queensland Government deadline of July 2014.

Health Minister Lawrence Springborg made the announcement last week, as the
first three patients were seen for surgical procedures at the 22-bed hospital.

The hospital now provides minor surgeries, such as the removal of minor lesions,
minor orthopaedic surgery and some investigative procedures.

Mr Springborg said the early re-establishment of this important rural health
service was a credit to the Metro South Health board, executive and clinical
staff at Beaudesert Hospital.

"This rural hospital is offering high quality health care for the whole family,
with services including child health, palliative care, an emergency department -
and now also surgical procedures," he said.

"Post-natal inpatient services were also re-established in November last year,
giving local mums access to midwifery care throughout their pregnancy, and by
July 2014 local women with low-risk pregnancies will be able to give birth at
Beaudesert Hospital, closer to home and their families.

"The local Beaudesert and Scenic Rim community now have the benefit of access to
an outstanding team of midwives, nurses and doctors, led by new nursing and
facility director Hazel Brittain, who has recently achieved national recognition
for her work in the field of midwifery.

"Beaudesert Hospital is an important pilot for the State Government rejuvenation
of rural health services in Queensland and I congratulate Metro South Health for
this early re-establishment of another important rural health service."

Metro South Health Board chair Terry White said the early recommencement of
procedural services was a demonstration of the commitment of the board and
executive to deliver the best possible health care.

"As well as the re-establishment of surgical procedures, I can confirm that
Metro South Health is on schedule to re-open birthing services at Beaudesert
Hospital in July 2014," Mr White said.

"We have invested more than $1.6 million in equipment and facility upgrades and
are currently searching for the best nurses, midwives and allied health
professionals to grow our experienced team."

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IRN


                    Copyright 2013 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


