                              89 of 999 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      October 31, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

BioTrace Medical Announces Positive Data from Clinical Study of Innovative
Temporary Pacing Technology for Transcatheter Aortic Valve Procedures, Other
Cardiovascular Applications

LENGTH: 700  words


Oct. 31 -- BioTrace Medical Inc., an innovator in the development of temporary
pacing technology, today announced positive clinical results from a study of the
company's Tempo Lead designed for use in procedures in which temporary pacing is
indicated.

Safety and efficacy results from 25 patients requiring temporary pacing during
procedures for transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), balloon aortic
valvuloplasty (BAV), or electrophysiology (EP) procedures were presented at the
Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics (TCT) meeting in Washington D.C. by
co-principal investigator Mark Webster, M.D., cardiologist at Auckland City
Hospital in Auckland, New Zealand.

Results from the multi-center study clearly demonstrated the safety of the Tempo
Lead, with no device related adverse events, dislodgements, sustained
ventricular arrhythmia, or cardiac perforations. The device was successfully
positioned in 23 (92%) patients, with two patients having unsuitable anatomy.
Pacing with the Tempo Lead was successful in all treated patients with no loss
of pace capture or lead dislodgement of the device from within the heart.
Average procedural pace capture threshold was 0.70.5mA. Rapid pacing was
successful in all cases with no loss of capture.

"The results of this first-in-human study of the technology demonstrate that the
Tempo Lead is safe and effective for temporary cardiac pacing, and provides
stable peri- and post-procedural pacing support," said Dr. Webster. "Durable and
stable procedural and post-procedural pacing is critical to the success of TAVR,
and other clinical scenarios requiring temporary pacing."

"The Tempo Lead represents an important advance that could help reduce serious
complications associated with temporary pacing," said Sanjeevan Pasupati, M.D.,
cardiologist at Waikato Hospital in Hamilton, New Zealand and study co-principal
investigator. "The technology is easy to use and offers secure placement. The
secure placement of the Tempo Lead alleviates the need for patients to return to
the cath lab for repositioning and aids early mobilization of patients with
confidence."

The Tempo Lead received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 510(k) clearance
last week and the company plans an immediate U.S. commercial release.

"This clinical data is a significant validation of the Tempo Lead, and a
gratifying milestone for our company, which was founded with the mission to
improve patient outcomes and minimize risks from life-threatening complications
during and after cardiac procedures," said BioTrace CEO Laura Dietch. "As the
need for temporary pacing continues to grow, especially in TAVR procedures, we
are pleased that with our recent FDA clearance more patients now have a
revolutionary option that may allow them to ambulate sooner, which could reduce
length of stay in intensive care and decrease hospital costs."

Temporary leads are used in more than 350,000 procedures each year, a number
that is growing rapidly as the population ages and TAVR becomes increasingly
common. The temporary pacing lead, a small catheter with two electrodes, is
placed in the right ventricle of the heart through a vein in the groin or neck.
The lead is then connected to an external pacemaker allowing a physician to
monitor and control a patient's heart rate for several days.

The design of conventional temporary pacing leads can cause serious
complications. Current temporary leads can be easily dislodged from the heart,
which may result in loss of pacing, with serious consequences for the patient.
As a result, patients are often limited to bed rest for the duration of
temporary pacing lead placement, delaying ambulation and thereby increasing
length of stay in costly hospital units such as intensive care. In addition,
current leads risk perforation of the heart wall which may lead to potentially
life-threatening compression of the heart.

BioTrace Medical's Tempo Lead incorporates innovations designed for secure and
stable cardiac pacing with the goal of reducing complications and allowing
patients to ambulate sooner after procedures. The Tempo Lead features a novel
active fixation mechanism, bipolar electrodes and a soft tip.

Source: BioTrace Medical

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


