                               1 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            July 17, 2013 Wednesday

Hospital rankings list MWH No. 8 in Virginia

BYLINE: Chelyen Davis, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 621 words


July 17--Mary Washington Hospital has been ranked eighth in Virginia and seventh
in the Washington Metro area by U.S. News and World Report.

The rankings come as part of the annual U.S. News Best Hospitals evaluation.

MWH tied for 8th out of 128 hospitals around the state--Carilion Roanoke
Memorial Hospital, Inova Loudoun Hospital, and Martha Jefferson Hospital in
Charlottesville also earned an eighth-place ranking.

Mary Washington Hospital placed sixth in U.S. News' rankings last year.

MWH ranked seventh out of 58 hospitals in the Washington area, and tied with
Inova Loudoun Hospital among eight Northern Virginia hospitals that were
evaluated.

The hospital had six speciality areas recognized as "high performing"--diabetes
and endocrinology, gastroenterology and GI surgery, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, and pulmonology. The hospital had eight
high-performing specialities in 2012.

According to the report, the hospital performed at near the level of nationally
ranked hospitals in those six areas.

"Our U.S. News rankings acknowledge that our highly skilled team of physicians,
nurses and other staff provide the best quality care for our community," Kevin
Van Renan, senior vice president and administrator of Mary Washington, said in a
news release.

According to the release, the U.S. News report evaluated almost 4,800 hospitals
around the country for the report, which is in its 24th year.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," Avery Comarow, U.S. News health rankings editor, said in the news
release. "Only about 15 percent of hospitals are recognized for their high
performance as among their region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a
national ranking in any specialty."

Virginia has four hospitals that are nationally ranked, and all were in the top
four in the state rankings. In those state rankings, Sentara Norfolk General
Hospital and VCU Medical Center in Richmond both were ranked No. 1. Inova
Fairfax Hospital came in third, and University of Virginia Medical Center came
in fourth.

Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore was rated best in the nation by the report.

The rankings don't include military and VA hospitals because, U.S. News said,
the government doesn't release data for those hospitals.

The region's smaller hospitals--Spotsylvania Regional Medical Center, the
MWH-affiliated Stafford Hospital, Culpeper Regional Hospital and Fauquier
Hospital--were not ranked in the report.

Sentara Northern Virginia Medical Center in Woodbridge, formerly called Potomac
Hospital, ranked 13th in Virginia, 12th in the Washington Metro area, and was
recognized as high-performing in two specialty areas: geriatrics and nephrology.

According to data in the report, Mary Washington Hospital has 437 beds. The
hospital had 23,133 admissions in the latest year for which data are available.
It performed 5,179 annual inpatient and 3,498 outpatient surgeries. Its
emergency room had 86,193 visits.

The report also includes patient responses to a federally written satisfaction
survey.

According to those surveys, 59 percent of MWH patients gave the hospital the
highest satisfaction ranking --the average for Virginia hospitals was 66
percent. Thirteen percent gave it a low rating--the statewide average is 10
percent.

Mary Washington received "good" ratings for doctor responsiveness and
willingness to listen and explain things clearly, and for information given upon
discharge about what the patient needs to do next.

Chelyen Davis: 540/368-5028

cdavis@freelancestar.com

___ (c)2013 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) Visit The Free Lance-Star
(Fredericksburg, Va.) at www.fredericksburg.com/flshome Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130717-FB-Hospital-rankings-list-MWH-No-8-in-Virginia-0717-20130717

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FB


                       Copyright 2013 The Free Lance-Star


