                               2 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            July 17, 2013 Wednesday

Utah hospitals 'high-performing' but not 'best' in annual hospital rankings
report

BYLINE: By Jennifer Dobner The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; State

LENGTH: 581 words


Not one Utah hospital lands on the top tier of the U.S. News & World Report Best
Hospital Rankings released Tuesday.

The 24th annual report ranks hospitals nationwide based on performance in each
of 16 medical specialities, including cancer treatment, cardiology and heart
surgery, gynecology, neurology, orthopedics and others. Some 147 hospitals
performed well-enough to earn a national ranking in one or more specialities.
Another 591 were ranked "high-performing" in respective states and regional
areas, including eight Utah hospitals.

The rankings are designed to help patients and families find the best sources
for high-quality medical care in their communities.

Salt Lake City's LDS Hospital earned a national "best" ranking in 2012-2013 for
its gynecology care and was first among Utah hospitals. But in 2013-2014
rankings, the hospital missed being labeled "best" for any speciality and
slipped to third among Utah facilities behind its sister-hospital, Intermountain
Medical Center in Murray, and the University of Utah Hospital, which was second.

Intermountain Healthcare spokesman Jess Gomez on Monday said he had not yet seen
the scores behind the rankings and couldn't speak in any detail about the
report.

"But we are very proud that Intermountain hospitals are consistently ranked
among the best in the nation, and in the state, each year by numerous rankings
services," Gomez said. "This recognition is a tribute to all of our employees
and physician partners who strive to provide the highest-quality of patient care
possible."

U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow also could not pinpoint a
specific reason for the change in the LDS Hospital ranking.

"A hospital might be high-performing in six or eight or 10 specialties one year.
But the lower you go, the more scores tend to cluster," Comarow said in an
e-mail. "If the hospital's scores were toward the lower part of the range in
some number of those specialties, then it is entirely possible that the next
year it might be pushed out by other hospitals with improved performance , or
drop out on its own if its performance falls off just a little."

Metro and state rankings in the report are based strictly on the number of
specialties in which a hospital is nationally ranked and/or high-performing and
"it's not surprising to see a fair degree of shift year to year," Comarow said.

The best hospitals are chosen according to a matrix that takes into account such
things as nurse staffing levels, patient volume, patient survival and safety
data, the availability of clinically proven technologies. That statistical data
is drawn from federal health care agencies and professional associations. The
results of a physician survey also were considered.

To earn the top spot in the state rankings, Intermountain Medical Center was
labeled high-performing, in eight speciality areas including, cardio and heart
surgery, diabetes and endocrinology, gastroenterology and GI surgery,
geriatrics, gynecology, nephrology, pulmonology and urology.

jdobner@sltrib.com Alt Heads:

Utah hospitals 'high-performing' but not 'best' in annual hospital rankings
report Utah Hospital Rankings

1 » Intermountain Medical Center, Murray

2 » University of Utah Health Care, Salt Lake City

3 » LDS Hospital, Salt Lake City

4 » Utah Valley Regional Medical Center, Provo

5 » (tie). McKay-Dee Hospital Center, Ogden

5 » (tie) St. Mark's Hospital, Salt Lake City

7 » Timpanogos Regional Hospital, Orem

8 » Dixie Regional Medical Center, St. George

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Intermountain Medical Center in Murray has earned a national "best"
ranking for 2013-2014 by U.S. News & World Report.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2013 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


