                               3 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Hackensack University Medical Center: U.S. News & World Report Ranks
HackensackUMC as the Number One Hospital in NJ, Among Top Three New York Metro
Area Hospitals

LENGTH: 504  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- U.S. News & World Report today reported that Hackensack
University Medical Center is the number one hospital in New Jersey and one of
the top three New York metro area hospitals.



The strong rankings for HackensackUMC appear in the 2013-14 U.S. News Best
Hospitals, published online today.

"This year's rankings demonstrate, once again, that New Jersey residents don't
need to cross the Hudson to get the best possible healthcare," said Robert C.
Garrett, president and chief executive officer of Hackensack University Health
Network. "Further, our ranking in the top three hospitals in the entire NY Metro
area, among some of the best hospitals in the world, suggests residents
throughout the region should actively consider HackensackUMC for their health
needs."

Climbing from number four to three in metro New York, the hospital also garnered
10 national rankings-up from the last year's lists.

In addition to the Joseph M. Sanzari Children's Hospital recently being named
among the top 50 best children's hospitals for neurology and neurosurgery,
HackensackUMC received nine national rankings in this year's review.  They are:

* Cancer

* Cardiology & Heart Surgery

* Ear, Nose & Throat

* Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

* Geriatrics

* Neurology & Neurosurgery

* Orthopedics

* Pulmonology

* Urology

The medical center was also listed as high-performing in the New York metro area
in: Diabetes & Endocrinology, Gynecology, and Nephrology.

"These rankings are not only a testament to the world-class care our
HackensackUMC team implements, but also reflects the supportive and encouraging
environment that HackensackUMC provides to its medical team," said Ihor S.
Sawczuk, M.D., executive vice president and chief medical officer.

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.  The Best Hospital rankings, now in their 24th year, recognize hospitals
that excel in treating the most challenging patients.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


