                               4 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Pueblo Chieftain (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 18, 2013 Thursday

Parkview receives national ranking

BYLINE: Gayle Perez, The Pueblo Chieftain, Colo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 310 words


July 18--Parkview Medical Center is ranked among the nation's top hospitals for
its work in three speciality areas, according to recent U.S. News & World Report
rankings.

The U.S. News' 24th annual Best Hospital rankings, released Tuesday, rated
Parkview as a high-performing hospital in the areas of neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics and pulmonology.

This is the third consecutive year that Parkview has been recognized by U.S.
News.

"The entire Parkview team of employees, physicians, volunteers and board
members, all played a key role in improving patient care and outcomes as well as
enhancing our customer service," said Mike Baxter, president and CEO of
Parkview. "A lot of hard work from all these groups is what has ultimately led
to Parkview being recognized on this national scale."

To be rated among the top hospitals in the nation, Parkview had to be listed
among the top 25 percent of the qualifying hospitals.

Along with the national ranking, Parkview also was ranked No. 11 in Colorado and
was rated the top hospital for Southeastern Colorado. Parkview was the only
hospital south of Denver to be honored as a highperforming hospital in any
speciality area.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News' health ranking editor.

"Only about 15 percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as
among their region's best. Just three percent of all hospitals earn a national
ranking."

The rankings and the methodology used in the ratings are available at The
Chieftain website, chieftain.com.

The rankings also will be available in print form at bookstores and newsstands
beginning Aug. 27.

gperez@chieftain.com

___ (c)2013 The Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo, Colo.) Visit The Pueblo Chieftain
(Pueblo, Colo.) at www.chieftain.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130718-PB-Parkview-receives-national-ranking-0718-20130718

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PB


                      Copyright 2013 The Pueblo Chieftain


