                               6 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                       Central Penn Business Journal 2016

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday

Where did local hospitals place in U.S. News rankings?

BYLINE: Roger DuPuis

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 732  words


Penn State Health Milton S. Hershey Medical Center ranked nationally in several
adult and pediatric specialties, and was listed as "high performing" in eight of
the nine types of common procedures and conditions analyzed in U.S. News & World
Report's annual best hospitals analysis, released Tuesday.

Lancaster General Hospital (LGH), meanwhile, is one of only 48 across America to
earn the high ranking designation in all nine categories.

The nine categories

As part of its Best Hospitals rankings and ratings, U.S. News evaluated more
than 4,500 hospitals for their handling of nine surgical procedures and chronic
conditions: Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, aortic valve surgery, heart bypass
surgery, heart failure, colon cancer surgery, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (COPD), hip replacement, knee replacement and lung cancer surgery.

More than 1,200 hospitals earned a rating of high performing in at least one
procedure or condition. Only 48 received that top rating in all nine areas.
Lancaster General Hospital was the only midstate facility to do so. In
Pennsylvania, Lehigh Valley Hospital in Allentown also made the cut, as did
Thomas Jefferson University Hospitals in Philadelphia.

U.S. News evaluated data on nearly 5,000 hospitals in 16 adult specialties, nine
adult procedures and conditions and 10 pediatric specialties.

Pennsylvania has nearly 250 hospitals, U.S. News & World Report's annual best
hospitals analysis "meet high U.S. News standards and are ranked in the state,"
the magazine said. Of those, four are in Central Pennsylvania: Hershey Med, LGH,
PinnacleHealth hospitals and WellSpan York Hospital.

Below is a summary of what the report had to say about each of those facilities.

o Overall statewide ranking: 4

o High performing: Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, aortic valve surgery, heart
bypass surgery, heart failure, colon cancer surgery, COPD, knee replacement and
lung cancer surgery.

o Ranked nationally in two adult specialties (gastroenterology and GI surgery
and orthopedics) and four pediatric specialties (cancer, cardiology and heart
surgery, neonatology and orthopedics).

o Also recognized as high performing in six additional specialties: cancer,
geriatrics, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, pulmonology and urology.

"These rankings reflect years of collaboration to enhance quality, safety and
outcomes for our patients," said Dr. A. Craig Hillemeier, dean of Penn State
College of Medicine, CEO of Penn State Health and senior vice president for
health affairs for Penn State. "Moving forward, we must continue to take steps
to ensure that we do right by every patient, every time."

o Read its full ranking U.S. News & World Report's annual best hospitals
analysis.

o Overall statewide ranking: 6

o High performing: All nine common procedures and conditions

o Also recognized as high performing in four additional specialties:
gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, orthopedics and pulmonology.

"This distinct honor is a result of the extraordinary standard of care that our
physicians and staff are known for," said Jan Bergen, president and CEO of
Lancaster General Health. "This ranking is further evidence of our progress in
helping our community achieve optimal health and an exceptional experience
through innovative and compassionate patient care."

LGH is part of the U.S. News & World Report's annual best hospitals analysis
(Penn Medicine), all of whose individual hospitals earned top honors in the
rankings.

o Read its full ranking U.S. News & World Report's annual best hospitals
analysis.

o Overall statewide ranking: 12 (tied with Bryn Mawr Hospital)

o High performing: Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, aortic valve surgery, heart
bypass surgery, heart failure, colon cancer surgery, COPD, knee replacement and
lung cancer surgery.

o Ranking appears to have been performed before U.S. News & World Report's
annual best hospitals analysis.

o Read its full ranking U.S. News & World Report's annual best hospitals
analysis.

o Overall statewide ranking: 23 (tied with four others)

o High performing: Colon cancer surgery, heart failure, lung cancer surgery.

o Read its full ranking U.S. News & World Report's annual best hospitals
analysis.

View the full article from Central Penn Business Journal at U.S. News & World
Report's annual best hospitals analysis. Copyright © 2017 BridgeTower Media. All
Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

