                               7 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Straits Times (Singapore)

Move for evaluation system draws mixed reaction

                                October 10, 1995

Ravi Veloo


Secondary schools and junior colleges are ranked annually. And now, the
Government is considering ways to size up Government and restructured hospitals
against each other. The news, however, is drawing mixed responses from doctors,
hospital administrators and the public. RAVI VELOO reports on Page Two.

HEALTH MINISTRY STUDYING WAYS TO RANK HOSPITALS

FIRST, it was the schools that were sized up against each other. Now, the
Ministry of Health is studying ways to rank government and restructured
hospitals.

Revealing this in response to queries from Life!, the ministry said the aim of
having rankings was to spur the hospitals to be more efficient and improve their
service.

On whether private hospitals would also be involved, the ministry said it was
too early to say, as no decision had been taken on even what performance
indicators should be used.

News that the ministry was studying how to rank hospitals drew mixed responses
from doctors, hospital administrators and the public.

Three concerns were raised:

- Can ranking be done fairly at all?

- Will competition for top spots lead to abuse?

- Even if it can be done fairly, and there is no abuse, what is the point of
ranking, after all?

A LOT of concern from doctors and the public is directed at whether performance
indicators to be used in such rankings would be an accurate reflection of a
hospital's worth.

Indeed, the ministry itself said: "The main problem faced in ranking is how to
ensure that the indicators selected are equitable and compensate for the
variation in the specialities offered and the case-mix of patients seen in
various hospitals."

In Britain and the United States, such indicators include mortality rate,
infection rate, re-admission rate, and availability of high-tech diagnostic and
therapeutic equipment, staff-to-patient ratio, and waiting time at clinics.

A poser is how hospitals here are going to be compared when some, such as the
National Skin Centre and the Singapore National Eye Centre, are so highly
specialised.

The medical director of the Singapore National Eye Centre, Professor Arthur Lim,
indicated some of the difficulties.

While he welcomed the idea of competition, he said that sizing up hospitals
against each other would present inordinate problems.

"How do you compare compassion in the treatment of patients? And how important
is waiting time in a serious condition? It is the outcome that is important," he
said.

Stressing the importance of comparing like with like, he said: "Even with
outcomes, for example, if you compare the results of my cataract operations with
a younger surgeon's, his results will be better for the simple reason that as a
more senior person, I get the more complicated cataract cases."

Other hospital chiefs expressed similar reservations.

The National University Hospital's CEO, Mr Pek Beng Choon, said ranking could be
useful as a form of benchmarking, but cautioned: "Obvious and apparent
indicators such as cancelled admissions and waiting time may be valid, but not
necessarily accurate in reflecting the standard of health care."

But a senior administrator, who asked not be named, said such comments showed
doctors were paying too much mind to the art of doctoring and not enough to the
science of it.

He said: "Dealing with patients is an art, but the practice of medicine is a
science, and a lot of the performance is measurable. Start with some indicators,
and improve them along the way."

On his side, the administrator has the argument that hospitals are ranked in
some countries already, and from press reports, hospitals that came out lower in
the rankings in Britain and the US have pledged to do better, and sometimes
deliver on their promise.

In any case, it appears the Health Ministry here is aware of the

issues.

It told Life!: "In capturing data, there must be standardisation and
comparability. Another problem is in quantifying and measuring health care.

"In health care, quality of care includes cost-efficient care provided by
caring, committed and competent staff. The intangibles are difficult to capture
quantitatively." BUT even if the rankings are accepted as fair, many doctors
have reservations about what might follow.

The Singapore Medical Association, which represents about 60 per cent of all the
doctors in Singapore, opposed the idea, saying: "Ranking can have undesirable
effects."

It said: "Hospital administrators, in their eagerness to achieve a high ranking
for their institutions, may become over-zealous in purchasing the latest
high-tech equipment in order to maintain an edge over other institutions."

The association warned: "Doctors may be inclined to order more investigations
and prescribe more treatments than is really necessary.

"Both situations would result in an increase in health-care costs, which runs
counter to national health policies."

But the chief executive officer of the Toa Payoh Hospital, Mr Liak Teng Lit,
supported the exercise, saying: "I don't think it's wrong to do the ranking."

On concerns such as those the SMA had expressed, he said: "It can happen. But I
argue that as professionals, most of us do not do this kind of thing. We do not
go out of the way to beat the system. There are very few psychopaths in this
business."

The CEO of the Tan Tock Seng Hospital, Dr Judy Lim, gave cautious approval to
ranking, but also noted its potential to go wrong.

Conceding that ranking would be good if it recognised each hospital's intrinsic
strengths, she warned: "The system should not end up pitting one hospital
against another. Such competition will sap precious resources from them."

A Life! poll of 30 people found them divided on the merits of the case.

They were keen to have more information how hospitals compared, but some were
concerned that the pursuit of a higher ranking could lead to hospitals turning
away patients who could not do them proud.

OTHERS questioned the use of ranking hospitals.

The ministry wants ranking because it "serves as one indicator of performance
and a guide on the care provided by the hospitals".

But the Singapore Medical Association said: "We believe the most objective form
of ranking would be peer review and the testimony of patients.

"It is not the waiting time at clinics or the number of MRI machines and liver
transplants performed in hospitals that will influence patients' choice of
hospitals.

"The patient's choice of a hospital will depend on feedback they received from
their friends and relatives who were treated in that hospital."

Those in support of ranking said that it was precisely the lack of accurate
measurements and over-reliance on impressions of friends and relatives that made
an objective ranking by the ministry attractive.

Advertising executive Wong Yock Yin, 24, said: "Anyway, even if I were presented
with rankings by the Health Ministry, I would still check with friends and
relatives for their experiences."

Dr Ajith Damodaran, a general practitioner, said: "The real question is what
kind of care a patient gets. A department may be rated highly, but the quality
of care may differ within the department, depending on which doctor you get and
the circumstances."

He suggested educating the patient to make an informed choice through
questioning his or her doctor.

"Better health care comes from a bottom-up approach when the larger base of
patients demands better care," he said. "Ranking a hospital remains a top-down
approach to improving health care. That is a serious flaw in the system."

Another point was that many indicators used in other countries measured only the
peripherals of health care, such as waiting time and average costs of a stay;
these did not indicate the quality of care.

A consumer raised an ethical issue: "Even if ranking is done by an objective
party like the Health Ministry, isn't the end result a form of advertising for
the hospital?"

Teacher S.K. Lee, 36, said something which seemed to sum up the feelings of
many: "The point of rankings is to spur hospitals to compete. Do you want your
doctor to compete with others? I think how comfortable you are with that idea
will determine where you stand on this issue."


SECTION: Life; (Cover Story); Pg. 1,L2

LENGTH: 1974 words

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Who's up, doc?: How will Singapore General Hospital (above) line up
against the other hospitals? (Page L1)

                 Copyright 1995 The Straits Times Press Limited


