                               8 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 28, 2012 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Mount Sinai Medical Center: First-Ever National Summit on Hospital Rankings
Demonstrates Impact and Explores Possibilities for Change

LENGTH: 1145  words


New Delhi, Sept. 28 -- At a summit on hospital ranking systems held on September
27, 2012, leaders from the nation's top hospitals and U.S. News & World Report
agreed that its annual "Best Hospitals" list is among the most comprehensive and
useful available. The distinguished group also explored a broad range of ways in
which the methodologies could continue to be improved. Possible improvements
that were discussed include risk adjustment for socioeconomic factors and
projected health outcomes, measurement of scientific and medical innovation,
clinical trial participation, investment in and use of cutting-edge information
such as genomics, and overall patient experience.



The discussion took place at The Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City,
during a first-ever summit-titled "Shaping Health Care Decisions: An Inside Look
at Hospital Rankings"-that explored U.S. News &#38;World; Report's "Best
Hospitals" rankings. It brought together editors and statisticians from U.S.
News and more than 125 representatives from leading hospitals across the
country.

Panelists and audience participants made it clear that rankings matter for
hospitals and consumers. Rankings drive care improvements and give consumers
important information upon which to base decisions. But it was also evident that
not all rankings measure the same things, essentially leaving to consumers the
responsibility to examine what the various methodologies are designed to
reflect.

"This is a critical conversation to shape the future of hospital rankings and
ensure consumers have access to the full range of information they need to make
informed choices about their care," said Kenneth L. Davis, MD, President and
Chief Executive Officer of The Mount Sinai Medical Center. "Rankings are just
one part of the equation when it comes to consumer choice, but as millions of
aging baby boomers seek specialty care, and 30 million more Americans enter the
health care system, they are becoming increasingly important to the
decision-making process."

The summit featured three panel discussions, moderated by Brian Kelly, U.S. News
Editor and Chief Content Officer, in which hospital executives explored how
current rankings assess quality and what quantifiable data could complement and
correlate to reputational criteria. They also discussed how the rankings could
be expanded to respond to advances in technology and biomedical science, as well
as the impact of socioeconomic status on health outcomes.

"There is a new kind of consumer very interested in diving deep," said Mr.
Kelly. "In our role as a data provider we want to take advantage of the flood of
new health care data becoming available and do it in a responsive and
responsible way."

Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor, told the audience that the
rankings are designed to help people who are "in trouble," facing complex
medical conditions requiring the finest specialty care. He noted that given new
data sources, the time may be at hand to create companion rankings for community
hospitals delivering routine care, which makes up the lion's share of health
services today.

Peter Slavin, MD, President of Massachusetts General Hospital, pointed out that
hospitals often respond to rankings in an effort to improve their grade.

"To some degree they help shape our quality and safety priorities," Dr. Slavin
said. "People want to be in a place that is advancing medicine (and) rankings
could take this into account by assessing things like clinical trials, NIH
[National Institutes of Health] funding, and breakthrough research."

Mount Sinai's Dr. Davis offered this specific observation: "Where are the best
places to get the innovation and the care of tomorrow? If you are a patient with
colon cancer, we now know from genomic screening that a subset of patients will
respond to a certain drug. Only the best hospitals will have genomic capability
to choose the right drug for a patient's tumor."

In concluding remarks, Dr. Davis stressed that it is important for the rankings
to account for institutions that are fully wired and capable of sharing patient
data across teams, as well as the level of clinical trial participation. These,
he said, are indicators of centers that are conducting breakthrough research and
delivering the latest care. In addition, rankings should reflect hospitals that
are caring for patients who have comorbid conditions that affect their health
status, such as patients who are waitlisted for a liver transplant but who die
from coronary arrest that is related to their overall poor health. Rankings
could adjust for these cases by using V-codes, or standard chart annotations
that detail multiple conditions for each patient.

Dr. Davis and others agreed that there should be adjustments for the geographic
availability of nursing home and hospice beds, because in their absence,
patients die in hospitals, affecting the institution's mortality rates. Lastly,
as many of the participants noted, socioeconomic variables must be looked at
more closely so so-called "safety-net hospitals" are not disadvantaged because
they care for the sickest and most impoverished patients.

"We view rankings as a benchmark and a roadmap for us to get better," said
panelist Meri Armour, President and Chief Executive Officer of Le Bonheur
Children's Hospital, in Memphis. "The challenge for all of us is to make certain
that what we are all doing is improving our processes and outcomes. The point is
to take these measures and ask, how do we get to where we want to be?"

Summit panel participants included Meri Armour, President and Chief Executive
Officer, Le Bonheur Children's Hospital (Memphis, TN); Vinita Bahl, DMD, MPP,
Director of Clinical Information and Decision Support Services, University of
Michigan (Ann Arbor, MI); Steven J. Corwin, MD, Chief Executive Officer, New
York-Presbyterian Hospital (New York, NY); Kenneth L. Davis, MD, President and
Chief Executive Officer of The Mount Sinai Medical Center (New York, NY);
Timothy J. Gardner, MD, Medical Director, Center for Heart & Vascular Health,
Christiana Care Health System (Wilmington, DE); Brent C. James, MD, MStat, Chief
Quality Officer and Executive Director, Institute for Health Care Delivery
Research, Intermountain Healthcare (Salt Lake City, UT); Bradley J. Narr, MD,
Chair, Department of Anesthesiology and Chair, Surgical and Procedural
Committee, Mayo Clinic (Rochester, MN); Sharon O'Keefe, President, University of
Chicago Medical Center (Chicago, IL); Philip O. Ozuah, MD, PhD, Executive Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer, Montefiore Medical Center (Bronx, NY);
and Peter L. Slavin, MD, President, Massachusetts General Hospital (Boston, MA).


The Summit marks the first time U.S. News editors have discussed their hospital
ranking system in an extensive public forum with the leaders of the institutions
being ranked.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


