                               9 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Journal-News (Hamilton, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            November 11, 2013 Monday

Hospital rankings paint incomplete picture, officials say

BYLINE: Hannah Poturalski, Hamilton JournalNews, Ohio

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1120 words


Nov. 11--With an inundation of available hospital data and rankings systems
floating in cyberspace, area hospital officials say it's best for patients to
rely on primary care physicians for recommendations on where to be treated.

Rankings systems steeped a majority in evidence-based outcomes and care, such as
those by Truven Health Analytics, can rival the more subjective data points
collected by agencies such as U.S. News and World Report, that bases its annual
Best Hospitals list more than a third on a hospital's reputation among
specialists.

"All rating systems are not the same; they look at quality and patient
satisfaction in different ways," said Colleen O'Toole, chief administrative
officer and vice president for operations at the Greater Cincinnati Health
Council.

The nonprofit health council has more than 30 hospitals within its membership,
and O'Toole said while they're all competing for a higher market share and more
patients, they are still able to unite for sharing best practices.

"For consumers this is all very confusing," O'Toole said. "As a field, health
care hasn't done a good job showing what's quality and how it's measured."

Ohio has nine hospitals that are nationally ranked by U.S. News and World
Report. An additional 30 other hospitals met standards for strong performance
within Ohio, according to the agency.

Officials at Kettering Health Network -- with two hospitals ranked in the
state's top 30 by U.S. News and World Report this year -- study the measures
used by each ranking agency after the reports are released, said Teri Sholder,
chief quality officer for Kettering Health. She said organizations such as
CareChex and Truven Health "provide a more comprehensive" view than is available
from U.S. News and World Report.

"We value any organization that's working to improve health care," Sholder said.
"We encourage patients to heed the advice of their primary care physician ...
unless they understand the complex method and measures ranked."

At the health council, O'Toole echoed that sentiment adding that relying on just
one rankings system can leave the consumer with incomplete information.

Donna Mollaun, of Fairfield, said when determining what health care facilities
to visit she relies on word of mouth from friends and others, as well as her
personal experiences in the past.

"The research I do is about the doctor ... how many procedures does he/she
perform weekly in that specialty and where the doctor's educated," Mollaun said.
"I put no faith in the doctor rating pages."

Mollaun said in past years, even though she lives within walking distance to
Mercy Hospital Fairfield, she made the choice to move her care further south to
Jewish Hospital, before it was part of the Mercy Health network. Jewish Hospital
was then part of the now-dissolved Health Alliance of Greater Cincinnati.

Mollaun, 63, said a previous doctor treated her for a bladder infection, that
turned out to be pancreatic cancer. She underwent a Whipple procedure in 2003 to
remove the cancer.

"If I had relied on hospital rankings, I would have died 10 years ago," Mollaun
said. "This decision (to move hospitals) was based on prior personal experiences
with Mercy in Fairfield and comments from other former patients and their
families."

Tom Urban, market leader and president of Mercy Health's north market, said the
U.S. News and World Report rankings are "not very important" to him. Urban said
the rankings are considered "a beauty contest" to some in the health care field
because of not being based on "unbiased, impartial data."

"It's more on reputation and there's not a lot of hard data," Urban said. "It
gets a lot of publicity but as far as insiders in the hospital, it doesn't have
as much weight for an organization."

Urban said there are many rankings systems -- locally, statewide and nationally
-- that cause confusion for the consumer due to no one agency being nationally
recognized as the best or most objective.

"My advice is go to that health care organization you know, from personal
experience or family experience, that is obsessed with clinical quality and
patient safety," Urban said.

Within the Premier Health network, which operates Atrium Medical Center in
Middletown, three hospitals are ranked within the top 40 in Ohio, according to
U.S. News and World Report. Atrium is ranked 30th in the state; with the Good
Samaritan and Miami Valley hospitals in Dayton also falling in the top.

Dr. Tammy Lundstrom, senior vice president and chief medical officer for Premier
Health, said that while the network does pay attention to rankings systems, its
physician leadership council and other groups strive to make it a holistic
approach. She said all rankings use different reporting periods -- from six
months to three years rolling -- and have either broad or narrow scopes.

"We're trying to look at the broad scope of care; there's no one quality metric
or ranking that's absolute," Lundstrom said. "We look for gaps or opportunities
to continue to improve. Our major goal is to constantly improve quality and
patient safety to the highest level."

The information available to consumers shrinks significantly on the pediatric
side, said Dr. Evie Alessandrini, assistant vice president of Outcomes Systems
at Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center. She said it's much harder for
the hospital system, let alone patients, to find comparative data for pediatric
care due to a lack of rankings systems or mandatory reporting requirements for
pediatric hospitals in the country.

"U.S. News and World Report ... is really one of the best methods where we can
understand our performance compared to our peer hospitals and other children's
hospitals," Alessandrini said.

Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center is ranked nationally in all 10
specialities tracked, including first in pediatric cancer care and second for
nephrology (kidney) and pulmonology (lungs), according to U.S. News and World
Report's 2013-14 ranking. The ranking includes the satellite hospital in Liberty
Twp.

Alessandrini said the survey by U.S. News and World Report has changed
significantly in the past 10 years -- with a shift from 75 percent based on
reputation with specialists to now about a third based on reputation. The U.S.
News ranking considers structure (equipment, staffing, certification); processes
of care; and outcomes (survival, pain level).

"Over time the measures are becoming increasingly better and evidence-based and
it makes it more important and relevant for us to use the data for comparison,"
Alessandrini said.

___ (c)2013 the Hamilton JournalNews (Hamilton, Ohio) Visit the Hamilton
JournalNews (Hamilton, Ohio) at www.journal-news.com Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20131111-HL-Hospital-rankings
-paint-incomplete-picture-officials-say-1111-20131111

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HL


                        Copyright 2013 The Journal-News


