                              104 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                     San Mateo County Times (San Mateo, CA)

                            December 12, 2003 Friday

Sequoia receives excellent marks for its women's health services;
Obstetrics, cardiac and newborn-intensive-care units attract favorable review

BYLINE: STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL & REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 281 words

DATELINE: REDWOOD CITY


Sequoia Hospital is one of the best hospitals for women in California, according
to a new report.

Sequoia is the only Bay Area hospital that received a five-star ranking for both
obstetrics and women's health services from HealthGrades, which ranks hospitals
nationally. It's also one of 10 in California that got top marks for both
services.

Hospital President Glenna Vaskelis noted that HealthGrades recently rated
Sequoia as the No. 1 cardiac-services hospital in California; she said the
latest ranking highlights Sequoia's broad commitment to providing health care in
the community and "is a testament to our outstanding doctors, nurses,
technicians and administrative staff."

Roberta Greenspan, a Belmont woman who gave birth by Caesarean section at
Sequoia, said in a news release she wasn't surprised by the high ranking. A
person's first time in a hospital can be intimidating, she said, but the doctor
and nursing staff were skilled and attentive.

HealthGrades based the rankings for obstetrics on the volume of single live-born
deliveries, complication rates, presence of a newborn-intensive-care unit, the
preplanned first-time Caesarean section rate, and the newborn mortality rate.
Rankings for women's health services were based on coronary-bypass surgery,
valve-replacement surgery, interventional procedures, heart attack, heart
failure, and stroke mortality rates, and obstetrics.

Mills-Peninsula Hospital in Burlingame received three-star ratings -- meaning
the hospital's performance was "as expected" -- in both categories. Seton
Medical Center in Daly City earned a five-star ranking in obstetrics and a
three-star ranking for women's health.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

            Copyright 2003 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers

