                              97 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Pasadena Star-News (California)

                             July 16, 2013 Tuesday

UCLA and Cedars-Sinai among "Best Hospitals" in U.S. News Ranking

BYLINE: By Sarah Favot sarah.favot@sgvn.com @sarahfavot on Twitter.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 506 words


UCLA Medical Center and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center are ranked among the top
hospitals in the country, according to 2013/2014 "Best Hospitals" rankings from
U.S. News and World Report released online Tuesday.

Several other hospitals in metro Los Angeles and the Inland Empire are also
recognized by the news magazine as being top performing in different specialty
categories.

UCLA and Cedars-Sinai, ranked 5th and 13th respectively, are among the top 18
hospitals that rank at or near the top in six specialty categories. A
designation known as the "honor roll."

"We really believe if we take great care of our patients, everything else will
take care of itself," said Dr. David Feinberg, president of the UCLA Health
System and CEO of the UCLA Hospital System, adding that hospital staff strive to
ensure every patient receives technically-advanced and passionate care.

Although patients may use hospital rankings when looking for a hospital,
Feinberg said, the best recommendations come from patients who have received
care at UCLA.

"We don't really care about the rankings," he said, adding that external
validation is good and a testament to the hospital's staff.

Other local hospitals that were ranked in the top 50 in one or more specialty
categories are: Keck Hospital of USC in Los Angeles, UC Irvine Medical Center in
Orange County, Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, City of Hope in Duarte,
Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian in Newport Beach and USC Norris Cancer
Hospital in L.A.

In the Inland Empire, Loma Linda University Medical Center in Loma Linda was
also nationally ranked.

The purpose of the rankings is to help patients who need a demanding surgery and
whose care may be affected by age or a chronic condition, according to Avery
Comarow, the magazine's health rankings editor,

As many as 2 million patients require a surgery or care that is technically
challenging or has an increased risk of death or harm, according to Comarow.

The 16 different specialties ranked by U.S. News and World Report are:
cardiology and heart surgery; diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat;
gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery; geriatrics; gynecology;
nephrology; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; urology;
ophthalmology; psychiatry; rehabilitation and rheumatology.

From a pool of about 5,000 hospitals nationwide, 1,894 hospitals were eligible
to be part of the specialty rankings.

Hospitals are given a score in each specialty based on criteria including:
reputation, death rates for the most demanding cases, patient safety, patient
volume, nurse staffing, special accreditation and certifications earned and
availability of high-tech equipment.

A survey where doctors are asked to name hospitals they consider best in their
specialty for treating difficult cases is also factored in.

Each component has its own weight.

Four of the specialities -- ophthalmology; psychiatry; rehabilitation and
rheumatology -- are solely based on the physician survey.

To view the results, visitusnews.com/hospitals .

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2013 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

