                              96 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday
                                 METRO EDITION

Mayo Clinic ranked as top U.S. hospital by U.S. News

BYLINE: DAN BROWNING; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 430 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Rochester clinic led the pack in half of the specialties analyzed
by the magazine.


The Mayo Clinic was named the nation's No. 1 hospital by U.S. News & World
Report on Tuesday, the first time the Minnesota medical giant has earned top
honors in the magazine's annual ranking of adult care across 16 medical
specialties.

Mayo, based in Rochester, edged out Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston for
the top rung after Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore ended its 21-year reign
and fell to third place.

"This is a tremendous acknowledgment of the great work our staff does every day
to deliver high quality, affordable health care for our patients," said Dr. John
Wald, medical director for public affairs and marketing at Mayo.

"While no single set of measures can perfectly represent health care quality, we
are proud to be recognized for the work we do," Wald added.

The U.S. News index, begun

in 1990, is just one of many national rankings of hospital quality and care, but
it's gold for marketers and is certain to burnish Mayo's already distinguished
reputation.

The 2014-2015 list of 4,743 hospitals was published Tuesday.

The rankings exclude routine care in hospitals, and don't consider cost as a
factor in the analysis. The magazine cautions consumers that the rankings are
only a starting point, and urges further research specific to each patient.

The index considers a hospital's reputation among specialists, in addition to
survival rates, patient safety and other care-related indicators such as nursing
and clinically-proven technology.

Of the nearly 5,000 hospitals analyzed, just 144 facilities ranked among the top
in at least one of the 16 specialties analyzed. Mayo Clinic ranked No. 1 in half
of the specialties.

The index also provides state and regional rankings. Abbott Northwestern
Hospital in Minneapolis ranked second in the state, with four nationally ranked
specialties, followed by Mercy Hospital in Coon Rapids, with one nationally
ranked specialty.

The University of Minnesota Medical Center, Fairview, ranked fourth statewide,
with no nationally ranked specialties but 12 listed as "high-performing."

The index is based on data for a dozen specialties: cancer; cardiology and heart
surgery; diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat; gastroenterology and
gastrointestinal surgery; geriatrics; gynecology; nephrology; neurology and
neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

In addition, ophthalmology, psychiatry, rehabilitation and rheumatology are
evaluated as reputation measures.

Federal facilities were not included in the analysis because of the difficulty
in getting data, the magazine said.

Dan Browning · 612-673-4493

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2014 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

