                              100 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              July 26, 2013 Friday

Core Teaching Hospitals for The University of Tennessee Health Science Center
Continue to Rank Among Best in Nation

LENGTH: 812  words

DATELINE: Martin


The University of Tennessee at Martin has issued the following news release:

U.S. News & World Report rankings have once again recognized several core
teaching hospitals for the University of Tennessee Health Science Center (UTHSC)
as among the best in the nation. This year, four of UTHSC's core teaching
hospitals appear on the U.S. News list -- Methodist University Hospital and Le
Bonheur Children's Hospital, both in Memphis, the UT Medical Center in
Knoxville, and the Erlanger Medical Center in Chattanooga.

"It is a pleasure to congratulate our hospital partners for this significant
achievement," said UTHSC Chancellor Steve J. Schwab, MD. "It's equally important
to recognize that it is our faculty's diligence, experience and sustained
commitment to high quality patient care that are a foundation for this ongoing
success. UTHSC faculty members are the physicians and clinicians who teach the
generations of health care professionals to come, and who simultaneously provide
the compassionate, quality care in hospitals across this state and region. That
is the foundation for being the best in the nation."

Methodist Hospitals of Memphis has been ranked as one of the best adult
hospitals for 2013-14 in the country for nephrology (#49) and was ranked #1 in
the Memphis metro area. Methodist Hospitals of Memphis is comprised of Methodist
University Hospital (MUH), Methodist North Hospital, Methodist South Hospital
and Methodist Le Bonheur Germantown Hospital. One of UTHSC's primary teaching
hospitals in Memphis and home of the UT Methodist Physicians Practice Group, MUH
was also recognized for an additional national special status in solid organ
transplantation. Eight other specialties were commended as high performing, with
MUH being declared the best adult hospital in West Tennessee and ranked as the
#2 adult hospital in the state of Tennessee.

The UT Medical Center in Knoxville was declared the #3 adult hospital in the
state of Tennessee and the best adult hospital in East Tennessee. It received
high performance commendations in 11 specialties.

The Erlanger Medical Center in Chattanooga was declared high performing in three
areas and best in the Chattanooga metro area.

The adult hospitals join the nationally ranked Le Bonheur Children's Hospital -
home of the UT Le Bonheur Pediatric Specialists Practice Group. Earlier this
year, for the third consecutive year, Le Bonheur was ranked by U.S. News among
the nation's best children's hospitals. On this year's list, Le Bonheur has five
nationally ranked specialties.

The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th year, recognize
hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients. The rankings for
adult hospitals were recently released; however, rankings for children's
hospitals were provided earlier in the summer. U.S. News evaluates hospitals in
16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it ranks the nation's top 50
hospitals and recognizes other high-performing hospitals that provide care at
nearly the level of their nationally ranked peers.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just three percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in
any specialty."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

As Tennessee's only public, statewide, academic health system, the mission of
the University of Tennessee Health Science Center (UTHSC) is to bring the
benefits of the health sciences to the achievement and maintenance of human
health, with a focus on the citizens of Tennessee and the region, by pursuing an
integrated program of education, research, clinical care, and public service.
Offering a broad range of postgraduate and selected baccalaureate training
opportunities, the main UTHSC campus is located in Memphis and includes six
colleges: Allied Health Sciences, Dentistry, Graduate Health Sciences, Medicine,
Nursing and Pharmacy. UTHSC also educates and trains cohorts of medicine,
pharmacy and/or allied health students -- in addition to medical residents and
fellows -- at its major sites in Knoxville, Chattanooga and Nashville. Founded
in 1911, during its more than 100 years, UT Health Science Center has educated
and trained more than 56,000 health care professionals in academic settings and
health care facilities across the state.

For more information please visit: http://www.utm.edu.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

