                              103 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      June 13, 2012 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Children's Hospital Los Angeles Earns Top Five Ranking in the U.S. News & World
Report Survey of the Nation's Best Children's Hospitals

LENGTH: 801  words


New Delhi, June 13 -- Children's Hospital Los Angeles is moving up. For the
fourth year in a row, Children's Hospital Los Angeles has been named to the
elite Honor Roll of children's hospitals in the U.S. News & World Report
rankings released online today. This year, the hospital is ranked fifth in the
nation, up three places from last year's survey of Best Children's Hospitals.

"This recognition by U.S. News & World Report acknowledges that Children's
Hospital Los Angeles is a national leader in health care for children," says
Richard D. Cordova, FACHE, President and CEO, Children's Hospital Los Angeles.
"Our successful transition to our new $636 million, 317-bed inpatient tower, the
Marion and John E. Anderson Pavilion, is a testament to the resiliency of our
doctors, nurses, clinical staff and physician support team that helped to
contribute to this institution's top five ranking."

Only 12 children's hospitals in the United States achieved Honor Roll status for
2012-13, and Children's Hospital Los Angeles is the only hospital in California
to receive this recognition. The national magazine reviews children's hospitals
annually for their clinical quality and patient outcomes in 10 different medical
specialties and Children's Hospital Los Angeles was ranked high in all 10
categories, and its outstanding scores in six of those specialties placed it
among the top five nationally. The hospital has been selected to the Honor Roll
every year since this esteemed list launched in 2009, and Children's Hospital
Los Angeles has been named among the nation's best children's hospitals annually
since the inception of the magazine's rankings in 1990.

This year, the hospital equaled or improved its national ranking in six of the
10 categories compared to the 2011-2012 survey. The hospital achieved elite
Honor Roll status because it received exceptional scores in at least three
pediatric specialties. Children's Hospital Los Angeles rankings in all 10
specialty categories rated were: Cancer #5; Cardiology & Heart Surgery #8;
Diabetes & Endocrinology #7; Gastroenterology #7; Neonatology #7; Nephrology
#22; Neurology & Neurosurgery #18; Orthopedics #6; Pulmonology #14 and Urology
#12.

"Children's Hospital Los Angeles provides the best possible care for the
children in our community," says Cordova. "This is a reflection of the excellent
work of our Board of Trustees and our Safety and Quality Services Committee. In
addition, our philanthropic efforts contribute mightily to our success and allow
us to recruit the finest faculty and physicians to support our pediatric
research and clinical missions. This acknowledgement from U.S. News & World
Report is a tribute to all of their exceptional efforts."

When the new Marion and John E. Anderson Pavilion opened last July, the
inpatient tower was designed with a priority on family-centered care.
Eighty-five percent of the rooms are private and include accommodations so
parents can stay overnight comfortably with their child. The Anderson Pavilion
is among the nation's most advanced pediatric care facilities, and its opening
established a new era for the hospital that has been providing the highest
quality pediatric care to the community for 111 years.

In addition to Children's Hospital Los Angeles, the prestigious list of national
Honor Roll hospitals for 2012-13 includes: Boston Children's Hospital,
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center, Texas Children's Hospital in Houston, Seattle Children's Hospital, Ann
and Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, Children's Hospital Colorado
in Aurora, Colo., Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio, Children's
Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC, Johns Hopkins Children's Center in Baltimore and
St. Louis Children's Hospital-Washington University.

The Best Children's Hospitals list pulls together clinical and operational data
from a lengthy survey, completed by the majority of the 178 pediatric centers
asked to participate in the rankings. This year, U.S. News required hard data
such as availability of key resources and ability to prevent complications and
infections. The survey also asked hundreds of questions about survival rates,
nurse staffing, subspecialist availability, procedure volume and many more
pieces of critical information. The data from the survey is combined with
recommendations from pediatric specialists on the hospitals they consider best
for children with challenging medical conditions.

The new rankings recognize the top 50 children's hospitals in 10 pediatric
specialties. Eighty hospitals are ranked in at least one specialty. U.S. News
Media Group, the parent of U.S. News & World Report, announced the hospital
rankings at 10 a.m. EDT on Tuesday, June 5 at:
www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

