                              98 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        San Bernardino Sun (California)

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday

Loma Linda tops in survey of hospitals

BYLINE: Jim Steinberg, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 377 words


Loma Linda University Medical Center has been ranked No. 1 in the Riverside-San
Bernardino county area in the first ever "Best Hospitals" metro area rankings by
U.S. News and World Report.

The new metro area list, released Tuesday, is aimed at helping local consumers
find closer hospitals, and who may not need specialized expertise found at
other, more distant facilities, according to U.S. News and World Report.

Of the 41 hospitals in the region and Coachella Valley, LLUMC received top
ranking with seven specialties identified as "high performing": cancer, diabetes
and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat; gynecology; kidney disorders;
pulmonology and urology.

Kaiser Permanente Medical Center, Fontana was ranked No. 2, with "high
performing" rankings in three specialties: ear, nose and throat, pulmonology and
urology.

"We are very excited over this news ... this is the recognition of the great
physicians and staff we have working here and are very honored," said Loma Linda
University Medical Center Chief Executive Officer Ruthita Fike. "We have worked
to be very patient-focused and to integrate care."

The new rankings recognize 622 hospitals nationally, in or near major cities,
with a record of high performance in key medical specialties, including 132 of
the 152 hospitals identified as the best in the nation in a report released last
July.

St. Bernardine Medical Center in San Bernardino and Desert Valley Hospital in
Victorville were in a five-way tie for fourth place and were also the only other
San Bernardino County hospitals on the list.

St. Bernardine was ranked as "high performing" for its kidney disorders program
and Desert Valley received the same notation for its pulmonology.

The new rankings were based on the Best Hospitals methodology and data that
produced the 2010-11 national rankings.

All of those participants were whittled down to much smaller groups by specialty
that met benchmarks such as the minimum number of certain types of serious
cases, U.S. News and World Report said on its website.

Rankings were ordered first by a hospital's number of nationally ranked
specialties and then by the number of other specialties in which it was among
the top 25 percent nationally.

To see the full report, go to www.usnews.com/hospitals .

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

