                              99 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 9, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Maria Fareri Children's Hospital at Westchester Medical Center Ranked with
Nation's Best Children's Hospitals

LENGTH: 320  words


June 9 -- Maria Fareri Children's Hospital at Westchester Medical Center - the
children's hospital for New York's Hudson Valley region and Fairfield County,
Connecticut - has been nationally ranked by U.S. News & World Report in its
2015-16 Best Children's Hospital rankings in the pediatric pulmonology and
pediatric urology specialty areas.

The Best Children's Hospitals rankings highlight U.S. News & World Report's  top
50 U.S. pediatric facilities in a series of subspecialties. The rankings are
based on a combination of clinical data and reputation surveys of pediatric
specialists.

"Maria Fareri Children's Hospital at Westchester Medical Center provides
advanced pediatric services to children from our region and beyond and it does
so with skill and compassion resulting in best outcomes.  This is why U.S. News
& World Report has ranked Maria Fareri Children's Hospital in multiple
categories for several years," explained Michael Gewitz, M.D., William Russell
McCurdy Physician-in-Chief, Maria Fareri Children's Hospital at Westchester
Medical Center.  "This recognition is due in large measure to the dedicated
effort of the hospital's outstanding clinical and support staffs."

Maria Fareri Children's Hospital cared for its first patients in September 2004.
In this relatively short time, the hospital has become a leading pediatric
advanced-care center," continued Dr. Gewitz.  "These rankings further attest to
the high level of expert care provided by the hospital.  Families come from
across the country and beyond to Maria Fareri Children's Hospital at Westchester
Medical Center for the care of their children."

"The pediatric centers ranked in Best Children's Hospitals deserve our
congratulations," said U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow. "Children
with life-threatening or rare conditions need the kind of care that these
hospitals deliver day after day."

Source: Westchester Medical Center

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

