                              110 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Daily Press - Victorville (California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 15, 2011 Sunday

Local hospital gets fourth place ranking

BYLINE: Daily Press, Victorville, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 316 words


May 15--VICTORVILLE

--A recent evaluation by U.S. News & World Report ranked Desert Valley Hospital
fourth among a field of 41 hospitals in San Bernardino and Riverside counties.

Desert Valley Hospital tied for fourth place and was among eight rated as top
hospitals in U.S. News & World Report's first-ever Best Hospitals metro area
rankings. To be ranked in its metro area, a hospital scored in the top 25
percent among its peers in at least one of 16 medical specialties.

"All of these hospitals provide first-rate care for the majority of patients,
even those with serious conditions or who need demanding procedures," Health
Rankings Editor Avery Comarow said in a statement. "The new Best Ho s p i t a l
s m e t ro ra n k i n gs can tell you which hospitals are worth cons i d e r i n
g for most medical problems if you live in or near a major metro area."

Desert Valley performed nearly at the level of nationally ranked U.S. News Best
Hospitals in the adult specialty of pulmonology. It scored high in patient
safety, demonstrating commitment to reducing accidents and medical mistakes.
Desert Valley Hospital has 83 beds.

"This is another affirmation of the consistently high standards of patient care
that exist throughout the Prime Healthcare Services network of hospitals,"
stated CEO Margaret Peterson, Ph.D. "Desert Valley Hospital has a highly
qualified team of physicians, nurses, and staff who make patient care their No.
1 priority, as evidenced by our many awards and recognitions including the Top
100 Hospital in the Nation five times."

To see more of the Daily Press, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.vvdailypress.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Daily Press, Victorville,
Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110515-VV-Local-hospital-gets-fourth-place-ranking-0515-20110515

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VV


                           Copyright 2011 Daily Press

