                              106 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      July 24, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Roper St. Francis Receives National Recognition for Quality Healthcare

LENGTH: 430  words


New Delhi, July 24 -- For the second consecutive year, Roper St. Francis (RSF)
has been recognized by U.S. News & World Report as one of the best hospitals in
South Carolina. Roper Hospital and Bon Secours St. Francis were included in the
annual U.S. News & World Report's 2013-2014 Best Hospitals rankings.



"We're committed to raising the bar in healthcare and ensuring our patients get
the best quality of care," said Roper St. Francis CEO David Dunlap. "This
recognition is encouraging as we push for the best patient outcome, every time.
We're humbled and pleased to be included in the list again this year."

Now in its 24th year, the U.S. News Best Hospital list recognizes hospitals that
excel in treating the most challenging patients. Hospitals are evaluated in 16
adult specialties. In most specialties, the list ranks the nation's top 50
hospitals and recognizes other high-performing hospitals that provide care at
nearly the level of their nationally ranked peers.

Roper Hospital is ranked no. 4 in the South Carolina and is high-performing in
the following specialties:

* Cancer

* Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

* Geriatrics

* Gynecology

* Nephrology

* Neurology & Neurosurgery

* Orthopedics

* Urology

Bon Secours St. Francis Hospital is ranked no. 6 in South Carolina and is
high-performing in the following specialties:

* Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

* Nephrology

* Orthopedics

* Pulmonology

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the rankings.

The rankings have been published at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and
will appear in print in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available
in bookstores and on newsstands August 27.

Earlier this year, Roper St. Francis was also named to the Top 15 Hospital
Health Systems list, compiled by Truven Health Analytics (formerly Thomson
Reuters) and published in Modern Healthcare. The Truven Health 15 Top Health
Systems study culled data from more than 300 organizations and singled out 15
hospital systems that achieved superior clinical outcomes based on a composite
score of eight measures of quality, patient perception of care, and efficiency.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

