                              10 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                              June 27, 2016 Monday

Most hospitals in Pakistan have poor web presence

BYLINE: Shahina Maqbool

SECTION: Vol. 26 No. 116

LENGTH: 805  words


A majority of the hospitals in Pakistan have a poor Web presence, reveals the '
Ranking Web of World Hospitals,' a tool that shows the commitment of health
organisations to electronic publication and dissemination of academic
information related to medicine.

The following is the world ranking of Pakistani hospitals: CIDP International
Foundation (1842), Jinnah Memorial Hospital (2400), Sindh Institute of Urology
and Transplantation (2836), Shifa International Hospital (3760), Shaukat Khanum
Memorial Cancer Hospital and Research Centre (4064), Al Shifa Trust Eye Hospital
(5109), Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (5911), Layton Rahmatulla
Benevolent Trust Eye Hospital(7200), Liaquat National Hospital (7333), Allama
Iqbal Medical College and Jinnah Hospital Lahore (7659), Indus Hospital (7679),
Services Institute of Medical Sciences (9000), Fatima Memorial System (9190),
Rehman Medical Institute (9549), Aadil Hospital (9621), Marie Adelaide Leprosy
Centre (10409), Tabba Heart Institute (11008), Lady Reading Hospital (11136),
Sharif Medical City (11385), Dr Ziauddin Hospital Karachi (11385).

The 'Ranking Web of World Hospitals' is an initiative of Cyber metrics Lab, a
research group belonging to the Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas
(CSIC), the largest public research body in Spain.

These rankings are published from a purely academic point of view and should
only be used as such. "The Web indicators applied do not measure the quality of
treatment and health care offered by the hospitals. So please be aware that if
you are looking for the best place to treat a health condition, this ranking is
not appropriated for such a search," CSIC clarifies.

The objective of the initiative is to motivate both institutions and scholars to
have a web presence that reflect accurately their activities. "If the web
performance of an institution is below the expected position according to their
academic excellence, hospital authorities should reconsider their web policy,
promoting substantial increases of the volume and quality of their electronic
publications," CSIC states.

According to CSIC many hospitals, even in the developed countries, have a poor
presence in the Web or no presence at all. About 5-10% of the institutions have
no independent web presence, most of them located in developing countries. "This
lack of valuable contents publicly available is really very concerning and it
should not be longer acceptable in the 21st century," it maintains. "With these
rankings we intend to provide extra motivation to researchers worldwide for
publishing more and better scientific content on the Web, making it available to
colleagues and people wherever they are located," CSIC maintains.

The 'Ranking Web of World Hospitals' is launched in a Beta phase, and it is
intended that once it reaches its definitive version, it will be updated every 6
months (data collected in January and July and published one month later). The
goal of the project is to convince academic and political communities of the
importance of the web publication not only for dissemination of academic
knowledge but also for measuring scientific activities, performance and impact.

The current objective of the ranking is to promote Web publication by hospitals.
The ranking measures the volume, visibility and impact of web pages published by
hospitals, with special emphasis in the scientific output (referred papers,
conference contributions, pre-prints, monographs, thesis, reports) but also
taking into account other materials (courseware, seminars or workshops
documentation, digital libraries, databases, multimedia, personal pages) and the
general information on the institution, their departments, research groups or
supporting services and people working or attending courses.

The project intends to have true global coverage, not narrowing the analysis to
a few hundreds of institutions (world-class hospitals) but including as many
organisations as possible. "The only requirement in our international rankings
is having an autonomous web presence with an independent web domain. This
approach allows a larger number of institutions to monitor their current ranking
and the evolution of this position after adopting specific policies and
initiatives," CSIC informs.

The original aim of the ranking is to promote Web publication, not to rank
institutions. The Web covers not only formal (e-journals, repositories) but also
informal scholarly communication. Web publication is cheaper, maintaining the
high standards of quality of peer review processes. It could also reach much
larger potential audiences, offering access to scientific knowledge to
researchers and institutions located in developing countries and also to third
parties (economic, industrial, political or cultural stakeholders) in their own
community.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


