                              115 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday

Central DuPage, Lake Forest hospitals ranked in 'Best Hospitals' list

BYLINE: , Daily Herald staff report

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 266 words


Northwestern Medicine Central DuPage Hospital in Winfield and Northwestern
Medicine Lake Forest Hospital were among three Northwestern Medicine hospitals
that were recognized by U.S. News & World Report in its 2015-2016 ranking of
America's Best Hospitals.

Central DuPage Hospital is ranked 6th in both Illinois and the Chicago metro
region by the magazine.

Lake Forest Hospital is ranked 19th in Illinois and 16th in the Chicago metro
region, by the magazine's Best Hospitals Honor Roll,. Northwestern Memorial
Hospital in Chicago was ranked for the fourth consecutive year, ranking 11th in
the nation, 1st in Illinois and 1st in Chicago metro region.

The Best Hospitals Honor Roll highlights 15 hospitals out of nearly 5,000
nationwide for their expertise in treating the most challenging patients in at
least six medical specialties. Northwestern Memorial is nationally ranked in 13
out of 16 specialties, with top 10 recognition in six specialties.

Central DuPage Hospital's orthopedics program was once again recognized
nationally, ranking 36th in the country. Less than 3 percent of the hospitals
evaluated by U.S. News were ranked in even one specialty.

"We strive for excellence in all that we do and these rankings reflect our drive
as a growing health system to be among the best in the nation," said Dean M.
Harrison, Northwestern Memorial HealthCare's president and CEO. "We applaud the
talented physicians, nurses and staff who have earned this recognition. Their
exceptional efforts to provide the very best in high-quality patient care
supports our mission to always put our Patients First."

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Paddock Publications, Inc.

