                              109 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

U.S. News & World Report Names Baylor University Medical Center at Dallas No. 1
in Dallas-Fort Worth Metro Area, No. 2 in Texas

LENGTH: 629  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- the Dallas-Fort Worth area and No. 2 in Texas for 2013-14
by U.S. News & World Report. The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now
in their 24th year, recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most
challenging patients.



"Being first in Dallas-Fort Worth affirms the engagement of the talented
physicians on our medical staff as well as the recognition of our caregivers who
work hard to provide a Christian ministry of healing to every patient," said
John McWhorter, D.Sc., president of Baylor University Medical Center at Dallas
and senior vice president of Baylor Health Care System.

Baylor University Medical Center at Dallas, which has been included in the U.S.
News & World Report rankings for more than 20 years, was ranked for 2013 in
seven medical specialties: gastroenterology & GI surgery (No. 16 in the nation),
nephrology (No. 18 in the nation), pulmonology (No. 22 in the nation),
orthopedics (No. 24 in the nation), gynecology (No. 32 in the nation), neurology
& neurosurgery (No. 36 in the nation), and diabetes & endocrinology (No. 38 in
the nation). The hospital is also high-performing in cancer, cardiology & heart
surgery, geriatrics, urology, and ear, nose & throat.

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

"It is a great honor to be acknowledged statewide and nationally for the
excellent care that our physicians, nurses and treatment teams deliver," said
Irving Prengler, M.D., chief medical officer Baylor Health Care System. "We are
honored to be recognized in these seven specialties and are thankful for the
dedication of all of our caregivers to patient care."

In its Metro Area Rankings, U.S. News & World Report gives consumers information
about high-performing hospitals in their backyard. This year, U.S. News & World
Report ranked three Baylor Health Care System hospitals: Baylor Regional Medical
Center at Plano, Baylor All Saints Medical Center at Fort Worth, and Baylor
University Medical Center at Dallas.

"Dallas-Fort Worth is an extremely competitive health care environment with some
of the most recognized health care organizations in the country," said Joel
Allison, president and CEO of Baylor Health Care System. "So we are certainly
honored and humbled for Baylor University Medical Center to be ranked No. 1 in
the metroplex and for two additional Baylor hospitals to also be ranked. This
recognition is a testament to the dedication of our talented, compassionate
caregivers."

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

The rankings have been published at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and
will appear in print in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available
in bookstores and on newsstands August 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

