                              107 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 27, 2017 Tuesday

Akron Children's ranks in 2 categories in study

BYLINE: Vindicator, Youngstown, Ohio

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 387 words


June 27--BOARDMAN -- Akron Children's Hospital has ranked in the top 50 of
children's hospitals in two pediatric specialties: urology and neonatology.

U.S. News & World Report, the global authority in hospital rankings, today
released the 2017-18 Best Children's Hospitals rankings. The 11th annual Best
Children's Hospitals rankings are a source of comprehensive, quality-related
information on U.S. pediatric centers.

The new edition highlights the top 50 centers in each of these 10 pediatric
specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery, neonatology, nephrology,
neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

Akron ranked 35th in neonatology and 30th in urology.

"We congratulate our neonatology and urology teams for being ranked by U.S. News
and World Report for 2017," said Beth Smith, Akron Children's vice president for
marketing and public relations. "Several previously ranked specialties at Akron
Children's Hospital are not included on the list, and we'll definitely explore
the data more closely. The U.S. News yardstick changes every year and sometimes
it works in our favor and other times not, but our commitment to providing the
highest quality health care has been unwavering through the years."

In 2016, the hospital ranked in six categories: No. 46 for cancer; No. 32 for
diabetes and endocrinology; No. 24 in neonatology; No. 42 in neurology and
neurosurgery; No. 41 in pulmonology; and No. 41 in urology.

"We do not consider this in any way to be a reflection of success of those
programs nor do we design programs around the ever-changing methodologies of
various ranking entities," Smith said.

Hospitals ranking in the top 10 this year are: Boston Children's Hospital;
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia; Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center; Texas Children's Hospital, Houston; Johns Hopkins Children's Center in
Baltimore; Children's Hospital of Los Angeles; Ann and Robert H. Lurie
Children's Hospital of Chicago; Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus;
Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC; and Children's National Medical
Center in Washington D.C.

___ (c)2017 Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio) Visit Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio) at
www.vindy.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20170627-YU-Akron-Children-s-ranks-in-2-categories-in-study-0627-20170627

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YU


                           Copyright 2017 Vindicator

