                              119 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Muskogee Phoenix (Oklahoma)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 16, 2008 Thursday

Web site of hospital rankings gives MRMC mixed reviews

BYLINE: Keith Purtell, Muskogee Phoenix, Okla.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 831 words


Oct. 16--A Golden, Colo., company that has established a Web site ranking
hospitals, includes Muskogee Regional Medical Center, which was given mixed
results, depending on the category.

HealthGrades.com includes free and paid information. Data for this article is
from the free side of the site. The site organizes its free data by treatment or
disease.

Mary Martin, 59, said her decisions in choosing a hospital would be influenced
by this type of rankings but also by her personal physician.

"If I'm going to Dr. Robison for example, and I really trust him, and he is
affiliated with the local hospital, then I would probably go there," she said.

However, Martin felt strongly that there may be generational differences in
whose decision-making is influenced by a Web site.

"I have an older neighbor who doesn't use the Internet, and she is more likely
to go and talk to someone down the street to get their opinion," she said.

Rankings include:

--In the back and neck surgery category (except spinal fusion): MRMC and Saint
John Medical Center in Tulsa rated one star. Hillcrest Medical Center rated five
stars; and Tulsa Spine and Specialty Hospital, Oklahoma Surgical Hospital,
Southcrest Hospital and Saint Francis Hospital Inc. rated three stars.

--In the bowel obstruction category (survival): MRMrated three stars, along with
Seminole Medical Center, McAlester Regional Health Center, Jane Phillips Medical
Center and Eastern Oklahoma Medical Center.

--In the Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease category, MRMC rated three stars
for survival and one star for recovery, along with Integris Grove General
Hospital and Holdenville General Hospital. Seventeen eastern Oklahoma hospitals
rated three stars for both survival and recovery.

--In gastrointestinal surgeries and procedures, MRMC rated three stars, as did
the other nine hospitals listed in that category.

--In the heart attack category, MRMC rated three stars for survival, as did
Integris Baptist Regional Health Center and Haskell County Hospital.

--In the hip fracture repair category, MRMC and Claremore Regional Hospital
ranked a single star each. All other 13 eastern Oklahoma hospitals rated three
stars.

--In the stroke category, MRMC rated three stars for both survival and recovery.
Haskell County Hospital, Eastern Oklahoma Medical Center, Tahlequah City
Hospital, Integris Grove General Hospital rated one star each.

These are samples; other procedures and diseases are included on the site. Of
these sampled major categories, MRMC ranked a five three-star rankings and three
one-star rankings.

MRMC Chief Executive Officer Steve Mahan said he did not know enough about the
methods used by HealthGrades.com to comment on specific grades, but believes
more information is good for the public.

"My general attitude about all of those is that it is excellent," he said. "For
too long, consumers have not had good comparative information on health care
providers. While we are in the first stages of that, and it will get better, it
is a good first step. I think it's the beginning of even greater transparency in
health care."

Mahan said he's not worried about grading or ranking of hospitals hurting MRMC.

"As this information becomes more prevalent, I think consumers will use it more,
and yes, it could start affecting health care decisions," he said. "And that's
exactly what the point of it is. It's to protect the consumer and to reward
those who are providing high quality health care."

Mahan said hospitals located in higher socio-economic areas where people take
better care of themselves are likely to score higher.

HealthGrades.com gets its information from independent public and private
sources. For hospitals, the company utilizes information management and
statistical techniques to process and risk-adjust a large volume of patient
level data.

According to the company's Web site, they risk-adjust the data in order to make
valid and accurate comparisons between providers, taking into account that the
demographic characteristics of patients and the severity of patients' illnesses
may vary at different locations. This levels the playing field, for example,
between hospitals that treat sicker patients compared to those that treat
healthier patients, information on the Web site states.

Hospital ratings also use data from the most current three-year data set
available from the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services and individual
states that make the data available.

Key to the stars

The star system used by HealthGrades.com:

--One star: Poor.

--Three stars: As expected.

--Five stars: Best.

To see more of the Muskogee Phoenix or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.muskogeephoenix.com. Copyright (c) 2008, Muskogee Phoenix, Okla.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20081016-XK-Web-site-of-hospital-rankings-gives-MRMC-mixed-reviews-1016

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XK


                                 Copyright 2008

