                              122 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

SMH Ranks Among 50 'Best Hospitals' for GYN Services, #1 in Region for Overall
Quality & Care

LENGTH: 530  words


New Delhi, July 16-- Once again, Sarasota Memorial Hospital is the only local
hospital to make the grade on U.S. News & World Report's "Best Hospitals" list,
this year ranking #48 in Gynecology and recognized as "high performing" in six
additional specialties.



On a state and metropolitan level, U.S. News again ranked Sarasota Memorial #1
in the Sarasota-Bradenton region and #6 (up from #8 in 2012) among Florida's 265
hospitals.

Sarasota Memorial CEO Gwen MacKenzie attributed the national recognition to the
dedication and diligence its physicians, nurses and staff demonstrate every day.


"While we are certainly pleased with the rankings, our true source of pride
comes from the people who entrust us with their care," she said. "As the
region's only public and only safety net hospital, we are proud to set the
benchmark for high quality care in our community."

Each year, U.S. News evaluates the nation's 5,000 hospitals and ranks the top 50
in 16 adult specialties. U.S. News also recognizes "high-performing" hospitals
that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked peers.

In this year's study, in addition to the top 50 ranking in Gynecology, Sarasota
Memorial was recognized among the top quartile nationally for achieving "high
performing" status in the following six specialties (up from four last year):

Diabetes & Endocrinology (High Performer)

Gastroenterology & GI Surgery  (High Performer)

Geriatrics  (High Performer)

Nephrology  (High Performer)

Orthopedics  (High Performer)

Pulmonology  (High Performer)

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

Now in its 24th year, U.S. News publishes the Best Hospitals list to help guide
patients who need a high level of care because they face particularly difficult
surgery, a challenging condition, or added risk because of other health problems
or age. Objective measures such as patient survival and safety data, the
adequacy of nurse staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings
in most specialties. The U.S.News regional rankings cover 94 metro areas that
have at least 500,000 residents and at least one hospital that performed well
enough to be ranked.

About Sarasota Memorial



Sarasota Memorial Health Care System is a regional referral center offering
Southwest Florida's greatest breadth and depth of inpatient, outpatient and
extended care services, with more than 800,000 patient visits a year. Sarasota
Memorial's 806-bed acute care hospital has been recognized repeatedly as one of
the nation's largest, safest and best, with superior patient outcomes and a
complete continuum of outpatient services- from urgent care clinics and
physician groups, laboratory and diagnostic imaging centers, to home health and
skilled nursing & rehabilitation. Sarasota Memorial is the only hospital in the
Suncoast region (Sarasota, Manatee, Charlotte and DeSoto counties) ever to rank
in U.S. News' "Best Hospitals" list.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

