                              120 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Mercy Hospital Clermont: U.S. News and World Report Ranks Mercy Health Hospital
Among the Best in Ohio for Second Year Running

LENGTH: 460  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- Mercy Health, which provides quality care with compassion
in your neighborhood through its network of care, announces that U.S. News and
World Report has named The Jewish Hospital -- Mercy Health among the best
hospitals in Ohio for the second year running.

"The dedicated team at The Jewish Hospital thrives on providing top quality,
compassionate care to every patient who enters our doors," said Steve Holman,
Mercy Health Central Market Leader and President. "This recognition underscores
the great care we provide across a wide spectrum of health concerns and I share
this honor with everyone at The Jewish Hospital who made it possible."

In addition to the regional recognition, U.S. News and World Report noted that
The Jewish Hospital -- Mercy Health is high-performing in the following seven
categories:

* Cancer

* Diabetes & Endocrinology

* Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

* Nephrology

* Neurology & Neurosurgery

* Orthopaedics

* Pulmonology

Earlier this year, the hospital became one of just 200 in the world offering the
latest advancement in incision-free neurosurgery with deployment of the Gamma
Knife, which uses radiation beams to target and remove tumors deep in the brain.
Its Blood and Marrow Transplant Center performed its 1600th lifesaving
transplant late last year. The hospital also boasts a premier total joint center
and the services of some of the city's leading sports medicine experts. Its
physician team is expert at treating diabetes and other endocrine disorders, as
well as digestive, kidney and lung ailments.

The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th year, recognize
hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients. It evaluates
hospitals in 16 adult specialties.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

RTI International, a leading research organization, produces the specialty
rankings and data for U.S. News. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the
state and metro rankings.

U.S. News published the rankings at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and
they will appear in print in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook,
available in bookstores and on newsstands August 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

