                              11 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      July 16, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Sarasota Memorial Hospital : US News & World Report Announces 2014 "Best
Hospitals" Rankings

LENGTH: 454  words


July 16 --  Once again, Sarasota Memorial Hospital is the only hospital in the
region to make the grade on U.S. News & World Report's "Best Hospitals" list.
Not only was the hospital ranked among the very best hospitals in the nation for
Gynecology care in 2014-15, U.S. News also ranked Sarasota Memorial among the
top five hospitals in Florida and #1 in southern Florida for overall care.

The annual "Best Hospitals" rankings, now in their 25th year, recognize
hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients. Sarasota
Memorial Chief Medical Operations Officer Steve Taylor, MD, attributed the
hospital's consistently high rankings to the exceptional expertise and
dedication of its entire team - from physicians and nurses to leaders, staff and
volunteers throughout the health system.

"We are honored to be recognized among the nation's best hospitals - it means as
much to us today as the first time we made the list 10 years ago," said Taylor
said. "It's truly a testament to our public mission and commitment to provide
outstanding care to the community we serve."

In U.S. News' 2014-15 Best Hospitals rankings, Sarasota Memorial rose in the
rankings, to #30 in Gynecology care (up from #48 last year). It also was
recognized nationally as a "high performing" hospital in eight specialties - up
from six specialties last year:

Cancer (new this year)

Diabetes & Endocrinology

Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

Geriatrics

Nephrology

Orthopedics

Pulmonology

Urology (new this year)

On a state and metropolitan level, U.S. News ranked Sarasota Memorial #1 in
South Florida, #1 in the Sarasota-Venice-North Port-Bradenton region and #5 (up
from #6 in 2013) among all 265 Florida hospitals for overall care.

U.S. News evaluated hospitals in 16 adult specialties and ranked the top 50 in
most of the specialties. Just 3 percent of the nearly 5,000 hospitals that were
analyzed for Best Hospitals 2014-15 earned national ranking in even one
specialty.

"The data tell the story - a hospital that emerged from our analysis as one of
the best has much to be proud of," says U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery
Comarow. "A Best Hospital has demonstrated its expertise in treating the most
challenging patients."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition or extra risk because of age or multiple health problems. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, adequacy of nurse staffing
levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most specialties. The
rankings are freely available here and will appear in the U.S. News "Best
Hospitals 2015" guidebook, available in August.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


