                              117 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

HERE'S TO YOUR HEALTH City dominates list of America's top medical sites

BYLINE: BY RICH SCHAPIRO NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 692 words


Getting sick in New York City is a prescription for getting the best medical
care in America.

Three Manhattan hospitals are among the top 20 medical centers in the nation,
according to the 2016-17 rankings released Tuesday by U.S. News & World Report.

No other city has more than two hospitals ranked in the top 20.

"It has been our findings over many years that New York has one of the largest
populations of exceptionally good hospitals," said Ben Harder, chief of health
analysis at U.S. News & World Report.

At the top of the Big Apple heap is New York-Presbyterian Hospital Columbia.

The prestigious hospital with locations in Washington Heights and the Upper East
Side scored the No. 1 spot in the New York metro area - and No. 6 nationally.

New York-Presbyterian also ranked in the top 50 in the nation in a whopping 15
out of 16 specialties evaluated by U.S. News.

The hospital was ranked No. 2 in rheumatology, No. 3 in cardiology and heart
surgery, and No. 3 in neurology and neurosurgery.

Dr. Steven Corwin, New York-Presbyterian's chief executive, attributed its
success in part to the hospital's ability to attract top talent.

"We've got two great medical schools in Columbia and Weill Cornell that give us
terrific doctors, terrific faculty," Corwin said.

"We supplement that with a really keen focus on outcomes, quality and being
patient focused."

NYU Langone Medical Center snagged the No. 2 spot in the metro area and No. 10
in the nation.

The hospital on First Ave. near E. 30th St. landed in the top 50 in 12
specialties - including geriatrics, orthopedics, and neurology and neurosurgery.

Completing the trifecta among city medical centers making it in the top 20 in
the nation was Mount Sinai Hospital.

The Upper East Side medical center scored the No. 15 spot in the country and
received top 50 honors in 11 specialties, including cardiology and heart
surgery, and gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery.

The rankings were based on an evaluation of 4,553 hospitals in the U.S.

Factors used to compile the lists include survival rates, nurse-to-patient
ratios, safety procedures, complications and the reputation of specialists.

Reflecting on the performance of the top city hospitals, Harder emphasized how
well they scored in the medical specialties.

"Being anywhere in the top 50 in any specialty is a unique achievement," he
added.

"There are only 150 hospitals that can claim even one national ranking."

Several other New York-area medical centers also outperformed the vast majority
across the country.

New Jersey's Hackensack University Medical Center rated No. 4 in the metro area,
and ranked No. 42 in the U.S. in cardiology and heart surgery.

St. Francis Hospital in Long Island, rated No. 5 in the metro area, ranked No.
16 in the U.S. in cardiology and heart surgery, and No. 19 in gastroenterology
and gastro surgery.

And Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, rated No. 6 in the metro area,
ranked No. 22 nationally in diabetes and endocrinology.

Other city stars in the national rankings include what U.S. News & World Report
refers to as specialty hospitals: the Hospital for Special Surgery, which ranked
No. 1 for orthopedics and No. 2 for rheumatology; Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center, which ranked No. 2 for cancer and gynecology and No. 5 for
urology; and the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, which ranked No. 10 in
ophthalmology.

NYU Langone Medical Center

#2 in New York metro area

National rankings

#10 Cardiology and heart surgery

#5 Geriatrics

#7 Neurology and neurosurgery

#5 Orthopedics

#10 Urology

#9 Rehabilitation

#8 Rheumatology

Hospital for Special Surgery

National rankings

#1 Orthopedics

#2 Rheumatology

More of the best hospitals

Mount Sinai Hospital

#3 in New York metro area

National rankings

#8 Cardiology and heart surgery

#7 Gastroenterology

#3 Geriatrics

Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center

National rankings

#2 Cancer

#2 Gynecology

#5 Urology

New York-Presbyterian Hospital Columbia

#1 in New York metro area

National rankings

#3 Cardiology and heart surgery

#5 Diabetes and endocrinology

#7 Geriatrics

#4 Nephrology

#3 Neurology and neurosurgery

#8 Pulmonology

#6 Urology

#3 Psychiatry

#2 Rheumatology

St. Francis Hospital

#5 in New York

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC, [NYU Langone Medical Center] New York-Presbyterian Hospital
Columbia] [Hospital for Special Surgery] [St. Francis Hospita] JEFF BACHNER,
MARCUS SANTOS, ANDREW THEODORAKIS/DAILY NEWS; GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.

