                              118 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              July 29, 2016 Friday

Medicare releases controversial quality rankings

BYLINE: Austin Ramsey, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 876 words


July 29--Newly released Medicare quality and performance ratings give Owensboro
Health Regional Hospital three out of five stars this week, putting the
acute-care medical facility in line with most state and national averages.

OHRH ranked below the national average in patient experience and efficient use
of medical imaging.

On a Medicare survey asking patients about their care experiences, the hospital
did not meet any state or federal benchmarks, something of which executive
officials with Owensboro Health said they have been aware. More up-to-date data,
they said, would likely reveal different results.

The Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (HCAHPS)
Survey is a patient perspective measuring device that Medicaid and Medicare
service providers are obligated to use. Past results have yielded unfavorable
results, said Debbie Bostic, chief operations officer and chief nursing officer
at OH. The health system, however, has acted quickly, she added, to develop a
series of hospital-wide teams charged with addressing problems in each HCAHPS
domain. She said she believes those teams are having a real impact on improving
patient experiences at the regional hospital.

If there are improvements, they may not yet be measurable. Rankings like these
are often two years old and based on a three-year rolling averages, said Michael
Scherm, OH Chief Medical Officer and executive vice president. They exclude more
recent developments the health system has made toward improving internal
experiences and communication.

"A great majority of these surveys are based on old data," Scherm said. "We're
more concerned with where we are now."

Imaging numbers suggest that OHRH may be performing too many unnecessary MRI or
CT scans for lower back and abdominal pain.

That's concerning, CEO Greg Strahan said. He doesn't want the public to think
the health system is making excuses for dissatisfactory results. The hospital,
he said, takes criticisms very seriously, and his staff is investigating the
cause of lower-than-expected imaging scores.

"If anybody is concerned about it, our leadership is because we know we provide
better care than most of the hospitals out there," he said. "We're trying to
figure out where this comes from. It could come down to one provider or a single
instance of care."

Internal results as recently as April, he added, do not indicate spikes in
instances of repetitious abdominal scans. Further analysis, hospital officials
said, is also needed to determine exactly what the percentage use of medical
imaging actually measures. It may be taking into account multiple image
contrasts, Bostic suggested.

In timeliness and effectiveness of care, however, OHRH earned scores well above
state and national averages.

The hospital has somewhat reshaped its emergency department to better serve
patients. According to Medicare standards, OHRH emergency service volume is
"very high" at more than 60,000 patients annually. With so many patients,
Strahan said the new hospital emergency room adjusts its staffing according to
live patient value. ED units, he said, are equipped with mid-level providers who
can act as preliminary screeners in serious cases, taking pressure from other
doctors.

Patients at the hospital spend an average 3.7 hours in the ED -- almost
three-quarters below the national average for high-volume patient hospitals.

The Medicare data came out to a storm of controversy Thursday. Many national
health care experts and members of Congress have been working to block the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid from publishing the rankings. They say the
numbers, which measure things like death and infection rates, along with patient
reviews, fail to take into account specialized hospitals and regional health
care markets in poorer areas. American Hospital Association President and CEO
Rick Pollack released a statement calling the new rankings "confusing." He said
they raise "far more questions than answers." Strahan echoed those comments.

Indeed, the way certain hospitals were ranked is puzzling parts of the industry
this week. Medicare bestowed only 3 percent of the nation's hospitals with
five-star ratings, and many top medical centers, like the Cleveland Clinic,
Massachusetts General Hospital and Stanford Health Care, fell short of that
mark. Meanwhile, lesser-known hospitals scattered around the country earned the
five-start status.

Regionally, only a handful of medical centers earned anything above three stars.
Methodist Hospital in Henderson, Twin Lakes Regional Medical Center in
Leitchfield and The Heart and Women's hospitals at Deaconess Gateway Hospital in
Newburgh, Indiana, all received four stars from the Medicare rankings, and
Memorial Hospital and Health Care Center in Jasper, Indiana, was the only
hospital within a 200-mile radius to earn five. In fact, no hospital in the
entire state of Kentucky earned a five-star ranking.

The Medicare rankings are available online at
medicare.gov/hospitalcompare/search.html.

Austin Ramsey, 270-691-7302, aramsey@messenger-inquirer.com, Twitter:
@austinrramsey

___ (c)2016 the Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Ky.) Visit the Messenger-Inquirer
(Owensboro, Ky.) at www.messenger-inquirer.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160729-OW-Medicare-releases-controversial-quality-rankings
-0729-20160729

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2016 Messenger-Inquirer

