                              124 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday

National report: Area hospitals rank among the best in Ohio;
U.S. News recognizes Miami Valley, Kettering and Good Samaritan.;
HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: By RandyTucker

SECTION: ; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 539 words


Several area hospitals rank among the best in Ohio for patient care, according
to a U.S. News & World Report ranking.

The annual rankings showed Miami Valley Hospital in Dayton ranked highest among
local hospitals, showing up at No. 8 on the state list - up two spots from last
year.

Miami Valley was the only local hospital to be nationally ranked for adult
specialty care, coming in at No. 23 on the list of the best hospitals for
treating pulmonary disorders, or diseases involving the respiratory tract. Miami
Valley was also recognized as being a "high-performing" hospital in 14
specialties, including cardiology and heart surgery; gastroenterology and
gastrointestinal surgery.

In addition to Miami Valley, three other hospitals in the Dayton-based Premier
Health network - Atrium Medical Center, Good Samaritan Hospital and Upper Valley
Medical Center - also ranked as high-performing in at least one area of care.
Good Samaritan also ranked No. 22 in the state.

"We're proud of the significant strides that all of our hospitals are making in
elevating Premier Health's high-quality care to the next level," says Mary
Boosalis, Premier Health's president. "We salute our physicians, nurses, other
clinicians, and all who support them for their work. This recognition from U.S.
News & World Report validates their efforts."

Kettering Medical Center, a member of the Kettering Health Network chain of
hospitals, was the next highest-ranked local hospital in Ohio, placing 17th out
of 215 hospitals in the state.

Kettering did not rank nationally in any specialty. However, Kettering was
recognized as a "high-performing" hospital in many specialties, including
orthopedics, heart failure, colon cancer surgery and knee replacement. U.S. News
also recognized Kettering's Fort Hamilton Hospital as high performing in
treating heart failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
specialties, and also recognized Sycamore Medical Center as high performing in
treating heart failure.

" We are so proud to receive this recognition once again," says Jarrod
McNaughton, president of Kettering Medical Center. "Quality is at the heart of
all we do and we are pleased that U.S. News & World Report has acknowledged our
commitment to quality patient care."

The Cleveland Clinic was the only hospital in Ohio to land on the U.S. News
"elite 20 Hospital Honor Roll," ranking No. 2 behind the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester, Minn. The Cleveland Clinic was ranked nationally in 14 adult and nine
pediatric specialties.

U.S. News' best hospitals methodologies include patient survival, the number of
times a given procedure is performed, infection rates and adequacy of nurse
staffing. But the rankings are also based on the opinions of doctors, which
count for nearly a third (27.5 percent) of the U.S. rankings score.

The U.S. News rankings are just one of a number of different hospital rating
systems.

Last week, the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services released its Hospital
Compare report, which showed Ohio Valley Surgical Hospital in Springfield was
the only hospital in the Miami Valley to earn the top score in the government's
five-star rating system for patient care.

Contact this reporter at

937-225-2437 or email

Randy.Tucker@coxinc.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

