                              121 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 17, 2012 Monday 6:30 AM EST

U-M Hospital Care is the Best in the State and Among the Best in the Nation,
Says New Ranking

LENGTH: 488  words


New Delhi, Sept. 17 -- The University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
offer the best care in Michigan and some of the nation's best care, according to
a new ranking from U.S. News & World Report.



The results, released online today, mark the 18th year in a row that U-M has
been named to the honor roll of "America's Best Hospitals," this year with a
rank of 17th. U-M is one of only eight hospitals in the nation to make the honor
roll every year since 1995. In addition, 156 of U-M's physicians have been named
among America's Top Doctors in a database published on the U.S. News website.

U-M is the only hospital in Michigan on the national honor roll, which signifies
all-around excellence in multiple areas of specialized medical care. U-M earned
a high national berth in 14 ranked specialties, and was recognized as
high-performing in two others.

This is the first year for the statewide ranking, and the second year that
themetro Detroit ranking includes Ann Arbor. U-M is rated number 1 in both.

"As the only hospital that serves patients from every county in Michigan, and
many other parts of the country and world, we're proud to offer a high level of
care and expertise across many specialties," says Doug Strong, M.B.A., director
and chief executive officer of the U-M Hospitals and Health Centers. "There are
many ways to measure a hospital's excellence, and we are grateful to be
recognized in this ranking and others."

U-M ranked in the top 20 nationwide in seven specialties, and in the top 40 in
seven others. These include the specialty care at U-M's Geriatrics Center
(15th), Comprehensive Cancer Center (14th), Cardiovascular Center (22nd),
Comprehensive Diabetes Center (16th) and Kellogg Eye Center's ophthalmologic
care (13th). A full list is below.

The public can see even more evidence of U-M's top-quality care online at
www.uofmhealth.org/quality, where U-M offers data about the quality and safety
of a wide range of operations and other types of care. Such measures form the
basis for part of the U.S. News ranking, but the U-M site goes far beyond the
publicly available data that rankings are based on.

The U-M Hospitals and Health Centers are part of the U-M Health System, which
also has been recognized by U.S. News as having one of the nation's top medical
schools - tied for 10th in the country -- and top children's hospitals, with
C.S. Mott Children's Hospital ranked in all 10 specialties of children's care
that are measured.

U-M also earned an "A" patient safety grade and Top Hospital designation
recently from the Leapfrog Group, and has been named by IMS Health as one of the
nation's most integrated health systems, encompassing a broad range of services
for patients of all types.

The U-M Health System benefits by being part of a university with strong
graduate school rankings across the board in other areas, such as public health,
nursing, social work, engineering, business and law.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

