                              133 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Long Island Business News (New York)

                             March 29, 2011 Tuesday

St. Francis rated top hospital on L.I.

BYLINE: Claude Solnik

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 588  words


U.S. News and World Report has ranked St. Francis Hospital as the best hospital
on Long Island followed by Stony Brook University Medical Center, North Shore
University Hospital and Long Island Jewish Medical Center.

The publication's rankings of "best hospitals", done in the 52 metropolitan
areas with the highest populations, have become widely watched by the health
care industry and consumers.

The rankings singled out 622 hospitals in or near major cities for a wide range
of criteria ranging from outcomes to reputation and quality in a wide range of
specialties.

To be ranked in its area, hospitals had to score in the top 25 percent among its
peers in at least one of 16 medical specialties.

"All of these hospitals provide first-rate care for the majority of patients,
even those with serious conditions or who need demanding procedures," says
Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow.

Hospitals often use U.S. News and World Report ratings, which have been done for
about 20 years, as part of or the basis for marketing campaigns, since the
magazine's imprimatur has caught on.

"It is gratifying to know that a third-party evaluation has put Stony Brook
University Medical Center in the top 10 hospitals in the New York metropolitan
region," said Stony Brook University Medical Center CEO Dr. Steven L.
Strongwater. "This validates the great effort put forth by our faculty, nurses
and staff to provide a consistent level of high quality care to our patients. "

St. Francis in Roslyn ranked first on Long Island and No. 7 in the New York
metropolitan area on a list of 66 hospitals in the region to get top ratings.

St. Francis ranked nationally in three adult specialties and was found to be
"high-performing" in seven adult specialties, as shown below. The 364-bed
hospital also scored high in patient safety.

Stony Brook finished 10th, followed by North Shore in Manhasset at 13, LIJ at 14
and Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola at 17.

Huntington Hospital in Huntington ranked 35th in a tie with John T. Mather
Memorial Hospital in Port Jefferson and South Nassau Communities Hospital in
Oceanside.

Southside hospital in Bayshore ranked 48th and St. Charles Hospital in Port
Jefferson ranked 53rd.

New York City hospitals, meanwhile, took the top six slots in the New York
metropolitan area led by New York Presbyterian University Hospital Columbia and
Cornell.

The ratings, which appeared to favor large institutions, ranked NYU Langone
Medical Center second followed by Mt. Sinai Medical Center, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, the Hospital for Special Surgery and Montefiore
Medical Center.

U.S. News and World Report uses a mix of outcomes and opinions to arrive at its
rankings and "Best Hospital" designations.

Mortality rate and reputation among physicians as the best in their specialty
for the most challenging cases and procedures each account for 32.5 percent of a
score.

Meanwhile, measures related to quality of care, such as patient volume and
nursing care, account for 30 percent.

Patient safety, which the magazine described as success in protecting patients
from accidents and medical errors, accounted for only 5 percent.

Rankings within a specialty aren't factored into scores. A No. 1 national
ranking in a specialty, for instance, didn't count for any more than a lower
ranking, within the top 25 percent.

"The No. 1 hospital in a metro area is not necessarily the best in town for all
patients," according to an article on the magazine's website. "Other hospitals
may outshine it in various specialties. "

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

