                              132 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Pueblo Chieftain (Colorado)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday

Parkview prescribed national honor

BYLINE: Loretta Sword, The Pueblo Chieftain, Colo.

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 486 words


July 24--Parkview Medical Center has gained national recognition in U.S. News &
World Report's annual rankings of the nation's top hospitals.

This year's edition includes more than 720 of the country's roughly 5,000
hospitals.

Parkview was singled out for high performance in four medical specialities:
nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics and pulmonology.

Fewer than 150 hospitals are nationally ranked in at least one of 16
specialties.

The rest of the recognized hospitals met a "high performance" standard -- nearly
as demanding -- in one or more specialties.

Parkview was among those, and was the only hospital south of Denver recognized
for high performance in any specialty area, according to hospital spokeswoman
Michelle Peulen.

The report, released last week, also ranked Parkview in the top 10 hospitals in
Colorado and named one of the best hospitals in Southeastern Colorado.

The hospital also placed highly in the magazine's rankings last year.

"Parkview is extremely proud to achieve the recognition from U.S. News and World
Report again this year. The entire Parkview team -- employees, physicians,
volunteers and board of directors -- all played a role in enhancing patient
experiences which ultimately has led to Parkview being recognized nationally for
our efforts," said Parkview President and CEO Mike Baxter.

U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow said in a news release that the
rankings can be used to help steer patients to hospitals with strong skills in
the procedures and medical conditions that present the biggest challenges.

"All of these hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your
list when you need the best care," said Comarow. "They are where other hospitals
send the toughest cases."

Baxter said the recognition is well-deserved by the physicians in each specialty
whose work also has won accolades from other organizations, including
HealthGrades, Leap Frog, and Avatar.

"As we worked to improve the local economy this story sends a great message that
folks do not need to drive north for health care and in fact, according to U.S.
News, this would not be a good decision," Baxter said.

Baxter said the recognition is a reflection of hard work among all Parkview
employees and associates, but he singled out "the front line staff."

"Without their effort and commitment to patient care, these recognitions do not
happen," he said.

The magazine's complete hospital rankings and methodology are available at
www.health.usnews.com/ best-hospitals.

The rankings were published in collaboration with RTI International, a research
organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C. Highlights will appear in the
U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook, which will be available in August.

lorettas@chieftain.com

___ (c)2012 The Pueblo Chieftain (Pueblo, Colo.) Visit The Pueblo Chieftain
(Pueblo, Colo.) at www.chieftain.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120724-PB-Parkview-prescribed-national-honor-0724-20120724

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PB


                      Copyright 2012 The Pueblo Chieftain

