                              131 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 22, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Moffitt Cancer Center Named to Becker's Hospital Review's 100 Hospitals, Health
Systems with Great Oncology Programs

LENGTH: 361  words


Aug. 22 -- Moffitt Cancer Center has once again been named to the 2016 edition
of Becker's Hospital Review's 100 Hospitals and Health Systems With Great
Oncology Programs. Moffitt has appeared on every version of the list, featuring
hospitals and health systems leading the nation in cancer care, since Becker's
Hospital Review began publishing it in 2012.

"It is a great honor to be on the Becker's list," says Moffitt President and CEO
Alan F. List, M.D. "This is a national barometer for those institutions that are
truly seeking to put the patient first in the care they deliver. This is an
ongoing priority for us, and we are pleased to be recognized among our peers."

Hospitals included on this list offer patients comprehensive cancer care
involving teams of specialists, participation in clinical trials and
personalized treatment programs. Many organizations on this list are driving
forces in the fight to end cancer as we know it.

This new ranking is just one of many accolades the cancer center has received as
it approaches its 30th anniversary. In early August, Moffitt was ranked No. 6 on
U.S. News & World Report's Best Hospitals for Cancer rankings. In March 2015,
Moffitt earned the prestigious nursing Magnet designation recognizing our
nursing excellence. Serving patients from all 50 states and more than 100
countries, Moffitt boasts patient outcomes that beat the national average.
Moffitt is one of 47 National Cancer Institute-designated Comprehensive Cancer
Centers and the only one based in Florida.

Additional accolades include the 2015 Working Mother 100 Best Companies national
list, No. 6 ranking on DiversityInc's 2016 Top 10 Hospitals and Health Systems
list, and the 2016 Leader in LGBT Healthcare Equality.

The Becker's Hospital Review editorial team selected hospitals for inclusion
based on recognitions received and accreditations earned. The editorial team at
Becker's examined U.S. News & World Report cancer care rankings, CareChex cancer
care rankings, Blue Cross Blue Shield Association Blue Distinction Center
designation and designations from the National Cancer Institute while compiling
this list.

Source: Moffitt Cancer Center

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

