                              134 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

UC San Diego Medical Center - Hillcrest: UC San Diego Health System Ranks #1

LENGTH: 760  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- UC San Diego Health System is once again ranked among the
nation's best in U.S. News & World Report's 2013-14 "America's Best Hospitals"
issue. The magazine placed UC San Diego Health System #1 in the San Diego
metropolitan area with national rankings in 10 specialties-placing it among the
country's most prestigious institutions. UC San Diego Health System thanks its
employees for their extraordinary efforts.



"Being recognized by U.S. News & World Report as a top hospital both locally and
nationally reflects the extraordinary talents and expertise of our doctors,
nurses and staff. As the region's only academic health system, we are devoted to
offering an unparalleled quality of care and demonstrably superior clinical
results based on a philosophy of care that puts patients first," said Paul
Viviano, CEO, UC San Diego Health System. "Our vision for the community is to
create a healthier world -- one life at a time -- through new science, new
medicine and new cures."

U.S. News & World Report evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most
specialties, it ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other
high-performing hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their
nationally ranked peers.

For the 2013-14 rankings, 147 of the approximately 5,000 U.S. hospitals
evaluated were ranked in at least one specialty   UC San Diego Health System
ranked in 10, including: Cancer (#42 in the country in this specialty),
Cardiology & Heart Surgery (#42), Diabetes & Endocrinology (#29), Ear, Nose &
Throat (#48), Gastroenterology & GI Surgery (#31), Geriatrics (#20), Nephrology
(#17), Neurology & Neurosurgery (#42), Pulmonology (#9) and Urology (#22.)
Additionally, it ranked "high-performing" in gynecology, orthopedics, psychiatry
and rheumatology. These rankings mark the first time that Gastroenterology & GI
Surgery and Neurology & Neurosurgery have been ranked among the specialties.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty." U.S. News & World Report publishes the "Best Hospitals" issue to
help guide patients who need a high level of care because they face particularly
difficult surgery, a challenging condition, or added risk because of other
health problems or age. Measures such as patient survival and safety data, the
adequacy of nurse staffing levels and other objective measures largely determine
the rankings in most specialties.

In academic medical centers such as UC San Diego Health System, physicians and
scientists who teach medicine and conduct groundbreaking research work together
to bring the latest diagnostics, treatments, clinical trials and life-saving
care to patients. The doctors of UC San Diego Health System are also faculty of
the UC San Diego School of Medicine which is ranked 15th in the country in
research-intensive programs among 126 medical schools in U.S. News & World
Report's "America's Best Graduate Schools, 2012 Edition."

In 2016, UC San Diego Health System will open Jacobs Medical Center, the largest
new hospital project in southern California. The 10-story, 509,500-square-foot
expansion of UC San Diego Health System's La Jolla campus, will offer three
specialty hospitals including a Hospital for Cancer Care, Hospital for Advanced
Surgery and a Hospital for Women and Infants.

UC San Diego Health System was recently named one of the nation's 100 Top
Hospitals for the second time by Truven Health Analytics. In 2012, UC San Diego
Medical Center became one of the first Comprehensive Stroke Centers in the
nation. UC San Diego Health System has also consistently received an "A" rating
from The Leapfrog Group's Hospital Safety Score. The Leapfrog Group uses
publicly available data on patient injuries, medical errors and infections to
letter grade the safety performance of more than 2,600 hospitals nationwide.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News & World Report by
RTI International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle
Park, N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News & World Report produced the state and
metro rankings. The rankings have been published at health.usnews.com/best-
hospitals and will appear in print in the U.S. News & World Report's Best
Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available in bookstores and on newsstands August 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

