                              12 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 17, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

U-M's C.S. Mott Children's Hospital earns top rankings from U.S. News & World
Report

LENGTH: 737  words


New Delhi, June 17 -- The University of Michigan's C.S. Mott Children's Hospital
is among the best children's hospitals in the country in pediatric specialties
and is the only hospital in Michigan ranked in all 10 specialties evaluated,
according to the U.S. News & World Report's 2013-14 Best Children's Hospitals
rankings. C.S. Mott is nationally ranked in all 10 of the evaluated categories
including 6th in the country in cardiology and heart surgery, 20th in urology,
20th in nephrology, 21st in diabetes and endocrinology and among the country's
best in cancer, gastroenterology, neurology and neurosurgery, neonatology,
pulmonology and orthopedics. C.S. Mott has been named among the nation's best in
these rankings since they were introduced in 2007. The new rankings recognize
the top 50 children's hospitals in each of those 10 pediatric specialties. "We
are extremely proud that we continue to get high rankings from U.S. News & World
Report for the tremendous care we provide to our patients and families at C.S.
Mott Children's Hospital," says Ora H. Pescovitz, M.D., executive vice president
for Medical Affairs at the University of Michigan and CEO of the U-M Health
System.

"We strive for an ideal patient care experience, so it's wonderful to receive
recognition for our efforts and to be ranked year after year among the nation's
best in all the specialties." U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals
rankings in 2007 to help families of sick children find the best medical care
available. The rankings offer quality-related information at the individual
hospital level. "We have worked very hard at improving quality of care, safety
and patient satisfaction at C.S. Mott Children's Hospital, so it is very
meaningful to be honored once again as a comprehensive children's hospital in
all of the specialty pediatric disciplines," says Valerie Castle, M.D., Ravitz
professor and chair of the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
and a pediatric oncologist. Chris Dickinson, M.D., interim executive director of
C.S. Mott Children's Hospital, said he's glad that U.S. News and World Report
has recognized the tremendous care provided for the children at C.S. Mott
Children's Hospital. "This ranking, along with the recent Parents Magazine
ranking that placed C.S. Mott Children's Hospital eighth in the nation,
demonstrate that we are on the right track, providing top-notch care for often
the sickest children with the most complicated diseases from Michigan and around
the world," says Dickinson, who also is a professor of pediatric
gastroenterology. C.S. Mott's highest ranking was in heart care and heart
surgery, 6th in the nation. C.S. Mott's Congenital Heart Center performs over
850 cardiac operations each year -- from the most common to the most complex. As
an international referral center for children with complex congenital heart
problems, U-M has the second largest congenital heart program in the United
States. "Our teams of caregivers really shine in all of our programs, so we're
thrilled to be ranked among the nation's best in all 10 categories evaluated,"
says John Park, M.D., surgeon-in-chief for C.S. Mott Children's Hospital and the
Cheng Yang Chang professor of pediatric urology. "Here at the University of
Michigan we are committed to becoming the leaders and best in innovative
interdisciplinary care, merging kind and compassionate healing with cutting-edge
research and education." To gather data, U.S. News used two surveys: a clinical
questionnaire sent to 179 pediatric hospitals and, for the reputational
assessment, a survey of 150 pediatric specialists and subspecialists in each
specialty. The 1,500 physicians were asked where they would send the sickest
children in their specialty, setting aside location and expense. This year, U.S.
News surveyed 178 pediatric centers to obtain hard data such as availability of
key resources and ability to prevent complications and infections. The hospital
survey made up 75 percent of the rankings. A separate reputational survey in
which 1,500 pediatric specialists - 150 in each specialty - were asked where
they would send the sickest children in their specialty made up the remaining 25
percent. The full rankings and methodology are available at
www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals. The rankings will also be published in the
U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook, which will be available in August.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


