                              126 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

MWH ranked 6th best hospital in Virginia

BYLINE: Amy Flowers Umble, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 479 words


July 16--Mary Washington Hospital has been named one of Virginia's top
hospitals, according to the 25th annual "America's Best Hospitals" report.

U.S. News and World Report releases the rankings each year, rating hospitals
according to patient survival rates, staffing ratios, safety measures and more.

Mary Washington Hospital ranked sixth among Virginia hospitals this year--up
from eighth place in last year's report--and fifth among Washington metro
hospitals.

It was the only Fredericksburg-area hospital to be named one of Virginia's top
21 hospitals.

"We're honored and grateful to again be recognized for our physicians', nurses'
and staff's exceptional work on behalf of citizens who seek care at Mary
Washington Hospital," Kevin Van Renan, senior vice president and administrator
of Mary Washington Hospital, said in a statement. "Our U.S. News rankings
recognize that our outstanding team treats each patient who comes through our
doors with the respect and dignity we'd give a family member, delivering the
highest-quality medical care available in a compassionate and safe environment."

The rankings are intended to help patients with more difficult cases find
hospitals that excel in various specialties. Mary Washington Hospital was
recognized for eight "high performing" specialties: diabetes and endocrinology;
gastroenterology and GI surgery; geriatrics; nephrology; neurology and
neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

According to the report, Mary Washington Hospital scored high in patient safety.

About 65 percent of the hospital's patients who responded to a survey last year
said they would recommend the hospital to a friend or family member. About 62
percent gave the hospital high marks for care; the state average is 69 percent.

The hospital also received high marks for courteous and respectful doctors and
for giving clear discharge instructions.

Sentara Norfolk General Hospital was named the No. 1 Virginia hospital in the
report. Inova Fairfax Hospital and the Virginia Commonwealth University Medical
Center received second and third rankings, respectively.

Those three hospitals were the only Virginia facilities to have nationally
ranked specialties. The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., was ranked the best
hospital in the nation.

"U.S. News strives to provide patients and their families with the most
comprehensive data available on hospitals," U.S. News health rankings editor
Avery Comarow said in a press release. "With an estimated 400,000 deaths
occurring in hospitals each year from medical errors, measuring safety
performance is critical to understanding how well a hospital cares for its
patients."

Amy Flowers Umble: 540/735-1973

aumble@freelancestar.com

___ (c)2014 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) Visit The Free Lance-Star
(Fredericksburg, Va.) at www.fredericksburg.com/flshome Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140716-FB-MWH-ranked-6th-best-hospital-in-Virginia-0716-20140716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FB


                       Copyright 2014 The Free Lance-Star

