                              129 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

Penn State Children's Hospital ranks among U.S. News & World Report's best

BYLINE: Staff report

SECTION: NEWS; Local; Business

LENGTH: 263 words


Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital has been ranked in eight specialties
its most ever   in U.S. News & World Report's 2015-16 Best Children's Hospitals
rankings.

Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital ranked in cancer, cardiology and heart
surgery, gastroenterology and GI surgery, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology. This marks the fifth
consecutive year in which Penn State Hershey has been ranked in multiple
specialties. The Children's Hospital first made the Best Children's Hospitals
list in 2008.

The rankings come as no surprise to parents like Valerie Hester, whose
6-year-old daughter Savannah has been treated at Penn State Hershey since age 2,
when she was diagnosed with gastroparesis, a condition that does not allow the
stomach to empty, according to a news release from the hospital. After several
surgeries and office visits over the past four years, Savannah is wrapping up
first grade and looking forward to drawing, painting and playing outside this
summer.

"Their physicians and staff are like family," Valerie Hester said in the
release. "Their hearts are warm to the children. They care for kids both
physically and emotionally."

The U.S. News rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of 10
pediatric specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and
endocrinology, gastroenterology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

The full rankings and methodology are available at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals /pediatric-rankings.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved

