                              127 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Salem News (Beverly, Massachusetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday

Area hospitals ranked by U.S. News and World Report

BYLINE: Will Broaddus, The Salem News, Beverly, Mass.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 298 words


July 27--THREE AREA HOSPITALS -- Beverly Hospital, Salem Hospital and Lahey
Clinic -- appeared in rankings that U.S. News and World Report publishes
annually.

Focusing on 16 medical specialties, the rankings used data from the federal
government and surveys of nearly 10,000 doctors to evaluate the quality of care
at 4,825 hospitals across the country. Figures for death rates, patient safety
and ratio of nurses to patients were considered.

Lahey Clinic, which is headquartered in Burlington and has a second facility in
Peabody, was among 140 hospitals that ranked nationally in one or more
specialty. In fact, Lahey, which was ranked fourth among the 77 hospitals in the
greater Boston area, ranked nationally in three specialties: 34th in diabetes
and endocrinology, 34th in gastroenterology and 22nd in urology.

Lahey was also listed as "high-performing" -- defined as "nearly at the level of
nationally ranked hospitals" -- in nine specialties: cancer; cardiology and
heart surgery; ear, nose and throat; geriatrics; gynecology; nephrology;
neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; and pulmonary.

Beverly Hospital and Salem Hospital (North Shore Medical Center) were both tied
with several other hospitals at 16th in Greater Boston. Beverly was listed as
high-performing in gynecology. Salem Hospital was listed as high-performing in
geriatrics.

The U.S. News and World report rankings appear online at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/rankings.

To see more of The Salem News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.salemnews.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Salem News, Beverly, Mass.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110727-ZS-Area-hospitals
-ranked-by-U-S-News-and-World-Report-0727-20110727

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZS


                         Copyright 2011 The Salem News

