                              138 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

Hospitals in Whittier, Pasadena score big on patient survey

BYLINE: By Daniel Tedford, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 493 words


New rankings released by Consumer Reports magazine reviewing patient
satisfaction have two area hospitals in the top 10 out of 145 Southern
California medical facilities.

At the same time, two area hospitals languish at the bottom of the list,
according to the rankings.

Compared with other hospitals in Ventura, San Diego, San Bernardino, Riverside,
Orange and Los Angeles counties, Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in
Whittier ranked fourth with an 83 consumer rating - first overall in Los Angeles
County. Huntington Hospital in Pasadena ranked sixth in Southern California.

"I think it is the hospital culture. We have a good working relationship with
all of our teams," PIH Chief Nursing Officer Reanna Thompson said. "We listen to
their feedback. I think giving the people at the front line a voice on things
that need to be done ... is really the key to having an engaged work force. The
patients sense that."

Despite being a well-known hospital that many people choose, Huntington
officials are still pleased to see such results. The facility has the only
trauma center at a community hospital in the San Gabriel Valley, so keeping
patient satisfaction high isn't easy, volunteer and Customer Services Director
Priscilla Gamb said.

"It is a challenge (to maintain patient satisfaction)," Gamb said. "Every
department has specific service goals that they work on throughout the entire
year. It is a hospital-wide effort."

The rankings are based on a quarterly federal survey of more than 1 million
hospital patients across the nation, the Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Healthcare Providers and Systems, or HCAHPS.

The survey asks patients about recent hospital experiences regarding doctor and
nurse communication, cleanliness and noise in hospital rooms, and discharge
information and medication.

Consumer Reports took the data and had statisticians put them into a ranking.

East Valley Hospital in Glendora was the third worst in Southern California and
Whittier Hospital Medical Center was the sixth worst, according to the rankings.

Officials from East Valley Hospital did not immediately return messages seeking
comment.

At Whittier Hospital Medical Center, officials believe reviews are going to
change.

The proper nursing leadership wasn't in place in the past, but with a new chief
nursing officer since August 2008, the culture of the hospital is improving, CEO
Howard Ternes said.

"I will be honest with you. This hospital has suffered for several years,"
Ternes said. "We haven't had a strong nurse leader in 10 years until we hired
Phyllis (Snyder)."

Since she came on, Snyder has tried to address trouble areas, specifically
communication between nurses and patients, Ternes said.

"It becomes routine after a while. We don't realize there is a gap between what
the patient expects and what we expect," Ternes said. "If you improve the
communication with patients, problems get solved automatically."

daniel.tedford@sgvn.com

(626) 962-8811, Ext. 2730

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

