                              142 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             July 17, 2012 Tuesday

Three area hospitals make U.S. News list of best hospitals

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 255 words


Three area hospitals were listed this week in the 2012-2013 U.S. News Best
Hospitals rankings.

The three are: Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, City of Hope in Duarte,
and Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in Whittier.

Huntington Memorial was ranked 18th nationally in orthopedics and 49th
nationally in urology. It also was ranked high-performing in nine adult
specialties, according to a U.S. News press release.

Huntington Memorial was ranked the fourth best hospital in the Los Angeles
region and the eighth best in California, according to U.S. News.

City of Hope was ranked 23rd nationally in cancer treatment. It also was
high-performing in three adult specialties.

City of Hope was ranked the eighth best hospital in the L.A. area and the 14th
best in California.

Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital performed nearly at the level of nationally
ranked U.S. News Best Hospitals in four adult specialties, diabetes and
endocrinology, in ear, nose and throat, in nephrology, and in pulmonology.

PIH was ranked the 22nd best hospital in the L.A. region and the 34th best
hospital in California.

The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 23rd year, feature data on
nearly 5,000 hospitals across the country and 16 medical specialties, according
to U.S. News..

The rankings are based largely on objective measures of hospital performance,
such as patient survival rates, and structural resources, such as nurse staffing
levels, according to U.S. News.

The complete rankings can be seen athealth.usnews.com/best-hospitals .

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

