                              143 of 998 DOCUMENTS


            Intelligencer Journal/New Era (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                             July 20, 2013 Saturday

Lgh Leads Area Hospitals In Rankings

SECTION: B; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 356  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


Area hospitals made the annual U.S. News "Best Hospitals" lists in several
categories.

Lancaster General Hospital was ranked nationally in four specialties and ranked
sixth in the state overall on the lists, which the magazine released recently.

Lancaster Regional Medical Center was ranked 34th in the state.

In the region, Penn State Hershey Medical Center was ranked 16th in the state
and the Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital was nationally ranked in five
specialties.

In addition to their spots on the state list, hospitals' rankings included:

LGH, at 555 N. Duke St., ranked among the nation's top 50 hospitals in: diabetes
and endocrinology (17th); orthopedics (40th); gastroenterology and
gastrointestinal surgery (46th); and cardiology and heart surgery (50th).

LGH also ranked as "high performing" in six specialties: cancer, geriatrics,
nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, pulmonology and urology.

Regional, at 250 College Ave., ranked as "high performing" in orthopedics.

Penn State Hershey Medical Center ranked as "high performing" in 11 specialties:
cancer; cardiology and heart surgery; diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and
throat; gastroenterology and gastro-intestinal surgery; geriatrics; gynecology;
nephrology; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; and urology.

Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital ranked nationally among the top 50
children's hospitals in five specialties: cancer (35th); neurology and
neurosurgery (35th); urology (35th); orthopedics (39th); and cardiology and
heart surgery (44th).

The rankings, which are updated every July, are grouped into 16 individual
specialty lists.

Twelve of the 16 include the 50 top-scoring hospitals, based mostly on death
rates for the most demanding cases, patient safety and other categories of
performance that can be weighed with hard data.

The rankings also factor in a physician survey, which asks doctors to name
hospitals they consider the best in their specialty for difficult cases.

While unranked nationally, hospitals with four scores within the top 25 percent
of the range in a given specialty are recognized as "high performing" in the
specialty.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

