                              141 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 14, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital Ranked Among Nation's Best

LENGTH: 459  words


New Delhi, June 14 -- UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital ranks among the nation's
best children's hospitals in nine specialties and is one of the top-ranked
centers in California, according to the 2013-2014 Best Children's Hospitals
survey conducted by the U.S. News Media Group.

The rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of the following
pediatric specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and
endocrinology, gastroenterology and GI surgery, neonatology, nephrology,
neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology, and urology. UCSF Benioff
Children's Hospital earned its highest rankings in the specialties of diabetes
and endocrinology, nephrology, cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, and
gastroenterology.

UCSF is one of the top pediatric facilities in California, and the top Northern
California children's hospital in cancer, diabetes and endocrinology, and
neurology, according to the rankings.

"As San Francisco's only children's hospital, we are proud of our team of
dedicated clinicians who continually strive to lead the way in providing
world-class quality care to children and families," said Kimberly Scurr,
executive director of UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital. "We look forward to
expanding our services in 2015, with the opening of a brand new,
state-of-the-art children's hospital in Mission Bay."

The survey methodology is based on a three-part blend of reputation, medical
outcomes and care-related indicators such as patient volume, nurse staffing,
clinical support services and other factors. Hospitals were judged on a
combination of opinions from pediatric specialists about the hospitals they
would recommend for the sickest children and data gathered in a lengthy survey
covering a range of important medical information.

This year, UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital's ranking improved in every
specialty, due in part to two significant milestones. In 2012, the hospital
implemented of one of the most comprehensive electronic health records systems
in the United States. Additionally, the hospital was awarded the prestigious
Magnet designation for excellence in nursing by the American Nurses
Credentialing Center.

"The excellent patient care at UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital is underscored
by its commitment to the research conducted by our outstanding
physician-scientists who translate laboratory discoveries into effective
treatments for patients, and to educating the future physicians who care for our
children," said Donna Ferriero, MD, physician-in-chief of UCSF Benioff
Children's Hospital.

The complete list of children's hospital rankings is available online, and will
be published in the upcoming Best Hospitals print guide, published by U.S. News,
available on newsstands Aug. 27.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

