                              139 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

Sarasota Memorial lands prime spot on hospital list

BYLINE: Staff Report

SECTION: B; ARCHIVES; Pg. BNV03

LENGTH: 231 words

DATELINE: SARASOTA


SARASOTA

Sarasota Memorial Hospital has improved its national ranking in the latest U.S.
News & World Report survey of "best hospitals," collecting the fifth-highest
overall score in the state and the highest for Southern Florida.

No other Southwest Florida hospital made the Top 50 lists that cover 16 medical
specialties, or was cited as performing as well in any specialty.

Because the publication is not part of the health care industry, its rankings --
which rely on data that includes patient survival and nurse staffing levels --
are considered more prestigious than other annual reviews.

The publisher says they are intended to guide patients who need the highest
available level of care because of challenging conditions.

Sarasota Memorial achieved a national ranking of No. 30 in gynecology, up from
48 last year, and was listed as "high performing" in eight specialties: cancer,
diabetes, gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, nephrology, orthopedics,
pulmonology and urology.

This year's top hospital in the country is the Mayo Clinic in Rochester,
Minnesota. No Florida hospitals made the "honor roll" of 17 leading hospitals
nationwide.

No. 1 among Florida's 265 hospitals is Florida Hospital Orlando, with Tampa
General Hospital in second place.

Moffitt Cancer Center, the only other nationally ranked hospital in the Tampa
Bay area, was ranked No. 6 in the state overall.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sarasota Memorial achieved a national ranking of No. 30 in gynecology,
up from 48 last year, and was listed as "high performing" in eight specialties:
cancer, diabetes, gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, nephrology,
orthopedics, pulmonology and urology. STAFF PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

