                              144 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

Suburban hospitals ranked among best by U.S. News

BYLINE: By Anna Marie Kukec, Daily Herald Business Writer akukec@dailyherald.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 690 words


While several suburban hospitals Tuesday ranked among the best when U.S. News
and World Report released its 2014-2015 Best Hospitals list, experts viewed it
as just a small part of how patients should make a decision when choosing a
hospital to treat cancer, diabetes, and other diseases or conditions.

Consumers are encouraged to look at a variety of surveys and sources before
selecting a hospital for treatment, said Danny Chun, spokesman for
Naperville-based Illinois Hospital Association.

Chun said some reliable sources include Hospital Compare, from the U.S. Centers
for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and the Illinois Hospital Report Card and
Consumer Guide to Health Care from the Illinois Department of Public Health.

"Consumers should not rely on any one set of ratings," Chun said. "They should
consult multiple sources and talk to their doctor for information on best
practices."

There is no "one-rating-fits-all" approach to selecting a good hospital, Chun
said. He declined to comment on the U.S. News & World Report rankings.

On Tuesday, a number of health care systems quickly touted their rankings on the
U.S. News listings. U.S. News looked at 16 specialties and ranked the top 50 in
most of the specialties. About 3 percent of the nearly 5,000 hospitals that were
analyzed earned national ranking in one specialty. And high-ranking hospitals
quickly touted this as a badge of honor.

Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago was among the top 10 nationwide.

Also, five hospitals within the Downers Grove-based Advocate Health Care system
were among the top 25 hospitals in the area: Advocate Christ Medical Center in
Oak Lawn at No. 3, Advocate Lutheran General Hospital in Park Ridge at No. 7,
Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center on Chicago's North Side at No. 9,
Advocate Good Samaritan Hospital in Downers Grove at No. 14 and Advocate Good
Shepherd in Barrington at No. 23.

In addition, Alexian Brothers Health System's St. Alexius Medical Center in
Hoffman Estates ranked No. 5 and Alexian Brothers Medical Center in Elk Grove
Village was No. 7 in the region.

Among suburban hospitals, Cadence Health-Central DuPage Hospital in Winfield
ranked No. 9, Northwest Community in Arlington Heights ranked No. 12 and Edward
Hospital in Naperville ranked No. 15.

As for specialties, Northwest Community was No. 44 for nose and throat care, St.
Alexius was No. 22 for gastroenterology, and Central DuPage was No. 28 for
orthopedics.

It is difficult to determine if high rankings on such a list would eventually
translate into financial gain for the hospitals. Instead, the rankings
contribute more to feelings of pride and recognition, said St. Alexius CEO Len
Wilk.

"Over the past five years, we've see more patients coming in with a better
understanding of patient safety and quality care," Wilk said. "But there is
still a reliance on community reputation. This is a very well-known listing, and
it encompasses a lot for us."

The hospital uses such rankings to focus on what they're doing well and what
they can do even better, especially with best practices and reliability of the
system, said Wilk.

"It's a never-ending journey to get better and better," Wilk said.

The listing "reflects the dedication and teamwork of our physicians, nurses,
other medical professionals and associates, who are committed to consistently
delivering advanced, high-quality care to the patients and communities we
serve," Mark A. Frey, president and chief executive officer of Alexian Brothers
Health System said in a statement.

Advocate Lutheran General also viewed the U.S. News ranking as a boost of
confidence in the community and not something that could lead to financial gain,
said President Rick Floyd.

"It's hard to know if patients come here based on the survey. We'd have to ask
everyone who comes through our registration," said Floyd. "But there are a
number of these rankings and they provide more and more data, and that just
helps promote more confidence and trust when consumers are faced with serious
health issues. They may even be willing to travel farther to us."

*Daily Herald Staff Writer Jamie Sotonoff contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Daily Herald file photo
 Alexian Brothers Medical Center in Elk Grove Village. DAILY HERALD FILE PHOTO
Alexian Brothers Hospital in Elk Grove Village is tied for U.S. News and World
Report's 7th-best hospital in the Chicago area.George
LeClaire/gleclaire@dailyherald.com Dr. Bradley Shapiro checks Sue Erb of Hanover
Park before a procedure on her at St. Alexius Medical Center in Hoffman Estates
as nurse Deborah Thompson checks and records vital signs.George
LeClaire/gleclaire@dailyherald.com Dr. Bradley Shapiro checks Sue Erb of Hanover
Park before he performs a procedure on her at St. Alexius Medical Center in
Hoffman Estates as nurse Deborah Thompson checks and records vital signs. St.
Alexius is U.S. News and World Report's 5th-best hospital in the Chicago area.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Paddock Publications, Inc.

