                              13 of 998 DOCUMENTS


               The Valley News-Dispatch (Tarentum, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday

Allegheny Valley Hospital cited among region's best

BYLINE: Tom Yerace, The Valley News-Dispatch, Tarentum, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 531 words


July 21--Allegheny Valley Hospital has been ranked by a national publication as
the fifth best hospital in a region that prides itself on its medical
facilities.

U.S. News & World Report released its 2011-12 Best Hospital rankings this week,
which place the Harrison hospital in a fifth place tie with two larger, better
known Pittsburgh hospitals -- Mercy and West Penn.

Ned Laubacher, Allegheny Valley's president and CEO, said he was pleased by the
U.S. News recognition but noted that it isn't the first organization to award
laurels to the hospital.

HealthGrades, a Colorado-based national ranking organization, has singled out
Allegheny Valley for overall quality care consistently, according to Laubacher
and Linda Dalak, AVH spokeswoman.

"U.S. News has us as No. 5 locally, but Health Grades has had us ranked in the
top 5 percent of hospitals nationally for six consecutive years," Laubacher
said.

That includes placing in the top 1 percent of U.S. hospitals in 2009.

CareChex, another ratings agency, has ranked Allegheny Valley Hospital as the
top hospital in the state for overall care in its 2011 rankings.

"However they choose to do it, we come out at or near the top," Dalak said. "It
all comes down to the clinical quality care that we provide."

"I think any ranking will have us in the top 10 -- No. 1, No. 5 or No. 10 -- to
us it really doesn't matter," said Laubacher. "What matters is we have in this
Valley one of the top hospitals in the region, in the state and in the nation
for clinical quality."

Allegheny Valley Hospital, referred to in the U.S. News rankings by its former
name, Alle-Kiski Medical Center, was recognized as high performing in four
specialties: geriatrics, gastroenterology, pulmonology and urology.

UPMC St. Margaret, located near Aspinwall, was cited for high performance in
three specialties: geriatrics, neurology and neurosurgery, and orthopedics.

"To be honest with you, we focus on the national rankings and as you know UPMC
(Presbyterian), we're ranked on the national honor roll," said Susan Manko, UPMC
spokeswoman.

The honor roll consists of the top 17 American hospitals and puts UPMC
Presbyterian, at No. 12. It's No. 1 in Western Pennsylvania.

Manko said UPMC officials are having a hard time understanding the methodology
for determining the regional rankings.

She said the regional rankings are something new and seem to "dilute" the
overall national rankings.

"I really don't have any comment on these regional rankings," she said. "I have
never seen them like this."

"Everybody gets caught up in this competition between UPMC and West
Penn-Allegheny," Manko said, " but I think it's good to say that people in
Pittsburgh and this whole region are very lucky to have the quality of hospitals
that they have here whether it is UPMC or AGH (West Penn-Allegheny)."

To see more of The Valley News-Dispatch or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.pittsburghlive.com/x/valleynewsdispatch/. Copyright (c) 2011, The
Valley News-Dispatch, Tarentum, Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services. For more information about the content services offered by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110721-TV-Allegheny-Valley-Hospital
-cited-among-region-s-best-0721-20110721

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TV


                    Copyright 2011 The Valley News-Dispatch


