                              137 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                             July 14, 2007 Saturday
                                 FINAL Edition

Maine Med included among 'America's Best Hospitals'

BYLINE: From staff reports

SECTION: LOCAL & STATE; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 254 words


Maine Medical Center is among the nation's 50 best hospitals for orthopedics and
heart care and surgery, according to U.S. News and World Report.

The magazine's ''America's Best Hospitals'' report ranked Maine Med 45th for
orthopedics and 50th in the heart category. The ranking evaluated 5,462
hospitals in 16 specialties. Only 173 hospitals met the standards in one or more
specialties. Military and veterans hospitals were not included because the
needed data was not available.

Maine Med was the only hospital in Maine in the 2007 ranking.

Mortality rates, nurse staffing ratios and the availability of advanced services
figured largely for both of Maine Med's rankings, hospital officials said. The
availability of related patient services figured in the heart ranking,

The ratings were made available on U.S. News and World Report's Web site on
Friday and will be in the magazine issue that will be available Monday.

The evaluation included a host of factors. For most categories, including the
orthopedics and heart categories, the first hurdle was membership in the Council
of Teaching Hospitals, affiliation with a medical school or the availability of
certain advanced services. Only a quarter of the hospitals met those criteria.

Other considerations were whether the hospital treated a minimum number of
Medicare inpatients with certain conditions and whether the hospital ranked
among the best in a specialty in physician surveys.

Reputation, death rate and data that gives insight into patient care were also
factors.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

