                              140 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 10, 2007 Wednesday

Eugenio Litta earns national ranking

BYLINE: Jeff Hansel, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 547 words


Jan. 10--Ready or not, here comes the limelight.

Who should take a bow?

Pediatric nurses at Mayo Eugenio Litta Children's Hospital.

Surgeons, nurses and care providers at Eugenio Litta have been under the
watchful eyes of the nation this month as they completed a 99-day journey to
separate identical twins Abby and Maddy Fitterer, who were born conjoined on
Aug. 8.

"Mayo is really well known for overall care," Mayo spokesman Lee Aase said after
the successful surgery. "But the pediatric emphasis has probably not been as
widely appreciated. I think that helped raise the profile in the pediatric
area." Now, Eugenio Litta has another feather in its cap.

The hospital has been ranked 38th among children's hospitals by the National
Association of Children's Hospitals and Related Institutions.

Eugenio Litta, housed inside Saint Marys Hospital, had not had much national
attention in the past.

However, three high-profile cases have come to the 85-bed hospital since early
2006. Each family needed separation surgery for conjoined twins. Eugenio Litta's
new ranking is listed in the current issue of Child Magazine (Child.com). The
magazine carries stories about children's fashion, health, safety, education and
nutrition.

No. 38 might not seem weighty enough to merit bells and whistles, but a total of
116 hospitals were surveyed.

Of the more than 250 children's hospitals in the country, "only a certain
portion of them even qualify to receive a survey," said Karen Cicero, senior
editor at Child Magazine, and author of an article in the current issue that
describes the rankings.

"If you think of it in terms of the total number of children's hospitals in the
country, it's even more impressive," she said.

"We're thrilled about the survey. It's actually driven by data," said Dr. Phil
Fischer, medical director of Eugenio Litta. Staff at the children's hospital
would, of course, like to highlight something closer to the top of the list. But
that's not the most important thing.

"We really care more about taking care of patients than we do about things like
rankings," Fischer said.

According to Cicero, that focus on patient care is one of the reasons Mayo
ranked higher than 78 out of the other 115 children's hospitals surveyed
nationwide.

What was the main factor that played into Eugenio Litta's ranking?

"I think one of their strongest areas, actually, is their nursing care," Cicero
said. Pediatric nurses there are highly trained, most with bachelor's degrees or
higher; retention rates are good; and there's a low vacancy rate. Also, a large
percentage of nurses are trained in pediatric advanced life support, Cicero
said.

All charge nurses, or supervisory nurses, and most floor nurses have completed
PALS training, Fischer noted.

"It's a good step forward for Children's Hospital, and we're thrilled to be
ranked as favorably as we were," he said.

What's next?

Fischer said the hospital plans to continue improving patient care. If the score
also improves, so be it.

Copyright (c) 2007, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn. Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070110-RC-0110-Eugenio-Litta-earns-national-ranking

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2007 Post-Bulletin

