                              136 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 21, 2012 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Englewood Hospital and Medical Center Named a Best Hospital by U.S. News & World
Report

LENGTH: 290  words


New Delhi, Sept. 21 -- U.S. News & World Report released its annual "Best
Hospitals" rankings this week and named Englewood Hospital and Medical Center a
Best Regional Hospital, ranking the Medical Center #5 in New Jersey and #18 in
the New York metropolitan area.



This year's "Best Hospitals," the 23rd annual edition, showcases more than 720
of the nation's roughly 5,000 hospitals. Fewer than 150 are nationally ranked in
at least one of 16 medical specialties.

Englewood Hospital and Medical Center was identified as high-performing in 10
adult specialties including in Cardiology & Heart Surgery, Diabetes &
Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Geriatrics, Gynecology, Nephrology, Neurology &
Neurosurgery, Orthopedics, Pulmonology and Urology. Additionally, Englewood
Hospital scored high in patient safety, demonstrating its ongoing commitment to
reducing accidents and medical mistakes.

"We are proud to earn this 'Best Hospital' distinction and to be recognized
among the best healthcare institutions in the state," said Douglas Duchak,
President and CEO of Englewood Hospital and Medical Center. "This recognition is
a reflection of the hard work, skill and dedication of our physicians, nurses,
staff and volunteers, and affirms our entire team's commitment to providing
patients and families with the best care possible."

The hospital rankings, said U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow, are
like a GPS-type aid to help steer patients to hospitals with strong skills in
the procedures and medical conditions that present the biggest challenges. "All
of these hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your list
when you need the best care," said Comarow. "They are where other hospitals send
the toughest cases."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

