                              152 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     April 16, 1998, Thursday, ALL EDITIONS

Promina system earns top marks;
Trade magazine ranks hospital/physician network No. 1 in nation

BYLINE: Andy Miller

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 01F; Pg. 01F

LENGTH: 405 words


A national trade magazine has confirmed the rapid rise of Atlanta's Promina
Health System, ranking it the No. 1 such hospital and physician network.

Two other local systems ranked in the list of the "Top 100 Integrated Systems":
Columbia/HCA Healthcare's Georgia operation ranked No. 13, and Emory Healthcare
ranked No. 48.

The rankings, done by SMG Marketing Group for Hospitals & Health Networks
magazine, scored local systems on six categories: financial performance;
admissions and occupancy rates; integration of decision-making; service areas;
number of physicians; and managed-care contracting.

Promina, Columbia and Emory all scored well on financial figures and breadth of
facilities and services, Steve Lenz of Chicago-based SMG, a consulting and
information company, said Wednesday. The magazine is published by the American
Hospital Association.

Promina, according to SMG, has a 27 percent market share of hospital admissions
in metro Atlanta. Its hospitals include Piedmont, Gwinnett Medical Center, Cobb
and Kennestone hospitals, DeKalb Medical Center and Southern Regional Medical
Center.

Promina was listed with 1996 hospital patient revenues of $ 984 million and net
income of $ 110 million.

The Top 100 financial information, though, comes from 1996 figures, and before a
massive federal investigation rocked Nashville-based Columbia. Emory spokeswoman
Sylvia Wrobel questioned how the survey defined the Emory system. And some
experts were surprised by Promina's No. 1 position. "It appears the criteria
were based largely on size and market share," said Mike Cadger of consulting
firm Coopers & Lybrand. The ranking does not reflect the system's
cost-effectiveness, nor the extent that it operates as an insurer, he said.

Still, the rankings illustrate the rapid hospital consolidation in metro
Atlanta, sparked by the spread of managed care.

Integrated health systems feature hospitals and physicians in a local network
that markets as a single unit to insurers or employers, to provide services for
members or employees.

Promina, formed in 1994, now has grown to 13 hospitals, and has 1,800 physicians
either employed or actively participating in the system's contracts.

The No. 1 ranking means "we've gone as far as anyone in managed-care contracting
with a single voice," said Promina spokeswoman Cheryl Iverson. Promina has 23
systemwide contracts with managed-care companies.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Metro Final Today's News

                    Copyright 1998 The Atlanta Constitution

