                              153 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Reboot Illinois

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday

A second opinion: Best hospitals in Illinois, according to U.S. News and World
Report

BYLINE: Caitlin Wilson, Reboot Illinois

SECTION: NATIONAL POLITICAL NEWS

LENGTH: 982 words


July 15--In June, we told you about Consumer Reports' list of best hospitals in
Illinois, but when it comes to your health, it never hurts to get a second
opinion. U.S. News & World Report has released their 2014 list of the top
hospitals around the country, and it varies from the Consumer Reports list.

The all-around star hospital in Illinois, according to U.S. News, is
Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. It is ranked number one in the state
and Chicagoland, and is listed on several national rankings, too. It is ranked
number 10 on the national hospital "Honor Roll" for 2014-2015 for overall
excellence, based on its 10 high-ranking specialty areas. It also cleared the
top 10 in other, more specialized national lists: number 10 for neurology and
neurosurgery, number eight for diabetes and endocrinology and number 9 for
urology. Other Illinois hospitals also were nationally ranked as top 10
hospitals in specialized fields: Rush University Medical Center was named number
six for orthopedics and the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago was named number
one for rehabilitation. (The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. was most
consistently listed as number one in the specialty area lists and was ranked as
the number one overall hospital nationally.)

Here are the best hospitals in Illinois, according to U.S. News and World Report
(some are tied which is why you see multiple numbers repeated):

1. Northwestern Memorial Hospital -- Chicago

2. Rush University Medical Center -- Chicago

3. Advocate Christ Medical Center -- Oak Lawn

3. Loyola University Medical Center -- Maywood

5. St. Alexius Medical Center -- Hoffman Estates

6. University of Chicago Medical Center -- Chicago

7. Advocate Lutheran General Hospital -- Park Ridge

7. Alexian Brothers Medical Center -- Elk Grove Village

9. Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center -- Chicago

9. Cadence Health-Central Dupage Hospital -- Winfield

9. NorthShore Evanston Hospital -- Evanston

The top-ranked hospital in East Central Illinois is Carle Foundation Hospital in
Urbana (14 in Illinois), the best hospital in Northwestern Illinois is
UnityPoint Health-Methodist Hospital in Peoria (20 in Illinois), the best
hospital in Southern Illinois is the Good Samaritan Regional Health Center in
Mount Vernon (34 in Illinois) and the top-ranked in West Central Illinois is
Memorial Medical Center in Springfield (29 in Illinois).

Unlike the Consumer Reports list, the U.S. News rankings list most of Illinois'
top hospitals in the Chicago area. The first hospital to appear on the list that
is not in Chicagoland is Carle Foundation Hospital in Urbana, ranked at number
14 in the state. Some hospitals do overlap high on the best-of lists: Cadence
Health-Central Dupage Hospital, Advocate Lutheran General Hospital and St.
Alexius Medical Center all appear in both rankings. But mostly, hospitals
mentioned by one list are not mentioned by the other.

The U.S. News and World Reports list ranks the best hospitals in the state,
while the Consumer Reports list ranked the safest. According to U.S. News, they
compiled their list of best-of hospitals:

based mostly on death rates for patients who represent especially challenging
cases, on patient safety and on other measures of performance that can be
assessed using hard data. An annual reputational survey of physicians, who are
asked to name hospitals they consider the best in their specialty for difficult
cases, is also factored in.

The hospitals are also rated on number of specialty areas and their reputations.
The criteria section of the rankings explanations points out that just because a
hospital may be top-ranked overall in a speciality area, they may not be the
best hospital for a particular condition within that area.

This list ranked the largest hospitals in the country (with 100 or more beds) or
hospitals that were teaching hospitals/affiliated with medical schools.
Statistics that informed the rankings came from the federal Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services' MedPAR data and the American Hospital Association and was
based on criteria such as death rates, general patient safety number of patients
at any one time and the balance of nurses and patients, reputation among
specialists and availability of proven technologies. Patient safety was weighted
highest in the rankings.

The report acknowledges that the ranking list is a place to start to gather
information about making the right choices for getting the best care. Every
patient is different and must consider different factors when choosing a
hospital. Taken together, the U.S. News and World Report and Consumer Reports
lists might offer an even more comprehensive view than only one of them alone.
From the U.S. News report:

Patients have to do their own research. We also appreciate that families have to
consider the stress and expense of traveling to another city, as well as the
willingness of an insurer to pay for care at a hospital outside its network.

Children's hospitals were ranked separately as there are far fewer in the
nation. The Ann and Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago was listed as
the top children's hospital in Illinois.

Caitlin Wilson is a staff writer for Reboot Illinois. She graduated from Loyola
University Chicago, where she studied journalism and political science. Caitlin
has become both endeared to and frustrated with her adopted home state and wants
to bring Illinoisans the information they need to actively participate in the
politics that directly affect them. You can find Reboot on Facebook here and on
Twitter at @rebootillinois.

Reboot Illinois is a nonpartisan website and social media effort dedicated to
involving Illinoisans in the key issues facing our state, including state debt,
corruption and waste and improving business and schools.

___ (c)2014 Reboot Illinois Visit Reboot Illinois at www.rebootillinois.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140715-2IL-A-second-opinion-Best-hospitals
-in-Illinois-according-to-U-S-News-and-World-Report-0715-20140715

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 2IL


                                 Copyright 2014

