                              14 of 998 DOCUMENTS


            Intelligencer Journal/New Era (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

 County Hospitals Get Both Good And Bad News;
Magazine Gives Lgh High Marks In Four Specialties.

BYLINE: Tim Mekeel Business Editor

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 487  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


BY TIM MEKEEL

Business Editor

tmekeel@lnpnews.com

Lancaster General Hospital again has been ranked among the nation's best in four
adult specialties, U.S. News & World Report said Tuesday.

Recognized in the magazine's 2014-2015 "Best Hospitals" rankings were: diabetes
and endocrinology (18th); gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery (33rd);
orthopedics (37th); and pulmonology (45th).

LGH was recognized in four specialities by U.S. News last year, too.

The 2013-2014 list of specialties was the same as this year's, with one
exception - cardiology and heart surgery, rather than pulmonology.

Of the three specialties ranked in both years, LGH bettered its position in two.

LGH improved by 13 places in gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery and
by three places in orthopedics.

It dropped one place in diabetes and endocrinology.

The annual U.S. News "Best Hospitals" rankings, now in their 25th year,
recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.

Of the nearly 5,000 U.S hospitals evaluated, only 144, or 3 percent, were ranked
in at least one specialty.

The North Duke Street-based hospital also attained high-performance rankings in
seven adult specialties: cancer; cardiology and heart surgery; ear, nose and
throat; geriatrics; nephrology; neurology and neurosurgery; and urology.

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties.

In most specialties, it ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other
high-performing hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their
nationally ranked peers.

The magazine also provides state rankings, with LGH placing fifth in
Pennsylvania, up from sixth in 2013-14 and from 15th in 2012-13.

U.S. News says it publishes the "Best Hospitals" rankings to guide patients who
need a high level of care.

That could be because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition or extra risk due to age or multiple health problems.

Objective measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of
nurse staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

LGH is a frequent selection. In seven of the past 10 years, LGH has been
recognized in at least one speciality.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a research organization based in Research Triangle Park, North
Carolina.

Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

Elsewhere in the region, Hershey Medical Center was ranked as high performing in
10 adult specialties.

They are: cancer; diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat;
gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery; geriatrics; nephrology; neurology
and neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

To read the U.S. News rankings online, visit http://health.usnews.com/best-
hospitals.

The rankings will appear in print in the U.S. News "Best Hospitals 2015''
guidebook, available in August.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


