                              150 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                             March 21, 2017 Tuesday

Sharjeel was extremely sick!

BYLINE: Anjum Ibrahim

SECTION: Vol. 53 No. 80

LENGTH: 270  words


'Sharjeel Memon is back...'

'Before you say anything, remember that he was extremely sick and was resident
in various hospitals - in London and Dubai and...'

'Have you had a chance to see ratings of Dubai hospitals?'

'No why?'

'Well, the highest rating is for the American Hospital and that too is rated at
2058 in world rankings...and need I add, the highest rating of a Pakistani
hospital is that of CIDP which is 1842, though it's a specialized hospital, but
Jinnah hospital's rating is 2400 - so perhaps Memon sahib...'

'And many, many others...'

'And many, many others should opt for local hospitals...'

'Jinnah Hospital is in Lahore. A no, no for a Zardi like Memon...how is Dr
Asim's hospital ranked in the world?'

'No, all that good - 11385.'

'Where are you getting these rankings?'

'Internet?'

'What about Mian sahib's Sharif Medical Hospital? And before you come up with a
Get Maryam Nawaz slogan, yes she is a trustee of that hospital but so are all
her cousins, her father and all his brothers and wives and...'

'All the wives?'

'OK, Shahbaz Sharif's First Wife only. Anyway the rating of this hospital with
such an august board of trustees is only 11,385 - the same as the ranking of Dr
Asim's Dr Ziauddin Hospital; Khan's Shaukat Khanum beats that ranking hands down
and is rated at 4064 in the world.'

'Hey, this is fake news - I tell you shut down the web or else get First
Daughter's media team to trash this particular website and...'

'You know I was thinking that Mian Sharif was at least fair in granting the
trusteeship of this hospital to all his heirs - you know unlike the distribution
of his wealth...'

'Shush... that is sub judice...'

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved

