                              148 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

                             March 15, 2015 Sunday
                               FIVE STAR EDITION

BEST HOSPITAL? DEPENDS ON WHICH RANKING IS USED

BYLINE: Steve Twedt, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F-1

LENGTH: 671 words


You've seen the placard on the side of Port Authority buses: UPMC makes U.S.
News and World Report's honor roll of best hospitals. In the South Hills, a
billboard on Banksville Road proclaims St. Clair Hospital in Mt. Lebanon among
America's top 100 hospitals.

Impressive as the rankings sound, a Johns Hopkins researcher said those lists
and others like them can confuse patients as well as steer them to the "best"
hospital.

J. Matthew Austin and colleagues from Harvard, Vanderbilt and two California
medical centers analyzed four of lists of the nation's top medical centers and
found that no hospital earned a "high performer" designation in all four lists
and only three of the near-6,000 hospitals in America made it onto three of the
lists. The report did not name the hospitals.

The report is published in the March 4 issue of the journal Health Affairs.

"I think one of the conclusions that we reached is that no one hospital excels
or struggles on every single aspect of quality," said Mr. Austin in a phone
interview.

That's not to say the rankings aren't helpful, he added.

"I think they are an important piece of information to know and understand," he
said. "Unfortunately, the onus falls on the patient to understand what these
rankings are telling them."

In the analysis, the Hopkins researchers looked at four national rating systems:
U.S. News and World Report, HealthGrades, Consumer Reports and Leapfrog Group. A
UPMC spokeswoman said Friday that, of the four, they only participate in the
U.S. News ratings.

The problem, Mr. Austin said, is that each ranking uses different criteria and
methodologies, "often creating the paradox of hospitals' simultaneously being
considered best and worst depending on the rating system used."

The differences also make it difficult to determine how good a particular
hospital's care is, the researchers added.

Leapfrog and Consumer Reports ratings, for example, emphasize safety, while
HealthGrades focus on quality and U.S. News ranks hospitals based on which are
the "best medical centers for the most difficult patients" among larger centers.

Truven Health Analytics, which named St. Clair one of America's top 100
hospitals for the third time in 2014, was not part of the analysis. Truven,
formerly Thomson Reuters, rates hospitals based on data for a number of factors,
from mortality and readmission rates to operating profit.

Robert Morris University health care expert Stephen Foreman likes the U.S. News
approach of evaluating 16 specialties, as it provides information on individual
services.

But, he added, "I've always worried about the rankings. You present them as if
one hospital is like another, and hospitals are all so darn different that it's
almost impossible to come up with anything decent."

Mr. Foreman knows how hard it is to compare hospitals because he has tried.

Years ago, he served on the board of a health insurance startup in Philadelphia
that tried to rank that region's hospitals for quality and cost.

Because routine procedures could be done at less-costly non-research facilities,
"we didn't want people going to Penn for appendectomies," he said,

After six months of research, though, he said the differences and complexities
both between hospitals and within hospitals were so great, "I'm not sure what we
came up with was worth the effort."

The U.S. News rankings are the oldest and probably best known, and the Health
Affairs paper notes that some research has found a link between the U.S. News
"best hospitals" in a lower 30-day patient death rate.

But other studies found no association between the list and hospital
readmissions, another key quality indicator.

Mr. Austin sees the ratings as "an attempt to simplify and understand the safety
and quality of a hospital."

His advice: Go ahead and look at the various ratings "and try to understand what
they're trying to tell me about that hospital, and put that in the context of
what I'm going to the hospital for."

"To be an informed consumer, it does require digging into some of these
details."

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Steve Twedt: stwedt@post-gazette.com or 412-263-1963.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Darrell Sapp/Post-Gazette: A hospital staffer adjusts equipment
in a surgical suite at St. Clair Hospital in Mt. Lebanon.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2015 P.G. Publishing Co.

