                              147 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday

Huntsman ranked 47th in nation for cancer hospitals

LENGTH: 541 words


By Daphne Chen

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY - Huntsman Cancer Institute made the list of top 50 cancer
hospitals in a national ranking of medical facilities released by U.S. News &
World Report on Tuesday.

Although none of Utah's medical facilities cracked the U.S. News & World
Report's "honor roll" of the nation's top 20 hospitals, University Hospital was
named the No. 1 overall hospital in the state because of "high performing"
scores in specialties like neurology, cardiology and nephrology.

Intermountain Medical Center was ranked No. 2 in the state. Dixie Regional
Medical Center and Utah Valley Hospital (formerly known as Utah Valley Regional
Medical Center) tied for No. 3.

Mary Beckerle, CEO and director of Huntsman Cancer Institute, said the hospital
is "extremely pleased" by the recognition.

"Cancer touches the lives of everyone, and this recognition reflects our efforts
to relieve the burden of this disease on our patients and their families through
excellent patient care and robust scientific research," Beckerle said in a
statement.

Critics have criticized the U.S. News & World Report rankings for being flawed -
more useful for hospital marketing teams than for consumers.

Jill Vicory, spokeswoman at the Utah Hospital Association, cautioned that
patients should use the rankings as just one of many tools when choosing a
health care provider.

"Unfortunately, too many hospital ratings systems using too many differing
approaches have cluttered the environment," Vicory said in a statement. "We
encourage consumers to talk with their physicians, consider their insurance
coverage as well as take quality and other measures into consideration when
making a decision on the right health care provider to fit their needs."

U.S. News & World Report also warns consumers that the rankings "should just be
a starting point."

"Hospitals are evaluated across a wide range of conditions and procedures," the
organization wrote on an FAQ accompanying the rankings. "Within that range,
hospitals can and do perform differently. In pulmonology, for example, a
hospital might rank below another one but do better at treating patients with
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease."

Hospital scores are calculated by combining patient safety and outcome data,
according to U.S. News & World Report. In a handful of specialties, the
organization uses reputation, based on a survey of physician specialists.

Another set of hospital ratings released by the federal government last week
seemed to contradict the U.S. News & World Report rankings at times.

For example, Intermountain Medical Center received three out of five stars,
placing it below Dixie Regional Medical Center.

Dixie Regional Medical Center, University of Utah Health Care and LDS Hospital
were among 14 hospitals in the state that received four out of five stars. None
received five stars, the highest rating.

Salt Lake Regional Medical Center and Davis Hospital and Medical Center were
given two stars, the lowest in the state.

Some hospital administrators and health care organizations criticized the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services' methodology as unfair to hospitals
that care for the sickest patients or teach medical students.

Email: dchen@deseretnews.com

Twitter: DaphneChen_

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2016 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

