                              145 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                  The State Journal-Register(Springfield, IL)

                             July 14, 2001 Saturday

Magazine rates St. John's Hospital among top 50 for cancer treatment

BYLINE: TONY CAPPASSO STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 387 words


The cancer center at St. John's Hospital in Springfield beat out Barnes-Jewish
Hospital in St. Louis in rankings that will appear in U.S. News & World Report.

The rankings come out in the weekly newsmagazine's July 23 issue.

Overall, St. John's Hospital Cancer Institute ranked 44 out of the top 50
hospitals in the United States for cancer care, according to the magazine.
Barnes-Jewish Hospital was No. 46 on the list.

This is the first time a Springfield hospital has made the magazine's annual
listing, according to St. John's officials.

"We are very pleased and proud to be recognized by U.S. News & World Report,"
St. John's executive vice president Dick Carlson said at a press conference
Friday.

"This ranking is a tribute to the physicians and hospital staff. Our cancer
program has had a long history of excellence in central Illinois, and this
recognition verifies that record."

Exactly how the magazine arrived at its ranking wasn't clear because the
information was not available Friday. In general, however, the magazine's
reporters studied data from 6,116 hospitals nationwide. The method they used
came from the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago.

To be eligible for ranking, hospitals must either belong to the Council of
Teaching Hospitals, be affiliated with a medical school or have at least nine of
17 technology services for treating cancer, according to St. John's.

Those criteria narrowed the field of candidate hospitals to 1,878 this year.
From that group, the magazine chose 168 hospitals that treat cancer in 17
specialty areas.

The top five cancer hospitals in the United States, according to U.S. News &
World Report, are the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City;
the University of Texas, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston; Johns Hopkins
Hospital in Baltimore; the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston; and the Mayo
Clinic in Rochester, Minn.

In Illinois, St. John's outranked Lutheran General Healthsystem in Park Ridge
and Cook County Hospital in Chicago. The state's top-ranked cancer centers were
University of Chicago Hospitals, at No. 7; and F.G. McGaw Hospital at Loyola
University in Maywood, ranked 37.

Last year, St. John's earned rankings among the top 100 in orthopedic, heart and
stroke care.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: ON WEB SITE

                   Copyright 2001 The State Journal-Register

