                              155 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Times Colonist (Victoria, British Columbia)

                             June 25, 2009 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

A better way to assess and rank B.C. schools

BYLINE: Jerry Mussio, Special to Times Colonist

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 794  words


The latest Fraser Institute school rankings no doubt will be used by provincial
education organizations to argue once again that the rankings are unfair and
should be stopped.

After an unsuccessful attempt earlier this year to block the administration of
the Foundation Skills Assessment in Grades 4 and 7, the B.C. Teachers'
Federation has now asked the new minister of education to suspend the FSA and
provincial examinations in Grades 10 to 12. These provincewide tests form the
basis of the Fraser Institute rankings, so the proposed suspension would
effectively kill the rankings.

It's becoming clear that the Fraser Institute rankings do not provide a fair
comparison of schools.

But the solution isn't to stop testing students. The solution is to provide
parents and the public with better information.

The annual Fraser Institute report cards provide a good summary of data for each
school in the province. The problem arises when test data are combined to form a
single index and all schools lumped together and ranked from top to bottom.

Predictably, the private school charging high fees and admitting only top
students is ranked at the top and the public school taking all comers, including
high numbers of children struggling with poverty and unstable families, is
ranked at the bottom.

In other words, the Fraser Institute rewards schools who seek to admit only the
best students and penalizes those who reach out to include those children who
struggle to achieve success.

The recent B.C. Hospital Report Card, also published by the Fraser Institute,
uses a different approach. Hospital rankings in B.C. are "risk adjusted" to
account for differences in patient health status when they enter a hospital.
This is done to ensure that a hospital's score reflects the performance grading
that the hospital would have received if it had provided services to patients
with an average mix of medical complications.

Put another way, the B.C. Health Report Card doesn't reward hospitals for
turning away high-risk patients.

Responding to criticisms over school rankings in Quebec, the Montreal Economic
Institute severed its partnership with the Fraser Institute and developed a new
set of rankings. Their new rankings assess the school's impact on learning after
a number of key variables are taken into account, including whether a school
selects its incoming students.

Some B.C. educators are beginning to explore an even better approach. This
involves tracking those students who, for example, are enrolled in Grade 4 and
who go on to complete Grade 7 in the same school. FSA scores, and other data,
are then used to estimate gains in learning for this cohort over the three-year
period.

To encourage healthy competition and promote innovation in improving
achievement, schools serving similar student populations could be ranked in
relation to their learning gains. The Ministry of Education could easily produce
this type of data for schools.

Measuring student progress with provincial standardized tests in reading,
writing and mathematics is critical as these skills represent a core
responsibility of the public school system. Continuing to offer provincial
examinations in high schools also helps to assure parents, whether in Point Grey
or in Port McNeill, that their local school meets high performance standards.

But measuring the effectiveness of a school involves more than tests in academic
subjects. Schools also have a responsibility to work with families and the
community to develop in students a sense of self worth and personal initiative
and to prepare students for post-secondary education and the job market. The
school accreditation system, first established in the 1930s, did a good job of
examining school performance across these broader goals but was dropped in 2002,
partly because of concerns that it had become too bureaucratic. This model
deserves another look.

British Columbia students, as a group, tend to score high on international
tests, but achievement levels and graduation rates appear to have flattened in
recent years. Significantly, about 20 per cent of students do not meet literacy
standards and the same percentage do not graduate from high school.

In today's world, education has become a major determinant of a nation's social
and economic success, and the province's future will be determined, to a great
extent, by our willingness to reach the 20 per cent of children who are not
succeeding.

But by rewarding schools who admit only top students and ignore the rest, the
Fraser Institute is pushing the province in the wrong direction.

Jerry Mussio is former director of student assessment with the Ministry of
Education and was Canada's representative in development of the OECD Program for
International Student Assessment.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

