                              162 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                             August 2, 2013 Friday
                           4 State / Suncoast Edition

LOCAL HOSPITAL RATINGS PROVIDE SURPRISES

BYLINE: JODIE TILLMAN, Times Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 519 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



HIGHLIGHT: Consumer Reports based rankings on post-surgery Medicare billing data
of elderly patients.


Just two weeks ago, Tampa General Hospital celebrated its ranking by U.S. News &
World Report as the second-best hospital in Florida.

But this week a Consumer Reports guide put Tampa General at the bottom of the
list in Florida when it comes to how elderly patients do after surgeries.
Joining TGH in the back of the pack were Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater,
Shands at the University of Florida and Orlando Regional Medical Center.

Near the top of the list? St. Anthony's Hospital in St. Petersburg and Citrus
Memorial Hospital in Inverness.

The local rankings fit into a surprising overall theme of the new Consumer
Reports guide: Many of the nation's best-regarded hospitals didn't do as well as
their smaller, lesser-known counterparts.

How Consumer Reports reached its conclusions is somewhat controversial.
Researchers analyzed Medicare claims data from 2009 to 2011 for more than two
dozen procedures, including back surgery, vascular surgery, and hip and knee
replacements. Consumer Reports then evaluated the hospitals based on whether
patients died in the hospital or stayed longer than expected after their
surgeries.

TGH spokesman John Dunn said billing data does not give as full as a picture as
clinical records. A patient coming in for a hip replacement, for instance, may
have myriad existing problems that complicate recovery.

He added that TGH, as a safety net hospital, takes "the sickest of the sick." On
the whole, teaching hospitals such as TGH did not do better than average in the
rankings.

"I think the fundamental weakness is they're relying on billing data," Dunn
said.

Doris Peter, associate director of Consumer Reports Health Ratings Center, said
researchers developed a model to take into account pre-existing complications.
For instance, medical codes indicate whether a surgical patient is admitted with
hypertension, she said, so the model makes allowances.

"The idea is that these models adjust for these problems," she said.

BayCare Health System, Tampa Bay's largest health care provider, includes both
the high-ranking St. Anthony's and low-ranking Morton Plant Hospital.
Spokeswoman Beth Hardy said patients shouldn't use only the Consumer Reports
guide when making a decision about where to get surgery. "It's one tool in the
toolbox," she said.

For one, it looks only at older patients. "It's unlikely these data are a good
idea of what non-Medicare patients should expect," she said. Also, she noted,
hospitals often keep elderly patients in their care longer because they don't
have anyone to help them at home while recuperating.

Peter, the Consumer Reports director, acknowledged that the ratings are just one
indication of a hospital's performance. "It's not a perfect proxy," she said.
She said researchers didn't have an explanation for why the smaller community
hospitals did better than the larger ones. Critics of their method, she said,
had expected the exact opposite.

Jodie Tillman can be reached at jtillman@tampabay.com or (813) 226-3374.

* * *

Fast facts

Review the list

To download Consumer Reports' overall surgery ratings, go to Links in today's
Times at tampabay.com.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2013 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

