                              161 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 1, 2016 Monday 6:30 AM EST

US News Ranks Scripps No. 1 for Heart Care, Diabetes, Gynecology,
Gastroenterology in San Diego Region

LENGTH: 1091  words


Aug. 1 -- U.S. News & World Report has ranked Scripps Health's heart care,
diabetes, gynecology and gastroenterology programs the best in the San Diego
region, and named Scripps among the nation's best in seven specialties in the
magazine's annual "Best Hospitals" list.

The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year, recognize
the nation's top 50 hospitals that excel in treating patients with the most
challenging health care needs. U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult
specialties and ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals in 12 of those specialties
based largely on hard data.

The combined programs of Scripps Green Hospital and Scripps Memorial Hospital La
Jolla - listed by the magazine as "Scripps La Jolla Hospitals and Clinics" - are
among the nation's top 50 hospitals in:

* Gynecology (No. 21)

* Diabetes and Endocrinology (No. 24)

* Cardiology and Heart Surgery (No. 28)

* Pulmonology (No. 32)

* Orthopedics (No. 34)

* Gastroenterology and GI Surgery (No. 45)

* Geriatrics (No. 48)

"Scripps has a long legacy of delivering outstanding patient care," said Chris
Van Gorder, president and CEO of Scripps Health. "These rankings are a testament
to the deep dedication and exceptional skill of our physicians, nurses and
others who are on the front lines of caring for our patients every day."

The U.S. News rankings are the latest in a series of recent accolades earned by
Scripps hospitals. Last week, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
gave Scripps Green and Scripps Memorial Hospital La Jolla a five-star ranking
for quality, making them the only hospitals in the region with the highest
distinction and among only 3 percent in the nation to earn the recognition.
Earlier, Scripps Health was named as one of the top 15 health systems in the
nation by Truven Health Analytics for the fourth time.

Heart care

This is the 12th year the Scripps heart care program has made the U.S. News
national ranking. More than 76,000 patients receive their cardiovascular care
from Scripps, making it San Diego County's largest heart care provider.

Last year, Scripps opened the Prebys Cardiovascular Institute on the campus of
Scripps Memorial Hospital La Jolla, bringing together leading researchers,
physicians, staff and technologies in the most advanced center dedicated to
heart care on the West Coast. Through a longtime partnership with Kaiser
Permanente, Scripps is the exclusive provider of cardiac surgery and
interventional cardiology surgery to Kaiser Permanente members in the San Diego
region.

Orthopedics

Scripps is recognized for excellence in orthopedic surgery, joint replacement,
sports medicine and treatment of complex conditions. In addition, Scripps is the
official medical provider for the San Diego Padres. The Donald P. and Darlene
Shiley Musculoskeletal Center on the campus of Scripps Green Hospital also is
home to groundbreaking orthopedic research and education.

Diabetes

Diabetes and endocrinology programs at Scripps provide comprehensive
evidence-based diabetes screening, education and patient care. Scripps Whittier
Diabetes Institute oversees one of the largest American Diabetes
Association-recognized diabetes education programs in the nation and is home to
Project Dulce, an award-winning diabetes care and education program that
addresses the specific needs of culturally diverse populations.

Gynecology

Scripps offers a full range of gynecological services - from annual check-ups
and prenatal care, to deliveries, minimally invasive surgery and post-menopausal
care. Services also include treatments for a variety of cancers and pelvic floor
disorders, featuring state-of-the-art equipment for minimally invasive robotic
surgery.

Pulmonary medicine

Scripps' pulmonary medicine services include diagnosis and treatment options for
routine and complex respiratory problems, such as asthma, chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease and lung cancer.

Gastroenterology and GI surgery

Scripps is recognized for treating the most challenging digestive and liver
problems as well as offering access to emerging therapies through clinical
research. In 1990, Scripps established San Diego's first liver transplant
program and founded the Scripps Clinic Liver Disease Center, which is
internationally recognized for research and treatment of people with chronic
liver disease.

Geriatrics

Scripps has more than 90 physicians whose specialties or areas of expertise
include geriatric medicine. These physicians are skilled at providing care to
older patients for a wide range of conditions associated with aging.

'High Performing' in specialty areas

U.S. News also recognizes "High Performing" hospitals that were not ranked in
the top 50 but scored among the top 10 percent of hospitals that received
scores.

The combined programs of Scripps Green Hospital and Scripps Memorial Hospital La
Jolla were recognized for high performance in the following specialties:

* Nephrology

* Neurology and Neurosurgery

* Rheumatology

Scripps Mercy Hospital was recognized for high performance in the following
specialties:

* Diabetes

* Gastroenterology and GI surgery

* Nephrology

* Pulmonology

* Urology

Scripps Memorial Hospital Encinitas was recognized for high performance in
orthopedics.

State and metro rankings

U.S. News also ranked best regional hospitals in 45 metropolitan areas with a
population of a million people or more, based largely on the number of national
rankings achieved. The combined programs of Scripps Green and Scripps La Jolla
were ranked No. 2 in the San Diego metro area and No. 7 in California.

Scripps Mercy was ranked No.4 in the San Diego metro area and No. 24 in
California.

Methodology

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties. The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International; a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings. All
rankings have been published at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and will
appear in print in the U.S. News Best Hospitals guidebook, available in
bookstores and on newsstands in September.

Learn more about Scripps Health, a nonprofit integrated health system in San
Diego, Calif.

Source: Scripps Green Hospital

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

