                              15 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                              June 27, 2016 Monday

'Only four govt hospitals among the top 20 in the country'

BYLINE: IKRAM JUNAIDI

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 179

LENGTH: 561  words


According to the 'Ranking Web of World Hospitals', only four government-run
hospitals are among the top 20 in the country, while the best public sector
hospital in Pakistan ranks 5,911 in the world.

Although the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (Pims) has topped the list
of public sector hospitals in the country, it is in seventh position in the
overall list of Pakistan's hospitals.

According to the ranking, Jinnah Hospital Lahore is the second best public
sector hospital, the Services Institute of Medical Sciences is third and Lady
Reading Hospital Peshawar ranks fourth.

Private hospitals occupy the first six positions in the list of the country's
hospitals. Cidp International Foundation has been declared the best hospital in
the country, although it ranks 1,842 in the world ranking. The Jinnah Memorial
Hospital ranks second, the Sindh Institute of Urology and Transplantation ranks
third, Shifa International Hospital fourth and Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer
Hospital and Research Centre has been ranked the fifth best hospital in the
country.

According to Ranking Web of World Hospitals, the best public hospital in
Pakistan ranks 5,911th in the world

The Ranking Web of World Hospitals is an initiative of Cybermetrics Lab, a
research group of the Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas (CSIC),
the largest public research body in Spain. The World Health Organistaion, World
Bank and Asian Development Bank consider these rankings while allocating grants
and projects.

According to the rankings, of the top 40 hospitals in South Asia, 35 are in
India, three in Pakistan and one each in Bangladesh and Nepal.

Of the top 20 hospitals in South Asia, 19 hospitals in India and one in
Bangladesh are the top 20 hospitals. However, just one hospital in India made it
on the list of the 20 best hospitals in all of Asia.

A number of parameters are analysed when ranking hospitals which include the
number of facilities, equipment, the number of experts in the hospital and the
number of scholars affiliated with the hospital. The reputation of a hospital is
also looked at, as is its popularity and whether it is preferred during an
emergency.

Mortality rates and complications after treatment are also considered, as are
workload, stroke cases, those of heart attacks, road accidents and the
performance of various departments.

Dr Javed Akram, the Pims vice chancellor, which is rated the best public sector
hospital in the country but seventh overall, said CSIC had contacted the
hospital through the Spanish embassy and had asked for data on the hospital two
months ago.

Pims would have been ranked the best hospital in the country but we lacked
points in two categories. We do not have an incinerator and a Central Heating
Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) System, he said.

Dr Akram explained that incinerators are used to dispose of hospital waste and
according to international standards, hospitals should have their own
incinerators to ensure that waste is disposed on time and to avoid the spread of
infections. The hospital also needs Rs970 million to install an HVAC, which it
has applied for twice. The funding for the system is yet to be released.

If we did not lack in these two categories, we would have been ranked the best
hospital in the country. We will try to fulfil all the requirements and top the
list the next time, he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


