                              158 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         La Crosse Tribune (Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

Gundersen, Mayo-Franciscan in top 15 Wisconsin hospitals on U.S. News list

BYLINE: Mike Tighe, La Crosse Tribune, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 527 words


July 16--La Crosse's two major medical centers are ranked in the top 15 of
Wisconsin out of 152 hospitals statewide on U.S. News and World Report's annual
America's Best Hospitals list.

Gundersen Health System is 11th on the list, released Tuesday, while Mayo Clinic
Health System-Franciscan Healthcare is No. 14. They also are tabbed as the top
two out of 16 hospitals in southwest Wisconsin.

The highest-ranked hospital in the state is the University of Wisconsin
Hospitals and Clinics, while Mayo-Eau Claire is sixth.

Mayo-Franciscan's mother ship -- Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. -- was judged
as the best hospital out of nearly 4,750 analyzed in the country, according to
the 25th annual rankings, which are based on 16 specialties.

Hospitals in the top 25 percent in adult specialty departments also are labeled
"high performing."

Gundersen received that designation for its gynecology and urology services,
while Mayo-Franciscan was lauded for its urology services.

Michael Richards, Gundersen's executive director of external affairs, said, "At
Gundersen, we strive to provide the best care for every patient and to improve
the health and well-being of the communities we serve in Wisconsin, Minnesota
and Iowa.

"Whether it is a U.S. News and World Report ranking today or a Healthgrades top
hospital ranking tomorrow, we strive every day to be the best for our patients."

Dr. Tim Johnson, president and CEO of Mayo-Franciscan, said, "Our staff focuses
on providing expert care for the whole person. We continue to be diligent when
reviewing processes that improve clinical quality and patient safety."

Mayo in Rochester, which moved up from No. 3 nationally last year to top the
list for the first time, logged more No. 1 rankings for the 16 specialties than
any other provider in the country, according to U.S. News.

More than 9,500 physicians were surveyed to arrive at the rankings, which
included factors such as death rates, patient safety and hospital reputation.

Twelve of the specialties are judged on data, including cancer; cardiology and
heart surgery; diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat;
gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery; geriatrics; gynecology;
nephrology; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.
The other four, based on reputation, are ophthalmology, psychiatry,
rehabilitation and rheumatology.

The magazine's website noted that the findings, available at
http://health.usnews.com/, don't necessarily mean that a hospital is the best
choice for individual care.

"Each specialty ranking evaluates hospitals according to their performance
across a wide range of conditions and procedures," the website cautioned. "In
pulmonology, for example, one hospital might rank lower than another overall but
do much better in treating a particular condition, like chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease."

The results should be viewed as a starting point, but patients should consult
their physicians for the best options in each case, it advised.

___ (c)2014 the La Crosse Tribune (La Crosse, Wis.) Visit the La Crosse Tribune
(La Crosse, Wis.) at www.lacrossetribune.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140716-LQ-Gundersen-Mayo-Franciscan-in-top-15-Wisconsin-hospitals
-on-U-S-News-list-0716-20140716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LQ


                        Copyright 2014 La Crosse Tribune

