                              160 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                July 13, 2000, Thursday, FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

BEST-OF LIST EVOLVES INTO BIG TOOL FOR MARKETING;
CONSUMER GUIDE TO MEDICAL CENTERS BECOMES PUBLIC-RELATIONS BONANZA

BYLINE: Marianna Riley; Of The Post-DispatchLBIZ MEDICAL CARE; HOSPITALIZATION;
MAGAZINE; PUBLICATION

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. C1

LENGTH: 756 words


Expect a Federal Express package, reporters at dozens of newspapers across the
country were told.

Expect an important fax, public-relations types at big hospitals across the
country were told.

Thus began the hoopla for the health-care industry's annual and most-hyped
championship: the release of "America's Best Hospitals," an annual ranking of
hospitals compiled by U.S. News and World Report.

On early Thursday morning last week -- four days before the magazine even would
be available on newsstands -- fax machines at 582 hospital and media sources
were cranking. At the same time, 396 press kits were delivered by FedEx.

And hospital marketing and public-relations staffers in St. Louis and around the
nation haven't slowed since. Getting on the list is a big deal, not to mention
an important marketing tool for the institutions named.

"I was there at 6 a.m. the day the rankings came out," said Susan Hakes,
director of marketing and public relations for St. Louis University Hospital.

St. Louis University Hospital didn't make the honor roll, but it scored an
impressive number of listings in 12 specialties. Marketing staffers immediately
began putting together a new ad to tout the performance.

Kim Kitson, a spokesperson for Barnes-Jewish Hospital, also was at work early on
Thursday. Barnes-Jewish was the only local hospital on the honor roll of 15
hospitals. The hospital has made the list for the past eight years.

Over the years, Kitson has become experienced in disseminating the information,
first to the hospital's administrative team by voice mail and then to others on
the staff.

Barnes-Jewish also immediately sent press releases to the media and added the
ranking to its Web site. To come: Advertisements and updated banners on the
streets surrounding the hospital's large complex in the Central West End.

There's also the billboard. Eastbound motorists on nearby Highway 40 (Interstate
64) will soon learn about the latest honor, too.

Other St. Louis institutions making the top 50 in at least one specialty in the
magazine's rankings were St. Luke's Hospital of Chesterfield, which was ranked
47th in both respiratory and geriatric care, and St. John's Mercy Medical Center
of Creve Coeur, ranked 49th in orthopedics.

Unity Health System, parent of both, promptly put out that news in a press
release, noting that St. Luke's and St. John's were the "only two area hospitals
not directly associated with a medical school to be included in the rankings."

Though some doctors complain that what started as a legitimate consumer guide to
hospitals has turned into a public-relations bonanza, Hakes of St. Louis
University says the U.S. News rankings are valuable.

"It's interesting because these rankings are based on a lot of quantitative
data, and it's a chance for us to compare ourselves nationally with other
hospitals that are similar to us," she said.

Avery Comarow, the U.S. News editor of the "America's Best Hospitals," listing,
said the project was started 11 years ago "to give patients information they
couldn't get anywhere else when they needed the very best help available."

Almost 2,000 hospitals were considered for the rankings. To be eligible,
hospitals had to be members of the Council of Teaching Hospitals, be affiliated
with a medical school, or provide at least nine out of 17 prescribed
technological services.

Those hospitals were then ranked based on reputation, mortality and other
factors such as technology, procedure volume and nursing care. The reputation
analysis was based on a survey of 2,550 physicians in various specialties, while
the other data were based on government records and industry surveys.

Comarow admits to frustration about how the list has evolved into a marketing
tool and to a certain naivet in 1989 when the list was started. "What I didn't
realize and didn't anticipate is what a potent marketing tool it would become,
particularly for those on the honor roll," he said. "

It doesn't make me happy."

By the way, a programming mistake meant that the first list that newspapers and
hospitals received and the same list in the issue that hit the newsstands Monday
was wrong.

As a result, Missouri's only representative on the honor roll, Barnes-Jewish,
got bumped up a notch, with recognition in 15 of the 17 specialties surveyed.

Instead of tying with Brigham and Women's Hospital of Boston for 8th place,
Barnes-Jewish is now tied for 7th place with Stanford University Hospital in
Stanford, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PHOTO Color photo - U.S. News - America's Best Hospitals (magazine
cover)

                  Copyright 2000 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.

