                              168 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                           October 23, 2013 Wednesday

Hospital safety group ranks Maine first in the nation

BYLINE: Jackie Farwell BDN Staff

LENGTH: 890 words


A national hospital watchdog group has again ranked Maine's hospitals the safest
in the country.


Eighty percent, or 16 out of 20, Maine hospitals earned an "A" in the Hospital
Safety Score ratings released Wednesday by the Leapfrog Group, a national
patient safety organization.


Maine edged out Massachusetts for the No. 1 spot. Maine also topped the list
earlier this year, when the rankings were last updated in May.


The letter grades reflect the risk that a patient could be harmed by a
preventable medical error while hospitalized. Leapfrog, a nonprofit funded by
employers, assigns A, B, C, D and F grades to more than 2,500 U.S. hospitals.


Leapfrog urged patients to use the rankings to protect themselves from errors,
accidents, injuries and infections at hospitals. Up to 440,000 Americans die
annually from preventable hospital errors, making such errors the third leading
cause of death in the U.S., Leapfrog said in a press release, citing new
research published in the Journal of Patient Safety.


That figure is four times the estimate of a widely cited but dated Institute of
Medicine study, which said up to 98,000 Americans die each year from preventable
medical errors.


"We are burying a population the size of Miami every year from medical errors
that can be prevented," Leah Binder, Leapfrog's president and CEO, said in a
press release announcing the new scores. "A number of hospitals have improved by
one or even two grades, indicating hospitals are taking steps toward safer
practices, but these efforts aren't enough."


On average, hospitals nationally showed no improvement in their performance on
the 28 patient safety measures included in the score. The exception was hospital
adoption of computerized physician order entry, in which health practitioners
electronically enter instructions for patients' treatment.


Leapfrog assesses public data on measures including falls, bed sores and how
consistently hospitals follow recommended treatment protocols, such as
administering antibiotics to patients within an hour before surgery.


Two new measures were added to the scores this fall: catheter-associated urinary
tract infections and surgical site infections after major colon procedures.


Leapfrog rates only general hospitals. Specialty hospitals, such as cancer
centers, and critical access hospitals, which serve rural areas, are not
included.


In Maine, three hospitals saw their grades drop from this spring, while two
moved up in the rankings.


MaineGeneral's Augusta campus dropped from a B to a C, while its Waterville
campus fell from an A to a C. St. Joseph Hospital in Bangor earned a C, a
downgrade from an A in the May rankings.


Franklin Memorial Hospital in Farmington improved from a B to an A, while York
Hospital moved up to an A from a C.


All the other Maine hospitals graded earned A's.


"We're most pleased with the consistency of the reviews of our hospitals' high
quality care," Jeff Austin, vice president of government affairs and
communications for the Maine Hospital Association, said in an email.


Austin credited frontline caregivers and added that the quality division of the
federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services also ranked hospital care in
Maine the best in the country.


"Never-ending state and federal cuts imperil this success," he wrote.


But even top-performing hospitals still have room to make patients safer, Binder
said.


"Getting an A is not an end point, it's a beginning point, and hospitals should
be looking at everything they can do to improve," she said during a press call
about the new scores.


Of the 2,539 hospitals issued a Hospital Safety Score, 813 earned an "A," 661
earned a "B," 893 earned a "C," 150 earned a "D" and 22 earned an "F."


Neighboring New Hampshire was among the states with the smallest percentage of A
hospitals, along with Arkansas, Nebraska and New Mexico.


Some hospital officials have complained about Leapfrog's methods, saying they
suspected they were penalized for failing to participate in Leapfrog's voluntary
surveys, which the group incorporates in its assessments. Leapfrog has said that
participation has no bearing on a hospital's grade and that the organization is
proud of its transparent ranking system.


Leapfrog's scores are part of a growing effort nationally to help consumers
become better-informed health care shoppers. The federal government also is
looking more closely at patient safety data, making a push through Medicare and
Medicaid to pay health care providers based on the quality of care they offer.


A number of nonprofit groups and companies have begun offering rankings on
hospital quality. Consumer Reports also rates the safety of hospitals, while
U.S. News and World Report singles out hospitals as national and regional
leaders for certain types of care and procedures.


Each outfit devises its own criteria and scoring formulas, so hospitals may
perform well on one while flopping on another. For instance, Consumer Reports
tabulates the number of patients who are readmitted to the hospital shortly
after being discharged, while Leapfrog doesn't.


Take Bangor's St. Joseph Hospital, which fell to a C in Leapfrog's new rankings
while nearby Eastern Maine Medical Center earned an A. In the Consumer Reports
ranking, St. Joseph bested EMMC.


To view hospital grades and their performance on each measure, visit
hospitalsafetyscore.org.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Bangor Daily News

