                              165 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                        Gulf News (United Arab Emirates)

                           January 28, 2015 Wednesday

Hospitals to have rankings

BYLINE: Suchitra Bajpai Chaudhary Senior Reporter

LENGTH: 410 words


Dubai: The Dubai Health Authority (DHA) will soon introduce ranking for
hospitals and services, quite like the five star rankings in hotels, to create
international standards in medical tourism.

Announcing this at the Arab Health Congress, Dr Layla Al Marzouqi, Director of
DHA's Medical Tourism initiative and Acting Director of the Medical Regulation
department, told Gulf News: "We will rank health-care facilities and have
already started the initiative. These rankings would be benchmarked against
international standards."

Among some of the criteria for rankings would be the performance, qualification
and experience of doctors, the rate of successful surgeries, rate of violations,
the capacity and quality of equipment, the ambience of the place, the
availability of translation services, the outcome of audits and other such
indicators. Based on these the hospital's services or the hospital will be
ranked and the results will be available on the Medical Tourism website. Any
patient applying for a treatment will be able to independently see this
evaluation and choose the service or the place accordingly.

Eisa Al Maidour, DHA Director-General, added that the prices of all services
would be competitive and comparable to worldwide standards once the ranking is
in place.

Dr Layla also announced the introduction of the medical tourism club which
currently comprises 30 members -- CEOs and managing partners of private
health-care facilities who are major stakeholders in the medical tourism
initiative. "The members will meet every month and will discuss various aspects
such as insurance, transparency and pricing, medical complaints procedure, etc."

She added that there is huge potential in the medical sector in Dubai and that
there are 10 hospitals in Dubai that are presently under construction, which
will add to the number of hospital beds in Dubai. "Some of the hospitals are
specialised hospitals, which means the doctors will be specialised or even
super-specialised. The growth in the medical sector is phenomenal. Over the
years, health-care groups that had clinics are moving towards building
hospitals, while those that have hospitals and now moving towards building
super-speciality hospitals. Some of the under-construction hospitals are
specialised hospitals for cancer, paediatrics etc. All this will further
strengthen the quality of health care provided in Dubai which, in turn, will
positively impact the medical tourism initiative."

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 57


               Copyright 2015 Gulf News - Al Nisr Publishing LLC.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved

