                              170 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    Cape Cod Times (Hyannis, Massachesetts)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            January 31, 2011 Monday

Tier system could increase insurance co-pays on Cape

BYLINE: Cynthia McCormick, Cape Cod Times, Hyannis, Mass.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 859 words


Jan. 31--Under a tier system being promoted by the state Legislature, patients
on at least two health plans would have to pay more for care at Cape Cod
Hospital in Hyannis than if they went to hospitals in Fall River or Brighton.

Tiered-plan programs ask insured individuals to pick up a bigger share of the
cost at certain hospitals and doctors' offices in exchange for lower premiums.

Insurers say they base the ranking system on quality and cost, but local
hospital officials say insurers really consider only costs.

And those officials argue that the trend toward charging patients higher co-pays
or deductibles at different hospitals is unfair to Cape Cod residents.

"It's not fair to your membership on the Cape," Jack Lipomi, senior vice
president of managed care at Cape Cod Healthcare Inc., the parent company of
Cape Cod and Falmouth hospitals, said.

It's not as though patients can walk across the street to another hospital, he
said.

"We have extremely high quality here," Lipomi said. "This is the part where I
really have a problem with the program."

Lipomi has talked to Blue Cross Blue Shield officials about ranking Cape Cod
Hospital as a "basic benefits" hospital, which is the lowest of three groups in
its Blue Options product, he said.

Cape Cod Hospital has higher costs because the local health care wage index is
high and because it must make up the cost of caring for a large population on
Medicare and Medicaid, he said. The reimbursement for those government-funded
programs doesn't cover the cost of care, which is passed on to commercial
carriers, he added.

But insurance companies argue the rankings are legitimate.

"The quality measures are nationally accepted measures," said Tara Murray,
spokeswoman for Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts. The rankings are based
on indicators that include the number of cases of surgical complications and
hospital-acquired infections, she said.

There is a level of quality hospitals must meet, she said. "Then we tier based
on cost."

The rankings directly affect patient pocketbooks.

For example, a Blue Options patient with no deductible who gets an MRI at Cape
Cod Hospital, which is in the "basic benefits tier," would pay $250, compared
with $150 at a "standard benefits" hospital such as Caritas Good Samaritan in
Brockton or $75 at an "enhanced benefits" hospital such as Caritas St. Elizabeth
Medical Center in Brighton.

Blue Options is marketed to employers who want to offer employees plans with
lower premiums, Murray said. "We want to provide choices to the employer
community," she said.

But tiering creates a lot of confusion, said Karen Granoff, senior director of
managed care policy of the Massachusetts Hospital Association. Rankings within a
single plan can change from year to year, and different insurers sometimes rank
the same hospitals differently, she said.

For instance, Cape Cod Hospital is listed in the lowest tiers for Blue Cross
Blue Shield Blue Options and for Harvard Pilgrim's Health Care Independence Plan
marketed to state employees and retirees.

But both Cape Cod and Falmouth hospitals' inpatient obstetric and adult
medical-surgical programs got top rankings from Tufts Health Plan's Navigator
plan, which means patients would pay the lowest co-pays out of three tiers.

The plans that also rank doctors heighten the confusion, Granoff said.

She referred to a case in which a patient paid a $25 co-pay to see a specialist
but had to pay $50 on a follow-up visit to see a lower-ranked partner in the
same practice.

Insurers and local hospital officials say the tiering program isn't selling all
that well on the Cape, although one woman called the Cape Cod Times to complain
about the Blue Options product.

"They're not forcing it on anybody," Lipomi said.

"I'm not sure we've really gotten many complaints on it," said Sharon Torgerson,
spokeswoman for Harvard Pilgrim Health Care.

The state Legislature wants to see insurers come up with more tiering products.

In health care legislation aimed at individuals and small businesses that went
into effect this month, all health carriers doing business in Massachusetts are
required to offer at least one tiered or "selective" network with a premium rate
at least 12 percent lower than the comprehensive network product.

"It's one of our fastest-growing products," Murray said.

But the unpopularity of tiered products on geographically isolated Cape Cod
means that section of the law won't promise much relief to Barnstable County
employers.

And employers on the Cape -- who are seeing premium increases of 20 percent to
50 percent -- are desperate for relief, said Wendy Northcross, executive
director of the Cape Cod Chamber of Commerce.

Blue Cross Blue Shield already was one of the higher-priced choices around, she
said. "They're all trying to figure out ways to skin the cat."

To see more of the Cape Cod Times, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.capecodonline.com. Copyright (c) 2011, Cape Cod Times, Hyannis, Mass.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20110131-CA-Tier-system-could-increase-insurance-co-pays-on-Cape-0131-20110131

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CA


                         Copyright 2011 Cape Code Times

