                              164 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             May 25, 2005 Wednesday
                    Flagler/palm Coast News-tribune Edition

Pretty Flagler hospital one of nations best

BYLINE: STAFF REPORT

SECTION: YOUR HEALTH; Pg. 12D

LENGTH: 306  words

DATELINE: PALM COAST


PALM COAST Florida Hospital Flagler is one of the prettiest hospitals in the
nation. And, according to a healthcare business information company, it also is
one of the nations best. The hospital was named one of the nations top 100
hospitals by Solucient in its latest National Benchmarks for Success study. The
study ranks hospitals of similar size in four performance areas: quality of
care; efficiency; financial performance; and growing community service. Hospital
officials were pleased with the study results.

This is the first time weve made the Solucient Top 100, said Eric Stevens, vice
president for operations at the Flagler County facility. Its a big deal.
Solucient is one of the largest and most prestigious benchmarking (companies)
looking at hospitals. Under the category of small community hospitals, Florida
Hospital Flagler out- performed facilities of similar size on several measures.
The hospitals average length of stay was 3.63 days, 11 percent shorter than at
other benchmark hospitals. The hospitals percentage of community served
increased over the study period compared to a slight drop for similar sized
facilities. Stevens said the ranking is a validation of the hospitals effort to
provide quality care for the community.

We put a great deal of emphasis on creating a high-quality facility, he said. It
compares very favorably with similar hospitals across the country. Stevens said
the high ranking also gives the Flagler facility a glimpse at how it compares
with other hospitals.

The road weve chosen to take has started to show successful returns, he said.
Stevens said the hospital will have a plaque to hang in the front lobby and will
put up a banner announcing the ranking but, for the most part, any celebrating
will be done internally with employees.

This ranking is a product of their work, he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caption: Florida Hospital Flagler is not just another pretty face. Its
also been rated by Solucient as one of the nations top 100 hospitals.File
photo/Brian Myrick

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2005 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2005 News-Journal Corporation

