                              169 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

Survey: Baptist among Florida's best hospitals;
Two Baptist locations also rated best among First Coast facilities

BYLINE: Charlie Patton

SECTION: Pg. B-2

LENGTH: 376 words


Baptist Medical Center Jacksonville and Baptist Medical Center South, which
share a license, are the highest-ranked hospitals in 2014 in Jacksonville and
the fourth-highest ranked hospital in Florida in the 25th annual U.S. News &
World Report's Best Hospitals rankings.

Baptist was nationally ranked in one speciality - 48th in endocrinology - and
had nine other high-performing specialties.

U.S. News ranks the top hospitals in 16 specialties from cancer to urology.

Here are the rankings for other Jacksonville-area hospitals:

- Mayo Clinic Florida: second in Jacksonville, eighth in the state, 12
high-performing specialties.

- UF Health Jacksonville: tied for third in Jacksonville, tied for 11th in the
state, nine high-performing specialties.

- St. Vincent's Medical Center Riverside: tied for third in Jacksonville, tied
for 11th in the state, nine high-performing specialties.

- St. Vincent's Medical Center Southside: fifth in Jacksonville, tied for 25th
in the state, one high-performing specialty.

- Flagler Hospital in St. Augustine: one high-performing speciality, tied for
25th in the state.

- Wolfson Children's Hospital: one nationally ranked specialty, 48th among
children's hospitals for pediatric neurology and neuroscience.

Hospitals that had no nationally ranked or high-performing specialities were not
ranked, although information about patient satisfaction rates is included in
U.S. News & World Report's Best Hospitals. A total of 144 of the approximately
5,000 U.S. hospitals evaluated were ranked in at least one specialty.

In a news release, U.S. News said that in evaluating hospitals, "the focus on
the most difficult patients has not changed."

For the first time, the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., claimed the No. 1 spot
in the overall rankings, followed by Massachusetts General Hospital and Johns
Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore. Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center is No. 1 in
cancer treatment and the Cleveland Clinic is No. 1 in cardiology and heart
surgery.

In the 2013 rankings, Baptist and the Mayo Clinic were tied for first in the
city and fourth in the state, each with one nationally ranked speciality and 10
high-performing specialties.

To see all the rankings, go to http://health.usnews.com.

Charlie Patton: (904) 359-4413

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Florida Times-Union

