                              171 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             Goshen News (Indiana)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          September 26, 2015 Saturday

Magazine ranks IU Goshen Hospital among best in Indiana

BYLINE: John Kline, Goshen News, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 836 words


Sept. 26--GOSHEN -- IU Health Goshen Hospital received a feather in its cap this
summer when U.S. News and World Report announced the hospital has been ranked
one of the best in the state for 2015-16.

Included as part of the 26th edition of the Best Hospitals list published by the
national magazine this past July, IU Health Goshen was ranked as the fifth-best
hospital in the state out of approximately 170 eligible hospitals.

"It was an excellent surprise," said IU Health Goshen President and Chief
Executive Officer Randy Christophel. "We didn't know it was coming, so it was a
complete surprise to us."

U.S. News looked at a number of criteria in the ranking including hospital
reputation, patient survival, patient safety and care-related factors such as
the amount of nurse staffing and the breadth of patient services.

According to the rankings, IU Health received a "high performing" rating in the
area of hip and knee replacement procedures.

"They're using publicly available data, so it's not something that we had to
submit or provide information for," Christophel said. "It's things they're
getting from the Medicare database, or billing information, outcomes data, etc.
They use that to generate their quality criteria and their outcomes criteria."

According to Ben Harder, chief of health analysis at U.S. News, the Best
Hospitals ranking utilizes consumer-friendly data and information with the
primary goal of helping patients with life-threatening or rare conditions
identify hospitals that excel in treating the most difficult cases.

"Patients deserve high-quality information on hospitals," Harder said in a
statement. "We strive to provide them with the most comprehensive data available
so they can make more informed decisions together with their doctor about where
to undergo treatment."

As for the impact of such rankings, Christophel said the affects are two-fold.

"For starters, it's great recognition for our physicians and other colleagues,"
Christophel said. "We know that they're doing excellent work, and to have an
outside organization say, 'You're doing great. You're doing excellent compared
to everybody else,' it's nice recognition for the physicians and colleagues."

Christophel said the rankings also help highlight areas where a hospital excels.

"The skills and capabilities in our orthopedic program are just exceptional and
growing," Christophel said. "Volumes are growing. Recognition is growing. That's
why we're adding new providers and new capacity."

Seven Indiana hospitals received either national or regional ranking from the
magazine, including Elkhart General Hospital.

Additional recognition

IU Health Goshen was also recognized for heart attack patient care, earning a
Platinum Performance Achievement Award for 2015 through the American College of
Cardiology's National Cardiovascular Data Registry.

The hospital was one of 319 nationwide to receive the honor out of a pool of
approximately 5,700. The award recognizes hospitals that consistently
demonstrate excellence in heart attack care by delivering timely, appropriate,
safe and defect free care.

It's the fourth year in a row the hospital has earned the award.

"Several years ago, we said we wanted to make Goshen the safest place in the
country to have a heart attack," said Mark Smucker, medical director of
cardiology services at the hospital. "This award, especially now that we have
received it for four years, means we are headed in the right direction. We are
pleased to see that the number of hospitals receiving this award is going up
each year. We find ourselves at the leading edge of a national movement for
positive change."

To receive the award the hospital was required to consistently follow treatment
guidelines set forth in the American College of Cardiology's ACTION Registry for
eight consecutive quarters and meet a 90 percent performance standard for
specific performance measures. Clinical guidelines assessed included:

--Quality of care provided to ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients

--Quality of care provided to non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients

--Patient safety

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a heart attack --
also called a myocardial infarction -- occurs when a blood clot in a coronary
artery partially or completely blocks blood flow to the heart muscle. The more
time that passes without treatment to restore blood flow, the greater the damage
to the heart muscle.

It's estimated more than 730,000 Americans suffer a heart attack each year.
That's approximately one heart attack every 43 seconds.

On the web

--For more information about Indiana's Best Hospitals rankings, visit the U.S.
News and World Report's Indiana rankings web page at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/area/in.

--To learn more about the signs and symptoms of a heart attack, visit
www.cdc.gov/heartdisease/signs_symptoms.htm.

___ (c)2015 the Goshen News (Goshen, Ind.) Visit the Goshen News (Goshen, Ind.)
at www.goshennews.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150926-GW-Magazine-ranks-IU-Goshen-Hospital
-among-best-in-Indiana-0926-20150926

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GW


                           Copyright 2015 Goshen News

