                              172 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 15, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

U.S. News & World Report: Inova Mount Vernon Hospital Among Best in Washington
DC Metro

LENGTH: 303  words


July 15 -- Inova Mount Vernon Hospital has been ranked #13 in the Washington,
DC, metro area by U.S. News & World Report 2014-15. The hospital also ranked as
high-performing in Orthopedics. The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings,
now in their 25th year, recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most
challenging patients.

"We are proud to remain among the top 15 hospitals in Washington, DC. The
largest joint replacement center in the area, our orthopedics department
continues to maintain its well-known excellence. We strive for quality of
service each and every day, providing the best possible care to our patients,"
said Deborah Addo, CEO, Inova Mount Vernon Hospital.

Inova Mount Vernon Hospital also ranked among the top 20 hospitals in Virginia.

For 2014-15, U.S. News evaluated hospitals in 16 adult specialties and ranked
the top 50 in most of the specialties. Just three percent of the nearly 5,000
hospitals that were analyzed for Best Hospitals 2014-15 earned national ranking
in even one specialty.

U.S. News also recognizes hospitals that perform nearly at the level of their
nationally ranked peers and represent valuable regional sources of quality care.

"The data tell the story - a hospital that emerged from our analysis as one of
the best has much to be proud of," says U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery
Comarow. "A Best Hospital has demonstrated its expertise in treating the most
challenging patients."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition or extra risk because of age or multiple health problems. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, adequacy of nurse staffing
levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most specialties.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

