                              16 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                             April 29, 2014 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL HAS 'A' FOR SAFETY;
COMPUTER SYSTEM USED TO TRACK MEDICINES LIFTS GRADE

BYLINE:  Tom Corwin  Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 578 words


If Augusta's hospitals were in school, University Hospital would be at the top
of the class in safety, according to one group's rankings.

The Leapfrog Group released its Hospital Safety Score today for more than 2,500
acute care hospitals in the U.S., assigning them a letter grade based on 28
different safety processes and outcome measures, such as hospital-acquired
infections.

University got an "A" in the interim report after getting a "C" in October in
the previous ranking. Doctors Hospital and Georgia Regents Medical Center
maintained their "C" grades. Trinity Hospital of Augusta was not included in the
rankings because of problems transmitting its data, spokeswoman Rachel Covar
said.

Doctors Hospital noted in a statement that there are many groups grading or
rating hospitals and pointed to its ranking as a Top Performer by the Joint
Commission last year, as was Trinity. Georgia Regents issued a statement saying
that the Leapfrog ranking was "one of many tools patients may use when making
health care decisions," and advised patients to use many sources, including
physicians and family, when choosing a provider.

A big reason University's grade improved was the validation of its computerized
prescriber order entry system in its Epic information technology system, which
passed a live test by a Leapfrog vendor in December to see if it could flag
medications that should not be taken together or that would be contradicted by a
patient's lab tests, said Ed Burr, the senior vice president for legal affairs
and compliance officer for University.

University got a 5 for its computerized prescription service in October but got
the full 100 points after the validation, he said.

"Epic was the big driver in this," Burr said.

Improvement in that area, often referred to by its acronym CPOE, is part of a
national trend that Leapfrog was pleased to see, said Missy Danforth, the senior
director for hospital ratings at Leapfrog.

"We've seen a big uptick in hospitals' performance on the CPOE measure," she
said.

University was one of 17 in Georgia to earn an A out of 64 hospitals ranked, and
the state came in 24th in the percentage of hospitals that got the top ranking.
Overall, the number of A hospitals declined from 813 in the previous ranking to
804 in the current review.

"It's not getting easier to get into that club, it is getting harder," Burr
said.

The rankings do not include specialty or Critical Access Hospitals, and many
smaller hospitals that do not have a large intensive care unit will not have
enough data in the categories used in the ranking and thus are not included,
Danforth said.

The rankings are important because many unintended errors still occur daily in
U.S. hospitals and harm patients, said Leapfrog CEO Leah Binder. She pointed to
a recent New England Journal of Medicine estimate that 1 in 25 patients acquires
an infection while in the hospital.

"That's just one more reason that more than 1,000 people die every day from
preventable medical errors," Binder said.

That also drives up costs, which are passed on to the payers. Leapfrog works
with 40 different business coalitions to look at these preventable errors and
their costs and provide transparency about how hospitals perform, Binder said.

"They're interested in what are the things that drive the cost of health care
and I think they have made a good bet that it is avoidable complications," Burr
said.

Reach Tom Corwin at (706) 823-3213

or tom.corwin@augustachronicle.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2014 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


