                              176 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   Tonawanda News (North Tonawanda, New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            January 28, 2011 Friday

Catholic Health garners top state ranking

BYLINE: David J. Hill, Tonawanda News, North Tonawanda, N.Y.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 424 words


Jan. 28--Catholic Health System, which operates Kenmore Mercy Hospital and three
others in Western New York, was named the top integrated health network in the
state.

The list of the nation's most integrated health care networks -- the 2011 SDI
IHN 100 -- was published in a recent issue of Modern Healthcare magazine.

In addition to being tops in New York, Catholic Health ranks third in the
Northeast and 30th in the nation.

"A significant amount of effort has gone into this achievement...and we are
thrilled that we have moved up in the rankings and acknowledged as one of the
best health care systems in the nation," Kenmore Mercy Hospital President and
CEO Jim Millard said.

"This recognition is one more affirmation of the work all our associates and
physicians at Kenmore Mercy Hospital and all of Catholic Health do to redesign
our health care model and improve care, access and quality for our patients,"
Millard added.

This is the fourth consecutive year Catholic Health has made the SDI IHN 100
list. Catholic Health jumped 21 places since last year's No. 51 national ranking
.

"Our consistent improvement over the last four years is another indicator that
we continue to progress as a high performing health system," said Joseph
McDonald, Catholic Health's president and CEO. "The bar moved even higher in
this year's rankings, as we compete among the best health systems nationally."

The ranking honors the most integrated health care networks in the nation. The
networks are graded on operations, quality, range of services offered and
efficiency. In all, 576 health care systems nationwide were evaluated. Sentara
Healthcare in Norfolk, Va., topped the list.

Catholic Health has improved significantly in the rankings since it first
cracked the top 100 several years ago, ranking 96th. A year later it moved up to
64th.

Catholic Health officials said third-party rankings such as the SDI IHN 100 list
helps the organization measure itself against national benchmarks.

The survey is conducted by SDI Health, a health care data and consulting firm
based in Plymouth Meeting, Pa.

Kaleida Health, which operates DeGraff Memorial Hospital in North Tonawanda,
ranked 87th on the national list.

To see more of the Tonawanda News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.tonawanda-news.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, Tonawanda News, North
Tonawanda, N.Y. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110128-TT-Catholic-Health-garners-top-state-ranking-0128-20110128

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TT


                         Copyright 2011 Tonawanda News

