                              181 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                              June 6, 2011 Monday

Study: Hospital rankings might mislead patients

BYLINE: ERIK HOGSTROM TH staff writer ehogstrom@wcinet.com

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 819 words


choosing a hospital If not by publication or Internet ratings, how can patients
choose the best hospital? "The first step is to make sure the hospital actually
has the services you need -- not all hospitals are created equal," said Russell
Knight, president and CEO of Mercy Medical Center-Dubuque. "A second step -- in
noncritical situations -- is to consult with trusted caregivers, such as
physicians, nurses, therapists, pharmacists, etc. They often have great insight
into hospital performance. Of course, most patients will want to choose a
hospital where their preferred physician is comfortable practicing. Another step
is to verify insurance coverage.

Relatively few health plans in our area have restricted networks, but some do,
so it is worth a phone call to the hospital business office, the health plan or
the employer's human resources department to find out if any restrictions
apply." Hospital rating services recently took issue with a published medical
report suggesting publicly marketed rankings often fail to identify all
hospitals of equal quality. The study in the Archives of Surgery found little
difference in mortality rates for three cancer procedures performed at either
hospitals highly rated by private services or other high-volume hospitals. The
study shows for three types of cancer surgery, "America's 50 Best Hospitals" as
ranked by Internet-based HealthGrades, are no better than the other hospitals
once the number of patients they treat is taken into account. Based on U.S. News
& World Report rankings, the Top 50 hospitals trumped the rest on just one
surgery: removal of the colon or part of it. "Our findings show that both
ratings fail to identify equally well-performing hospitals of similar volume,"
Dr. Nicholas Osborne, of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, and colleagues
write in the study. "Because these ratings list only a selected number of best
hospitals," the researchers add, "these consumer aids may dissuade patients from
seeking care at a closer, high-volume, equal-quality hospital." HealthGrades
disagrees. "While we're encouraged by the study authors' attempt to help
patients find accurate quality information, in this case the study may have the
opposite effect and might actually discourage patients from getting the
information they need to make critically important health care decisions," said
Dr. Rick May, vice president of HealthGrades' Accelerated Clinical Excellence.
Hospitals often tout their services by highlighting accreditation, rankings and
awards, but do patients know what these accolades mean? Here is a look at all
three: Accreditation An accreditation is a certification of competency, often
bestowed after a comprehensive survey process. An organization called the Joint
Commission has accredited hospitals for more than 60 years. Approximately 4,168
hospitals hold accreditation through the program. "Accreditation is important,"
said Russell Knight, president and CEO of Mercy Medical Center-Dubuque. "It is
based on rigorous published standards and is granted only after an on-site
survey and assessment of the organization's performance in relation to those
standards. It's possible for consumers to gain some insight into the quality of
a hospital by investigating its accreditation status." Rankings Hospitals are
ranked in various ways. "Finley's patient-care quality performance metrics are
utilized by numerous government and private health-care rating resources that
publish public data to assist patients in selecting a quality hospital," said
David Brandon, the Dubuque hospital's president and CEO. Consumer Reports,
HealthGrades, Thomson-Reuters and U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals are
among the organizations that routinely rate or rank hospitals. Some of these are
completely independent ratings of hospital performance. Others are rating
services purchased by the hospitals. "Patients should consider the data and
methodology of each before using the rankings to select a hospital," said Sal
Bognanni, executive director of Iowa Health System's Center for Clinical
Transformation, which works with senior affiliate The Finley Hospital to improve
patient care. The "Hospital Compare" service provided by Medicare offers a type
of rating, too. "With regard to this last example, consumers can quickly and
easily construct side-by-side comparisons of hospital performance on many key
indicators of quality, safety and satisfaction," Knight said. The Medicare
service is located online at www. hospitalcompare.hhs.gov. Awards "We receive
literally dozens of awards each year," Knight said. "Most are never brought to
the public's attention because we would be required to pay a fee for the
privilege of advertising them." Knight puts less stock in awards that are
purchased than in awards that are non-commercialized. "But it's virtually
impossible for the general public to know which is which," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

