                              182 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Decatur Daily (Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 16, 2009 Wednesday

Parkway: Ranking just a start

BYLINE: Deangelo McDaniel, The Decatur Daily, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 496 words


Sep. 16--Amidst the celebratory cheers Tuesday, Parkway Medical Center Chief
Executive Officer Tim McGill was thinking about the future.

It wasn't that he wasn't proud Data Advantage ranked Parkway among the top 1
percent of hospitals in the nation.

It wasn't that 28th national ranking among 4,500 hospitals for quality,
efficiency, affordability and patient satisfaction didn't make him smile.

It's just he realized there are more challenges for the investor-owned hospital
that opened on the Beltline in 1974.

That's one of the reasons McGill and Capella Healthcare President Tom Anderson
said the national ranking was a beginning, not at end.

For now, McGill and Anderson said they want area residents to know they don't
have to travel outside Decatur for good health care.

"It's right here at Parkway," McGill said, just moments before hospital
officials lowered a huge banner reading: "#28 Decatur's nationally ranked
hospital."

About 400 people, including hospital employees, public officials and community
leaders, cheered when McGill announced Parkway's ranking.

"This places us at the top tier and it's all because of you," McGill said to
employees.

After the announcement, Anderson talked about Parkway's future that includes
expansion.

He said the hospital is looking at constructing a medical complex to house
between eight and 12 new physicians.

"We owe it to the community to continue to look at providing quality service and
we're committed to doing that," Anderson said.

McGill said the complex will allow Parkway to expand services such as cardiac
rehabilitation, wound care and a sleep center.

"This will also allow for the opportunity to recruit new physicians," the CEO
said.

The proposals will expand on changes Parkway made since Capella acquired the
hospital in 2007.

In keeping with the national trend, Parkway opened an outpatient surgery unit in
April.

The unit has four suites with the capacity to treat 10 patients. McGill said
outpatient surgery is up 4 percent during the same period in 2008.

Another significant change came in June with the addition of what Parkway calls
the fast track emergency room the hospital operates Saturday through Monday.

The goal is to make sure every patient who comes through the emergency room is
screened and receiving services within 30 minutes.

McGill said the process has allowed Parkway to streamline patients with minor
problems and keep patients with more serious injuries waiting less.

"We've been pleased and we'll evaluate it at the end of six months," he said.
"Our overall goal is to improve patient access."

To see more of The Decatur Daily, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.decaturdaily.com Copyright (c) 2009, The Decatur Daily, Ala.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090916-DD-Parkway-Ranking-just-a-start-0916

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DD


                        Copyright 2009 The Decatur Daily

