                              17 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Journal-News (Hamilton, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday

Butler County hospitals move up in U.S. News ranking

BYLINE: Hannah Poturalski, Journal-News, Hamilton, Ohio

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 629 words


July 15--BUTLER COUNTY -- Two Butler County hospitals are among the state's best
for treating patients with the most life-threatening and rare conditions,
according to a new national ranking of hospitals released today.

U.S. News & World Report's 25th edition of Best Hospitals has placed West
Chester Hospital and Fort Hamilton Hospital among the state's and region's top
performers.

For 2014-15, U.S. News evaluated nearly 5,000 hospitals in 16 adult specialties
-- with just 3 percent of those hospitals earning a national ranking in a
specialty.

The analysis is based mostly on death rates for patients who represent
especially challenging cases, as well as marks for patient safety and other
measures of performance that can be assessed using hard data. U.S. News also
uses an annual reputational survey of physicians who are asked to name hospitals
they consider the best in their specialty for difficult cases, according to U.S.
News.

The UC Health-operated West Chester Hospital has ranked seventh in the
Cincinnati metro area and 24th in Ohio.

Fort Hamilton Hospital, owned by Kettering Health, ranked eighth in the
Cincinnati region and 29th in Ohio.

"This ranking is a distinct honor," said Mark Smith, president of Fort Hamilton
Hospital. "To be recognized as one of the best hospitals in the Cincinnati metro
area and the state shows that residents in Hamilton do not need to travel far to
receive quality care."

The 12 data-dependent specialties are cancer; cardiology and heart surgery;
diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat; gastroenterology and
gastrointestinal surgery; geriatrics; gynecology; nephrology; neurology and
neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology, and urology.

The four reputation-only specialties are ophthalmology, psychiatry,
rehabilitation and rheumatology.

"U.S. News strives to provide patients and their families with the most
comprehensive data available on hospitals," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News health
rankings editor. "With an estimated 400,000 deaths occurring in hospitals each
year from medical errors, measuring safety performance is critical to
understanding how well a hospital cares for its patients."

Hospitals not nationally ranked in a specialty but with scores in the top 25
percent of the analyzed centers are recognized as high performing.

Fort Hamilton Hospital was recognized as high performing in the areas of
neurology and neurosurgery and pulmonology.

West Chester Hospital received high-performing marks in gastroenterology and
gastrointestinal surgery, geriatrics, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

Dr. Kevin Joseph, president and chief executive officer at West Chester
Hospital, said the five-year-old hospital moved up two spots this year, from
26th in the region last year to now 24th.

"We always focus on quality, safety and service, that's not changed," Joseph
said, but the hospital has added service lines of bariatric surgery, a trauma
center and surgical intensive care unit. "It's nice to get this validation of
excellent care."

Joseph said the ranking from U.S. News is just "one tool in the toolbox" for
community members to use in making their health care decisions. Other rankings
are published annually by groups including The Leapfrog Group and Healthgrades.

"Health care overall is becoming more transparent with data," Joseph said.

Other regional hospitals that made top marks include: TriHealth's Bethesda North
Hospital (third in Ohio) and Good Samaritan Hospital (seventh in Ohio); The
Christ Hospital (eighth in Ohio); and University of Cincinnati Medical Center
(tied for eighth in Ohio).

The rankings are available online at www.usnews.com.

___ (c)2014 the Journal-News (Hamilton, Ohio) Visit the Journal-News (Hamilton,
Ohio) at www.journal-news.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140715-HL-Butler-County-hospitals-move-up-in-U-S-News-ranking
-0715-20140715

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HL


                        Copyright 2014 The Journal-News


