                              174 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                             August 21, 2016 Sunday
                               City Times Edition

MOFFITT CANCER CENTER RANKED NO. 6 HOSPITAL IN NATION FOR CANCER CARE

SECTION: TAMPA TRIBUNE; YOUR NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 450 words


Moffitt Cancer Center was recently ranked sixth on U.S. News & World Report's
Best Hospitals for Cancer rankings, which were released Aug. 2. This is up from
being ranked 18th last year and makes Moffitt the top-ranked hospital for cancer
care in the southeast and in Florida. The national Best Hospitals rankings
recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients, such
as those whose illnesses include underlying conditions, difficult procedures and
other medical issues. Moffitt has been nationally ranked by U.S. News & World
Report since 1999. Of the 902 hospitals evaluated for cancer care in the United
States, Moffitt's ranking places it in the top 1 percent.

* * *

Tampa General ranked No. 1 hospital in Tampa metro area

Tampa General Hospital was recently ranked the top hospital in the Tampa metro
area and one of the top 50 hospitals nationally in six medical specialties by
U.S. News & World Report. The hospital was ranked nationally in six medical
specialties: cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery, nephrology, pulmonology and
urology. Tampa General also received high performing ratings in three medical
specialties: geriatrics, neurology and neurosurgery and orthopedics. The annual
U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in its 27th year, recognize hospitals
that excel in treating the most challenging patients. The rankings help guide
patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 25 specialities,
procedures and conditions. For 2016-2017, 153 hospitals were ranked in at least
one specialty, while 1,628 received a high performing rating in one or more
specialties, procedures or conditions.

* * *

Tampa student attends, graduates from Space Academy in Alabama

James Le of Tampa recently attended and graduated from Space Academy at the U.S.
Space & Rocket Center in Huntsville, Ala. The weeklong education program
promotes science, technology, engineering and math while training students and
adults with hands-on activities and missions based on teamwork, leadership and
problem-solving. Le was part of the program specifically designed for trainees
who have a particular interest in space exploration. He spent the week training
with a team that flew a simulated space mission to the International Space
Station. Once aboard the International Space Station, the crew participated in
experiments and successfully complete a spacewalk. Space Camp operates
year-round and uses astronaut training techniques to engage trainees in
real-world applications of STEM subjects. Students sleep in quarters designed to
resemble the Space Station and train in simulators like those used by NASA.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO - Courtesy of Eileen Sengstock: Apollo Beach Woman's Club
presents new board: Apollo Beach Woman's Club named its board members for
2016-17. The club was founded in 1959 and has a membership of about 150. It
meets once a month and its mission is to provide scholarships and make
charitable contributions to families needing assistance. Pictured are Phyllis
Elsberry, parliamentarian; Stephanie Betz, president; Katherine Cintron, first
vice president of programs; Claudia Gassett, second vice president of
membership; Sharon Vasquez, third vice president of membership meetings; Barbara
Allaert and Nancy Vance, treasurer. Incoming secretary Cynthia Lee was absent.
PHOTO - Courtesy of Jay Sparkman: Sun City Center Interfaith Council presents
grant to veterans group for VA Hospital transportation: Linda Maslyk, vice
president of the Sun City Center Interfaith Council presents a check to Mike
Albanese of the SCC Disabled American Veterans to support van service to
transport veterans to James A. Haley VA Hospital in Tampa. Also pictured, from
left, are Jim Schwartz, Bob Gerdes and Darrell Katz. PHOTO - Courtesy of Suzanne
House: Local vegan organization donates food to Feed-A-Bull food pantry: Suzanne
House and Trevor Chin of Florida Voices for Animals stopped by the Feed-A-Bull
food pantry at the University of South Florida to deliver several large boxes of
nutritious vegan food. Feed-A-Bull was created to address food insecurity by
providing supplemental food to enrolled students in need. Florida Voices for
Animals is a nonprofit organization in the Tampa Bay area that is dedicated to
exposing animal abuse and promoting a vegan lifestyle. PHOTO - Courtesy of Kelly
Flannery: South Tampa Chamber of Commerce hosts new teachers at annual breakfast
banquet: The South Tampa Chamber of Commerce welcomed 130 new Area 1 teachers
and principals at its annual New Teachers Breakfast on Aug. 5. Teachers were
greeted by Hillsborough County Commissioner Sandy Murman, Area 1 superintendent
Lisa Yost, school board member Sally Harris and Tampa city council members Harry
Cohen and Guido Maniscalco. The keynote speaker was superintendent Jeff Eakins.
Each teacher was presented with a gift bag filled with school supplies donated
by chamber members. The principals received gift bags provided by Hyde Park
Village and centerpieces made from school supplies donated by the Tampa Bay Arts
& Education Network. The Tampa Bay Rays also donated 100 backpacks filled with
supplies from the chamber that will be given to South Tampa students later this
month. The event is hosted each year by the chamber's Education Committee, which
acts as a liaison between the business community and local schools. In addition
to the annual breakfast the committee provides volunteers for the Great American
Teach-In and has a scholarship program open to graduating seniors from Plant and
Robinson high schools. PHOTO - Courtesy of Marcia Smith: Orange Blossom Garden
Club awards annual scholarship winner: The Orange Blossom Garden Club held its
end-of-the-year luncheon at Ulele in June. The club announced its annual
scholarship winner, Alexandra Garner, and presented her with a check for $500.
She is a graduate of Lennard High School and will attend Santa Fe College for
her associate's degree, then transfer to the University of Florida to major in
plant science. Garner's goal is to become a plant pathologist working with the
UF Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences. She would like to someday open
an ornamental plant nursery.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

