                              177 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             July 15, 2010 Thursday
                                 SECOND EDITION

Medical centers here climb in U.S. rankings Barnes-Jewish, WU School of Medicine
rank No. 8.

BYLINE: BY CYNTHIA BILLHARTZ GREGORIAN cbillhartz@post-dispatch.com >
314-340-8114

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 398 words

DATELINE: 0


Barnes-Jewish Hospital and Washington University School of Medicine continue
climbing U.S. News & World Report's Honor Roll of America's Best Hospitals. This
year, they're ranked eighth, up from ninth last year and 12th in 2008.

Only 14 hospitals and medical institutions out of 4,852 nationwide made the
Honor Roll. Barnes-Jewish is the only one in Missouri to make it for the 18th
consecutive year.

The list is reserved for medical centers with high rankings in at least six
specialties, and Barnes Jewish ranked in the top 10 in 15 of them: orthopedics,
pulmonology, diabetes and endocrinology, kidney disorders, ear, nose and throat,
neurology & neurosurgery. Eight other specialties at the hospital made the top
20.

To be considered for the list, hospitals must meet at least one of the following
four criteria: be a teaching hospital, or be affiliated with a medical school;
have at least 200 beds; have 100 or more beds and the availability of four or
more types of technology considered important for a high-quality medical
facility such as a PET/CT scanner and certain precision radiation therapies.

Next, the hospitals had to meet a volume requirement, individually calculated
for each specialty.

This narrows the pool of eligible candidates to about 1,800 hospitals.

According to Avery Comarow, health rankings editor for U.S. News & World Report,
an independent research company in North Carolina, the Research Triangle
Institute, manages the survey, collects data and crunches the numbers.

Among other things, Comarow said, "they factor in death rates, reputation,
patient safety and a set of quality-related measures including volume, number of
nurses and the amount of technology that we consider important in that
specialty."

Being a nurse magnet hospital also affected rankings, he added.

"We don't include patient satisfaction because there aren't any studies that
show that how happy patients are with a hospital has anything to do with quality
of care," Comarow said.

The magazine ranked St. Louis University Hospital 21st for geriatrics.

"We've been rated high consistently for geriatrics since the rankings began,"
said Laura Keller, director of communications for SLU Hospital. "And geriatrics
encompasses a host of disciplines so it's really special for us."

The guide is available online at usnews.com/besthospitals. The August issue of
the magazine hits the newsstands July 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2010 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

