                              180 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            October 6, 2016 Thursday

Study: Hospital rankings may rely on faulty data

LENGTH: 1281  words

DATELINE: New York



 Washington: American Association for the Advancement of Science has issued the
following news release:



 The October 2016 issue of The Joint Commission Journal on Quality and Patient
Safety, features the article "Consumer Rankings and Health Care: Toward
Validation and Transparency" by Bala Hota, MD, MPH, and co-authors, Rush
University Medical Center (RUMC), Chicago. After RUMC received a lower than
expected ranking for patient safety in the 2015-16 U.S. News & World Report's
(USNWR) "Best Hospitals" rankings, the authors compared the data that USNWR used
for their hospital to their own internal data.





 The authors found that the USNWR data showed many more patient safety events,
such as pressure ulcers, almost all of which had actually been present at the
patient's admission. Suspecting a broader problem, Hota et al. analyzed data on
a sample of hospitals and found that RUMC was not the only organization with
discrepancies in data. False-positive event rates were common among
high-transfer and high-volume hospitals.



 The authors conclude more transparency and validation is needed for
consumer-based benchmarking methods. In response to these findings and concerns
raised by others, USNWR made changes to its methodology and data sources in
2016.



 In an accompanying editorial, "The Quality Measurement Crisis: An Urgent Need
for Methodological Standards and Transparency," David M. Shahian, MD, Elizabeth
Mort, MD, MPH, and Peter J. Pronovost, MD, PhD, reflect on the Hota et al.
article to conclude, "Just as health care providers have ethical and moral
responsibilities to the public they serve, rating organizations and journalists
that grade providers have similar obligations--in their case, to ensure measure
validity and methodological transparency."



 RUMC further explored the importance of rating organization's validity and
methodological transparency in the following essay, "Hospital Rankings Have Room
for Improvement



 Hospital Rankings Have Room for Improvement



 Hospitals that care for sickest of sick found to be unfairly ranked



 When consumers make what can be life-or-death decisions about where to seek
health care, they often look to the numerous online hospital rating services
that are available, including the government-sponsored Hospital Compare,
Consumer Reports, and Leapfrog.



 Rating hospital quality is not as simple as rating the quality of a car,
though. One reason is that patients vary in terms of how sick they are when they
arrive at the hospital or undergo surgery. Older patients with multiple health
problems or advanced diseases are more likely to develop an infection or
complication than younger, healthier patients -- even though they receive the
same quality of care.



 The best hospital rating systems try to account for severity of illness.
However, a Rush data expert's recent analysis of U.S. News & World Report's
"Best Hospitals" rankings shows that these rating systems often are dependent on
faulty data sets and performance metrics.



 Something didn't add up



 Rush University Medical Center consistently has scored high on patient safety
measures, according to most rankings. In fact, Rush University Medical Center
has received nine consecutive "A" grades for safety from the Leapfrog Group,
putting it among fewer than 100 hospitals in the country that have received the
highest possible grade each time since Leapfrog began issuing the semi-annual
ratings in 2012.



 But last year U.S. News "Best Hospitals" issue gave Rush the publication's
lowest ranking for patient safety (one out of five). To learn what was behind
the discrepancy, Rush's quality team - Tom Webb, Bala Hota, MD, MPH, and Omar
Lateef, DO - dug into the U.S. News data and methodology.



 "When we compared the data that U.S. News used for our hospital to our own
internal data, we found big differences," says Hota, Rush's chief research
informatics officer. "U.S. News showed many more patient safety events than our
actual rates."



 For example, U.S. News data showed that 25 patients at Rush had developed
pressure ulcers, or bed sores, over a particular time period. In fact, only one
patient had developed a pressure ulcer while at Rush.



 Suspecting a broader problem, they analyzed data on a sample of hospitals and
found that Rush was not the only organization inaccurately unfairly ranked. Hota
reported the results of his study in the October issue of the Joint Commission
Journal on Quality and Patient Safety.



 High demand for hospitals' services skew safety scores down



 Two hospital characteristics tended to negatively skew U.S. News patient safety
scores: Taking care of large numbers of patients (i.e., high volumes) or
admitting a high percentage of patients transferred from other hospitals.



 Webb, Hota and Lateef found that the U.S. News data set was missing key
information, such as whether patients with pressure ulcers had these sores when
they were admitted to Rush. If conditions were present prior to arrival, Rush
should not have been penalized.



 Large referral hospitals such as Rush, which provide highly specialized care
for the sickest patients and most complex conditions, also tend to have high
volumes and high transfer rates. "Rush is the biggest transfer center in
Illinois," Hota says. "If somebody is sick in a community hospital and not
getting better, that hospital knows Rush is a reliable place to transfer the
patient to."



 'Data is not perfect'



 Rush notified U.S. News about the Rush findings in 2015and U.S. News made some
revisions to its data methodology. As a result, Rush's patient safety score
increased to four out of a possible five in the 2016-2017 U.S. News ratings
released in August.



 "U.S. News was very responsive to our findings, and the Rush community should
take pride in the fact that we take care of very sick patients very well," says
Lateef, Rush's chief medical officer. "When you adjust for patient acuity
(severity of patients' conditions), our outcomes data are among the best in the
country."



 The Rush analysis of the U.S. News ratings confirms what many experts have
suspected. "People have argued and theorized that if you take care of a lot of
very sick people or have a lot of transfers, then the data could be biased,"
Hota says. "This study proves that. It shows that data is not perfect, and
misunderstandings in the data can negatively portray a hospital."



 Acknowledging that hospital rankings have room for improvement, U.S. News is
convening a panel of experts in November to discuss how to better evaluate
hospital quality, safety and performance, according to a press release.



 Transparency Is a Two-Way Street



 Lateef and Hota, and the quality team believe that right now the rules used by
hospital rating systems are too complex for most consumers to navigate. That's
why they are urging U.S. News and other hospital rating systems to be more
transparent about how they rate hospital quality, so that individual hospitals
can validate the accuracy of their scores and work with the rating organization
to adjust the scores as appropriate.



 "The companies that are producing these ratings have to be more transparent,"
Hota says. "Their methodology should be reproducible and easily understood."



 In the meantime, Rush will continue to measure, track, and share patient safety
data rigorously, and use that date to drive improvements to make Rush's care
even safer. "We consider quality to be the most important part of patient care,"
Lateef says. "We believe in being transparent about quality so we can continue
marching towards improvement."





 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

