                              183 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 21, 2012 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

John Muir Health: U.S. News & World Report Ranks John Muir Health's Medical
Centers among Bay Area, State and Nation's Best

LENGTH: 599  words


New Delhi, July 21 -- John Muir Medical Center, Walnut Creek has been ranked one
of the nation's top hospitals for the sixth straight year by U.S. News & World
Report in its annual list of America's Best Hospitals. John Muir Medical Center,
Walnut Creek was ranked in the Top 50 in Orthopedics, Gastroenterology and
Gynecology, making the medical center one of the top-ranked facilities on the
West Coast in those specialties and the only non-academic medical center in
northern California to appear in the Top 50. Fewer than 150 hospitals are
nationally ranked in at least one of 16 medical specialties.

In addition to the national rankings, U.S. News & World Report published state
and metropolitan hospital rankings. John Muir Medical Center, Walnut Creek is
listed at #2 out of 45 hospitals in the San Francisco-Oakland area and #7 out of
nearly 400 acute care hospitals in California. John Muir Medical Center, Concord
is listed at #3 locally and #18 in the state. In total, the two hospitals had 22
services nationally ranked or rated as high performing, including Cancer,
Cardiology & Heart Surgery, Diabetes & Endocrinology, Gastroenterology,
Geriatrics, Gynecology, Nephrology, Neurology & Neurosurgery, Orthopedics,
Pulmonology and Urology.

"John Muir Health's commitment to high-quality care and a superior patient
experience are reflected in the rankings by U.S. News & World Report," said
Irving Pike, M.D., Chief Medical Officer at John Muir Health. "We have set the
bar high and will continue to offer a broad range of services not usually found
at community hospitals so residents can stay close to home for the very best
care."

"We are proud to be ranked among the region, state and nation's best," said Jane
Willemsen, president and chief administrative officer of John Muir Medical
Center, Walnut Creek. "These distinctions are a testament to John Muir Health's
team of incredible doctors, nurses, staff and volunteers who every day are
dedicated to advancing our community's health."

"We have invested significantly in our community through the building of new
patient care towers at both medical centers to be able to care for our patients
for generations to come," said Mike Thomas, president and chief administrative
officer at John Muir Medical Center, Concord. "We look forward to continuing to
deliver the excellent care and experience our patients expect and deserve."

According to U.S. News & World Report, the national and high-performing rankings
showcase only 15 percent of the nation's nearly 5,000 hospitals. The hospital
rankings, said U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow, are like a
GPS-type aid to help steer patients to hospitals with strong skills in the
procedures and medical conditions that present the biggest challenges. "All of
these hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your list
when you need the best care," said Comarow. "They are where other hospitals send
the toughest cases."

Between the two medical centers in Concord and Walnut Creek, John Muir Health
has 892 licensed beds. John Muir Medical Center, Walnut Creek also serves as the
designated trauma center for Contra Costa County. In addition, the health system
offers a network of 930 primary care and specialty physicians to care for
patients.

The complete rankings and methodology are available at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals. Highlights of the 2012-13 rankings will
appear in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook, available in August.

To learn more about John Muir Health's award-winning programs and services,
visit: www.johnmuirhealth.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

