                              184 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       October 8, 2012 Monday 6:30 AM EST

CHOP Achieves High Rankings as an IT Innovator

LENGTH: 383  words


New Delhi, Oct. 8 -- The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia achieved high
rankings in the annual information technology (IT) rankings announced this week
by the industry publication InformationWeek. The Hospital ranked among both the
top 10 innovators in the healthcare industry, and on the list of Top 20 Great
Ideas, for defining and streamlining clinicians' access to electronic health
records, while keeping those records secure.



CHOP one of only three children's hospitals in overall list of top 250
organizations

The InformationWeek 500 annually lists the leading IT innovators in the U.S.
This year, the rankings placed The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) as
ninth within the healthcare industry and as number 51 overall. In the overall
list, CHOP was one of only three children's hospitals in the top 250
organizations.

"We are extremely proud that our team's efforts to improve the usability and
security of our electronic health records system were acknowledged by this
respected national organization," said Bryan A. Wolf, MD, PhD, senior vice
president and chief information officer at The Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia.

Unconventional approaches to solving complex problems with IT highlighted among
top ranked institutions

"The InformationWeek 500 has recognized the most innovative users of business
technology for 24 years, and this year's innovations were particularly
impressive," said InformationWeek Editor in Chief Rob Preston. "What the editors
looked for are unconventional approaches-new technologies, new models, new ways
of grabbing business opportunities and solving complex business problems with
IT."

Under the heading of "20 Great Ideas to Steal in 2012," InformationWeek praised
CHOP's success in implementing a challenging IT project adapted to the needs of
9,000 users with nearly 500 different roles within the Hospital's Care Network.
The publication praised CHOP's role-based security system, which permits access
to specific portions of health records based on each user's clinically defined
role. The system allows each clinician appropriate access to records, no matter
where the individual may move within CHOP's network. "The system combines
flexible access to information with proper safeguards on the availability of
protected data," added Wolf.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

