                              18 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Ocala Star-Banner (Florida)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            April 18, 2015 Saturday

Medicare ranks hospitals for patient satisfaction

BYLINE: Fred Hiers, Ocala Star-Banner, Fla.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 498 words


April 18--Munroe Regional Medical Center and Ocala Health's two hospitals scored
among some of the lowest ranking hospitals for patient satisfaction in a recent
government health care survey.

Ocala Regional Medical Center/West Marion Community, which were graded together,
and Munroe both received two stars out of a possible five in a rating system
created by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, the government agency
that oversees those health programs.

The new rating reflects patient feedback about their hospital stay and covers
such issues as how attentive nurses were, how communicative doctors were and how
clean hospital rooms and restrooms were during the patient's stay.

The CMS website is intended for "consumers to choose a hospital and understand
the quality of care they deliver," according to an agency statement.

The site also allows consumers to compare the rankings of various hospitals in
their areas.

The CMS star ranking is the latest data collection made available to the public
in ranking hospitals. Earlier, the CMS also began making available hospital
rankings based on other medical factors such as recovery and readmissions.

The data was collected on almost 3,500 Medicare-certified, acute-care hospitals.

CMS said in a press release that the data made available "builds on a larger
effort a U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to build a health care
system that delivers better care, spends health care dollars more wisely, and
results in healthier people."

Of the hospitals in the survey, 251 received five-star ratings, according to
Modern Healthcare, an online publication that monitors healthcare issues.

Of the rest, 1,205 received four stars, 1,414 received three stars, 582 received
two stars, and 101 received the lowest ranking: one star.

In eight of the 11 survey questions, Munroe received responses that ranked lower
than average for Florida hospitals.

Ocala Regional Medical Center/West Marion received nine rankings below the state
average.

Ocala Health issued this statement to the Star-Banner: "The star rating system
being introduced by CMS is so new that we're still learning about the complex
methodology that is being used to determine the ratings. However, quality of
care and the patient experience has always been and will remain a top priority
for Ocala Health."

Munroe did not provide a comment.

Other area hospitals that received two-star rankings included The Villages
Regional Hospital, Citrus Memorial Hospital and Leesburg Regional Medical
Center.

Seven Rivers Regional Medical Center received a single-star ranking. UF Health
Shands Hospital received three stars.

"These star ratings also encourage hospitals and clinicians to strive to
continuously improve the patient experience and quality of care delivered to all
patients," CMS' Dr. Patrick Conway said in the agency news release.

___ (c)2015 Ocala Star-Banner (Ocala, Fla.) Visit the Ocala Star-Banner (Ocala,
Fla.) at www.ocala.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150418-OA-Medicare-ranks-hospitals-for-patient-satisfaction-20150418

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OA


                        Copyright 2015 Ocala Star-Banner


