                              191 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Orange County Register (California)

                             June 20, 2013 Thursday

CHOC ranks among the nation's best

BYLINE: By LANDON HALL, ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER

SECTION: WELLNESS; Pg. WEL

LENGTH: 405 words



HIGHLIGHT: Hospital given high marks for six specialties.


Children's Hospital of Orange County was ranked among the nation's best
children's hospitals in six specialties by U.S. News & World Report.

CHOC earned its highest ranking for its neonatology department, ranking No. 29.
The hospital ranked 33rd in pulmonology, 34th in cancer, 37th in
neurology/neurosurgery, 44th in diabetes/endocrinology and 47th in urology.

The report relied mostly on patient outcomes and other data to analyze the care
at 179 pediatric hospitals around the country. It also incorporated a
"reputational assessment" and a survey of physicians.

Children's Hospital of Philadelphia came out No. 1 on the report's Honor Roll,
with Boston Children's Hospital second. Children's Hospital Los Angeles ranked
fifth.

VA STAFF INCREASES

The Department of Veterans Affairs has hired 1,600 mental-health professionals,
and 12 of them now work at the VA hospital in Long Beach.

The staff increases will help VA hospitals deal with the demand for services as
veterans return home from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Many of them suffer
from post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and other issues.

"The biggest issue we're having is PTSD," said Dr. Lawrence Albers, chief of the
mental-health group in the Long Beach VA Healthcare System.

Returning vets often are reluctant to seek help, Albers said.

"They want to work, they want to go to school, they want to be with their
families, they want to get on with their lives. Unfortunately, a lot of times
they will sort of bypass treatment, although the VA and the military have a lot
of ways of trying to intervene, compared with the Vietnam veterans who did not
get the same level of services that they deserved returning from combat."

PRENATAL IRON

Pregnant women who took iron supplements each day tended to have fewer problems
with low birth weight in their babies, according to a study published on the
British Medical Journal's website.

Previous research had pointed to an association between prenatal iron deficiency
and an increased risk of anemia and preterm birth.

The study, conducted in Britain and the United States, examined more than 90
such studies involving 2 million women. It found that the more iron a woman
took, the lower the risk of anemia and the higher the birth weight. The benefits
were seen in subjects who took up to 66 milligrams per day; the World Health
Organization recommends a dose of 60 mg per day for pregnant women.



lhall@ocregister.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The seven-story Bill Holmes Tower for patient care opened this spring
at Children's Hospital of Orange County, which was among the top 50 in six
categories in U.S. News & World Report's latest rankings of the best children's
hospitals in the United States.

