                              196 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                            April 22, 2015 Wednesday

County Hospitals Get 3 Or 4 Stars Out Of 5 Pennsylvania Average Ratings;
Health Care Heart Of Lancaster Regional Medical Center Has Highest Overall
Patient Experience Ranking Hospital Responses

BYLINE: Heather Stauffer

SECTION: B; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 609  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


HEATHER STAUFFER

HSTAUFFER@LNPNEWS.COM

Lancaster County hospitals get three or four out of five stars on patient
experiences, according to a new ranking published Thursday by the Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services.

Heart of Lancaster Regional Medical Center earned four stars on the overall
patient experience ranking, and WellSpan Ephrata Community Hospital, Lancaster
General Hospital and Lancaster Regional Medical Center earned three stars.

Those overall rankings summarize patient reports on 11 measures, including how
well nurses and doctors communicated with them, how responsive hospital staff
was to their needs, how clean and quiet the hospital was and how well they were
prepared for post-hospital settings.

"Hospitals are leaders in sharing quality and safety information to help
patients make informed decisions about their health care," Akin Demehin,
American Hospital Association senior associate director of policy, said in a
written statement on the ratings. "And they believe patients' perceptions of
their care are a critical component of that information."

However, Demehin said, although star ratings could be an effective way of
communicating that information, "There's a risk of oversimplifying the
complexity of quality care or misinterpreting what is important to a particular
patient, especially since patients seek care for many different reasons."

Just 251 of the nearly 3,500 hospitals assessed nationwide achieved the top
five-star ranking, according to analysis by Kaiser Health News.

The ratings are drawn from the Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare
Providers and Systems Survey, which has been in use since 2006 but was not
previously included in the Medicare Hospital Compare website results, according
to CMS.

The patient experience ratings will be updated quarterly.

Danielle Gilmore, spokeswoman for the sister for-profit hospitals Heart of
Lancaster and Lancaster Regional, said in an email that they value transparency
and consumer knowledge.

The Medicare comparison website "is just one of the many resources consumers can
use in consultation with their physician to make informed health decisions," she
said.

Together, the two hospitals had the highest scores in the county on eight of the
11 underlying patient satisfaction measures.

At Lancaster General, Dr. Lee M. Duke, chief physician executive, and Lisa R.
Hess, vice president of marketing, issued a joint statement saying the health
system works constantly to improve quality and patient satisfaction.

They also noted the results of two of the 11 component scores - that 78 percent
of Lancaster General patients would "definitely recommend" the hospital, and
that 74 percent rated it a nine or 10.

Both of those ratings exceed state and national averages, they said.

WellSpan spokesman Brett Marcy said the health system "has recently implemented
a broad survey process across our entire organization, including Ephrata, which
will help us gather valuable insights from our patients and their families."

"We've also engaged industry experts to teach our staff, at all levels, how they
can help to make our patients, families and visitors feel more comfortable when
they're with us," he said. "And we've developed councils with patient advisers
to help us improve not just their experience, but also our daily operations."

The 158 Pennsylvania hospitals issued patient experience ratings averaged 3.2
stars, according to analysis by Kaiser Health News, a nonprofit news service.

The approximate percentage of Pennsylvania hospitals issued each rating is as
follows.

 1 star: 1 percent

 2 stars: 14 percent

 3 stars: 54 percent

 4 stars: 27 percent

 5 stars: 5 percent

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

