                              194 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Virginia)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 22, 2012 Sunday

Magazines rank care at MWH

BYLINE: Jim Hall, The Free Lance-Star, Fredericksburg, Va.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 307 words


July 22--Mary Washington Hospital scored near the top of one and near the bottom
of another in two new hospital rankings by national magazines.

In U.S. News & World Report, the Fredericksburg hospital ranked sixth among 125
Virginia hospitals. In Consumer Reports, the hospital's "safety score" was 32
out of 39 Virginia hospitals.

Stafford Hospital and Spotsylvania Regional Medical Center are not ranked in
either study.

U.S. News describes Mary Washington as one of the best hospitals in Virginia
with eight specialties that it describes as "high performing." These are ear,
nose and throat; geriatrics; neurology and neurosurgery; pulmonology;
gastroenterology; nephrology; orthopedics; and urology. The rankings appear on
the magazine's website and will be in its Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook in
August.

"Our No. 6 ranking within Virginia confirms that our exceptionally skilled team
of medical professionals and support staff are providing the best care for our
community," Kevin Van Renan, senior vice president and hospital administrator,
said in a statement.

In its August issue, Consumer Reports measured hospitals in four areas: hospital
-acquired infections, re-admission rate, clear discharge instructions and
percentage of chest and abdominal CT scans ordered twice for the same patient.
Mary Washington scored well in scanning and infections, but poorly in
communication and re-admissions. Its overall safety score was 43 out of a
possible 100.

Last month, Mary Washington received an "A," the top score, on a safety report
by the Leapfrog Group, a nonprofit founded by some of the nation's largest
businesses.

Jim Hall: 540/374-5433

Email: jhall@freelancestar.com

___ (c)2012 The Free Lance-Star (Fredericksburg, Va.) Visit The Free Lance-Star
(Fredericksburg, Va.) at www.fredericksburg.com/flshome Distributed by MCT
Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120722-FB-Magazines-rank-care-at-MWH-0722-20120722

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FB


                       Copyright 2012 The Free Lance-Star

