                              195 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 1, 2013 Thursday

Powered by Translate US NEWS & WORLD REPORT NAMES ST. VINCENT'S MEDICAL CENTER
BEST HOSPITAL IN FAIRFIELD COUNTY AND WESTERN CT

LENGTH: 546  words

DATELINE: Valhalla


New York Medical College has issued the following news release:

BRIDGEPORT--St. Vincent's Medical Center has been ranked as the Best Hospital in
Fairfield County and in all of Western Connecticut for 2013-2014 by U.S. News &
World Report.

St. Vincent's is also ranked # 4 in the state, and was recognized as
"High-Performing" in the specialties of Gastroenterology & GI Surgery;
Geriatrics; Gynecology; Neurology and Neurosurgery; Pulmonology and Urology.

The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th year, recognize
hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.

"I would like to recognize our hospital staff and our medical staff for their
outstanding work that led to this recognition.  St. Vincent's is pleased to be
ranked as the best hospital in Fairfield County and Western Connecticut. It's no
coincidence that St. Vincent's has achieved these high rankings from US News and
World Report, Nursing Magnet recognition, and for two years in row, a Leapfrog
Hospital Safety Score of "A". These achievements  affirm all the work we have
done to create a safe and highly reliable organization that patients and their
families can trust for the highest standard of care," said St. Vincent's
President Stuart G. Marcus, MD, FACS. "We are extremely proud of our physicians
and hospital staff who do their best every day to save lives and keep patient
safety and the patient and family experience at the top of mind and top of
heart."

St.  Vincent's has implemented a high reliability safety program across all its
services, and recently received its second  "A" Hospital Safety Score  from the
Leapfrog Group, a national organization dedicated to improving the safety,
quality and affordability of health care for Americans. St. Vincent's is one of
only two Connecticut hospitals to receive both Nursing Magnet®  recognition and
Leapfrog "A" Hospital Safety Score. The Connecticut Hospital Association awarded
the Medical Center the 2012 John D. Thompson Award for its safety program, and
St. Vincent's was also featured by the Joint Commission recently as a model of a
high reliability organization.

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties.  In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Ranking Editor.  "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data determined the rankings in most specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
North Carolina. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro
rankings.

For more information please visit: http://www.nymc.edu.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

