                              201 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday
                           4 State / Suncoast Edition

RESPECTED LIST RANKS TGH NO. 2 IN STATE

BYLINE: JODIE TILLMAN, Times Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



HIGHLIGHT: Tampa General is rated highly in four specialties by U.S. News &
World Report.


Tampa General Hospital has been ranked as the No. 2 hospital in Florida by U.S.
News & World Reportfor the second year in a row.

TGH, ranked as the No. 1 hospital in the Tampa-St. Petersburg metro area by the
magazine, was also listed as one of the top 50 hospitals nationally in four
specialities: cardiology and heart surgery; nephrology; orthopedics; and
urology.

Florida Hospital Orlando was named No. 1 in the state. Other Tampa Bay hospitals
in the top 20 statewide include Moffitt Cancer Center (No.6); St. Joseph's
Hospital (No.14) and St. Anthony's Hospital (No.19).

Moffitt was named No.1 cancer hospital in the Southeast.

All Children's Hospital was named one of the top 50 pediatric hospitals in the
nation in three specialties: cancer, cardiology, and heart surgery and
orthopedics. Pediatric hospitals are rated by specialty, not overall.

Though it is one of many guides now available, U.S. News' hospital report is
among the best-established.

"We are honored to be recognized as the top hospital in Tampa Bay again this
year and among the nation's best. Tampa General has set itself apart by
developing specialties that are competitive from a national perspective," Jim
Burkhart, president and CEO of TGH, said in a statement. "The focus of our
academic and community physicians, nurses, and hospital support staff is to
continue to provide excellent care so our patients have the best possible
outcomes."

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

Patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse staffing levels and
other data largely determined the rankings in most specialties, according to
U.S. News.

"The data tell the story - a hospital that emerged from our analysis as one of
the best has much to be proud of," Avery Comarow, editor of the U.S. News health
rankings, said in a statement.

In the Tampa/St. Petersburg metro area, TGH, Moffitt and St. Joseph's are the
top three, followed by St. Anthony's in St. Petersburg and Florida Hospital
Tampa.

Contact Jodie Tillman at jtillman@tampabay.com or (813) 226-3374. Follow
@JTillmanTimes.

* * *

Hospital rankings

The rankings are available on line at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals
and will appear in the U.S. News "Best Hospitals 2015" guidebook, available in
August.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2014 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

