                              199 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                             July 25, 2006 Tuesday

Blue Cross revises ranking system Patients of lower-rated doctors will pay more

BYLINE: JEREMY OLSON, Pioneer Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 500 words


A new health plan from Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota will make
patients pay more out of pocket if they use hospitals or doctors that provide
lower-quality care at higher costs.

Blue Cross tried last year to create a "tiered" plan that ranked doctors and
hospitals, but doctors objected because they were judged on their hospital
affiliations and not on their own clinical results. The state's largest private
insurer agreed under pressure to remove the physician rankings from the plan
until this year.

The revised plan, announced Monday, measures physician groups on their own
costs. Depending on their specialties, they also are evaluated on five to 23
measures of medical quality. The resistance among doctors to last year's
proposal was "understandable," said Dr. David Ploncher, Blue Cross' chief
medical officer, but he believes the new two-tier plan provides a fair and open
evaluation. In the latest list, some doctors rank differently than their
affiliated hospitals.

"The good that can happen with tiering is that it should reward the
better-performing providers with good market share," Ploncher said.

Insurers are hoping tiered plans will lower skyrocketing health costs by
steering patients to top-tier doctors and hospitals, which provide high-quality
care at lower costs. HealthPartners and Medica also offer tiered plans.

Blue Cross is only offering the new plan to employers with self-insured health
benefits, meaning their costs are independent from other Blue Cross users. The
rankings do not affect people with Medicare plans or individual health
insurance. Two national employers have signed up, Ploncher said.

Blue Cross projects that employers who select the new tiered plan for 2007 will
see their medical costs decline by 6 percent to 8 percent. The savings will
result from patients choosing top-tier doctors or hospitals. Patients can still
select lower-tier providers, but they will pay roughly 20 percent more in
coinsurance or deductible payments.

The Minnesota Medical Association presented no opposition to this year's plan
and participated in its development, said Dr. Robert Meiches, the association's
chief executive officer. The association will release a report this fall that
compares tiered plans in the market.

Hospitals objected last year to Blue Cross' tiering plan, which placed the Mayo
Clinic and the two metro Children's Hospitals in the lower tiers because of high
costs. Blue Cross did not change hospital tiers this year, but it plans to
re-evaluate hospitals and clinics on an annual basis.

Blue Cross is ranking only hospitals and clinic groups in competitive markets.
An initial list shows that affiliated hospitals and clinics didn't always gain
the same rankings.

HealthEast's hospitals in St. Paul, Maplewood and Woodbury gained top-tier
rankings, but its physician groups placed in the lower tier. Allina's hospitals
are in the lower tier, but its clinics are in the top tier.

Jeremy Olson can be reached at jolson@pioneerpress.com or 651-228-5583.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved

