                              192 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday

Advocate Lutheran General named among Best in Illinois and Chicago

BYLINE: Advocate Lutheran General Hospital

SECTION: SUBMITTED CONTENT; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 356 words


Recognized for delivering exceptional patient care, Advocate Lutheran General
Hospital has been named as one of the best hospitals in Illinois and the Chicago
Metro region by U.S. News & World Report's 2016-2017 Best Hospitals list.
According to the rankings that were released today, Lutheran General Hospital
ranked sixth overall in Illinois and the Chicago metro area.

"It is a tremendous honor to be ranked among the best hospitals in Chicago and
Illinois," says Rick Floyd, president of Advocate Lutheran General Hospital.
"This recognition reflects our focus on safety, quality and service and wouldn't
be possible without the outstanding commitment of our physicians, associates and
volunteers."

The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings recognize hospitals that excel in
treating the most challenging patients. Advocate Lutheran General made the top
50 list nationally in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery and Gynecology and ranked
high performing in cancer, geriatrics, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

"Being ranked No. 34 in the nation for gynecology is a great honor," says Dr.
Thomas Iannucci, Chair, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Advocate
Lutheran General Hospital. "It recognizes that we have some of the finest
specialists, compassionate and caring nurses, staff and house-staff, as well as
state-of-the-art technologies to provide exceptional patient care."

Five other Advocate Health Care hospitals have been named among the finest in
Chicago and Illinois and they include Advocate Illinois Masonic Medical Center
on Chicago's North Side, Advocate Sherman Hospital in Elgin, Advocate Christ
Medical Center in Oak Lawn, Advocate Good Samaritan Hospital in Downers Grove
and Advocate Good Shepherd Hospital in Barrington.

The U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year,
help guide patients who need a high level of care because they face a
particularly difficult surgery, a challenging condition or extra risk because of
age or multiple health problems. Objective measures such as patient survival and
safety data, adequacy of nurse staffing and other data determine the rankings.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.

