                              200 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

Hospital ranks high; Shelley is honored

SECTION: A; FL Opinion; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 530 words


OUR VIEW

Sarasota Memorial's national recognition

Sarasota Memorial Hospital's stellar performance in the most recent U.S. News
rankings underscore several important points:

路 The phrase high-quality public hospital is not an oxymoron in Sarasota County.

路 Taxpayers and private donors are receiving a solid return on their investments
in the hospital.

There is no shortage of assessments and rankings of hospitals and the services
they provide. But U.S. News has a 28-year record of providing credible
evaluations of data and patient outcomes.

As the Herald-Tribune reported, U.S. News found that Sarasota Memorial was among
the top 10 percent of hospitals in the nation for gastroenterology and
gastrointestinal surgery. It was listed as "high performing" in nine areas of
medicine; the other possible grades are "average" and "below average."

All told, Sarasota Memorial is one of only 48 hospitals in the nation to have a
"high performer" rating for all nine of the procedures and conditions that U.S.
News considers.

One privately owned hospital in our region was labeled high performing in two
areas; two private hospitals were high performers in one area each.

Comparisons based on huge amounts of self-reported data are tricky, and patient
outcomes and satisfaction are often based on individualized circumstances and
experiences. What's more, the private hospitals in Manatee, Sarasota and
Charlotte counties can point to other rankings and surveys that praise their
care.

But for Sarasota Memorial to achieve these ratings is particularly impressive
because it also serves as a "safety net" hospital, with a mission to serve
patients in need regardless of their ability to pay. Yes, the hospital benefits
from a relatively modest property-tax rate, levied by an elected board, but the
services it provides to indigent and low-income patients are both costly and
valuable.

The hospital is not flawless, of course, and there are political debates over
where and when SMH should expand its services. But there is no doubt, in our
opinion, that Sarasota Memorial is a public asset to both Sarasota County and
our region.

Congratulations to Booker principal

A dog ate our editorial praising the selection of Dr. Rachel Shelley as
Florida's Principal of the Year.

Well, there was no dog involved and there's no excuse; this editorial assignment
is simply overdue.

Shelley, principal of Booker High School in Sarasota, received her award in late
June, as the Herald-Tribune reported. But with school year about to begin, it's
worth noting and celebrating this honor.

Though Shelley has deflected credit to her staff, under her leadership Booker
has been a well-run, orderly school. It is attended by a diverse student body -
racially, socially and economically - presenting both advantages and challenges.

Having grown up poor in Sarasota, living in public housing, Shelley provides
evidence to all students that, with personal determination and a lot of help
from adults along the way, success is within their reach. She has demonstrated
the professional will to work her way up the ladder, while maintaining
indefatigable enthusiasm.

Congratulations, Principal Shelley. Sorry our message is tardy.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUR VIEW Sarasota Memorial's national recognition Sarasota Memorial
Hospital's stellar performance in the most recent U.S. News rankings underscore
several important points: 路 The phrase high-quality public hospital is not an
oxymoron in Sarasota County. 路 Taxpayers and private donors are receiving a
solid return on their investments in the hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

