                              198 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 14, 2012 Friday 6:30 AM EST

The Johns Hopkins Hospital Again Ranked Among the Top U.S. Hospitals by U.S.
News & World Report

LENGTH: 707  words


New Delhi, Sept. 14 -- Since its founding, The Johns Hopkins Hospital has broken
new ground, led the field in medicine and made history in countless ways. Just
one of the hospital's many historic achievements is that it was consecutively
ranked #1 in the nation for 21 years out of the 23 in which U.S. News & World
Report has held its annual rankings of U.S. hospitals. This year, the hospital
is again ranked #1 nationally in five specialties, and it is ranked #2 overall
in the nation. We understand that changes were introduced in the methodology,
which apparently affected the ranking of many organizations, including Johns
Hopkins. In the magazine's inaugural ranking of hospitals at the state level,
the hospital ranked #1 in Maryland. It ranked #1 in the Baltimore metropolitan
region, and it is the only hospital in the state that has consistently ranked
nationally in 16 medical specialties.



The hospital's standings in the 16 specialties ranked by U.S. News & World
Report reflect the strong performance and historic leadership of the
institution. Ear, Nose and Throat, Geriatrics, Neurology & Neurosurgery,
Psychiatry and Rheumatology are ranked #1 in the nation. Ophthalmology and
Urology are ranked #2; Cancer, Cardiology & Heart Surgery, and Gastroenterology
are ranked #3; Diabetes & Endocrinology, Gynecology, Nephrology and Pulmonology
are ranked #4. Orthopedics is ranked #5, and Rehabilitation is ranked #17.

"We continue to be ranked among the very best hospitals in the nation, and we
are proud of our outstanding faculty, nurses and staff who make it happen," says
Paul B. Rothman, M.D., dean and CEO of Johns Hopkins Medicine. "This year's
ranking gives us one more opportunity to express our thanks and gratitude to the
people of Johns Hopkins Medicine and to recognize their dedication to the
patients and communities we serve."

"This recognition caps an extraordinary year for Johns Hopkins Medicine," says
Ronald R. Peterson, president of The Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System
and executive vice president of Johns Hopkins Medicine. "We have witnessed the
completion of our hospital expansion with the opening of the Sheikh Zayed Tower
and The Charlotte R. Bloomberg Children's Center, the largest hospital project
in the nation and one that provides a beautiful, patient-centered environment
for those who trust us with their health care. We have also implemented a host
of other actions designed to ensure the continued strength and vitality of Johns
Hopkins Medicine as we position ourselves for the future while ensuring that our
patients remain at the center of everything we do. In this inaugural year of
U.S. News & World Report's state-level rankings, we are also proud to be ranked
the #1 hospital in Maryland."

"These investments continue to strengthen our ability to fulfill our mission to
provide the innovative and compassionate care that is the Johns Hopkins
hallmark, to advance science and knowledge through research, and to educate in
new and innovative ways the next generation of physicians and scientists,"
Rothman says.

"All of the medical centers on the magazine's national honor roll are superb,
and we are privileged to be in their good company," says Peterson. "We
congratulate our colleagues at those hospitals who have been ranked with us
among the top hospitals in the nation and recognize our Johns Hopkins Medicine
family for their outstanding accomplishments."

USN&WR 2012 adult rankings recognized four other Johns Hopkins Medicine
hospitals as achieving high performance within their state or region, for
specific specialties:

* Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center was recognized as achieving high
performance in Diabetes & Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Geriatrics,
Nephrology, Neurology & Neurosurgery, Orthopedics, Pulmonology and Urology.

* Suburban Hospital was recognized as achieving high performance in
Gastroenterology, Orthopedics, Pulmonology and Urology.

* Howard County General Hospital was recognized as achieving high performance in
Diabetes & Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Geriatrics, Nephrology, Neurology &
Neurosurgery, Orthopedics, Pulmonology and Urology.

* Sibley Memorial Hospital was recognized as achieving high performance in
Nephrology and Orthopedics.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

