                              197 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      July 23, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Four Allegheny Health Network Hospitals Named High Performers by U.S. News

LENGTH: 542  words


July 23 -- US based Allegheny Health Network issued the following news release:

Four hospitals affiliated with the Allegheny Health Network have been lauded in
the latest ranking of the country's best hospitals by U.S. News and World
Report. Released online today and slated for publication in August, the U.S.
News 2014-2015 Best Hospital's Guide recognizes Allegheny General Hospital
(AGH), Forbes Hospital, Saint Vincent Hospital and West Penn Hospital as high
performing medical centers across multiple clinical specialties.

"There is no higher priority at Allegheny Health Network than the quality and
safety of the care that we provide to our patients, and we are extremely proud
of our physicians, nurses and support staff for the outstanding skill and
dedication they bring to the bedside and into our physician offices every day to
help us fulfill that promise," said Tony Farah, MD, Allegheny Health Network's
chief medical officer.

Just 752 of the nation's roughly 5,000 hospitals earn U.S. News' designation as
a high performing medical center in the 2014-15 report.

AGH this year is recognized by U.S. News as a top performer in 10 clinical
specialties, including orthopaedic surgery, gastroenterology & GI surgery,
cancer, diabetes & endocrinology, cardiology & cardiac surgery, gynecology,
nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, pulmonology and urology.

West Penn Hospital is named a high performer in cancer, geriatrics, gynecology,
nephrology, neurology & neurosurgery and urology.

Forbes Hospital in Monroeville is ranked as high-performing in cancer,
gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, neurology & neurosurgery,
orthopaedic surgery, pulmonology and urology.

Saint Vincent Hospital, Erie PA, is designated as a high performer in
gastroenterology & GI surgery, geriatrics, nephrology, neurology & neurosurgery
and pulmonology.

The Best Hospitals rankings are intended to help patients with life-threatening
or rare conditions identify hospitals that excel in treating the most difficult
cases. Hospitals are ranked nationally in 16 specialties.

The rankings are based on a combination of objective clinical information
gleaned from Medicare outcomes data and the annual American Hospital Association
Survey - including patient mortality rates, patient safety scores,
nurse-to-patient ratio, procedure volumes and technological capabilities - and a
hospital's reputation score in each category as determined by a random, national
survey of medical specialists across the country.

U.S. News made several changes to the Best Hospitals rankings methodology this
year, including adding new data and greater emphasis on patient safety. Patient
safety metrics now account for 10 percent of each hospital's overall score, in
most specialties - twice as much as in past years.

The role of hospital reputation diminished by 5 percentage points this year.

"U.S. News strives to provide patients and their families with the most
comprehensive data available on hospitals," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News health
rankings editor. "With an estimated 400,000 deaths occurring in hospitals each
year from medical errors, measuring safety performance is critical to
understanding how well a hospital cares for its patients.

Source: Allegheny Health Network

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

