                              209 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           The Philadelphia Inquirer

                            June 28, 2017 Wednesday

Children's Hospital of Philadelphia ranked 2nd among U.S. News' best children's
hospitals

BYLINE: Rita Giordano

SECTION: MAGAZINE; P-com Health News; Pg.

LENGTH: 257 words


Children's Hospital of Philadelphia has been ranked second in the nation in U.S.
News & World Report's 11th annual rankings of the best pediatric hospitals in
the country.";We are honored to be so highly ranked in the U.S. News ranking,
and to be in the company of other leading children's hospitals,"; said Madeline
Bell, president and chief executive officer of Children's. ";It takes the
ongoing expertise of everyone at CHOP to help make breakthroughs happen every
day for our patients and their families.";Ranked first on the publication's
pediatric honor roll for the third year in a row is Boston Children's Hospital
.In the third spot was Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center. Children's
Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC ranked ninth.U.S. News also highlighted the top
50 centers in 10 pediatric specialties. Here are the top-ranked hospitals in
each specialty:The specialty rankings take into account factors such as clinical
outcomes, patient volume, infection control, adequate nurse staffing, efficiency
and coordination of care, and compliance with best practices. CHOP ranked within
the top three nationally in nine of the 10 areas.

Twin girls joined at head separated at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia

http://www.philly.com/philly/health/health-news/twin-girls-joined-at-heads-separ
ated-at-childrens-hospital-of-philadelphia-20170613.html

CHOP performs world's 2nd successful surgery on heart tumor before birth

http://www.philly.com/philly/health/hearthealth/CHOP-pericardial-teratoma-fetal-
pregnancy--surgery-canessa.html

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photograph by: Michael Bryant / Staff photographer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved

