                              207 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                   Philly.com

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 27, 2017 Tuesday

Children's Hospital of Philadelphia ranked 2nd among U.S. News' best children's
hospitals

BYLINE: Rita Giordano, Philly.com

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 302 words


June 27--Children's Hospital of Philadelphia has been ranked second in the
nation in U.S. News & World Report's 11th annual rankings of the best pediatric
hospitals in the country.

"We are honored to be so highly ranked in the U.S. News ranking, and to be in
the company of other leading children's hospitals," said Madeline Bell,
president and chief executive officer of Children's. "It takes the ongoing
expertise of everyone at CHOP to help make breakthroughs happen every day for
our patients and their families."

Ranked first on the publication's pediatric honor roll for the third year in a
row is Boston Children's Hospital.

In the third spot was Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center. Children's
Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC ranked ninth.

U.S. News also highlighted the top 50 centers in 10 pediatric specialties. Here
are the top-ranked hospitals in each specialty:

* Cancer: St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis.

* Cardiology and heart surgery: Texas Children's Hospital, Houston.

* Diabetes and endocrinology: Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.

* Gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery: Boston Children's Hospital.

* Neonatology: Children's National Medical Center, Washington.

* Nephrology: Boston Children's Hospital.

* Neurology and neurosurgery: Boston Children's Hospital.

* Orthopedics: Boston Children's Hospital.

* Pulmonology: Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.

* Urology: Boston Children's Hospital.

The specialty rankings take into account factors such as clinical outcomes,
patient volume, infection control, adequate nurse staffing, efficiency and
coordination of care, and compliance with best practices. CHOP ranked within the
top three nationally in nine of the 10 areas.

___ (c)2017 Philly.com Visit Philly.com at www.philly.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170627-PHI-Children-s-Hospital
-of-Philadelphia-ranked-2nd-among-U-S-News-best-children-s-hospitals
-0627-20170627

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PHI


                                 Copyright 2017

