                              203 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                Tampa Bay Times

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday
                            0 South Pinellas Edition

TAMPA GENERAL RANKED BEST IN REGION

BYLINE: KATHLEEN MCGRORY, TIMES STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 392 words


Tampa General Hospital is the best hospital in the region and the third best in
Florida, according to rankings released Tuesday by U.S. News & World Report.

Other top performers in the area included Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater
and St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa. The two facilities tied for 11th place in
the state.

Moffitt Cancer Center in Tampa was named the sixth-best hospital for cancer in
the nation, up from its 18th-place finish last year. Hospital officials said the
jump was partly because Moffitt took steps to earn a prestigious designation
from the American Nurses Association.

"It's especially poignant that this honor comes as we celebrate the hospital's
30th anniversary this year," CEO Dr. Alan F. List said.

U.S. News has been ranking hospitals for nearly three decades. This year, more
than 5,000 facilities across the country were evaluated based on patient
survival rates, infection rates, the number of times a given procedure is
performed, and staffing. The rankings also take the hospital's reputation into
account.

In addition to being named third best in Florida, Tampa General was ranked among
the 50 best nationally in six medical specialities: cardiology and heart
surgery; diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology and gastrointestinal
surgery; nephrology; pulmonology; and urology.

CEO Dr. Jim Burkhart called the recognition an honor.

"It reflects the dedication of our employees and physicians who provide the most
advanced medical care, and strive for the best outcomes for our patients," he
said in a statement.

The U.S. News rankings aren't the only way to see how hospitals stack up.
Consumer Reports also releases annual safety scores, as does the Leapfrog Group.

Last week, the federal government released its first-ever hospital quality
ratings. Hospitals received between one and five stars based on measures
including death and infection rates and patient reviews.

The report roiled some hospital administrators, who said the methodology was
unfair to hospitals that serve poor patients and train new doctors. Tampa
General, which is a teaching hospital, received two stars.

In the federal report, the top-scoring local hospitals were Florida Hospital
Wesley Chapel, Mease Countryside and Mease Dunedin. Each received four stars.

Contact Kathleen McGrory at kmcgrory@tampabay.com or (727) 893-8330. Follow
@kmcgrory.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2016 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

