                              208 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Elkhart Truth (Indiana)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             July 28, 2015 Tuesday

Elkhart General, IU Health Goshen hospitals ranked in Indiana's top 5 by US News
and World Report

BYLINE: Emily Pfund, The Elkhart Truth, Ind.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 326 words


July 28--Two Elkhart County hospitals are among the best in the state, according
to a national ranking of healthcare providers.

The 2015 Best Hospitals list published by U.S. News and World Report ranks
Elkhart General Hospital as the fourth-best hospital in the state and IU Health
Goshen Hospital as fifth.

According to the rankings, which include information on 5,000 hospitals
nationwide, EGH received a "high performing" rating in heart bypass surgery,
heart failure and knee replacement procedures.

IU Health Goshen was rated "high performing" for hip and knee replacement
procedures.

To assemble the rankings list, U.S. News measured the facilities' patient
volume, risk-adjusted survival rates and adequacy of nurse staffing, among other
care-related factors, according to a news release from the publication.

"Patients deserve high-quality information on hospitals," Ben Harder, chief of
health analysis at U.S. News, said in a statement. "We strive to provide them
with the most comprehensive data available so they can make more informed
decisions together with their doctor about where to undergo treatment."

The Elkhart County hospitals came behind hospitals in Indianapolis and
Evansville.

The No. 1 spot went to IU Health Academic Health Center in Indianapolis, which
was nationally ranked for 10 specialties, including 14th in pulmonology, 17th in
urology and gastroenterology/GI surgery, and 20th in neurology/neurosurgery.

St. Vincent Hospital and Health Center, also in Indianapolis, took the No. 2
spot and was nationally ranked 22nd in gynecology and 35th in ear, nose and
throat care.

Evansville's St. Mary's Medical Center was listed as the state's third-best
hospital.

For more information on how Indiana's hospitals stacked up, read the full
rankings list from U.S. News and World Report.

___ (c)2015 The Elkhart Truth (Elkhart, Ind). Visit The Elkhart Truth (Elkhart,
Ind). at www.elkharttruth.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150728-1ET-Elkhart-General-IU-Health-Goshen-hospitals
-ranked-in-Indiana-s-top-5-by-US-News-and-World-Report-0728-20150728

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1ET


                        Copyright 2015 The Elkhart Truth

