                              20 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 23, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Spectrum Health United Memorial: Helen DeVos Children's Hospital Recognized by
U.S. News & World Report for Second Year

LENGTH: 472  words


New Delhi, July 23 -- Spectrum Health's Helen DeVos Children's Hospital has been
ranked in five specialties in the U.S. News & World Report's 2013 -14 Best
Children's Hospitals rankings. This is the second consecutive year the hospital
was recognized by U.S. News & World Report as one of the best children's
hospitals in the country.



Helen DeVos Children's Hospital ranked among the best in nephrology,
pulmonology, orthopaedics, urology and cancer services. Each specialty improved
in their ranking, compared to the 2012-13 results, with more than half of the
specialties improving by double digits.

"We are humbled by this notable distinction," said Robert Connors, MD,
president, Helen DeVos Children's Hospital. "It is a reflection of the
tremendous work, passion and dedication of our employees and physicians, and
wouldn't be possible without the support and trust of our community and the
patients who inspire us."

The rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of these pediatric
specialties: cancer, cardiology & heart surgery, diabetes & endocrinology,
gastroenterology & GI surgery, neonatology, nephrology, neurology &
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology, and urology. Eighty-seven hospitals
ranked in at least one of the 10 specialties.

"Helen DeVos Children's Hospital deserves high praise," said Health Rankings
Editor Avery Comarow. "These rankings show the dedication and expertise that the
hospital brings to the care of children who need those qualities the most. We
think it is important to identify and call attention to pediatric centers like
this one."

U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help
families of sick children find the best medical care available. The rankings
offer families an exclusive look at quality-related information at the
individual hospital level.

Each hospital's reputation among doctors was only a small part of what U.S. News
factored into its rankings. Three-quarters of each hospital's score was
determined through an analysis of patient outcomes and data on the structural
resources each hospital has for pediatric care. To gather data, U.S. News used
two surveys: a clinical questionnaire sent to 179 pediatric hospitals and, for
the reputational assessment, a survey of 150 pediatric specialists and
subspecialists in each specialty. The 1,500 physicians were asked where they
would send the sickest children in their specialty, setting aside location and
expense.

Helen DeVos Children's Hospital is a 212-bed regional referral center and
teaching hospital. It offers advanced pediatric specialty care with more than
200 pediatric physicians who practice in more than 50 pediatric specialties and
programs. Helen DeVos Children's Hospital is Michigan's largest neonatal center.
More information is available at www.helendevoschildrens.org.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


