                              202 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                             July 19, 2011 Tuesday

2 Utah hospitals land among the nation's best in annual ranking

BYLINE: Wendy Leonard Deseret News

LENGTH: 548 words


SALT LAKE CITY ? Fewer hospitals in the country are out-performing themselves
and others each year, according to the latest survey by U.S. News & World
Report. Of the 56 hospitals analyzed in Utah, only two placed among the nation's
best.

Eight ended up earning nods from the magazine for high performance in specific
disciplines, from cancer treatment to urology. University Hospital was named the
No. 1 health care system in the Salt Lake City metro area, and also placed in
the top 50 in the nation for its gynecology and ear, nose and throat services,
according to the News. Primary Children's Medical Center also did well, with
seven of its specialties (pediatric cancer, cardiology, gastroenterology,
neonatology, nephrology, neurology and orthopedics) placing in the top 40 among
the national rankings. "This recognition represents the hard work and dedication
of our staff and physicians, and it's gratifying to be ranked among the nation's
best," said Dr. Vivian Lee, senior vice president for health sciences and CEO of
University of Utah Health Care. "Our patients are our first priority and we
continually work to provide them the best possible care in every aspect of
medicine." Intermountain Medical Center, LDS Hospital, McKay-Dee Hospital, Salt
Lake Regional Medical Center and St. Mark's Hospital also landed on lists noting
high performance in various specialties of care. The intent of the annual Best
Hospitals report is to guide patients who need an especially high level of care
to the appropriate medical centers, judging by their competence, according to
U.S. News Health Rankings editor and writer Avery Comarow. "These (ranked
hospitals) are referral centers where other hospitals send their sickest
patients," he said. "Hospitals like these are ones you or those close to you
should consider when stakes are high." Death rates, provider-patient ratios,
safety records, procedure volume and other data were examined, therefore pitting
medical centers against each other, based on their performance and reputation.
To be included in the annual evaluation, hospitals must meet a stringent list of
qualifications, including the availability of unusually skilled inpatient care.
Only 140 ? fewer than 3 percent of the 4,785 hospitals analyzed for the latest
Best Hospitals rankings ? qualified to be ranked in even one of the 16
specialties specified, Comarow said. In order to make the nation's "best of  the
best" list, hospitals had to rank at or near the top in six or more
specialties. Only 17 hospitals across the country, none of which are  in Utah,
could claim that honor this year. Johns Hopkins Hospital, in Baltimore, was at
the top of that list. This is the first year that U.S. News has included the
"high-performing" category, which lists hospitals that weren't ranked in the top
50 in a given specialty, but were still among the top 25 percent in the nation.
Hundreds of local physicians were also listed in the company's list of top
doctors, representing dozens of specialties. The doctors were selected based on
a peer-nomination process and are listed online with each corresponding
hospital. The rankings for all hospitals and specialties are available online at
www.usnews.com/besthospitals. E-mail: wleonard@desnews.com, Twitter:
wendyleonards

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

