                              205 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Public Opinion (Chambersburg, Pennsylvania)

                           November 1, 2008 Saturday

Waynesboro Hospital gets No. 1 ranking

BYLINE: By MARCUS RAUHUT Staff writer

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 431 words


Waynesboro Hospital was ranked the No. 1 place to work in health care in the
country.

The recognition comes from Modern Healthcare magazine in its first list of the
100 best places to work in health care in the United States.

"It's slightly overwhelming, but it's not hard to understand," said Jerry
McAfee, who works in the maintenance department at the hospital.

Summit Health, which owns Chambersburg and Waynesboro hospitals, accepted the
award on Wednesday at a banquet in Chicago.

Chief Operating Officer Ken Shur said the hospital was humbled by the
recognition.

"Others asked us what we do. We don't think we do anything special. We just try
to do the right things every day," he said following a press conference Friday
in Waynesboro.

Modern Healthcare's rankings covered the entire health care industry, including
for-profit and non-profit hospitals, nursing homes, insurance companies, vendors
and other health care firms. The rankings were based on a narrative submitted by
the hospital and a random survey of 250 employees.

The Modern Healthcare's assessment of Waynesboro Hospital took into account
employee culture, working environment, employee education and development
opportunities, and competitive pay and benefits -- even including a roving
massage therapist to reduce employees' stress.

The article also referred to the hospital as a modern-day Mayberry, and Shur
said the 64-bed hospital aims for cutting-edge technology with a "hometown
atmosphere."

"People is really what makes Waynesboro Hospital a great place to work," said
Bev Diffenderfer, an ultrasound technologist. "You get into health care because
you care about people and want to help people. Not only is it about our
patients, it's about each other."

Shur said the ranking was especially important because health care is a
challenging industry with a stressful working environment. However, he said the
hospital's employee turnover rate is well below the industry average. For the
hospital, the hope is that taking care of employees will result in better care
for patients.

"Engagement leads to retention, which leads to improved continuity of care,"
said Michael Reyka, vice president for nursing at Waynesboro Hospital.

Waynesboro Hospital employs more than 600 people.

In 2003, the hospital was named the third-best place to work in Pennsylvania by
the Central Penn Business Journal and earlier this year ranked among the highest
in the region in patient satisfaction in a U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services survey.

----------

Marcus Rauhut can be reached at mrauhut@publicopinionnews.com or 262-4752.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2008 Public Opinion
                              All Rights Reserved

