                              21 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Herald-Times (Bloomington, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 23, 2012 Monday

IU Health included on magazine's 'honor roll'

BYLINE: Dann Denny, Herald-Times, Bloomington, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 810 words


July 23--IU Health, whose hospitals include facilities in Bloomington, Bedford
and Martinsville, has been named to the national "honor roll" in the U.S. News
and World Report's 23rd annual Best Hospitals rankings, the only Indiana
hospital or hospital system to receive that distinction.

The 17 hospitals and hospital systems in the U.S. making the honor roll
represent 0.3 percent of the nearly 5,000 hospitals and systems in the country
that were evaluated by looking at government-supplied data that shows how well
they were doing in 16 adult specialties -- taking into account such things as
survival rates, patient safety scores and a hospital's reputation among doctors
who practice that specialty.

"These hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your list
when you need the best care," said U.S. News health rankings editor Avery
Comarow. "They are where other hospitals send the toughest cases."

IU Health is No. 16 on the "honor roll," and 11 of its clinical programs are
cited among the top specialty programs in the United States. No. 1 is
Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston; followed by Johns Hopkins Hospital in
Baltimore; the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.; and the Cleveland Clinic.

The 11 clinical areas in which IU Health are nationally ranked are urology,
eighth; pulmonology, 11th; gastroenterology, 11th; geriatrics, 13th; diabetes
and endocrinology, 18th; nephrology, 20th; neurology and neurosurgery, 23rd;
cardiology and heart surgery, 31st; cancer, 32nd; ear, nose and throat, 35th;
orthopedics, 44th; as well as gynecology, "high performing."

IU Health includes the IU Health Proton Therapy Center in Bloomington and 17
hospitals, including IU Health Bloomington Hospital, IU Health Bedford Hospital,
IU Health Paoli Hospital and IU Health Morgan Hospital.

IU Health Bloomington Hospital was ranked 11th among the 119 hospitals in
Indiana, and received "high performing" specialty rankings in gastroenterology
and urology. "Both of these specialty groups have outstanding physicians who
focus on clinical outcomes, and it shows," said Mark Moore, president and CEO of
IU Health Bloomington Hospital.

Referring to IU Health's inclusion on the honor roll, Moore said, "This is a big
day for over 2,800 employees in Bloomington and the 26,000 IU Health employees
across the state that contribute to our success, day in and day out.

"It makes us feel really good about bringing together two great organizations in
IU Health and Bloomington Hospital, and that kind of national ranking is a great
testimony to the caliber of physicians and hospitals that make up IU Health."

This marks the 15th straight year IU Health has made the U.S. News Best
Hospitals list, which this year is made up of 148 of the top hospitals in the
country among the 4,793 that were evaluated. But this is the first time IU
Health made the Best Hospitals "honor roll," which is a top tier subset of that
list.

"IU Health has been close to making the honor roll for a number of years," Moore
said. "It made it this year because of its continued emphasis across the IU
Health system on delivering pre-eminent care from top-notch physicians and
clinicians focusing on clinical outcomes and patient satisfaction."

Dr. Richard Graffis, executive vice president and chief medical officer at IU
Health, said because the rankings provided by U.S. News take into account
clinical expertise in complex cases and successful outcomes, they can help
people "identify the top ranking specialists to treat their condition."

"We appreciate these rankings because they affect our ability to recruit the
most skilled physicians, employ the best staff, pioneer leading research efforts
and provide the latest and most innovative treatment -- all in our mission to
care for the people of Indiana and beyond," Graffis said.

The complete rankings and methodology are available at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

How the rankings work

To make the "honor roll," a hospital must earn at least one point in each of six
specialties. A hospital earned two points if it ranked among the top 10
hospitals in America in any of the 12 specialties in which the U.S. News
rankings are driven mostly by objective data, such as survival rates and patient
safety. Being ranked in the next 10 in those specialties earned a hospital one
point. In the other four specialties, where ranking is based on each hospital's
reputation among doctors who practice that specialty, the top five hospitals in
the country received two Honor Roll points and the next five got one point. The
number of hospitals making the honor roll differs from year to year, depending
on how many hospitals make the cut by meeting the established criteria.

___ (c)2012 the Herald-Times (Bloomington, Ind.) Visit the Herald-Times
(Bloomington, Ind.) at www.heraldtimesonline.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120723-BM-IU-Health-included-on-magazine-s-honor-roll-0723-20120723

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                          Copyright 2012 Herald-Times


