                              214 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday

Ohio State Wexner Medical Center among nation's best for 25th straight year

LENGTH: 377  words



Columbus: Ohio State University has issued the following news release:
For the 25th consecutive year, The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center
is among the best hospitals in the nation, according to the latest U.S. News &
World Report "Best Hospitals" rankings, released today. The hospital system
scored among the top 1 percent of all hospitals in the country.


Ohio State Wexner Medical Center is again named central Ohio's No. 1 hospital,
and is ranked third in the state, behind only Cleveland Clinic and University
Hospitals of Cleveland.
In the 2017-2018 rankings, Ohio State is recognized as a national leader in
seven specialties, including: ear, nose and throat (otolaryngology);nephrology;
cardiology and heart surgery; neurology and neurosurgery; cancer; pulmonology;
and diabetes and endocrinology. Each specialty improved in rank over the
previous year.
Additionally, five specialties were named as high performing: gastroenterology
and GI surgery; geriatrics; orthopedics; rehabilitation; and urology. These
areas scored nearly as well as nationally ranked programs.
When it comes to common adult procedures and conditions rated by U.S. News, Ohio
State is recognized as high performing in abdominal aortic aneurysm repair,
aortic valve surgery, heart bypass surgery, heart failure, colon cancer surgery,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)and lung cancer surgery.
The "Best Hospitals" rankings are considered a trusted resource for consumers
and a benchmarking tool for the healthcare industry. Rankings are based on
several criteria, including clinical outcomes, patient safety and reputation.
"We're incredibly proud of the progress our teams have made as the region's
leader in health care excellence. Ranking among the top 1 percent of all
hospitals in the country is truly an honor. Each member of our staff and faculty
give their best every day to improve people's lives throughout Ohio and beyond,"
said David P. McQuaid, CEO of The Ohio State University Health System and COO of
the Wexner Medical Center. "Evaluations such as this reflect the long-term
commitment we have to serving our communities."
In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.info

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

