                              213 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                             August 28, 2011 Sunday
                                  ZWC EDITION

BUSINESS NOTES

BYLINE: TIM HARLOW; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2N

LENGTH: 446 words



HIGHLIGHT: Woodwinds named a 'Best Hospital' by U.S. News World Report


Woodwinds Hospital has been named a "Best Hospital" in the Twin Cities region by
U.S. News World Report in its 2011-12 Best Hospital rankings.

The annual list of top hospitals has been published for 22 years and this year's
list will be featured in the U.S. News Best Hospitals guidebook, which goes on
sale Tuesday.

Each of the 720 hospitals included in the list was ranked among the country's
best in at least one of 16 medical specialties, or it ranked among the top
hospitals in a metro area. Woodwinds, at 1925 Woodwinds Drive in Woodbury, was
lauded for its high performance in gynecology and orthopedic specialties. U.S.
News looked at more than 7,000 hospitals in 94 metropolitan areas to determine
its rankings.

The list is meant to serve patients who need a high level of specialty care due
to a challenging condition, age or added risk.

"These are referral centers where other hospitals send their sickest patients,"
said Avery Comarow, U.S. News rankings editor. "Hospitals like these are ones
you or those close to you should consider when stakes are high."

WOODBURY

Did you notice? Tinucci's is gone

In case you missed it, Tinucci's quietly left Woodbury over the July 4th
weekend. The family-run business is still operating its flagship restaurant in
Newport.

A spokeswoman said the closing of the diner at 2190 Eagle Creek Lane in Woodbury
occurred because business had dropped off slightly and John Tinucci had retired.

The Tinucci family has been in the food business for 52 years and is known for
its prime rib buffet and other theme buffets it serves at its Newport location,
at 396 21st St. The restaurant gained some unintended publicity last year when
former Minnesota Vikings receiver Randy Moss criticized Gus Tinucci over the
buffet he set up at a team practice. Other Vikings players came to Tinucci's
defense.

City approves plans for funeral home

The Woodbury Planning Commission has approved a conditional use permit that will
allow O'Halloran Murphy Co. to build a funeral chapel on a vacant parcel of land
behind Walgreens at the intersection of Valley Creek Road and Donegal Drive.

The 12,600-square-foot building in the Reliant City Center East will have a
colonial look with a brown brick facade, and the parking lot will have room for
72 spaces, according to the plans. The permit does not allow for a crematorium.

OAKDALE

Denny's donates to veterans memorial

Denny's Restaurant at Interstate 94 and Century Avenue is helping to raise money
so that Oakdale can build a Veterans Memorial. The restaurant will donate 10
percent of its sales between 4 and 10 p.m. Monday and Tuesday.

TIM HARLOW

Have business news for this column? E-mail it to harlow@startribune.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2011 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

