                              212 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Telegram & Gazette (Massachusetts)

                             August 4, 2013 Sunday

DeMalia named president of CHC

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D,18,18

LENGTH: 680 words


The president of Heywood Medical Group, John A. DeMalia, has been named as the
new president and chief executive officer of Community Health Connections Inc.
in Fitchburg.

A senior health care executive with more than 25-years experience in the
industry, Mr. DeMalia joined Heywood Medical Group in 2010 as executive
director; he was later named president. Mr. DeMalia previously served as
executive director and chief financial officer at Community Health Connections
in Gardner and Fitchburg for more than 10 years.

Mr. DeMalia holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from Boston College and is a
certified public accountant. He is a member of the American College of
Healthcare Executives, the Healthcare Financial Management Association and the
Medical Group Management Association. He was awarded the first annual leadership
award at Community Health Connections, was the senior vice president of finance
and administration at the United Way of Central Massachusetts and served as
interim president. Prior to that, he was the chief financial officer of Vermont
Research Inc.

Mr. DeMalia is expected to begin his new job in September. His first project as
the new CEO will be overseeing the opening of CHC's new site on Nichols Road in
Fitchburg.

Certification earned

Six members of Fairlawn Rehabilitation Hospital's nursing staff recently earned
their certification as registered rehabilitation nurses. They are Cathy Caya of
Whitinsville, Kristen Corbett of Grafton, Tracy Duguay of Baldwinville, Margaret
Greenwood of Gardner, Ann Leger of Leicester, and Josephine Suelto of Worcester.
In addition to passing a national certification exam, CRRNs must be registered
nurses who have worked in the rehabilitation field for at least two years.

Recognized again

Milford Regional Medical Center Medical has been recognized for the third
consecutive year in U.S. News World Report's 2013-14 Best Hospitals rankings as
one of the top performing hospitals in the Worcester metropolitan area. The
medical center was also named one of three top-ranked hospitals out of 29 in
Central and Western Massachusetts and ranked 14 out of 115 hospitals statewide.

The latest rankings showcase 732 Best Regional Hospitals from nearly 4,800
hospitals across the country. Covering 94 metro areas in the U.S., the regional
hospital rankings complement the national rankings by including hospitals with
solid performances that are nearly at the level of nationally ranked
institutions.

Milford Regional was ranked high performing in geriatrics and pulmonology and
scored high in patient safety, demonstrating commitment to reducing accidents
and medical mistakes. The medical center also exceeded the state and national
average in patient satisfaction surveys achieving high "overall" and
"willingness to recommend" ratings.

Bronze award

Spring Valley Center, an 82-bed Genesis HealthCare skilled nursing center at 81
Chatham St., Worcester, has announced that it has been selected as a 2013
recipient of the Bronze -- Commitment to Quality award for its dedication to
improving the lives of patients and residents through improved quality care. The
award is one of three awards possible through the National Quality Award
program, presented by the American Health Care Association and National Center
for Assisted Living. The program honors facilities across the nation that have
demonstrated their commitment to improving quality care for seniors and
individuals with disabilities.

Implemented by AHCA/NCAL in 1996, the National Quality Award program is based on
the criteria of the Baldrige Performance Excellence Program. The program assists
providers of long-term and post-acute-care services in achieving their
performance excellence goals.

The program has three levels: bronze, silver and gold. Bronze applicants must
demonstrate their ability to implement a performance improvement system. As a
recipient of the Bronze award, Spring Valley Center may now move forward in
developing approaches and achieving performance levels that meet the criteria
required for the Silver -- Achievement in Quality award.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WTG


               Copyright 2013 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

