                              220 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                             July 12, 2008 Saturday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

UCLA HOSPITAL TOPS IN WEST

BYLINE: By Barbara Jones Staff Writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 393 words


UCLA Medical Center was named the best hospital in the Western U.S. for the 19th
consecutive year and Cedars-Sinai and USC hospitals also garnered recognition in
an annual survey of the nation's medical facilities conducted by U.S. News &
World Report.

Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center ranked third in the country, behind Johns
Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore and the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., in the
list released Friday on the magazine's Web site, www.usnews.com.

With UC-San Francisco Medical Center in seventh place, Stanford Hospital ranking
16th and Cedars-Sinai Medical Center rated 18th, four California facilities were
included on what U.S. News called its ``Best Hospitals Honor Roll.''

``To once again be in the company of the nation's best hospitals -- when rapid
changes in health care constantly challenge our commitment to excellence --
makes us extraordinarily proud of our dedicated physicians, scientists, nurses
and staff,'' said a statement by Dr. Gerald S. Levy, dean of the David Deafen
School of Medicine at UCLA.

In conducting its annual survey, U.S. News analyzed data from 5,453 hospitals
and produced 16 specialty categories on which they were judged. Based on
reputation, mortality and other care-related factors, just 170 hospitals
ultimately scored high enough to appear in any of the rankings.

Hospitals earned 2 points for taking at or near the top of a specialty, 1 point
if ranked slightly lower.

UCLA, for instance, received 25 points in 14 specialities, ranking first in
geriatrics, fourth in urology and fifth in digestive disorders, ophthalmology,
psychiatry and rheumatology. UCLA's Jonsson Cancer ranked 10th in the cancer
category.

Cedars-Sinai received eight points in seven specialties. It ranked eighth in
gastrointestinal disorders, 15th in cardiac surgery and 17th in neurology and
neurosurgery.

Also included on the list of 170 facilities that made the U.S. News list, USC
University Hospital ranked seventh in ophthalmology, 45th in gynecology and 49th
in neurology and neurosurgery. The USC Norris Cancer Hospital ranked 45th in
cancer, the first time the facility has been recognized by U.S. News.

``We are very proud of the hard work and dedication that our medical staff and
employees display each day as they care for our patients,'' said Debbie Walsh,
president and CEO of University and Norris Cancer hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Photo: U.S. News & World Report has given the Ronald Reagan UCLA
Medical Center its No. 3 national ranking. Johns Hopkins was No. 1 and the Mayo
Clinic was No. 2. Photo Courtesy of UCLA Health System

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved

