                              215 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                            July 17, 2013 Wednesday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW HOSPITAL RANKS HIGH IN STATE, NATION

BYLINE: State Journal, wire services

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 338 words


University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics is the top hospital in the state
for the second year in a row and among the nation's top 50 hospitals in nine
nationally ranked medical specialties, two more than last year, according to
U.S. News and World Report's latest rankings released Tuesday.

According to Lisa Brunette, UW spokeswoman, UW's rankings in the specialties
are: nephrology, 19; ear, nose and throat, 27; geriatrics, 27; pulmonology, 31;
urology, 34; cancer, 47; gastroenterology/GI surgery, 50; gynecology, 50;
neurology and neurosurgery, 50.

Last year, St. Mary's Hospital ranked 11th among Wisconsin hospitals and was
recognized in two high-performing specialties: geriatrics and
diabetes/endocrinology. This year, the hospital did not rank.

St. Mary's spokesman Steve Van Dinter said he is looking into the rankings
methodology to see why the hospital did not rank this year.

Meriter Hospital is ranked 12th out of 14 in the state and recognized as
high-performing in gynecology and orthopedics.

U.S. News and World Report recognized and ranked 14 Wisconsin hospitals for
quality. UW Hospital was one of five in the state that was ranked nationally.

Last Williamson Bicycle Works closes

After closing its Downtown location late last year, Williamson Bicycle Works has
now shuttered its sole remaining location, at least for now.

The store's answering machine at 3729 E. Washington Ave. says the business has
"suspended its operations, as yet for an undetermined period of time." People
with pending bike orders can leave a message.

Owner Del Henning could not be reached for comment or clarification Tuesday. No
information or acknowledgement about the suspension was posted on the store's
website, Facebook page or blog.

Henning opened the East Washington location in 2002 and moved all inventory and
operations to that location in November 2012 after closing the Downtown store,
at 640 W. Washington Ave.

The store originally operated for eight years at 601 Williamson St. before
moving to the East Washington location.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2013 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

