                              219 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Deseret Morning News (Salt Lake City)

                            August 10, 2017 Thursday

Report: 3 Utah hospitals ranked among nation's top 50

BYLINE: Ben Lockhart Deseret News

LENGTH: 987 words


By Ben Lockhart

Deseret News

SALT LAKE CITY - Intermountain Medical Center's pulmonology program, the
University of Utah's Huntsman Cancer Institute and the U.'s Ear, Nose and Throat
Clinic all received top 50 designations Tuesday in the 28th annual U.S. News &
World Report Best Hospital Rankings.

The rankings, which analyzed more than 4,500 hospitals in 25 specialties, also
recognized University of Utah Health Care Hospitals and Clinics, and
Intermountain Medical Center with a lesser, un-numbered "high-performing"
ranking in the areas of urology, ophthalmology and nephrology.

The U. also ranked as "high performing" in orthopedics, pulmonology, and
neurology and neurosurgery. Intermountain Medical Center was rated the same in
knee replacement surgery, heart failure treatment, heart bypass surgery,
ophthalmology, urology, nephrology, and diabetes and endocrinology.

The U.'s operations ranked No. 1 in the state, followed by Intermountain Medical
Center, and no other Utah hospitals were recognized by the report. That marks a
change from last year, when Utah Valley Regional Medical Center - now Utah
Valley Hospital - and Dixie Regional Medical Center were also ranked.

Ears, nose and throat

The U.'s Ears, Nose & Throat Clinic achieved the highest ranking of any
specialty in the state, coming in at No. 18 after being unranked last year.

Dr. Clough Shelton, director of otolaryngology, the field of ears, nose and
throat treatment, said he was "thrilled and very proud" of the clinic's ranking
but not necessarily surprised.

"We have a great team of faculty who not only are they really good doctors, but
they are innovative people who are doing excellent research," Shelton said. "I
think that has helped attract some recognition to our program."

Otolaryngology, which includes everything from hearing loss to difficulty
swallowing, is "a diverse specialty" and "a very competitive specialty," making
the new ranking especially rewarding, he said.

"We see this as an affirmation of the work that we've done," Shelton said.

Pulmonology

The U.S. News report ranked Intermountain Medical Center's pulmonary program
48th, marking "the first time in its 10 year history" that a specialty at the
hospital has landed in the top 50, said Intermountain Healthcare spokesman Jess
Gomez.

Dr. Denitza Blagev, director of Intermountain's Schmidt Chest Clinic and a
pulmonologist at Intermountain Medical Center, was quick to share the credit.

"Not even just the pulmonary division, but I think one of the strengths we have
is ... really good collaborations with the other departments at Intermountain -
cardiology to radiology (to) oncology," Blagev told the Deseret News.

"Having this collaboration really communicates to our patients that we really
are excellent at what we do and we do it because want to help people," she said.

Such collaboration allows lung patients to get comprehensive care as quickly as
possible for their related health problems, Blagev said.

Gomez credited the program's ability to rapidly and precisely identify patients
for common illnesses such as pneumonia and chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, as well as much rarer illnesses such as pulmonary hypertension.

He also cited "some of the best outcome rates in the nation" and innovative
practices that include "advances in telehealth visits and remote patient
monitoring."

Cancer treatment

Huntsman Cancer Institute was ranked No. 38, a jump of nine spots from last
year's report. Dr. Jon Sweetenham, senior director for clinical affairs at the
institute, said the center's reach likely played a big role in its high ranking.

"(We've been) expanding our clinical research efforts so we can reach a wider
number of patients and give them cutting-edge therapies," Sweetenham said. "We
have been able to serve an increasing proportion of the Intermountain West so we
see patients from (throughout the) region. I think all of that has actually
enhanced our reputation."

Despite the abundance of medical rankings, those submitted by U.S. News are
known to carry a lot of weight, he said, because of how thorough and
long-running they are.

"Many potential physicians who might come to work here do take note," Sweetenham
said. "Patients who come here do take note of those rankings."

Although the large majority of the ranking methodology focused on clinical
operations rather than research, Sweetenham said Huntsman Cancer Institute's
renowned research side is a rising tide that lifts all boats, as one of only 48
organizations designated as comprehensive cancer centers by the National Cancer
Institute.

"We have had very robust research for many years now," he said.

Huntsman Cancer Institute CEO Mary Beckerle cited patients' happiness with their
care as tightly connected to the high ranking.

"Our patient satisfaction surveys have frequently placed the cancer center in
the top percentile nationally," Beckerle said in a statement. "It is gratifying
to see (the institute) included in such a distinguished peer group of hospitals
through this rigorous assessment of our cancer care programs."

Neither the U. or Intermountain were ranked "below average" in any applicable
specialty.

Methodology

U.S. News' methodology included "risk-adjusted survival and readmission rates,
volume, patient experience, patient safety and quality of nursing," according to
the magazine.

Along with objective numerical data across more than 2,600 metrics, 125,000
doctors nationwide were surveyed for their "expert opinion on where they would
send their most challenging cases," the U.S. News explained. The study put 152
hospitals in the top 50 in at least one specialty area.

The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, claimed the honor of top overall
hospital in the report, followed by the Cleveland Clinic, Baltimore's John
Hopkins Hospital, Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston and the UCSF Medical
Center in San Francisco.

Email: blockhart@deseretnews.com

Twitter: benlockhartnews

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 The Deseret News Publishing Co.

