                              211 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            August 4, 2016 Thursday

Three Amita hospitals honored

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 577 words


Three Amita hospitals honored

ARLINGTON HEIGHTS -- U.S. News & World Report has ranked Amita Health Adventist
Medical Center Hinsdale, Amita Health Alexian Brothers Medical Center Elk Grove
Village and Amita Health St. Alexius Medical Center Hoffman Estates among the
top 15 Best Hospitals in the Chicago metropolitan area. Amita Health Elk Grove
Village finished 11th, and Amita Health Hinsdale and Amita Health Hoffman
Estates tied for 14th in the magazine's annual rankings for the Chicago area. In
U.S. News' statewide hospital rankings for Illinois, the three medical centers
ranked in the top 20, with Amita Health Elk Grove Village finishing in a two-way
tie for 12th, and Amita Health Hinsdale and Amita Health Hoffman Estates tying
for 16th. The annual Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year, were
developed to help consumers determine which hospitals provide the best care for
the most serious or complicated medical conditions and procedures. The rankings
help guide patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 25
specialties, procedures and conditions.

State Bank completes acquisition

WONDER LAKE -- The State Bank Group announced it has completed its acquisition
of Harvard Savings Bank. Financial terms were not announced. The acquisition
increases The State Bank Group's number of bank locations from six to nine. The
increase strengthens The State Bank Group's presence in McHenry County and
expands it to Grundy County. Harvard Savings Bank's locations will continue to
operate under their respective branch names. "The acquisition completes the
first of its kind for The State Bank Group and is an important first step in our
growth strategy", said Stephen Mitchell, president of The State Bank Group. As
of June 30, the assets of The State Bank Group total approximately $171 million
and Harvard Savings Bank total approximately $141 million.

Inland sells Palatine apartments

PALATINE -- Inland Real Estate Brokerage & Consulting said it has sold a
portfolio of apartment buildings, totaling 102 units, located within the Long
Valley Apartment complex in Palatine. Paul L. Rogers, president of Oak
Brook-based Inland Brokerage and Consulting, said the property was sold to
multiple owners for more than $80,000 a unit, which brings the total estimated
price to more than $8.2 million. The portfolio consists of 17 six-flat buildings
and a controlling interest in the Long Valley Apartment association. The
buildings provide a mix of 80 percent two-bedroom units and 20 percent
one-bedroom units that are landlord heated. "The sale and assembly of multiple
owners took 11 months to develop, market and close, but the effort was well
worth it, delivering pricing above $80,000 per unit for these 1970s vintage
buildings," Rogers said.

Union Partners buys steel firm

OAK BROOK -- Union Partners I LLC has acquired Michigan-based steel company Berg
Steel Corp. for an undisclosed sum. Berg Steel joins Union Partners' group of
steel service centers, including Lee Steel Holdings LLC, which has several
facilities across Michigan. "This acquisition is a perfect complement to our
Michigan infrastructure in Grand Rapids, Gibraltar and Farmington Hills; and we
are excited to welcome Berg Steel to our family of companies" said Paul Douglass
of Union Partners. Berg Steel will continue to operate as a service center
focused on a continuation and expansion of a more than 45 year history of
unmatched quality and service to its customers.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.

