                              229 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     November 4, 2015 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Lankenau Medical Center Named Among Becker's '100 Hospitals and Health Systems
with Great Heart Programs'

LENGTH: 335  words


Nov. 4 -- Becker's Hospital Review has named Lankenau Medical Center, part of
Main Line Health's Lankenau Heart Institute, among its list of "100 Hospitals
and Health Systems with Great Heart Programs." The award recognizes hospitals
leading the nation in cardiovascular care.

Lankenau Medical Center, is one of only five hospitals in the region able to
perform transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), and is among the highest
performing TAVR Centers in the nation. It is also heavily involved in clinical
research, and its cardiac surgeons have performed more than 1,300 robotic heart
bypass procedures-more than any hospital in the nation. Lankenau Medical Center
has been named among Truven Health Analytics' 50 Top Cardiovascular Hospitals
for the past eight consecutive years. U.S. News & World Report also recognized
the hospital as high-performing for heart failure and heart bypass surgery in
its common care ratings.

"Lankenau Medical Center is honored to be a part of this prestigious list," said
Phil Robinson, President, Lankenau Medical Center. "Our mission is to provide
the best care and offer the most advanced options to our patients, our
community, and throughout the region. We are proud of our clinical achievements
and industry leadership in the area of cardiovascular disease, thanks to a
tremendous team of physicians, nurses, employees and volunteers who provide the
highest quality care to our patients every day."

To develop the list, the Becker's Hospital Review editorial staff examines
several reputable ranking and award agencies, including U.S. News & World Report
rankings for cardiology and heart surgery, U.S. News' Common Care rankings for
heart bypass surgery and heart failure, Truven Health Analytics' cardiovascular
hospital rankings, CareChex rankings for cardiac care, Blue Distinction Centers
for Cardiac Care, ratings from the Society of Thoracic Surgeons, Healthgrades
cardiology awards and hospitals who have received Magnet designation.

Source: Bryn Mawr Hospital

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

