                              222 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Daily News of Los Angeles

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday
                                 VALLEY EDITION

RONALD REAGAN UCLA RANKS TOP IN L.A.

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 302 words


Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center was ranked among the top five in the nation
and the best in the Los Angeles metropolitan area, according to rankings
released Tuesday by U.S. News & World Report.

In the metro area, the hospital earned a top ranking with national recognition
in 15 medical specialty areas. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center ranked second with
recognition for 12 specialties, while USC University Hospital placed third,
earning national rankings in eight specialty areas.

UCI Medical Center, St. Vincent Medical Center, City of Hope, USC Norris Cancer
Hospital, Rancho Los Amigos National Rehabilitation Center, Resnick
Neuropsychiatric Hospital and Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center
rounded out the magazine's top 10 in the Los Angeles area.

Children's Hospital Los Angeles ranked eighth nationally on the magazine's honor
roll for children's hospitals.

Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center ranked 10th among the nation's
cancer-treatment hospitals, while City of Hope ranked 17th.

Providence Holy Cross Medical Center in Mission Hills was rated 18th among
Southern California hospitals, and noted as "high performing" in the specialties
of pulmonary, orthopedics, urology, geriatrics and kidney disorders.

Providence Tarzana ranked No. 39 in the Los Angeles metro area, with special
recognition for its urology program.

The 22nd annual Best Hospitals issue rated hospitals in 16 high-stakes medical
specialties, from heart care to diabetes and neurology.

According to the magazine, physicians at the highly ranked facilities see far
more patients with critical needs than do doctors at many community hospitals.
As a result, they have more experience and understand better how to deliver
quality care.

The magazine, available on newsstands on Aug. 30, evaluated 4,285 hospitals for
its annual rankings.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 Digital First Media
                              All Rights Reserved

