                              221 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 2, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

NYU Langone Medical Center Ranks Top 10 in Nation on US News & World Report's
'Best Hospitals 2016-2017 Honor Roll'

LENGTH: 465  words


Aug. 2 -- NYU Langone Medical Center is ranked No. 10 in the nation on U.S. News
& World Report's "Best Hospitals 2016-2017 Honor Roll," the medical center's
highest national ranking received to date from the publication. Additionally,
for the fifth year in a row, NYU Langone ranked No. 2 in New York State and No.
2 in the New York metro area.

"These rankings speak to our national reputation for providing exceptional,
multidisciplinary clinical care," says Robert I. Grossman, MD, the Saul J.
Farber Dean and CEO of NYU Langone Medical Center. "Most important, they are a
testament to the NYU Langone staff. Guided by the needs of our patients and
their families, they deliver the expert, leading-edge, and compassionate care
that draw people to us from around our city, our nation, and our world."

Twelve of the medical center's specialty areas received national rankings-7 of
which are in the top 10 and 2 of which are in the top 5: cancer, cardiology and
heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology, ear, nose, and throat,
gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, orthopaedics, neurology and
neurosurgery, rheumatology, rehabilitation, pulmonology, and urology.

Of note, NYU Langone is the only hospital in New York to receive top 10 rankings
for all 3 musculoskeletal specialty areas of orthopaedics, rheumatology, and
rehabilitation. Additionally, NYU Langone's Rusk Rehabilitation was again ranked
the best in New York State and among the top 10 in the country, an honor held
for 28 years since U.S. News & World Report first introduced its annual "Best
Hospitals" rankings in 1989.

Both the medical center and NYU School of Medicine continue to rise in the U.S.
News rankings. Earlier this year, NYU School of Medicine ranked No. 11 out of
140 medical schools nationwide in U.S. News & World Report's 2016 "Best Graduate
Schools" listing.

A leader in quality care, for the third consecutive year, NYU Langone scored No.
1 for overall patient safety and quality among leading academic medical centers
(AMCs) across the nation that were included in the University HealthSystem
Consortium (UHC) Quality and Accountability Study. The medical center also
ranked No. 1 on the UHC's inaugural Ambulatory Care Quality and Accountability
Leadership Award and received their Bernard A. Birnbaum Quality and Safety
Award. Named in memory of Bernard A. Birnbaum, NYU Langone's former Chief of
Hospital Operations and UHC board member, the award recognizes organizations
that demonstrate superior performance in quality and safety.

The annual U.S. News "Best Hospitals" ranking evaluates hospitals in 16 adult
specialties. This year's Honor Roll recognizes 20 hospitals that are unusually
competent across a range of adult specialties, procedures, and conditions.

Source: NYU Langone Medical Center

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

