                              22 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 18, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Baystate Medical Center: Baystate Medical CenterNamed "Top Hospital" by U.S.
News and World Report

LENGTH: 422  words


New Delhi, July 18 -- Baystate Medical Center has been named a "top hospital" -
the third-best hospital in Massachusetts - in the U.S. News & World Report's
24th annual "Best Hospitals" ranking, recognizing hospitals that excel in
treating patients who need an especially high level of care.



U.S. News and World Report ranks up to 50 hospitals in each of 16 medical
specialties. Only 147 out of nearly 5,000 U.S. hospitals earned national ranking
in one or more of the specialties.

Baystate Medical Center's ranking, up from fifth-best hospital in last year's
"Best Hospitals" report, is a testament to the hard work and dedication of all
Baystate employees in making quality and patient safety second to none, noted
Dr. Evan M. Benjamin, senior vice president, Healthcare Quality, Baystate
Health.

"What our high ranking means for patients is that Baystate Medical Center is
recognized nationally as one of the safest hospitals in the country in terms of
outcomes and avoiding serious medical errors. This latest honor is just one of
many national awards and recognitions Baystate Medical Center has received over
the past years for its high quality of care," said Dr. Benjamin.

"Providing world-class healthcare close to home in western Massachusetts not
only represents the fulfillment of our mission, it also helps to keep our
Pioneer Valley community strong in terms of our overall health, economy, and
quality of life," he added.

Baystate Medical Center was ranked nationally in diabetes and endocrinology
(29), ear, nose and throat (26) and pulmonology (42).

The hospital also was recognized as "high performing" in cancer, cardiology and
heart surgery, gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, gynecology,
nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics and urology.

"The mission of Best Hospitals is to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face a particularly difficult Rankings Editor. "Patient
survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse staffing levels and other
objective data largely determined the rankings in most specialties.

The research organization RTI International in Research Triangle Park, N.C.,
conducted the physician survey and produced the Best Hospital methodology and
national rankings under contract with U.S. News.

U.S News separately published the Best Children's Hospitals 2013-2014 rankings
last month where Baystate Children's Hospital was ranked 34th in pediatric
diabetes and endocrinology.

For more information on Baystate Medical Center, visit baystatehealth.org/bmc.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


