                              223 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   Inland Valley Daily Bulletin (Ontario, CA)

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday

Center's efforts lauded

BYLINE: Monica Rodriguez, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 608 words


POMONA - Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center has long been the place to go to
have a baby or get cardiac care services.

However, it excels in other areas as well.

This week, it was recognized as a top hospital in gynecology and nephrology
services by U.S. News & World Report, making the publication's 2011-'12 Best
Hospitals rankings for the Los Angeles metro area.

This is the first time the hospital has been included in the publication's
rankings.

"U.S. News has long been respected as a resource in guiding people to highly
ranked hospitals and medical centers that perform safe, high-quality and
leading-edge medical care. To be ranked amongst these worthy hospitals, for the
first time, is an honor for Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center and a benefit
for our patients," hospital President and Chief Executive Officer Richard E.
Yochum said.

"We have raised the bar for the quality of care provided for patients in need of
nephrology services and for women in need of gynecological care. We're honored
by these two distinctions and welcome patients from throughout the Los Angeles
basin and beyond in need of these services."

The rankings give consumers local options where they can access quality care
when they don't require special expertise or when they can't travel to national
institutions, according a joint statement from the publication and the hospital.

"These are hospitals we call `high performers.' They are fully capable of giving
most patients first-rate care, even if they have serious conditions or need
demanding procedures," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health rankings editor.

"Almost every major metro area has at least one of these hospitals."

Of 140 hospitals in the Los Angeles metropolitan area, 47 made the list and
Pomona Valley hospital was tied for 33rd place.

The No. 1 slot went to Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles, which
was also ranked fifth in the nation.

Making the rankings is an honor and is even more so because the hospital is in
the company of many prestigious medical institutions, said Dr. Victor Pappoe, a
nephrologist and chairman of the hospital's dialysis and transplant committee.

The hospital's dialysis program, which serves in-patients, is something that
helped the hospital earn the recognition, Pappoe said.

"I doubt very much that we would have (the recognition) if we didn't have the
in-house services we have now," he said.

The hospital's dialysis unit opened in 1998 through a partnership of its
administration, the fundraising efforts of the Auxiliary of Pomona Valley
Hospital Medical Center as well as the advice of the hospital's nephrologists
and kidney disease specialists, hospital spokeswoman Kathy Roche said.

The unit is run with the involvement of experienced nurses, Pappoe said.

"The administration was very kind and had very good foresight," he said.

The hospital's da Vinci Surgical Robot Program, which is used in hysterectomies,
helped shine a light on the hospital, said Dr. Simmi Dhaliwal, chairwoman of the
hospital's obstetrics and gynecology department from 2006 to 2010.

The robot has allowed gynecologists to perform hysterectomies using several
small incisions instead of a single large one, she said.

Patients experience less bleeding and pain and faster recoveries that allow
women to be active sooner, Dhaliwal said.

"That has definitely changed the face of gynecology," she said.

The recognition of U.S. News & World Report is an honor, Dhaliwal said, but the
hospital and its gynecology specialists have plans to bring in other services
such as a group specializing in gynecology and oncology.

"Really we're just growing bigger and better," Dhaliwal said.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Francisco Cuellar, right, and Simmi Dhaliwal, second from right, check
a video monitor as they position the da Vinci Robotic Surgical System on a woman
before surgery Monday at Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

