                              226 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 2, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Sarasota Memorial Recognized as Top Performer in US News' Best Hospitals Report

LENGTH: 309  words


Aug. 2 -- Sarasota Memorial was one of only 63 hospitals nationwide to earn
"high performing" ratings -  the top rating - in all nine inpatient surgical
procedures and chronic conditions evaluated in U.S. News' 2016-17 "Best
Hospitals" report.

The annual "Best Hospitals" report recognizes hospitals that excel in treating
the most challenging patients. Over the past decade, Sarasota Memorial has been
recognized nationally in multiple specialties - and remains the only local
hospital consistently ranked as the region's best.

In U.S. News' latest report, Sarasota Memorial had the best rankings in the
Sarasota-Venice-North Port-Bradenton region.

On a national level, the health system was recognized as a "high performer" (top
10 percent in the nation) for the adult specialty Gastroenterology and GI
Surgery. Sarasota Memorial also was one of only 63 hospitals in the U.S. to earn
"high performing" ratings in all nine inpatient surgical procedures and chronic
conditions evaluated by U.S. News:

* Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Repair

* Aortic Valve Surgery

* Heart Bypass Surgery

* Heart Failure

* Colon Cancer Surgery

* Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)

* Hip Replacement

* Knee Replacement

* Lung Cancer Surgery

For more information about the hospital's elite place among high performing
hospitals, click here.

The Best Hospitals rankings recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most
challenging patients. Objective measures such as patient survival and safety
data, adequacy of nurse staffing levels and other data largely determined the
rankings in most specialties.

Sarasota Memorial CEO David Verinder attributed the hospital's consistently high
rankings to the exceptional expertise and dedication of its entire team - from
physicians and nurses to leaders, staff and volunteers throughout the health
system.

Source: Sarasota Memorial Hospital

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

