                              225 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                                 Drive Edition

OU Medical Center named best hospital in metro area

BYLINE: STAFF REPORTS

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 286 words


OU Medical Center has been named the best hospital in the Oklahoma City metro
area by a national magazine.

OU Medical Center topped the U.S. News Media & World Report's 2011-12 Best
Hospitals rankings for Oklahoma City, outdistancing 37 other hospitals.

"The U.S. News rankings are highly respected by consumers and national health
care leaders, so we are appreciative and humbled by the recognition," OU Medical
Center CEO Cole Eslyn said. "It is a great tribute to our staff and their
dedication to providing outstanding patient care and cutting-edge treatments."

The magazine also recognized OU Medical Center for high performance in five
specialty areas: cancer, urology, gynecology, nephrology, and ear, nose and
throat.

"We are honored to be recognized for our commitment to excellence and
high-quality health care at OU Medicine," said M. Dewayne Andrews, senior vice
president and provost of the OU Health Sciences Center and dean of the
University of Oklahoma College of Medicine. "As the state's only academic
medical center, we strive to be the best in everything we do, from treatment to
research to education.

"We are blessed with highly skilled, highly dedicated health care professionals,
and this ranking is a byproduct of their hard work."

U.S. News also ranked Baptist Medical Center of Oklahoma and St. Anthony
Hospital among the metro's top hospitals.

The rankings, published annually for the past 22 years, showcase 720 hospitals.
Each is ranked among the country's top hospitals in at least one medical
specialty or ranked among the best hospitals in its area.

U.S. News previously honored The Children's Hospital at OU Medical Center for
having one of the best urology programs in the country.


LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OU Medical Center is shown in Oklahoma City. PHOTO PROVIDED

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

