                              230 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 5, 2012 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Texas Children's Hospital Ranks 4th Among Nation's Best Pediatric Institutions
by U.S.News & World Report

LENGTH: 565  words


New Delhi, June 5 -- Texas Children's Hospital has once again been named as a
national leader among pediatric hospitals in U.S.News & World Report's 2012-13
edition of Best Children's Hospitals. Ranked 4th among all children's hospitals
nationally and one of only 12 hospitals to achieve the Honor Roll designation,
Texas Children's is the only hospital in Texas - and the entire Southern region
of the U.S. - awarded this distinction. For more information, visit
www.usnews.texaschildrens.org.

"We are proud to have earned this recognition by U.S. News, again being ranked
as one of the nation's best pediatric hospitals," said Mark A. Wallace,
president and CEO of Texas Children's Hospital. "It is an outstanding
achievement and a tribute to our physicians and staff for their passion for our
mission and ardent dedication to excellence in patient care."

In addition to ranking children's hospitals overall, U.S. News also ranks
pediatric hospitals across 10 major subspecialties. This year, Texas Children's
was ranked in the top 10 for eight out of 10 categories; high rankings in a
minimum of three specialties also qualified Texas Children's for the 2012-13
Best Children's Hospitals Honor Roll, a distinction awarded to only 12
children's centers nationwide.

Texas Children's, together with academic partner Baylor College of Medicine
(BCM), continues to pioneer advancements in pediatric health care and earns the
Honor Roll distinction by being ranked among America's best in:

* #4 Cancer

* #3 Cardiology & Heart Surgery

* #3 Gastroenterology (digestive disorders)

* #5 Neurology & Neurosurgery

* #2 Neonatology

* #5 Nephrology (kidney disorders)

* #3 Pulmonology

* #7 Urology

* #14 Diabetes & Endocrinology

* #33 Orthopedics

"Texas Children's notable ranking, in the midst of other exemplary pediatric
institutions, is truly outstanding," said Dr. Mark Kline, physician-in-chief of
Texas Children's Hospital and chair of the Department of Pediatrics at BCM. "I'm
particularly proud that we have four subspecialties ranked among the top three
nationally and another three that are ranked among the top five. It's a
reflection of the outstanding commitment by our physicians, clinicians,
researchers and all employees to the highest standard of care for our patients."


The rankings are a result of a methodology that weighed a combination of
reputation, outcome and care-related measures such as nursing care, advanced
technology and credentialing, among other factors. The hospitals also were
judged based on a combination of opinions from pediatric specialists about the
hospitals they would recommend for the sickest children and data gathered in an
extensive survey of the hospitals themselves.

"Treating everything from the most common to the highly complex surgical needs
of children is an integral part of providing the highest quality of care and a
major criterion of these rankings," said Dr. Charles D. Fraser Jr.,
surgeon-in-chief of Texas Children's Hospital and professor of congenital heart
surgery at BCM. "Texas Children's Department of Surgery is a preeminent surgical
program nationally and these rankings signify the strength of both the
department and hospital overall."

The 2012-13 edition of Best Children's Hospitals is available online at
www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals and will be featured in U.S. News' annual
guidebook of Best Hospitals 2013 which will ship in mid August.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

