                              227 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       April 6, 2017 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Aspirus Wausau Hospital Named Among '100 Great Hospitals in America' by Becker's
Hospital Review

LENGTH: 280  words


April 6 -- Aspirus Wausau Hospital is one of the "100 Great Hospitals in
America" for 2017 according to Becker's Hospital Review's annual ranking.

This is the third straight year Aspirus Wausau Hospital has made Becker's annual
list, which was released on April 3. Aspirus Wausau Hospital is one of three
Wisconsin hospitals on Becker's list; the others are UW Health-University
Hospital in Madison and Froedtert & the Medical College of Wisconsin Froedtert
Hospital in Milwaukee.

"Earning a spot on Becker's '100 Great Hospitals in America' list affirms our
continued objective of providing high quality and safe health care for residents
of the communities we serve," said Aspirus Wausau Hospital President, Darrell
Lentz. "We are truly honored to receive this recognition from Becker's Hospital
Review for the third year in a row."

According to Becker's, the hospitals included on the "100 Great Hospitals in
America" list are renowned for excellence and are industry leaders in
innovation, quality patient care and clinical research, and have received
recognition across various publications and accrediting organizations.

Aspirus Wausau Hospital was selected by Becker's Hospital Review's editorial
team for inclusion based on analysis of several ranking and award agencies,
including U.S. News and World Report's 2016-17 Honor Roll and specialty rankings
, CMS star ratings, Leapfrog grades, Truven Health Analytics top hospitals, Most
Wired hospitals and Magnet accreditation.

Becker's Hospital Review has published a version of this list since 2012. A full
list of the "100 Great Hospitals in America" can be found online at
beckershospitalreview.com.

Source: Aspirus Wausau Hospital

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

