                              224 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Laurinburg Exchange (North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             March 10, 2017 Friday

Moore Regional ranked one of the N.C. best

BYLINE: The Laurinburg Exchange, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 666 words


March 10--PINEHURST -- FirstHealth Moore Regional Hospital, including its
Richmond Memorial and Hoke campuses, has been recognized as one of the state's
best hospitals and as a top hospital in patient satisfaction by Business North
Carolina magazine.

Moore Regional ranked No. 5 in the "best hospital" ranking (tied with Caromont
Regional Medical Center in Gastonia) and No. 2 in the "patient picks" list.

"We are very pleased to be recognized by Business North Carolina magazine as one
of the top five best hospitals in North Carolina and as a top hospital for
patient satisfaction," said David J. Kilarski, chief executive officer for
FirstHealth of the Carolinas. "This achievement should resonate with each and
every FirstHealth employee and volunteer. It is truly an honor to be recognized
among the best, and these rankings help validate the hard work and dedication of
our employees, especially our outstanding medical staff."

Nearly 100 North Carolina hospitals were compared on varying quality measures to
assemble the "best hospital" list. The criteria included 24 different metrics,
including patient satisfaction, readmission rates and infection rates. The
rankings are calculated by using data from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid,
Blue Cross and Blue Shield Inc. of North Carolina, The Leapfrog Group (a
national nonprofit that advocates for hospital transparency) and U.S. News &
World Report.

Both FirstHealth Moore Regional Hospital-Hoke Campus and Richmond Memorial
Hospital share this recognition, because they are divisions of Moore Regional,
the flagship hospital in Pinehurst.

The "patient picks" list is a result of The Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Healthcare Providers and Systems that surveys hospital patients between 48 hours
and six weeks of discharge. Top "patient picks" are based on the percentage of
patients who would recommend the hospital to others. Moore Regional's No. 2
ranking was based on a score of 84 percent. The average statewide score is 71
percent, while the national average is 72 percent.

In this year's rankings, Moore Regional performed at or above average in nearly
every category, being above the national average in patient satisfaction; heart
failure and pneumonia death rates; central line and catheter infection rates;
and hospital safety.

"Moore Regional is honored to once again be recognized among the best hospitals
in the state," said Dr. John Krahnert Jr., FirstHealth's chief medical officer.
"This achievement is a testament to the commitment of our medical staff, the
nursing staff and everyone involved in the patient care experience to offer a
level of medical excellence that is recognized among the best in North
Carolina."

The Business North Carolina story also noted Moore Regional Hospital's
recognition by Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Carolina as a "cutting-edge
hospital" for cardiac care, knee and hip replacement, and maternity care.

Also noted in the Business North Carolina story was Moore Regional's
commendation as a U.S. News & World Report "Top-Performing Hospital" in the
following adult specialties: abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), colon cancer surgery, geriatrics, heart
bypass surgery, heart failure, hip replacement, knee replacement, lung cancer
surgery and urology.

"We are committed to providing compassionate patient care, the latest technology
and clinical expertise," Krahnert said. "To be recognized as a cutting-edge
hospital and a Top-Performing Hospital by U.S. News & World Report for multiple
specialties solidifies that we provide exceptional, quality care throughout our
system and in our region."

RECOMMENDED FOR YOU

7:27 pm |

Laurinburg man gets life for murder, rape

11:34 am |

Scotland family, civic club assist local food pantry

11:11 am |

BlueScope partners to help with PTSD

___ (c)2017 The Laurinburg Exchange (Laurinburg, N.C.) Visit The Laurinburg
Exchange (Laurinburg, N.C.) at www.laurinburgexchange.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170310-1LX-Moore-Regional-ranked-one-of-the-N-C-best-0310-20170310

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1LX


                     Copyright 2017 The Laurinburg Exchange

