                              238 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              April 8, 2013 Monday

Hazleton General rates first in state for value of care

BYLINE: Kent Jackson, The Citizens' Voice, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 658 words


April 08--Hazleton General Hospital ranks first in the state in a new measure
that the federal government uses to assess value in health care.

Through the Affordable Health Care Act, the federal government will increase or
decrease a small percentage of Medicare payments to hospitals based on the
ratings.

For the past few years, the Hospital and Healthsystem Association of
Pennsylvania used federal data and formulas to let hospitals know how they
compare under value-based purchasing.

"For Hazleton General Hospital, of 136 hospitals which we have data for, they
ranked No. 1," Martin Ciccocioppo, vice president of research for the hospital
association, said. "Out of the whole country --Hazleton General Hospital, in our
analysis, is 23 of 2,843."

This year, the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services will allocate
$48 million among Pennsylvania hospitals based on the rankings.

James Edwards, chief executive officer at Hazleton General Hospital, said the
ranking means the hospital will receive an extra $300,000.

That's about one-quarter of 1 percent of the total revenues for the Greater
Hazleton Health Alliance, which operates the hospital.

Medicare, the federal health insurance plan for older Americans, paid $36.39
million to Hazleton General in 2011.

Hazleton General's high rank on the value-based payments list reflects efforts
taken at the hospital to improve quality of care.

This year's rankings are based on patient satisfaction surveys and what
Ciccocioppo called process measures, such as percentage of patients given
instruction sheets before they are discharged or the share of patients who
receive antibiotics before surgery.

Next year, the rankings will include mortality rates. By 2015, rankings also
will factor in data about hospital-acquired infections and total cost per
Medicare patient from three days before admission until 30 days after admission.
Previously, Ciccocioppo said, hospitals were not responsible for care given
outside the premises.

Edwards said Hazleton General already is planning to keep scores high as the
ratings incorporate more data in the next few years.

"The reason we're doing so well out of the gate is we're ahead of the curve. We
do understand the direction that medicine is taking. I think, rightly so, it
will be quality-driven," Edwards said. "We have a staff, we have physicians that
are very engaged in doing the best for our patients."

By another rating, the financial health of Hazleton General improved.

Two years ago, Moody's upgraded the hospital's bond rating to Baa3, which is
average, from the below-average rating of Ba2 issued in 2009.

Moody's said the outlook at the hospital is stable and said the hospital noted
four years of consistent increases in operating margin.

The hospital alliance earned more than $14 million in each of the two most
recent for which tax forms are available based on gross revenues of $110 million
in 2011 and $107 million the year before.

For 2012, the alliance said revenues of $114.3 million again exceeded expenses,
but Edwards didn't yet know the amount of profit when interviewed last month.

He said the improved bond rating allowed the hospital to save money by
refinancing debt.

The hospital alliance's long-term debt decreased to $21.5 million from $34.7
million between 2010 and 2011, according to the 2011 audit done by the
independent firm ParenteBeard in Wilkes-Barre.

When refinancing, Edwards said the hospital also allocated money to renovate the
hospital entrance, upgrade equipment and install a system for keeping patients'
records electronically.

Hazleton General can receive laboratory results electronically and can track lab
results and patient referrals between visits, according to two new categories
followed at medicare.gov.

kjackson@standardspeaker.com 570-455-3636

___ (c)2013 The Citizens' Voice (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) Visit The Citizens' Voice
(Wilkes-Barre, Pa.) at citizensvoice.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130408-YC-Hazleton-General-rates-first-in-state-for-value-of-care-0408-2013040
8

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YC


                       Copyright 2013 The Citizens' Voice

