                              23 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Journal-News (Hamilton, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 25, 2011 Monday

Cincinnati Children's named a top hospital for 2011

BYLINE: James Sprague, Hamilton JournalNews, Ohio

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 405 words


July 25--CINCINNATI -- A local hospital has been named one of the country's top
hospitals for 2011.

Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, including its Liberty Twp.
campus, was named third-best in the country among children's hospitals in U.S.
News and World Report's 2011 Best Children's Hospital rankings.

The rankings also recognized Cincinnati Children's as one of only 11 pediatric
hospitals in the country named to the publication's Honor Roll list of hospitals
that excelled in at least four of 10 medical specialties ranked by the
publication.

"We're honored to be ranked among the best children's hospitals in the nation as
a result of our strength in clinical care, research, and education," said
Michael Fisher, president and CEO of Cincinnati Children's. "We strive to
provide outstanding care across the spectrum of pediatric specialties -- and we
do it with a focus on quality, safety, family experience and value."

The Best Children's Hospital rankings combine clinical and operational data from
177 hospitals across the country with recommendations from pediatric doctors on
which hospitals they regard as the best for children's treatment.

More than 1.7 million patients were treated at the hospital and its campuses in
fiscal year 2010, said Danielle Lewis, the hospital's media relations associate.

Cincinnati Children's has been rated among the nation's top hospitals since the
rankings began in 2007.

The hospital also was ranked in the top 10 in the country among children's
hospitals for each of its pediatric specialty areas, including a number one
ranking for gastroenterology. It was one of only three hospitals in the country
-- Children's Hospital Boston and Children's Hospital of Philadelphia the others
-- recognized for excellence in all such areas.

Despite the ranking, however, Cincinnati Children's will not rest on its
laurels, Fisher said.

"We're never satisfied and will keep working to be the leader in improving the
health of children in our community and around the world," he said.

Contact this reporter at (513) 483-5226 or jsprague@coxohio.com

To see more of the Hamilton JournalNews or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.journal-news.com . Copyright (c) 2011, Hamilton JournalNews, Ohio
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110725-HL-Cincinnati-Children-s-named-a-top-hospital
-for-2011-0725-20110725

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HL


                        Copyright 2011 The Journal-News


