                              234 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                             July 12, 2008 Saturday
                                   L2 Edition

Suburban hospitals make prestigious list

BYLINE: By Robert McCoppin, Daily Herald Health Reporter
rmccoppin@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 408 words


Three suburban hospitals -- Edward in Naperville, Central DuPage in Winfield,
and Loyola University Medical Center in Maywood -- were among those joining five
Chicago institutions on this year's U.S. News and World Report list of the
nation's top hospitals.

Loyola placed 31st in heart care, 39th in geriatric care and 43rd in urology.

Central DuPage ranked 47th in orthopedics, and Edward made number 47 in treating
gastrointestinal disorders.

Ingalls Memorial Hospital in Harvey also made the list, ranking 38th in
neurology and neurosurgery.

In Chicago, three teaching hospitals scored high rankings in several categories.

The University of Chicago Medical Center was ranked 17th overall in the nation
and recognized in 11 specialties. Northwestern Memorial Hospital was cited in 10
specialties. Rush University Medical Center made the list in seven categories.

Children's Memorial Hospital was named in the top 50 in seven different
pediatric specialties. And the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago again ranked
first in the nation for rehabilitation facilities.

The rankings are based on reputation, mortality rate, staffing and services, and
are heavily weighted toward teaching hospitals, in the view of Dr. David Cooke,
vice president for quality and safety at Central DuPage.

By surveying doctors on where they would refer family members, some institutions
can ride on past reputation.

But CDH made the list in orthopedics primarily through its heavy caseload, its
broad range of service, and its low mortality rate of 0.39, almost 60 percent
less than what would typically be expected.

"What may cause us to stand apart," Cooke said, "is our surgeons have so much
experience, taking on cases other orthopedists would not do," such as elderly
patients with heart or lung conditions or second joint replacements.

For Loyola, the high rankings are a repeat performance.

Dr. David Wilber, director of cardiology, credited a commitment toward providing
new technology that makes procedures safer and simpler, such as a magnetically
guided heart catheter system.

At Edward Hospital, the gastrointestinal department has grown to perform about
10,000 procedures a year, including colonoscopies to screen for colon cancer and
endoscopies to diagnose disorders like esophageal reflux disease.

Kelly Leonard, nurse manager for Edward's endoscopy services, said an important
part of the department's success was getting more people screened before they
have a problem.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Paddock Publications, Inc.

