                              232 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Sentinel (Carlisle, Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday

Report names best hospitals, areas of high performance

BYLINE: The Sentinel, Carlisle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 486 words


Aug. 08--The U.S. News & World Report Tuesday unveiled its list of best
hospitals across the country, as well as rankings in the state and areas of
"high performance."

The highest ranking hospital in the Midstate was Penn State Health Milton S.
Hershey Medical Center, which ranked as the fourth best hospital in the state.

The hospital also received "high performing" marks in six adult specialties:
cancer, geriatrics, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, pulmonology and
urology.

Of its specialties, Penn State Health received national rankings for some of
them. Under adult specialties, the hospital ranked 35 nationally for
gastroenterology and 48 for orthopedics. Under children's specialties, Penn
State Children's Hospital ranked 39 for pediatric cardiology and heart surgery,
46 for pediatric orthopedics, 46 for neonatology and 50 for pediatric cancer.

The hospital was also listed as "high performing" in eight of the nine adult
procedures and conditions: abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, aortic valve
surgery, COPD, colon cancer surgery, heart bypass surgery, heart failure, knee
replacement and lung cancer surgery.

"These rankings reflect years of collaboration to enhance quality, safety and
outcomes for our patients,'" said Dr. A. Craig Hillemeier, CEO of Penn State
Health. "Moving forward, we must continue to take steps to ensure that we do
right by every patient, every time."

While no other area hospitals were nationally ranked, they did show high
performance in certain specialties.

Considered jointly as PinnacleHealth Hospitals, the health system was ranked No.
12 in the state and was rated as high performing in the same eight adult
procedures as Penn State Health.

Both PinnacleHealth and Penn State Health were rated as "average" for hip
replacement procedures.

Geisinger Holy Spirit Hospital received high performance ratings in two adult
procedures: COPD and heart failure, with the rest of the conditions and
procedures settling in the average area.

Chambersburg Hospital received high performance ratings for COPD and heart
failure, but also received "below average" ratings for abdominal aortic aneurysm
repair, hip replacement and lung cancer surgery.

Most of the procedures and conditions at Carlisle Regional Medical Center were
rated as average, except for abdominal aortic aneurysm and repair and colon
cancer surgery, which were both rated by U.S. News & World Report as "below
average."

For the 2017-18 rankings, U.S. News evaluated more than 4,500 medical centers
nationwide. In the 16 specialty areas, 152 hospitals were ranked in at least one
specialty.

For more information on the Best Hospitals in Pennsylvania, complete with data
about each specialty and patient experience, go online at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/area/pa.

___ (c)2017 The Sentinel (Carlisle, Pa.) Visit The Sentinel (Carlisle, Pa.) at
www.cumberlink.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170808-JV-Report-names-best-hospitals
-areas-of-high-performance-0808-20170808

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JV


                          Copyright 2017 The Sentinel

