                              239 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 5, 2012 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

UH Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital in Nation's Top Five for Treatment of
Newborns and Children with Breathing Disorders

LENGTH: 654  words


New Delhi, June 5 -- Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital at University
Hospitals Case Medical Center once again is ranked as one of the nation's top
children's hospitals, according to U.S.News & World Report's annual rankings of
pediatric hospitals, and for the second year in a row is ranked in all ten
children's specialties.

For the fifth consecutive year, UH Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital ranked
among the top five children's hospitals for the care of newborns in its neonatal
intensive care unit. The hospital also ranked in the top 10 for two other
specialties - Pulmonology (#5) and Orthopaedics (#10) and climbed in six areas,
with its Diabetes & Endocrinology and Cancer specialties jumping to number
eleven and twelve respectively.

"We are proud to once again be recognized as one of the nation's leading
children's hospitals," says Michael Konstan, MD, Chairman of the Department of
Pediatrics at UH Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital. "Rainbow has a rich
legacy in pediatrics and has been ranked as a top children's hospital on this
elite list for 22 years, since the inception of the U.S.News rankings. This
prestigious recognition demonstrates our abiding commitment to caring for the
children of Northeast Ohio and beyond."

UH Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital's rankings in all ten medical and
surgical children's specialties are:

* #12 in Cancer

* #41 in Cardiology & Heart Surgery

* #11 in Diabetes & Endocrinology

* #50 in Gastroenterology

* #5 in Neonatology

* #16 in Nephrology

* #25 in Neurology & Neurosurgery

* #10 in Orthopaedics

* #5 in Pulmonology

* #26 in Urology

In addition to the top ten rankings, UH Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital's
pediatric cancer ranking jumped from 22 to 12 this year. It comes after the
announcement of the Angie Fowler Adolescent & Young Adult Cancer Institute, made
possible by a $17 million gift by Char and Chuck Fowler and family last July in
memory of their daughter, Angie, who passed away from melanoma at age 14. The
largest individual donation in the hospital's history, the gift furthers its
national leadership in childhood, adolescent, and young adult cancers. It also
dovetails with innovative work ongoing in pediatric cancer research and
treatment, such as advances in sickle cell treatment. "This recognition
continues our momentum in pediatric cancer," says John Letterio, MD, Chief of
Pediatric Hematology and Oncology at UH Rainbow Babies & Children's Hospital.
"But there is no greater reward than curing children of cancer, and giving them
the ability to survive and live happy, healthy lives."

A pediatric pulmonologist who has invested his career pursuing a cure for cystic
fibrosis, Dr. Konstan is particularly proud of the ascent to number five of the
Pediatric Pulmonology Division, which has ranked in the top ten since U.S.News
started ranking specialties. Under Dr. Konstan's leadership, the hospital's
Leroy W. Matthews Cystic Fibrosis Center is nationally recognized for its
research, new therapies and breakthroughs in the treatment of CF.

"We are very proud to be ranked so highly once again in neonatology," says
Jonathan Fanaroff, MD, JD, Co-Medical Director of the NICU at UH Rainbow. The
acknowledgement continues the recognition of UH Rainbow's work with the most
fragile newborns, from pioneering neonatology in the 1950s to opening the
Quentin & Elisabeth Alexander Neonatal Intensive Care Unit in 2009, the $26.2
million state-of-the-art NICU. "Rainbow has a rich history of excellence in
neonatology and we are always looking toward the future, and how we can continue
to enhance the care we provide to our babies."

Hospital specialties were ranked using a three-part combination of reputation,
outcomes and care-related measures, such as nursing care, advanced technology,
infection control and safety measures. A complete list of the children's
hospital rankings will be published online at www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

