                              237 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 27, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Axial Exchange: Sharp Memorial Hospital and Doctors Medical Center of Modesto
Earn Top Rankings in Independent California Patient Engagement Index

LENGTH: 508  words


New Delhi, June 27 -- Axial Exchange, Inc., a pioneer in using mobile apps to
deepen the patient's role in improving outcomes, today announced the results of
its California Patient Engagement Index (PEI), a groundbreaking index that ranks
U.S. hospitals based on an analysis of publicly available data in three
categories: personal health management, patient satisfaction and social media
engagement. In the California PEI, Sharp Memorial Hospital and Doctors Medical
Center of Modesto topped the list of 135 hospitals in the state. This is the
third regional PEI the company has issued; previous PEI's ranked top hospitals
in Florida and Texas.



Axial Exchange's methodology for ranking hospitals' patient engagement
performance is based on analyzing metrics that research has indicated lower
costs and improve clinical outcomes. For each state's PEI, Axial Exchange
evaluates provider organizations' personal health management strategies,
awarding maximum points to those organizations that not only offer electronic
access to patient health records, but also provide resources for ongoing disease
management support, including mobile, tablet and desktop tools. Axial Exchange
also ranks hospitals according to an annual Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
(CMS) patient satisfaction survey called the Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Health Plans Survey (HCAHPS), a standardized instrument for measuring patients'
perspectives on hospital care and is also used to determine reimbursement levels
for Medicare patients. Lastly, Axial Exchange analyzes the extent to which
hospitals and health systems engage their patients via social networking
channels.

The highest possible ranking a hospital can receive in the Axial Exchange PEI is
a score of 100. Ranking number one, Sharp Memorial Hospital in San Diego,
received an overall score of 90. Lower ranking hospitals in the California PEI
included notable healthcare institutions like Olive View-UCLA Medical Center,
which received a score of 18, and Riverside County Regional Medical Center which
received a score of 13.

"Through our Patient Engagement Indices, we are starting to see more and more
provider organizations make a commitment to, and investment in, patient
engagement initiatives, demonstrating that healthcare organizations are really
starting to see the value of engagement programs-whether that be via enhanced
social media engagement, mobile health applications or patient education," said
Joanne Rohde, CEO of Axial Exchange. "Patient engagement is a real game changer
when it comes to successful health management, and when done right, will
ultimately lead to improve outcomes, better quality care, and reduced costs for
the entire healthcare ecosystem."

Future indices for other U.S. regions will debut in the coming months. Detailed
methodology of the Patient Engagement Index is published here. All California
hospitals were notified of their ranking, and provided with the published data
for consideration in their own initiatives toward Meaningful Use and heightened
reimbursement.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

