                              247 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             June 23, 2016 Thursday

Mayo recognized for children's center

BYLINE: Brett Boese, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 408 words


June 23--The Mayo Clinic Children's Center has again been ranked as one of the
top facilities in the country by U.S. News & World Report.

The Rochester-based facility was one of three Minnesota centers recognized in
the 2016-17 ranking of Best Children's Hospitals. The other two were the
University of Minnesota Masonic Children's Hospital and the Children's Hospitals
and Clinics of Minnesota, which are both located in Minneapolis.

U.S. News & World Report named Boston Children's Hospital as the best children's
hospital in the nation, thanks largely to being ranked in the top 5 percent in
all 10 specialties. The list was compiled after examining 178 campuses around
the country.

The 10th year of ranking children's hospitals is generally regarded as a
precursor to the more widely recognized list of best hospitals, which is
typically announced in late July or early August. Mayo Clinic was the top-rated
hospital in 2014, but dropped to No. 2 last year.

The Mayo Clinic Children's Center was recognized as one of the top facilities in
the Midwest thanks to its high performance in numerous specialties, where it
finished among the top 50 in eight of the 10 specialties. However, it was not
included in U.S. News & World Report's top 10 list of children's hospitals.

"We are honored to be recognized for the quality care provided to the children
and families at the Children's Center," says Dr. Randall Flick, medical director
of the Mayo Clinic Children's Center. "This success is a reflection of our staff
members, who strive to put the needs of the patients first every day, as well as
the application of cutting-edge interventions, such as the use of proton beam
therapy for childhood cancer and stem cell treatment for children with heart
disease."

It finished No. 18 in diabetes and endocrinology, No. 27 in cardiology and heart
surgery and No. 31 in cancer, while also being ranked among the top 50 in
orthopedics, pulmonology, urology, and gastroenterology and G.I. surgery.

According to Dr. Flick, the U.S. News & World Report's Best Children's Hospital
ranking is an important measure, but not the only measure of Mayo Clinic's
performance.

"Ranking in the U.S. News & World Report's survey demonstrates the broad-based
excellence and the effectiveness of the team-based approach that is the hallmark
of Mayo Clinic care."

___ (c)2016 the Post-Bulletin Visit the Post-Bulletin at www.postbulletin.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160623-RC-Mayo-recognized-for-children-s-center-0623-20160623

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2016 Post-Bulletin

