                              249 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Whittier Daily News (California)

                            March 31, 2011 Thursday

Report: Six SG Valley, Whittier hospitals among best in Los Angeles metro area

BYLINE: By Tracy Garcia, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 590 words


Six San Gabriel Valley and Whittier-area hospitals have received top rankings in
this year's U.S. News & World Report's best hospitals survey.

The report, designed to help patients and their families find a top-performing
hospital in their health-insurance network, identified 622 of the top-performing
metro-area hospitals of nearly 5,000 nationwide.

Among the top 44 facilities in the Los Angeles area, were:

No. 6, City of Hope in Duarte;

No. 10, Huntington Hospital in Pasadena;

No. 14, Garfield Medical Center in Monterey Park;

No. 18, Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in Whittier;

No. 36 (tie), Methodist Hospital of Southern California in Arcadia; and

Nov. 36 (tie), San Gabriel Valley Medical Center in San Gabriel.

In order to make the metro-area rankings, officials said a hospital had to score
in the top 25 percent among its peers in at least one of 16 medical specialties
such as cancer and kidney disorders to orthopedics and urology.

For the 440-bed PIH in Whittier, the highest marks came in the specialties of
diabetes and endocrinology; kidney disorders; neurology and neurosurgery;
orthopedics; and pulmonology.

Included in this consideration was PIH's Diabetes Education Center, which offers
basic and advanced information on treating diabetes and is open to the entire
community.

PIH's patient satisfaction rate was reported at 80 percent, compared to a
statewide average rate of 67 percent and 68 percent nationwide.

"I just think it's nice that we were recognized for all the work that's been
going on for many years here," said James R. West, PIH president and chief
executive officer.

"The physicians and medical staff deserve the credit because they do all the
work," West said. "At PIH, we are focused on unremitting innovation and
dedication to providing a superior health-care experience for our patients."

Study officials said the 541-bed Huntington Hospital in Pasadena performed
nearly at the level of nationally ranked U.S. News Best Hospitals in eight adult
specialties: diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology; geriatrics; kidney
disorders; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

It also scored high in patient safety, study officials said, which shows
commitment to reducing accidents and medical mistakes.

"It was great news to hear that Huntington Memorial Hospital was rated among the
top 10 hospitals in the greater Los Angeles area," said President and CEO
Stephen A. Ralph.

"It's wonderful recognition for our medical staff, nurses and patient care
providers."

Out of the 4,852 facilities analyzed for the 2010-11 Best Hospitals rankings,
only 152 were ranked in any of the 16 specialties - and the 185-bed City of Hope
cancer facility in Duarte was one of them, study officials said.

"We're very pleased to be the highest-ranked hospital in the San Gabriel
Valley," said Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Virginia
Opipare. "We're the second-highest ranking cancer center in Los Angeles, and
sixth-highest in California that appeared on the national list."

City of Hope's cancer and urology specialties were nationally ranked, and it
also received high-performing marks in ear, nose and throat; gynecology; and
kidney disorders.

"We're particularly pleased about our cancer rating because that's very
important to us," Opipare said. "And we feel very honored to be able to serve
the patients in this region in these high-specialty areas."

Full metro-area rankings and details can be viewed at www.usnews.com/best-
hospitals

tracy.garcia@sgvn.com

562-698-0955, ext. 3051

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr. Christian Gastelum, right, and Diabetes Center Coordinator Danielle
Halewijn, center, talk with diabetic patient Isaac Munoz, of Hacienda Heights,
at Prebyterian Intercommunity Hospital's Ernest D. Wells Medical Office building
in Whittier on Thursday March 31, 2011. Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital has
been named one of the 44 Best Hospitals in Los Angeles in U.S. News & World
Report's first-ever Best Hospitals metro area rankings.(SGVN/Staff Photo by
Keith Durflinger)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2011 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

