                              244 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday
                          SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

WHERE KIDS ARE NO. 1 N.Y.-Presbyterian tops list for eighth year

BYLINE: BY HEIDI EVANS NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 521 words


They are among the best medical minds, hands and hearts in New York and the
nation: Doctors, surgeons and hospital staffs who specialize in treating
children with the most daunting medical conditions.

From brain surgery to open-heart surgery and cancer care, millions of children's
lives have been saved and enhanced by the care they have received at 10 New York
area children's hospitals.

No. 1 on the list for the eighth year in a row is New York-Presbyterian Morgan
Stanley-Komansky Children's Hospital, according to the 2014-15 U.S. News & World
Report rankings released Tuesday.

Morgan Stanley-Komansky Children's Hospital was ranked outstanding in nine of 10
medical specialties surveyed. Its two campuses also scored in the top 12
nationwide in neonatology, cardiology and heart surgery and
diabetes-endocrinology.

"Investing in children's care is very important to us," said New
York-Presbyterian CEO Dr. Steven Corwin. "If anybody in my family - my kids or
grandkids - were sick, I would have no compunction about having them treated at
this hospital, and I think New Yorkers should feel that way as well," he added.

Mount Sinai's Kravis Children's Hospital on the Upper East Side excelled in
seven of the 10 specialties - including diabetes and endocrinology, nephrology
and pulmonology.

"We are pleased with our rankings in seven specialties, and the recognition from
U.S. News that we received this year for our programs in neurology and
neurosurgery, and in neonatology - a division that oversees 18,000 births a
year," said Dr. Kenneth Davis, CEO of the Mount Sinai Health System. "Our entire
medical team, including physicians, nurses and social workers, strives to care
for patients with expertise and compassion."

Cohen Children's Medical Center in New Hyde Park, L.I., was nationally ranked in
five specialties, while the Children's Hospital at Montefiore in the Bronx
excelled in four specialties.

Ben Harder, managing editor and director of health care analysis for the survey,
said U.S. News continues to make refinements to its methodology, which can have
a positive or negative effect on a hospital's ranking.

In addition to looking at patient care and staffing and survival and
complication rates, surveyors added additional categories to measure a
hospital's performance this year.

For example, hospitals that did well at preventing infection, particularly in
the pediatric intensive care units, were given extra credit this year.

"Our rankings are designed to provide a guide or decision support for health
care consumers, especially families with very sick children," said Harder. "It's
for families and general pediatricians trying to figure out where best to send a
very sick patient. It gives families and general pediatricians a valuable
starting point for the best care."

In the 2014-15 rankings, 89 hospitals were ranked among the top 50 in at least
one of the 10 specialities. Ten hospitals with high scores in three or more
specialties were named to the national "Honor Roll" list.

The children's hospitals of Philadelphia, Boston and Cincinnati remained the top
three in the country.

hevans@-nydailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: New York-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley-Komansky Children's Hospital is a
jewel in the city's medical crown. Above, its uptown campus. MARCUS SANTOS/DAILY
NEWS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Daily News, L.P.

