                              24 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            July 17, 2013 Wednesday

Sarasota Memorial wins top spot in U.S. ranking

BYLINE: DONNA KOEHN

SECTION: B; ARCHIVES; Pg. BNV01

LENGTH: 405 words


HOSPITAL: Magazine ranks its gynecology services No. 48 of nation's best 50

Sarasota Memorial Hospital's gynecology department helped earn it a top spot on
U.S. News & World Report's 2014 annual ranking of almost 5,000 medical centers
across the country.

No other Southwest Florida hospitals made the list.

Gynecology services at Sarasota Memorial were ranked No. 48 among the nation's
top 50. The rankings were based on several factors, including the number of
specialists, nursing ratios and patient satisfaction.

More than 80 percent of patients said they "definitely" would recommend Sarasota
Memorial to family and friends. The average at other hospitals in the state was
68 percent.

Hospital CEO Gwen MacKenzie said Sarasota Memorial, the region's public,
safety-net hospital, "sets the benchmark" for care.

"People don't have to leave the state or even their community to get the best
quality of care," she said Tuesday.

Sarasota Memorial also ranked in the top quarter of all hospitals in the country
in diabetes & endocrinology, gastroenterology & GI surgery, geriatrics,
nephrology, orthopedics and pulmonology.

Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore was ranked the top medical facility in the
nation by U.S. News, an online magazine. No Florida medical centers were ranked
among the 18 "honor roll" hospitals.

Sarasota Memorial was ranked No. 6 of Florida's 271 hospitals overall, up from
No. 8 last year.

The top medical center in the state is Florida Hospital in Orlando, followed by
Tampa General Hospital, the magazine said.

Avery Comarow, U.S. News health rankings editor, said 3 percent of all hospitals
earn a national ranking in any specialty.

The drive to hold hospitals more accountable and to keep down Medicare costs has
led to a sometimes confusing proliferation of hospital rankings and "best of"
lists in the last few years.

They are provided by the federal government, private foundations, magazines,
insurance companies and trade organizations.

The longevity of U.S. News' annual report adds to its credibility; it has been
around for 24 years.

MacKenzie said she appreciates all the rankings to help consumers, but likes the
fact that the U.S, News' report also asks physicians where they prefer to send
their patients and their own family members.

The complete rankings are available at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals
and will appear in print in the U.S. News "Best Hospitals 2014" guidebook
available Aug. 27.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: According to U.S. News and World Report, more than 80 percent of
patients said they "definitely" would recommend Sarasota Memorial Hospital to
family and friends. The average at other hospitals in the state was 68 percent.
The hospital also ranked in the top quarter of U.S. hospitals in six other
departments. STAFF PHOTO / HAROLD BUBIL Hospital CEO Gwen MacKenzie said
Sarasota Memorial, the region's public, safety-net hospital, "sets the
benchmark" for care. "People don't have to leave the state or even their
community to get the best quality of care," she said Tuesday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


