                              241 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            August 12, 2017 Saturday

BUSINESS AWARDS

SECTION: ; Pg. SPB5

LENGTH: 550 words


HEALTH CARE

Miami Valley Hospital ranks 4th

Miami Valley Hospital ranked fourth among Ohio's hospitals in the latest annual
rankings released recently by U.S. News & World Report, up four spots from last
year. The hospital achieved the highest ranking in not only Dayton, but
southwest Ohio.

HEALTH CARE

Good Samaritan up 4 spots in rankings

Good Samaritan Hospital ranked 18th in the state, up four spots from last year.

Among all hospitals nationwide, Miami Valley Hospital ranked 28th for its
pulmonology care, and 34th for nephrology care.

Both Miami Valley Hospital and Good Samaritan Hospital also ranked as
"high-performing" in several areas of care.

Miami Valley Hospital had 15 such designations for cardiology and heart surgery;
diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery;
geriatrics; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; urology; abdominal aortic
aneurysm repair; aortic valve surgery; heart bypass surgery; heart failure;
colon cancer surgery; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD); knee
replacement; and lung cancer surgery.

Good Samaritan Hospital had four "high-performing" designations, including
abdominal aortic aneurysm repair; heart failure; colon cancer surgery; and COPD.

LAW

Partner earns spot on 'Hot List '

Erin Rhinehart, Partner at Faruki+, adds another impressive award to her
collection of accolades. Benchmark Litigation's "Under 40 Hot List" honors the
achievements of the nation's most accomplished legal partners of the age of
forty or younger.

The collection of young, up-and-coming attorneys was chosen through a process of
peer review and case examination that took place over many months. Rhinehart is
one of only five Ohio attorneys who made the cut.

Rhinehart leads Faruki's media and communications practice, which includes First
Amendment issues, online & traditional defamation, public records, trademark,
copyright, trade secrets, open courts, branding, advertising law, social media
and certain privacy issues. She also represents clients in a variety of state
and federal consumer and mass tort class action lawsuits.

TRANSPORTATION

Driver competes in championships

Andrew Tuck recently represented FedEx Ground and his employer, Addison
Transportation, in the National Truck Driving Championships (NTDC) in Orlando,
Fla. This annual championship celebrates those who exemplify safety and
excellence in the driving profession.

Tuck earned a spot to compete in the prestigious national competition by winning
at the Ohio truck driving championships in May. The American Trucking
Associations (ATA) sponsors the NTDC, which is designed to recognize industry
leadership in safety and to promote professionalism among truck drivers.

Tuck has driven over 325,000 accident free miles over the course of his 11 years
of driving.

This year's competition will mark his 5th appearance at the national level,
including a first-place finish in the Step Van category in 2015. Along with
qualifying for the national competition, Tuck's performance at the state
competition in May also qualified him to become a member of the elite FedEx Aces
team.

At the NTDC, CSPs for FedEx Ground will be among the nearly 450 participants
competing for national titles in nine different classes of vehicles, including
the overarching National Grand Champion title.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2017 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

