                              254 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                          September 6, 2006 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Arnprior one of three safest towns for hospital patients: report

BYLINE: Joanne Laucius, The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: CITY; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 269  words


Arnprior is one of the three safest municipalities in Ontario to be a hospital
patient, says the Fraser Institute's new Ontario hospital report card.

Arnprior ranked in the top three based on the "hospital mortality index," which
looked at communities in terms of hospital deaths in nine areas, such as
pneumonia and acute stroke, with the figures adjusted for factors such as the
patients' age and sex.

The municipal rankings, one of hundreds of indicators in the report, are based
the home postal codes of patients.

They indicate the success of patients' treatment at their local hospitals and at
the larger hospitals that handle more complex cases, said Mark Mullins,
co-author of the report and executive director of the Fraser Institute. Two
other small towns, Maple and Stratford, rounded out the top three.

In the hospital rankings -- as opposed to the community rankings -- the Ottawa
Hospital got consistently good marks in the mortality index between 1997 and
2005, placing seventh overall in the province, said Mr. Mullins.

In all, the report card assessed 50 measures of patient safety and quality of
care for Ontario's 136 acute care hospitals and 138 municipalities using
methodology currently used in a dozen U.S. states and data collected by the
Canadian Institute for Health Information.

However, only 43 Ontario hospitals agreed to be identified by name on the report
card. The others are reported only by number.

The first and second top-ranked hospitals in the report and the 10 bottom-ranked
hospitals were among the "anonymous' hospitals.

To see the report in its entirety, visit www.fraserinstitute.ca

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

