                              255 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      The Mount Airy News (North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 28, 2016 Sunday

Northern Hospital honored by rankings

BYLINE: The Mount Airy News, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 804 words


Aug. 28--Northern Hospital was recently recognized by several organizations that
rank rural and community hospitals in the nation.

Northern was named one of iVantage Health Analytics' Top 100 Rural & Community
Hospitals in the United States, as defined by the iVantage's Hospital Strength
index.

"The index is the industry's most comprehensive rating of rural and critical
access hospitals," the local hospital said in a statement announcing the
recognition. "The results recognize that the Top 100 Rural & Community Hospitals
play a key role in providing a safety net to communities across America --
measuring them across more than 70 different performance metrics, including
quality, outcomes, patient perspective, affordability, population risk and
efficiency."

The list of the Top 100 Rural & Community Hospitals and more information about
the study can be found at www.iVantageINDEX.com.

"Rural healthcare encompasses more than 60 million Americans and the facilities
which comprise our Top 100 Rural & Community Hospitals play a vital role in
ensuring the long-term sustainability of the rural health safety net," said
Michael Topchik, senior vice president of iVantage Health Analytics. "Our data
analysis shows that this group of top performers exhibits a focused concern for
their community benefits and needs, regardless of scale, reimbursement and
people's ability to pay.

Becker's Hospital Review

Northern Hospital also recently landed on Becker's Hospital Review 100 Great
Community Hospitals for 2016.

"Becker's is the leading hospital magazine for hospital business news and
analysis for hospital and health system executives," the hospital statement
said. "Becker's defines a 'community hospital' as one with fewer than 550 beds
that have minimal teaching programs."

A release from Becker's states, "The hospitals on this list are not far from
major metro areas, while others serve more rural communities. Regardless of
their location, or their independence or affiliation with a major system, these
hospitals are a vital part of their respective communities. The origins of
[Northern] can be traced back to the 1950s. [The hospital] has since blossomed
into a high-tech facility staffed by board-certified and fellowship-trained
clinical specialists."

The Becker's editorial team selected hospitals for inclusion based on rankings
and awards from organizations including iVantage Health Analytics, Truven Health
Analytics, Healthgrades, CareChex, the American Nurses Credentialing Center and
the Leapfrog Group. Included organizations have earned recognition from one or
more of these organizations. The list of the 100 Great Community Hospitals and
more information can be found at www.beckershospitalreview.com.

Becker's Hospital Review surveyed approximately 3,300 hundred hospitals for its
rankings.

Hospital earns an A

While landing among the top 100 on those two lists Northern Hospital of Surry
County earned its fourth consecutive grade A by the independent national patient
safety watchdog The Leapfrog Group. The Hospital Safety Scores, which assign A,
B, C, D and F letter grades to hospitals nationwide, was announced today by The
Leapfrog Group.

"Northern Hospital is one of 798 hospitals to receive an A, ranking among the
safest hospitals in the United States," the hospital said.

"We are honored to be recognized by so many national organizations for the great
care provided at Northern Hospital but none more impressive than being awarded
one of the top 100 hospitals by Becker's Hospital review," said Ned Hill,
president and CEO at Northern Hospital. "There were 3,300 hospitals across the
country that were compared side by side and Northern ranked in the top 100. We
are also very proud to be the only hospital in the State of North Carolina to be
ranked in the top 100 hospitals by both Becker's Hospital review and iVantage.
It is our pleasure to serve our friends and families and continue to provide
industry leading care right here in Mount Airy."

In the past 12 months, Northern Hospital has received several other honors in
the state and nationwide, including:

--Recipient of the 2016 Healthgrades Patient Safety Excellence Award;

--Recipient of the 2016 Healthgrades America's 100 Best Hospitals for Pulmonary
Care Award;

--Hospital Safety Scores -- Northern Hospital has received consecutive "A"
grades in 2014, 2015, 2016

--Cleverley & Associates, Community Value Five-Star Award for 2015 and 2016;

--Northern Hospital of Surry County was named in the 20 percent of all hospitals
within their group and was designated as Community Value Five-Star Hospital by
the Cleverley + Associates Community Value Index Leadership Award for 2016.

___ (c)2016 The Mount Airy News (Mount Airy, N.C.) Visit The Mount Airy News
(Mount Airy, N.C.) at www.mtairynews.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160828-NI-Northern-Hospital-honored-by-rankings-0828-20160828

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NI


                       Copyright 2016 The Mount Airy News

