                              256 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                      July 6, 1993, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Hospitals offering best specialty care

BYLINE: Leslie Miller

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 364 words


If you're diagnosed with a serious illness, where do you go for state-of-the-art
care?

A new ranking of the USA's top major hospitals, out this week, makes answering
that question a little easier.

For AIDS, consider San Francisco General; for cancer, Memorial Sloan-Kettering.
For cardiology, Mayo Clinic; in geriatrics, UCLA Medical Center.

"We thought there was a pressing need for hospitals to be held up to consumer
standards like any other institution," says Avery Comarow of U.S. News & World
Report, which has produced best-hospitals lists since 1990.

The 1993 listings, for 16 specialties, represent the top 3% of the nation's
1,488 major teaching and research hospitals.

This year, for the first time, rankings for 12 of the 16 specialties are based
not just on surveys of physicians, but on measurements of objective criteria by
the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago. These include
mortality figures, technology, discharge planning and ratio of doctors and
nurses to beds.

Listings, in the July 12 issue, name 111 hospitals in 29 states and Washington,
D.C.

In each of 12 specialties - AIDS, cancer, cardiology, endocrinology,
gastroenterology, geriatrics, gynecology, neurology, orthopedics,
otolaryngology, rheumatology and urology - more than 40 hospitals are ranked;
scores are based a third on reputation with physicians, a third on mortality
rates and a third on measures that vary with each specialty.

For the other four specialties - ophthalmology, pediatrics, psychiatry and
rehabilitation - mortality figures are not kept, so rankings are based on
reputation as rated by the 2,400 physicians surveyed.

Among the top facilities

These hospitals are among the top 10 in at least six of the 16 specialties in
U.S. News & World Report's 1993 rankings:

- Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, 15 specialties.

- Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn., 13.

- UCLA Medical Center, Los Angeles, 12.

- Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 11.

- Duke University Medical Center, Durham, N.C., and Cleveland Clinic, both 8.

- University of California, San Francisco Medical Center, 7. Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Boston, 6.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

See info box at end of text

                      Copyright 1993 Gannett Company, Inc.

