                              253 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   Niagara Gazette (Niagara Falls, New York)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 6, 2008 Sunday

OPINION: The survey says: We're among the best

BYLINE: Dick Lucinski, Niagara Gazette, Niagara Falls, N.Y.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 583 words


Jul. 6--NIAGARA FALLS -- Let's shout it from the rooftops: We're No. 12! Or,
we're No. 73!

Those were the national rankings of the two hospitals in the Niagara Falls area
when it comes to bang for the buck. We're talking about the 2008 Hospital Value
Index. It's a rating of hospitals across America that lists the best value for
the money in health care.

According to the private firm Data Advantage, LLC, Niagara Falls Memorial
Medical Center is rated first in the state and 12th in the nation when it comes
to providing high-quality, affordable health care. The survey rated 1,500
hospitals in the country's 100 largest regions.

Stop and think of that: 12th out of 1,500. That's in the top 1 percent. In
addition, Memorial was listed as a Top 100 Best Value hospital, a Top 100 Best
Kept Secret hospital and a Best in Value hospital.

And let's not forget Mount St. Mary's Hospital in Lewiston. It made the Hot 100
charts as well, coming in at No. 73 on the Hospital Value Index. In fact, health
care facilities across the Niagara Falls-Buffalo region littered the Top 100,
bringing our area in as having the best value in health care of any region in
the nation.

The folks who work at and operate our hospitals are justifiably proud.

"It's really a tribute to the entire hospital team -- all 1,200 employees and
medical staff," said CEO Joseph Ruffolo of Niagara Falls Memorial Medical
Center. The index ranked the hospitals on four main criteria: quality of care,
efficiency of care and affordability, patient experience and reputation as
measured by local public perception. For both medical facilities to come out as
high as they did is, as Ruffolo put it, a tribute to all who dedicate themselves
to the care of the ill in our community.

Ruffolo says the ranking will be a big help in recruiting top-flight physicians
and other medical personnel to the region. "I think it's the old cliche that the
best attracts the best," he said.

Lists and rankings like these, of course, have their detractors. They say that
it all depends on what you measure; that the criteria used can skew the results.
Change them a little and it could knock our hospitals down to the middle of the
pack. And standards used in compiling this list are pretty subjective, relying
on surveys and opinion.

But those who criticize these types of lists are usually those who don't do well
on them. The best example locally is the annual Business First ranking of the
area's public schools. Officials of the districts that grace the top of the list
are all smiles. Those at or near the bottom? The survey is flawed and they don't
pay much attention to the rankings anyway.

But this is different. Even if the survey isn't perfect; even if it has some
flaws; 12th or 73rd out of 1,500 is so high on the list that even if the area
hospitals were to be knocked down a bit, it would still leave them among the top
values in health care in the nation.

That's something about which all of Niagara can be proud.

Dick Lucinski is the managing editor of the Niagara Gazette. His columns appear
on Wednesday and Sunday.

To see more of the Niagara Gazette or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.niagara-gazette.com/. Copyright (c) 2008, Niagara Gazette, Niagara
Falls, N.Y. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20080706-NF-OPINION-The-survey-says-We-re-among-the-best-0706

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NF


                                 Copyright 2008

