                              25 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      June 12, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Hackensack University Medical Center: The Joseph M. Sanzari Children's Hospital
at Hackensack University Medical Center Once Again Ranks in U.S. News & World
Report's 2013-14 Best Children's Hospitals Rankings

LENGTH: 533  words


New Delhi, June 12 -- The Joseph M. Sanzari Children's Hospital at Hackensack
University Medical Center is the only children's hospital in New Jersey to be
ranked in Neurology & Neurosurgery in U.S. News & World Report's 2013-14 Best
Children's Hospitals rankings. Ranked 29th, the Joseph M. Sanzari Children's
Hospital was the first hospital in New Jersey ever tobe ranked in anyBest
Children's Hospitals specialty.



"It is an honor to be ranked once again by U.S. News & World Report," said
Robert C. Garrett, president and chief executive officer of the Hackensack
University Health Network. "I would like to recognize Dr. Jeffrey R. Boscamp,
HackensackUMC vice president and chief academic officer and chairman and
physician-in-chief of the Joseph M. Sanzari Children's Hospital; Maureen
Keating, vice president of the Joseph M. Sanzari Children's Hospital; Dr. Arno
Fried, chairman and director of the Neuroscience Institute; Dr. Stephen
Thompson, chief of Pediatric Neurology; and our entire team for providing such
world-class care in our patient-centered facility."

The rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of these pediatric
specialties: cancer, cardiology & heart surgery, diabetes & endocrinology,
gastroenterology & GI surgery, neonatology, nephrology, neurology &
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology, and urology. Eighty-seven hospitals
ranked in at least one of the 10 specialties.

"The Joseph M. Sanzari Children's Hospital at HackensackUMC deserves high
praise," said Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow. "Ranking shows the
dedication and expertise that HackensackUMC brings to the care of children who
need those qualities the most. We think it is important to identify and call
attention to pediatric centers like this one."

U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help
families of sick children find the best medical care available. The rankings
offer families an exclusive look at quality-related information at the
individual hospital level.

Each hospital's reputation among doctors was only a small part of what U.S. News
factored into its rankings. Three-quarters of each hospital's score was
determined through an analysis of patient outcomes and data on the structural
resources each hospital has for pediatric care. To gather data, U.S. News used
two surveys: a clinical questionnaire sent to 179 pediatric hospitals and, for
the reputational assessment, asurvey of 150 pediatric specialists and
subspecialists in each specialty. The 1,500 physicians were asked where they
would send the sickest children in their specialty, setting aside location and
expense.

"Every day, we work tirelessly to provide our pediatric patients with the best
healthcare possible," said Dr. Boscamp. "We are proud of the award-winning
reputation we have earned. Our patients and their families can expect nothing
but the highest level of care and compassion when they choose us for their
treatment."

Survival rates, adequacy of nurse staffing, procedure volume, and much more can
be viewed on http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/pediatric-rankings and will
be published in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available beginning
in August.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


