                              251 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      November 4, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

U.S. News & World Report Introduces Hospital Data Insights Platform

LENGTH: 258  words


New Delhi, Nov. 4 -- U.S. News & World Report, publisher of Best Hospitals and
Best Children's Hospitals, today unveiled U.S. News Hospital Data Insights, a
premium platform designed for hospital executives and administrators. The new
web-based analytics platform provides instant access to the U.S. News archived
rankings and data on more than 3,000 hospitals in the United States.



Unlike the Best Hospitals rankings, which are designed to help consumers seeking
a high level of care, U.S. News Hospital Data Insights was developed
specifically for administrators. The new interactive dashboard allows hospital
executives to view proprietary rankings and data at a strategic level - over
many years and in relation to their peers. The platform contains data spanning
over 15 years of the Best Hospitals rankings and provides administrators access
to more than 10 million data points, many of which have never been publicly
available. Hospital administrators can visualize the data in six unique views
and can export reports for use in strategic planning, forecasting and
competitive analysis.

"U.S. News is known for collecting data on a range of industries and providing
the best information and tools available to help consumers make important life
decisions," said Brian Kelly, editor and chief content officer of U.S. News. "We
have often been asked to compile it all in one place. Now, we are offering an
advanced tool that allows hospital administrators to view, interpret and analyze
the unique information we've been gathering for over 15 years."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

