                              258 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday

Virginia: VCU Medical Center ranked No. 1 hospital in the Richmond metro area
and among the best in the state

LENGTH: 414  words

DATELINE: New York



 Richmond: Virginia Commonwealth University has issued the following news
release:



 VCU Medical Center has been recognized by U.S. News & World Report as the No. 1
hospital in the Richmond metro area for 2016-17 and was ranked No. 2 in
Virginia. VCU Medical Center also ranks in the top 50 in the country for
orthopedics at No. 36 and is tied at No. 46 for nephrology.





 "We're honored to be named among the best hospitals in the country," said
Marsha Rappley, M.D., vice president of VCU health sciences and CEO of the VCU
Health System. "This recognition is only possible because of the extraordinary
work, compassion and devotion our entire team puts forth each and every day. I
am very proud of our entire team that works tirelessly to provide exceptional
care to all we serve."



 U.S. News evaluates nearly 5,000 hospitals nationwide. For 2016-17, 153
hospitals were ranked in at least one specialty, while 1,628 received a
high-performing rating in one or more specialties, procedures or conditions. In
rankings by state and metro area, U.S. News recognized hospitals that were
high-performing across multiple areas of care. In addition to the best hospital
ranking, VCU Medical Center is considered high-performing in five areas,
including cancer, gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, neurology and
neurosurgery, and urology.



 "As an academic medical center and Central Virginia's only Level I trauma
center, we are committed to providing the highest level of safe, quality care,"
said John Duval, vice president for clinical services and CEO of VCU Health
System hospitals and clinics. "This prestigious ranking represents the countless
advances in quality and safety and the uncompromising dedication to excellence
in service, education and research by the incredible team of physicians, nurses
and staff. Congratulations on a recognition well-deserved."



 The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in its 27th year, help guide
patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 25 specialties,
procedures and conditions. The Best Hospitals methodologies include objective
measures such as patient survival, the number of times a given procedure is
performed, infection rates and adequacy of nurse staffing.



 Best Hospitals was produced by U.S. News with RTI International, a leading
research organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

