                              266 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     November 21, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Two Baylor Health Care System Hospitals and a Physician Practice Earn National
Award for Excellence

LENGTH: 427  words


New Delhi, Nov. 21 -- Two Baylor Health Care System hospitals and a HealthTexas
Provider Network group are Press Ganey 2013 Beacon of Excellence Award winners.

Baylor Jack and Jane Hamilton Heart and Vascular Hospital and The Heart Hospital
Baylor Plano are Beacon of Excellence Award winners for inpatient satisfaction.
The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano also received a Beacon Award for emergency
department satisfaction. This year, HealthTexas Provider Network-Signature
Medicine, also received the Beacon Award.



The Beacon of Excellence Award, formerly the Summit Award, is one of Press
Ganey's most prestigious awards, honoring health care organizations that sustain
an overall patient satisfaction rank above the 95th percentile for at least the
past three consecutive years. This award is given to the top three performing
organizations by category on the basis of extraordinary achievement. Only 100
organizations receive the award in each category.

This is the fourth year in a row that The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano has won
this top award for both inpatient and emergency department satisfaction, which
is 24 consecutive quarters-or six years-of ranking above the 95th percentile in
these areas.

Baylor Jack and Jane Hamilton Heart and Vascular Hospital has also won the
inpatient Beacon Award for four years in a row, which is 24 consecutive
quarters-or six years-of ranking above the 95th percentile for inpatient
satisfaction.

Signature Medicine, a HealthTexas Provider Network group, has maintained the
above-95 percentile ranking for 12 consecutive quarters-or three years.

"This honor confirms the steadfast commitment these hospitals have to role model
excellence for patients and families on a daily basis," says Terri Nuss, vice
president, Office of Patient Centeredness. "Beacon of Excellence Award
recipients set themselves apart from the competition by demonstrating their
dedication to improvement and sustaining excellence in both quality of care and
patient satisfaction. Achieving a patient satisfaction ranking above the 95th
percentile for the required three-year period is difficult enough. Yet both
THHBP and BHVH have maintained that ranking for several years. Congratulations
to all on this extraordinary accomplishment."

Seven Baylor entities received Press Ganey's Guardian of Excellence Awards. This
award honors health care organizations that have reached the 95th percentile for
patient satisfaction, employee engagement, or physician engagement surveys or
clinical quality performance and is awarded annually based on one year of data.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

