                              265 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                              July 13, 2008 Sunday

Miami Valley Hospital, Kettering Medical rated among best in U.S.

BYLINE: By Anthony Gottschlich Staff Writer

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 336 words


Two local hospitals are among those recognized by U.S. News & World Report in it
annual "America's Best Hospitals" issue released Friday, July 11.

The magazine ranked Miami Valley Hospital 49th in the nation for orthopedic
care, the sixth time Miami Valley has earned a spot on the list of best
hospitals. Kettering Medical Center made the list for the fourth time, ranking
38th for endocrinology and 43rd for gastrointestinal disorders.

Miami Valley's ranking is its first for orthopedic care.

"This recognition speaks to an amazing amount of hard work and dedication by our
physicians, nurses and hospital leadership to provide the best clinical care
available to our patients," said Mary Boosalis, the hospital's president and
CEO.

Dr. Greg Wise, Kettering's vice president for medical affairs, attributed his
hospital's performance to "exceptional outcomes from a coordinated and dedicated
team."

"We have made at least one of the lists three years in a row now, and we have
been very diligent in following national best practices to keep our clinical
quality high," Wise said.

The 2008 America's Best Hospital Guide ranks 170 medical centers nationwide in
16 specialties. The rankings in 12 of the 16 specialties weigh three elements
equally: reputation, death rate, and a set of care-related factors such as
nursing and patient services.

Of the 170, just 19 were of "Honor Roll" caliber, where a hospital had to
achieve high scores in six or more specialties. Top hospitals were Johns Hopkins
Hospital in Baltimore, the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., Ronald Reagan UCLA
Medical Center in Los Angeles and the Cleveland Clinic.

In previous years, Miami Valley has ranked in ear, nose and throat and
respiratory care, digestive disorders, heart surgery and geriatrics, gynecology,
neurology, neurosurgery and rheumatology.

Kettering's past honors were in endocrinology, digestive disorders and cancer
care, as well as in neurology and neurosurgery.

Contact this reporter at (937) 225-7408 or agottschlich@DaytonDaily News.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

