                              264 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 2, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Mercy Medical Center Ranked 3 Hospital in Maryland by US News, World Report

LENGTH: 443  words


Aug. 2 -- Mercy Medical Center has been ranked as a top hospital in Maryland for
2016-17 by U.S. News & World Report in its annual "Best Hospitals" edition.
Mercy was ranked nationally (47th) as a best hospital for Orthopedics.

Mercy was also named "High Performing" in seven specialty procedure categories:
Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Repair, Heart Failure, Colon Cancer Surgery, Chronic
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), Hip Replacement, Knee Replacement and Lung
Cancer Surgery.

"Mercy is proud to be ranked nationally and recognized as high performing as
another affirmation of Mercy's commitment to high-quality health care," said
Thomas R. Mullen, President and CEO of Mercy Health Services. "Mercy's ranking
as third best Hospital in Maryland is evidence of the ongoing efforts of our
staff to deliver superior clinical care in a compassionate setting which is the
hallmark of the Sisters of Mercy."

"U.S. News evaluates nearly 5,000 hospitals nationwide," said Ben Harder, Chief
of Health Analysis at U.S. News. "A hospital that emerged from our analysis as
one of the best has much to be proud of."

The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year, help guide
patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 25 specialties,
procedures and conditions. The Best Hospitals methodologies include objective
measures such as patient survival, the number of times a given procedure is
performed, infection rates, adequacy of nurse staffing and more.

For 2016-17, 153 hospitals were ranked in at least one specialty, while 1,628
received a high performing rating in one or more specialties, procedures or
conditions. In rankings by state and metro area, U.S. News recognized hospitals
that were high-performing across multiple areas of care.

According to Mr. Mullen, in addition to this national honor, Mercy in 2016
received redesignation as a Magnet hospital for nursing excellence. For the
fifth consecutive year, Mercy received the Women's Choice Award as one of
America's Best Hospitals for Patient Experience and was named one of the top 100
hospitals in the U.S. by Thomson Reuters. Mercy continues to earn important
medical accreditations and awards of excellence.

The U.S. News rankings and methodology for Mercy Medical Center are available
online.

Mercy Medical Center is a 142-year-old, university affiliated medical facility
named one of the top 100 hospitals in the nation and among 10 best centers for
women's health care. Founded by the Sisters of Mercy, Mercy Medical Center is
located in the heart of downtown Baltimore, MD. For more information, visit
www.mdmercy.com or call 1-800-M.D.-Mercy.

Source: Mercy Medical Center

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

