                              26 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      June 12, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Children's Hospital Los Angeles Earns Back-to-Back Top Five Rankings in the U.S.
News & World Report Survey of the Nation's Best Children's Hospitals

LENGTH: 872  words


New Delhi, June 12 -- For the fifth year in a row, Children's Hospital Los
Angeles has been named to the elite Honor Roll of the nation's "best" children's
hospitals in the U.S. News & World Report rankings released online today. It is
one of only 10 children's hospitals in the country and the only West Coast
pediatric medical center to make the list. Children's Hospital Los Angeles also
secured a fifth place overall national ranking, repeating its placement from
last year's survey.



"This acknowledgement by U.S. News & World Report recognizes Children's Hospital
Los Angeles as a world-class institution in health care for children," says
Richard D. Cordova, FACHE, president and CEO, Children's Hospital Los Angeles.
"Our success is a reflection of the outstanding skills of our doctors, nurses,
clinical staff and physician support team who helped to maintain this
institution's top five national ranking and our title of 'best' among pediatric
medical institutions."

The Best Children's Hospitals list pulls together clinical and operational data
in 10 different pediatric medical specialties from a lengthy survey, completed
by the majority of the 179 pediatric centers asked to participate in the
rankings. U.S. News required hard data such as availability of key resources and
ability to prevent complications and infections, as well as survival rates,
nurse staffing, subspecialist availability, procedure volume and many more
pieces of critical information. The data from the survey is combined with
recommendations from pediatric specialists on the hospitals they consider best
for children with challenging medical conditions.

This year, Children's Hospital Los Angeles equaled or improved its national
ranking in seven of the 10 categories compared to the 2012-2013 survey, and its
outstanding overall scores placed it among the top five nationally and as the
only children's hospital on the West Coast to receive the honor. Its rankings in
the top 10 medical specialties are: cancer #4 (up from #5 in 2012-2013);
cardiology & heart surgery #7 (up from #9 in 2012-2013); diabetes &
endocrinology #5 (up from #7 in 2012-2013); gastroenterology & gastrointestinal
surgery #8; neonatology #8; nephrology #18 (up from #21 in 2012-2013); neurology
& neurosurgery #15; orthopedics #4 (up from #6 in 2012-2013); pulmonology #14
and urology #18.

Children's hospitals that achieve exceptional scores in at least three pediatric
specialties are named to the magazine's "Honor Roll" of Best Children's
Hospitals. Children's Hospital Los Angeles was joined by nine other hospitals on
this prestigious list for 2013-14: Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Boston
Children's Hospital, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Texas
Children's Hospital in Houston, St. Louis Children's Hospital-Washington
University, Children's Hospital Colorado in Aurora, Colo., Ann and Robert H.
Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago, Johns Hopkins Children's Center in
Baltimore and Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC.

"Children's Hospital Los Angeles is the number one children's hospital on the
West Coast and provides the best possible care for the children in our
community," says Cordova. "In the past year, our Board of Trustees and our
Safety and Quality Services Committee have contributed considerably to help
achieve this tremendous ranking. In addition, our philanthropic efforts have
been outstanding and have allowed us to recruit renowned faculty and physicians
to support our pediatric clinical and research missions. This acknowledgement
from U.S. News honors their exceptional efforts."

Children's Hospital Los Angeles has been providing high quality pediatric care
to Southern California residents for 112 years. Since the 2011 opening of the
hospital's state-of-the-art inpatient tower, the Marion and John E. Anderson
Pavilion, the hospital has achieved Magnet redesignation for nursing excellence;
twice earned Top Hospital designation for safety and quality by The Leapfrog
Group; enhanced its Division of Neurosurgery with an $11 million gift from the
estate of Oscar-winning filmmaker Billy Wilder and his wife Audrey; and
symbolically merged its two campuses, the Anderson Pavilion and The Saban
Research Institute, with the construction of a $10 million bridge over Sunset
Boulevard that was jointly funded by philanthropists Marion Anderson and Cheryl
Saban, and their respective spouses, John E. Anderson and Haim Saban. In
addition, the hospital has expanded its clinical operations to the Greater Los
Angeles communities of the Santa Clarita Valley, the San Fernando Valley and the
South Bay.

Children's Hospital Los Angeles has been selected to the Honor Roll every year
since the esteemed list launched in 2009, and Children's Hospital Los Angeles
has been named among the nation's best children's hospitals annually since the
inception of the magazine's rankings in 1990.

The annual new rankings recognize the top 50 children's hospitals in 10
pediatric specialties. Eighty-seven hospitals are ranked in at least one
specialty. U.S. News Media Group, the parent of U.S. News & World Report,
announced the 2013 - 2014 hospital rankings at 12:01 a.m. ET on Tuesday, June 11
at www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


