                              268 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Kamloops Daily News (British Columbia)

                           February 26, 2008 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Hospitals report card doesn't name facilities

BYLINE: The Daily News; with reports The Canadian Press

SECTION: CITY & REGION; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 333  words


Health Minister George Abbott is discounting a report card on 95 B.C. hospitals
compiled by the Fraser Institute.

The researchers have complained that regional health authorities refused to
identify any of the hospitals, but Abbott said that's because the institute
would not agree to a proper methodology and was not comparing apples to apples.

He said Monday a report card is not a bad idea, but it must be done in a fair
and scientifically rigorous way.

Abbott said a similar report card on hospitals in Ontario has also been
criticized for the way the material was compiled.

NDP health critic Adrian Dix said it's wrong for Abbott to try to dictate the
method used by the Fraser Institute. The institute says its peer-reviewed study
used material from a database at the Canadian Institute for Health Information,
taken from patient records provided by all B.C. hospitals.

While the report doesn't name the province's hospitals, it does rank the
municipalities they are in, putting Nelson at the top and Salmon Arm at the
bottom of the heath-care heap.

The rankings are based on a hospital mortality index and compare scores and
rankings from 2001-02 to 2003-04 with 2004-05 and 2005-06.

Within the Interior Health Authority's turf, Nelson was first, Penticton placed
third, Kamloops was 22nd, Kelowna was 14th and Vernon ranked 18th.

Kamloops saw its score drop by 7.4 per cent from 2001-02 to 2003-04, but it
actually moved up from 23rd to 22nd spot.

The hospital mortality index uses nine indicators, including death rates related
to hip replacement, acute myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, acute
stroke, gastrointestinal hemorrhage and hip fracture, pneumonia.

Nadeem Esmail, director of health system performance studies at the Fraser
Institute and co-author of the report, criticized the province's health
authorities for refusing to identify any of the 95 hospitals involved.

However, he noted that municipality ranking is different than hospital ranking,
because patients do move around.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Photo: Abbott ;

