                              262 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             June 27, 2017 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

HEALTHY TALLY U.S. News & World Report gives high ranking to area children's
hospitals

BYLINE: BY REUVEN BLAU NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 754 words


NINE NEW YORK-area hospitals that focus on caring for children battling major
health issues are feeling pretty darn good these days.

Those hospitals and one in upstate Rochester have just been ranked among the top
50 in the nation in at least one medical specialty, according to U.S. News &
World Report's annual tally.

Leading the way was New York-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley-Komansky Children's
Hospital, which landed in the top rankings in all 10 specialties, the findings
released Tuesday show.

It was among the best in the country in diabetes and endocrinology;
gastroenterology and GI surgery, and cardiology and heart surgery, the report
found.

Affiliated with Columbia and Cornell universities, the hospital has consistently
landed in the top rankings since the survey was launched 11 years ago.

Also in the New York area, the Steven and Alexandra Cohen Children's Medical
Center in New Hyde Park, L.I., made the chart in nine categories. The
state-of-the-art hospital ranked ninth in the country in urology, 19th in
neonatology, and 20th in cancer treatment, based on the survey.

The Children's Hospital at Montefiore was ranked in seven areas, including 23rd
in orthopedics, 24th in nephrology, 30th in gastroenterology and GI surgery, and
37th in cancer treatment.

Mount Sinai Kravis Children's Hospital was lauded with rankings in six medical
specialty fields, including diabetes and endocrinology, 16th; gastroenterology
and GI surgery, 23rd, and neurology and neurosurgery, 27th.

The Best Hospital rankings are largely based on a lengthy survey with 1,800
questions and data points. The survey is mailed out to 200 children's hospitals
nationwide. The questions cover everything from patient volume, -risk-adjusted
survival rates and adequacy of nurse staffing. "We try to make the best use of
that information to provide patients and their families about where to get the
best care for their kids," said Ben Harder, who spearheads the project for U.S.
News & World Report.

Each year, U.S. News takes a new look at the approaches it takes to rank
hospitals. As a result, this is the first year the survey results were based on
a new metric that measures the outcome of heart surgeries at different
hospitals. The Society of Thoracic Surgeons developed the new measure.

"Surgeons and other doctors have told us that's a very important measure,"
Harder said.

U.S. News also publicly identified the 126 medical advisers who help shape the
survey questions before they are sent to hospital officials.

"We feel transparency is really important," Harder said, noting publicizing the
names will safeguard any possible questions of preferential treatment to
hospitals tied to those doctors.

The advisers work on the survey voluntarily and are not paid.

Two New York City hospitals grabbed top spots specifically for their
cancer-treatment units. They are the Claire Tow Pediatric Pavilion at Memorial
Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (15) and the Children's Hospital at Montefiore
(37).

The other city and area hospitals taking top spots are Joseph M. Sanzari
Children's Hospital at Hackensack University Medical Center, N.J.; Bristol-Myers
Squibb Children's Hospital at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital, N.J.;
Winthrop-University Hospital Children's Medical Center on Long Island; the
Hospital for Special Surgery, Lenox Hill, and University of Rochester-Golisano
Children's Hospital.

None of the New York-area hospitals landed on U.S. News' elite 10-member honor
roll list. Those hospitals are Boston's Children's Hospital; Children's Hospital
of Philadelphia; Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center; Texas Children's
Hospital in Houston; Johns Hopkins Children's Center in Baltimore; Children's
Hospital in Los Angeles; Ann and Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago;
Nationwide Children's Hospital in Ohio; Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of
UPMC, and Children's National Medical Center in Washington.

Graphic:

STATE Hospital Total specialties ranked

N.J. Joseph M. Sanzari Children's Hospital at Hackensack University Medical
Center 1

N.J. Bristol-Myers Squibb Children's Hospital at Robert Wood Johnson University
Hospital 1

N.Y. Winthrop-University Hospital Children's Medical Center 3

N.Y. Steven and Alexandra Cohen Children's Medical Center 9

N.Y. New York-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley-Komansky Children's Hospital 10

N.Y. Children's Hospital at Montefiore 7

N.Y. Mount Sinai Kravis Children's Hospital 6

N.Y. Claire Tow Pediatric Pavilion at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center 1

N.Y. Hospital for Special Surgery 1

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TABLE, Steven and Alexandra Cohen Children's Medical Center in New Hyde
Park, L.I., ranked high in nine specialties. The Bronx's Children's Hospital at
Montefiore won a top spot specifically for its cancer-treatment unit. Mount
Sinai Kravis Children's Hospital was praised for its work in six medical
specialties. The two New York-Presbyterian children's hospitals get combined
honors in the U.S. News & World Report list.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Daily News, L.P.

