                              260 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald-Tribune (Florida)

                           February 26, 2008 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

Sarasota hospital named among top 50 in country

BYLINE: By DAVID GULLIVER david.gulliver@heraldtribune.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D2

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: SARASOTA


Sarasota Memorial Hospital has a big fan almost 2,000 miles away.

HealthGrades, a Colorado firm that rates health care services, named Sarasota
Memorial one of the country's top 50 hospitals for the second straight year.

Monday's announcement made it three times in less than a month that the firm
lauded the hospital.

On Jan. 31, HealthGrades released its sixth annual Hospital Quality and Clinical
Excellence study.

It analyzed patient data for almost 5,000 hospitals nationwide, with Sarasota
Memorial among the 269 making the cut.

A few days later, in a promotion for the "Top 50" rankings on the Forbes
magazine Web site, it listed Sarasota Memorial among the nation's safest
hospitals.

But Monday's announcement topped both.

"The HealthGrades recognition, like other quality awards we have received,
highlights important clinical outcomes that reflect our commitment to providing
a safe environment of care for our patients," said Judy Milne, executive
director for quality and patient safety, in a statement.

HealthGrades charges hospitals for using its rankings in marketing efforts.
Because Sarasota Memorial does not pay the licensing fee, the hospital limits
its discussion of the results.

But the HealthGrades report, available on the company's Web site, places the
hospital in good company.

It is one of nine Florida hospitals making the list, which included household
names such as Cleveland Clinic and Cedars-Sinai in Los Angeles.

But the list also passes over some other respected names, like Baltimore's Johns
Hopkins Hospital, which topped the better-known annual hospital rankings in U.S.
News and World Report magazine in July.

For all its hospital studies, HealthGrades looked at federal data on how
Medicare patients fared at almost 5,000 hospitals nationally from 1999 through
2006.

Health researchers say Medicare data analysis applies to patients of all ages.

The study examined patients' mortality and complication rates in 27 procedures
or diagnoses, such as cardiac surgery, pneumonia and hip replacement.

The top 50 hospitals were the best of the 269 in the larger Clinical Excellence
study.

HealthGrades has issued Top 50 lists for just two years -- compared with the
17-year run of similar rankings in U.S News and World Report.

Unlike the magazine, HealthGrades does not rank hospitals within the top group.

Three Charlotte County hospitals also made the larger Clinical Excellence list:
Port Charlotte's Fawcett Memorial Hospital and Peace River Regional Medical
Center, and Punta Gorda's Charlotte Regional Medical Center.

In all, 40 Florida hospitals were among the 269 listed. That made Florida the
fourth-best state for hospital quality, behind only Minnesota, South Dakota and
Ohio.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

