                              267 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 12, 2016 Friday

UI Health ranked No. 8 in Illinois

LENGTH: 548  words

DATELINE: New York



 Urbana: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois has issued the
following news release:



   The University of Illinois Hospital & Health Sciences System is ranked in the
top 10 hospitals in the Chicago metro area and in Illinois for 2016-17 by U.S.
News & World Report.





 The hospital, which was ranked 23rd regionally and 27th in the state last year,
rose to the No. 8 spot in both categories this year.UI Hospital building at dusk




 "These rankings reflect the continuous efforts of our staff to improve patient
safety and outcomes and to create a better patient experience from the moment
they walk in the door, to the time they leave the hospital and on to follow up
care," said Avijit Ghosh, chief executive officer, UI Health Hospital and
Clinics.



 "To be ranked in the top 10 hospitals in Chicago and across the state means
that our patients, including a significant underserved population that has
traditionally carried a disproportionate burden of disease, is getting some of
the very best care available," said Dr. Robert Barish, vice chancellor for
health affairs at the University of Illinois at Chicago. "We're making continued
progress towards reducing health disparities that affect our local communities."




 The leap forward in the rankings can be attributed to the success of numerous
programs focused on improving outcomes for both inpatients and outpatients, said
Jodi Joyce, associate vice chancellor for quality and patient safety at UI
Health.



 "University of Illinois Hospital has initiated a number of efforts aimed at
substantially improving care processes and clinical outcomes," Joyce said. "Led
by teams of physicians, nurses, and other clinical leaders and staff, these
initiatives have resulted in double-digit reductions in hospital-related
infections, blood clots after surgery, and patients injured from falls. We are
excited that the change in our ranking is a direct reflection of improvements in
the care that our patients are receiving."



 The rankings, produced by U.S. News with RTI International, a research
organization based in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, are now in their
27th year. They focus on 25 specialties, procedures and conditions. The ranking
is based on such measures as patient survival, the number of times each
procedure is performed, infection rates, and nurse staffing.



 UI Health's otolaryngology/ear, nose and throat program made the list of ranked
specialty programs for the first time this year. The hospital's nephrology
program was listed as a high-performing specialty.



 The University of Illinois Hospital & Health Sciences System is a public
academic medical center committed to providing the highest quality care for all
patients and to reducing health disparities. UI Health is a leader in patient
care, research and education, and serves as the primary teaching facility for
the UIC College of Medicine, the largest medical school in the U.S. The system
includes seven health sciences colleges, a 495-bed hospital, the 101-bed
Children's Hospital University of Illinois, an outpatient care center and 13
federally qualified Mile Square Health Centers located throughout Chicago.



 In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

