                              27 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            June 28, 2017 Wednesday

Advocate Children's Hospital ranks among the top 50 hospitals in U.S. for
cardiology and heart surgery

BYLINE: Lisa Parro

SECTION: SUBMITTED CONTENT; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 725 words


June 27, 2017 - For the seventh consecutive year, Advocate Children's Heart
Institute has been listed among the nation's top 50 pediatric hospitals for
cardiology and heart surgery in U.S. News & World Report's 2017-18 Best
Children's Hospitals rankings published online today.

Advocate Children's Heart Institute, part of Advocate Children's Hospital, is
ranked 28th on the list. In two years, the hospital moved up from its previous
ranking of 42. Advocate Children's Hospital's two main campuses are in Oak Lawn
and Park Ridge.

"The fact that our team at the Advocate Children's Heart Institute has received
this same recognition for seven consecutive years is a tribute to its
exceptional patient outcomes," says Mike Farrell, President, Advocate Children's
Hospital. "In just two years, we have moved up 14 places on the list of top 50
hospitals to become the 28th best program in the nation. We take great pride in
this accomplishment."

U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help
families of children with rare or life-threatening illnesses find the best
medical care available. They are the only comprehensive source of
quality-related information on U.S. pediatric centers.

The 11th annual rankings recognize the top 50 pediatric facilities across the
U.S. in 10 pediatric specialties, including cancer, cardiology and heart
surgery, diabetes and endocrinology, gastroenterology and gastrointestinal
surgery, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics,
pulmonology and urology.

"The pediatric centers we rank in Best Children's Hospitals deliver
exceptionally high-quality care and deserve to be recognized for their
commitment," said U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow. "Children with
life-threatening illnesses or rare conditions need the state-of-the-art services
and expertise these hospitals provide every day."

"It is an honor to be recognized for the seventh consecutive year as one of the
top pediatric cardiology and heart surgery programs by U.S. News & World
Report," says Dr. David Roberson, medical director, pediatric cardiology,
Advocate Children's Hospital. "Advocate Children's Hospital serves as a major
referral center for pregnant mothers, infants and adults throughout the area
touching thousands of lives each year. We remain dedicated to providing the very
best diagnoses, technology, treatment and expertise to deliver the safest care
possible to these very precious lives."

The U.S. News Best Children's Hospitals rankings rely on clinical data and on an
annual survey of pediatric specialists. The rankings methodology considers
clinical outcomes, such as mortality and infection rates, efficiency and
coordination of care delivery and compliance with "best practices."

Survival rates, adequacy of nurse staffing, procedure and patient volume,
availability of programs for particular illnesses and conditions and much more
can be viewed on http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/pediatric-rankings.

This year's rankings will be published in the U.S. News & World Report's "Best
Hospitals 2018" guidebook and available on newsstands September 12. Visit Best
Children's Hospitals for the complete rankings and use #BestHospitals on
Facebook and Twitter.

###

About Advocate Children's Hospital

As part of Advocate Health Care, Advocate Children's Hospital is the largest
network provider of pediatric services in Illinois and among the top 10 in the
nation. The two main campuses are located in the Chicago metropolitan region -
Oak Lawn in the southwest and Park Ridge in the northwest, with additional
services accessible at other Advocate hospitals throughout the state. Advocate
Children's Hospital serves as a major referral center for infants and children.
Through a special, holistic approach, Advocate Children's Hospital combines some
of the country's most respected medical talent with exceptional and
compassionate care. In fact, the children's hospital has been recognized by U.S.
News & World Report as one of the nation's leaders in pediatric cardiology and
neonatology, and numerous physicians have been cited as being among the "Top
Doctors" regionally and nationally in their respective fields. Advocate
Children's Hospital is staffed by more than 400 pediatricians and 230 pediatric
subspecialists who offer a wide range of services for children.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Paddock Publications, Inc.


