                              275 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Blade (Toledo, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 16, 2013 Tuesday

U.S. News and World Report recognizes two local institutions as among best
hospitals

BYLINE: Kelly McLendon, The Blade, Toledo, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 423 words


July 16--U.S. News and World Report magazine has designated two local medical
institutions -- the University of Toledo Medical Center and ProMedica Toledo
Hospital -- among the best hospitals in Ohio.

The two tied for 22nd place in the magazine's 2013 rankings of the state's 230
hospitals.

The University of Toledo Medical Center, formerly the Medical College of Ohio
Hospital, ranked as a high-performer in six clinical specialties: geriatrics,
nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology, and urology.

Dr. Jeffrey Gold, chancellor and executive vice president for biosciences and
health affairs, and dean of the College of Medicine and Life Sciences at the
University of Toledo, said the center is pleased with the rankings.

"We are extremely proud and humbled by this recognition. It's a team effort that
allows this to occur and it's great for our community to have one or more
institutions that are recognized this way," he said.

Dr. Gold said that safety, quality, and patient satisfaction contribute to a
positive experience for patients at UTMC.

The magazine also ranked ProMedica Toledo Hospital as a high-performer in six
clinical specialities: gastroenterology and GI surgery, gynecology, nephrology,
neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology.

In patient satisfaction rankings, 65 percent of ProMedica Toledo Hospital
patients said they would recommend the hospital to family and friends. The state
average is 70 percent. At the University of Toledo Medical Center, 58 percent
said they would recommend the hospital.

Arturo Polizzi, chief operating officer of ProMedica Hospital, said the facility
sets goals to maintain standards of quality.

"When we set our targets, we don't try to compare ourselves against Ohio
hospitals. We try to compare ourselves against national-best players in the
market. So when we look at quality-metrics, satisfaction-metrics, we look
throughout the entire country at the best players and we set goals for ourselves
based on those benchmarks," he said.

Mr. Polizzi said having multiple hospitals in the area with top distinctions can
be helpful to the community as a whole.

"I just wanted to clarify that we were both kind of up at the top," he said. "I
think that bodes well for the community that we have a couple of hospitals here
in the top ranking."

Contact Kelly McLendon at: kmclendon@theblade.com or 419-724-6522 or on Twitter
@KMcBlade.

___ (c)2013 The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) Visit The Blade (Toledo, Ohio) at
www.toledoblade.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO:
20130716-TO-U-S-News-and-World-Report-recognizes-two-local-institutions-as-among
-best-hospitals-0716-20130716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TO


                            Copyright 2013 The Blade

