                              271 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                              July 23, 2007 Monday
                                 FINAL Edition

Maine Medical Center gets national recognition for care;
Its being among the top 50 U.S. hospitals in two specialities shows quality is
close at hand.

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 275 words


Maine Medical Center deserves credit for being listed among the nation's top 50
hospitals for orthopedics and heart care and cardiac surgery.

But even more noteworthy, that ranking is a sign to Mainers themselves that it
isn't always necessary to go out of state for top-level care.

The listings were printed in the July 23-30 issue of U.S. News & World Report, a
newsweekly that has carved out a niche for ratings, including its more
controversial rating of colleges and universities.

Nevertheless, U.S. News lays out the standards it uses for its rankings of
''America's Best Hospitals'' clearly.

In 12 of the 16 categories it uses, hard data such as numbers of cases, death
rates, reputation and care-related factors such as nursing and advanced services
and other statistical categories provide the foundation for its conclusions.

In the others, ''annual surveys of physician specialists'' provide the outline
the magazine uses, with the hospital required to be named among the best in its
speciality by at least one physician in the last three annual physician surveys.

Out of 5,462 hospitals considered for ranking, only 173 met the standards in one
or more specialities. MMC was the only Maine hospital included in any of the
2007 lists.

MMC was ranked 45th for orthopedics and 50th for heart care and surgery. Those
rankings placed the hospital in the top 1 percent of those considered.

Primarily, it's a tribute to medical professionals at all levels who have worked
long and hard to make MMC the quality institution it is.

But it also shows that, in some areas at least, the best care in the country
isn't across state lines. It's right down the road.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

