                              269 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Manawatu Standard (New Zealand)

                           September 18, 1998, Friday

Ranking upsets Mains

BYLINE: FORDE Rachel

SECTION: NEWS; LOCAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 372 words


MIDCENTRAL Health chief executive Margot Mains is unhappy with Palmerston North
Hospital's ranking in the Government's Hospital Services Plan, which was
announced this week.

She said the ranking, which classifies Palmerston North Hospital as a "secondary
hospital that also provides some lower-level tertiary services", was "somewhat
understated".

The classification ranks Palmerston North Hospital below Waikato and Dunedin's
public hospitals, which are classed as "lower-level tertiary", and on a similar
level to Wanganui, Masterton and Kaitaia's hospitals, which are also classed as
secondary hospitals.

Mrs Mains said today the ranking did not fully recognise Palmerston North
Hospital's role as a lower-level tertiary and regional service provider.

The hospital's regional cancer treatment service, for example, was an important
part of its activities and justified the higher recognition.

Patients from as far away as New Plymouth, Hawke's Bay and Gisborne travel to
Palmerston North for cancer treatment.

Mrs Mains said the commitment the plan gave hospitals was encouraging, but the
strength of this commitment depended on MidCentral Health gaining long-term
contracts and funding from the Health Funding Authority.

This applied not only to Palmerston North Hospital, but also to Feilding's
Clevely Centre, Horowhenua Hospital and all of MidCentral Health's services.

Yesterday, Good Health Wanganui chief executive Sue de Gilio called for
three-to-five year funding contracts to give public hospitals more certainty.
Presently, hospitals must re-negotiate their funding with the authority every
year.

Rangitikei Mayor John Wilson said yesterday he was thrilled that Wanganui
Hospital's future had been secured, and Taihape and Marton would also get to
keep their health centres for at least the next three years.

"It's a big relief and it's particularly great for our senior citizens. The
concern was that Marton and Taihape (hospitals) would close," Mr Wilson said.

"It will give us a breathing space to concentrate on issues other than health
for a while."

Health Minister Bill English has said that hospitals and health centres named in
the plan will not close in the next three years.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 Fairfax New Zealand

