                              273 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Capital (Annapolis, Maryland)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           November 3, 2016 Thursday

AAMC ranked 8th best hospital in Maryland

BYLINE: Meredith Newman, The Capital, Annapolis, Md.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 300 words


Nov. 03--Anne Arundel Medical Center has been ranked the 8th best hospital in
the state, according U.S. News and World Report's best regional hospital
rankings.

The rankings, which came out Thursday, named Johns Hopkins Hospital and
University of Maryland Medical Center has the top two hospitals in Maryland. Out
of 70 hospitals in the state, U.S. News and World Report ranked the top 15.

AAMC earned the highest ratings possible in seven procedures: abdominal aortic
aneurysm repair, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, colon cancer surgery,
heart failure, hip replacement, knee replacement and lung cancer surgery,
according to the rankings.

U.S. News ranked the top hospitals in every state. The organization analyzed
data from about 5,000 hospital centers, and based scores on patient outcome and
care-related factors, like patient safety and nurse staffing.

University of Baltimore Washington Maryland Medical Center was not ranked, but
University of Maryland Medical Center was. Both hospitals are a part of the
University of Maryland Medical System.

BWMC and AAMC are both waiting to hear if the Maryland Health Care Commission
will approve the hospitals' applications for an open heart surgery program. The
hospitals submitted for their applications for the certificate of need in
February 2015, following a change to the state health plan for cardiac services.

Politicians and hospitals officials have been vocal about how long the process
has taken. The commission has said it has to carefully analyze the applications
because of the potential for legal challenges from competitors if one or both of
the hospitals are approved to have the program.

___ (c)2016 The Capital (Annapolis, Md.) Visit The Capital (Annapolis, Md.) at
www.hometownannapolis.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20161103-UU-AAMC-ranked-8th-best-hospital-in-Maryland-1103-20161103

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UU


                                 Copyright 2016

