                              272 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                           December 12, 2000 Tuesday

Company: St. John's among top 100 facilities in country  ;
 Recognized for stroke, orthopedic health care

BYLINE: TONY CAPPASSO STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 401 words


A company that assesses health-care quality ranks St. John's Hospital among the
top 100 hospitals nationwide in treating orthopedic problems and stroke.

The Springfield hospital made the top 100 based on comparison of cost and other
criteria in the treatment of these patients, according to the Web site,
www.100TopHospitals.com, which is run by the health-care quality assessment firm
HCIA-Sachs.

St. John's also ended up among the top medical centers that offer orthopedic
surgery residency training, where would-be orthopedic surgeons learn the ropes
of the specialty.

Only 15 hospitals that offer such training made the top-100 list nationwide and
only one hospital in Illinois other than St. John's, Evanston Northwestern
Hospital, earned the ranking.

They compared outcomes for patients who had one of four types of orthopedic
surgery: total knee replacement, total hip replacement, partial hip replacement
and open reduction of a hip fracture with a procedure called "internal fixation
of the femoral neck."

To make it into the survey, a hospital had to have at least 200 patient cases
and at least 30 cases in each of the different surgical procedures. St. John's
treats more than 4,000 orthopedic cases each year, hospital statistics indicate.

Achieving the ranking is the culmination of a decade of effort, said St. John's
Hospital chairman of orthopedics Dr. Dan Adair, an orthopedic surgeon at
Springfield Clinic.

"This award is the capstone of a more-than-10-year quality improvement and cost
containment effort," Adair said in a written statement.

In the stroke rankings, HCIA-Sachs compared outcomes for patients treated for
ischemic strokes, the most common type, using basically the same criteria as in
the orthopedic rankings.

St. John's scored among the top 100 hospitals that have neurology specialty
training programs.

Neurologists - doctors who specialize in diseases of the brain and nervous
system - often treat patients who have had strokes, which happen when something
interferes with blood flow to the brain.

Only 17 hospitals nationwide achieved top-100 status in both orthopedics and
stroke treatment, according to HCIA-Sachs spokeswoman Kerry Lydon-Minton.

HCIA-Sachs evaluated hospitals based on both clinical and economic data,
Lydon-Minton said. How much it cost to provide care was as influential in
placing a hospital in the top 100 as how good the care was, she said.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

