                              270 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                               May 8, 2015 Friday

UAB named to list of 100 Great Hospitals

LENGTH: 316  words

DATELINE: Birmingham


The University of Alabama at Birmingham has issued the following news release:

UAB Hospital has been named to Becker's Hospital Review's list of 100 Great
Hospitals in the United States. UAB is the only Alabama hospital to make the
list, and one of a dozen from the Southeast.

The Becker's Hospital Review editorial team conducted research and examined
several hospital ranking sources such as U.S. News & World Report, Healthgrades,
Truven Health Analytics and The Leapfrog Group and magnet designation from the
American Nurses Credentialing Center.

"Each of the 100 organizations has a strong foundation of high-quality care,
stellar credentials and a focus on doing what is right for the patients in its
community," according to the Becker's Hospital Review website. "They are home to
many medical and scientific breakthroughs, provide best-in-class patient care,
and are stalwarts of their communities, serving as research hubs or local
anchors of wellness."

Becker's Hospital Review says that the list is not a ranking or an endorsement
and that hospitals cannot pay for inclusion on the list.

The Becker's website notes that UAB Hospital is one of the largest hospitals in
the nation by bed size (1,157 beds) and is the largest academic medical center
in the state. The website cites U.S. News & World Report's 2014-15 rankings, in
which UAB Hospital is the No. 1 hospital in Alabama and is nationally ranked in
eight specialties.

Becker's lauds the hospital for receiving a 2015 Women's Choice Award
acknowledging the UAB Breast Health Center's dedication to exceptional patient
care and treatment and notes that the hospital is home to the UAB Comprehensive
Diabetes Research Center, which helped the hospital be named one of the top 50
in the nation for diabetes and endocrinology.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

