                              276 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                    March 10, 1995, Friday, JOURNAL EDITION

METRO AND GEORGIA IN BRIEF;
Georgia grad schools tops in survey

BYLINE: From staff reports

SECTION: STATE NEWS, Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 449 words


Three Georgia universities fared well in the annual rankings of graduate schools
by U.S. News & World Report released this week. Georgia Tech was ranked first in
the nation for industrial/manufacturing programs in engineering, with an overall
ranking of 11th for graduate engineering programs. Tech also garnered a 26th
national ranking for its master's of business administration program.

Emory University earned the most national rankings: physical therapy, sixth;
master's of business administration and medicine programs, 23rd; law and history
programs, 25th; and nursing, 34th.

The University of Georgia's master's of public administration was ranked sixth
nationally. Other rankings for the university included: education, 15th; law,
27th; and master's of business administration, 40th.

The magazine's rankings are based on data such as student selectivity and job
placement, and surveys of college officials. Several of the rankings will be
featured in the March 13 issue of the magazine. On March 27, more comprehensive
listings will be available in the U.S. News Graduate School Guide Book.

EDUCATION

SPLIT SHIFTS OK'D FOR CHATTAHOOCHEE HIGH: The Fulton County school board on
Thursday night approved overlapping sessions to relieve overcrowding at
Chattahoochee High School in Alpharetta. The sessions are scheduled to begin
this fall and end in 1997, when a new high school opens at Scott and Holcolmb
Bridge roads. Overlapping sessions haven't been used in the metro area since the
mid-1980s, when they were needed at Lassiter High in Cobb County. Chattahoochee
High, which opened in 1991, is more than 500 students over capacity and is
gaining about 300 students a year. Beginning this fall, the school will operate
on split shifts. Sophomores, juniors and seniors will begin school at 7 a.m. and
leave at 1:51 p.m. Freshmen will follow the school's current schedule of
beginning at 9 a.m. and leaving at 3:45 p.m.

EMORY SEEKING NEW HEALTH EXECUTIVE: The board of the Robert W. Woodruff Health
Sciences Center at Emory University has formed a search committee to find a new
vice president for health affairs and director of the center. Dr. Charles R.
Hatcher, who has held the administrative positions since 1983 and has been on
the Emory faculty for 33 years, plans to step down sometime after his 65th
birthday on June 28, Emory officials said. The director of the Health Sciences
Center also is chief executive officer of the Emory University System of Health
Care, which oversees Emory University Hospital's affiliations with Egleston
Children's Hospital, Wesley Woods Geriatric Hospital, Grady Memorial Hospital
and the Veterans Affairs Medical Center.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1995 The Atlanta Constitution

