                              28 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 16, 2013 Tuesday

Two Youngstown hospitals among best in state

BYLINE: Jamison Cocklin, Vindicator, Youngstown, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 723 words


July 16--YOUNGSTOWN -- U.S. News & World Report has ranked both St. Elizabeth
Health Center and St. Elizabeth Boardman Health Center among Ohio's best
hospitals, giving both high marks in several specialties.

Akron Children's Hospital, which has a 32-bed inpatient campus and emergency
room in Boardman, was nationally ranked in seven pediatric specialties, cancer,
diabetes, orthopedics, urology, pulmonology, neurology and nephrology.

The hospital was one of 87 facilities nationwide that made the rankings in at
least one of the 10 specialties analyzed for the 2013-2014 Best Children's
Hospitals rankings.

St. Elizabeth Health Center in Youngstown is ranked No. 24 in Ohio. The hospital
is listed as high-performing in five specialties: geriatrics, gynecology,
nephrology, pulmonology and urology.

St. Elizabeth Boardman Health Center is ranked No. 30 in the state and is
recognized as high-performing in pulmonology.

Published annually as a part of its "Best" series of consumer guides that
include rankings of colleges, graduate schools and cars and trucks, the latest
"Best Hospitals" list pulled data from 4,806 hospitals nationwide by examining
each location's performance across 16 specialties. Within them, patient survival
and safety data, the adequacy of nurse staffing levels and other objective data
largely determined the rankings.

In most specialties, U.S. News ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and
recognizes other high-performing hospitals that provide care at nearly the level
of their nationally ranked peers.

Shawn Lyden, executive vice president of Akron Children's Hospital, said its
places among this year's rankings are some of its best ever. The hospital ranked
in the top 30 in four specialties, and its department of orthopedics was ranked
22nd. He said it helps the hospital's national credibility.

"We've always, at Akron Children's Hospital, prided ourselves on the services we
provide," Lyden said. "But we've never been too fixated on things like rankings.
This is just our national reputation catching up with what we have always
thought was great substance."

Across all 16 specialties, only 147 U.S. hospitals performed well enough to be
nationally ranked in one or more. An additional 591 were regional high
performers.

"We are especially proud of this recognition," said Robert Shroder, president
and CEO of Humility of Mary Health Partners, which owns and operates both St.
Elizabeth locations. "It independently verifies that our hospitals provide a
high level of care, eliminating the need for area residents to travel out of
town to receive quality care. I have to give credit to our doctors, nurses,
support staff and board members for concentrating on quality outcomes for our
patients."

St. Joseph Health Center in Warren, another Humility of Mary Health Partners
hospital that was ranked No. 27 in Ohio last year, did not appear in the
rankings this year.

The rankings are intended to help consumers find the best inpatient-care
facilities in the country, but the publication encourages its readers to conduct
their own research and acknowledges that some hospitals better suited for local
treatment are not always included on the list.

Karyn Frederick, executive director of the Mahoning County Medical Society,
which represents nearly 500 practicing, retired and resident physicians in
Mahoning County, said it's great that local hospitals are included on the list,
but she said just because some are not included does not mean they are
inadequate, adding that the methodology of the study is like comparing "apples
to oranges" in some cases.

Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, Md., is the nation's top-ranked hospital,
according to U.S. News. Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston is second this
year, and the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., is ranked third. Ohio's top
hospital was the Cleveland Clinic, ranked nationally in 14 specialties.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News health rankings editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

___ (c)2013 Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio) Visit Vindicator (Youngstown, Ohio) at
www.vindy.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130716-YU-Two-Youngstown-hospitals-among-best-in-state-20130716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YU


                           Copyright 2013 Vindicator


