                              282 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 13, 2012 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

The Mount Sinai Medical Center Rises to No. 14 in Best Hospitals Rankings by
U.S. News and World Report

LENGTH: 509  words


New Delhi, Sept. 13 -- The Mount Sinai Medical Center ranked 14th out of
approximately 5,000 hospitals nationwide in the 2012-2013 "Best Hospitals" issue
of U.S. News & World Report, moving up from 16th last year and retaining its
spot on the U.S. News "Honor Roll" of the nation's most outstanding hospitals.



Mount Sinai is nationally ranked in 11 out of 16 specialties and in the top ten
in three of those: Geriatrics (#2), Gastroenterology (#7) and Cardiology & Heart
Surgery (#10). Mount Sinai made remarkable gains in several specialties,
including: Ear, Nose & Throat, which rose from 18 to 11; Neurology &
Neurosurgery, which improved from 22 to 15; and Urology, which advanced from 35
to 29. Mount Sinai also improved its year-to-year rankings in Diabetes &
Endocrinology, Gynecology, and Rehabilitation. In addition, Mount Sinai was
high-performing in Psychiatry, Orthopaedics, and Pulmonology.

"Mount Sinai is leading a revolution in healthcare by taking a team approach to
practicing medicine, a paradigm that is especially important in light of the
changing healthcare landscape," said Kenneth L. Davis, MD, President and Chief
Executive Officer of The Mount Sinai Medical Center. "Our success with this
comprehensive care model has earned us our place among the best medical centers
in the country, and we are proud to be recognized in these rankings."

Mount Sinai also ranked among the best hospitals in the New York metropolitan
area. Covering 94 metro areas in the United States, the regional hospital
rankings complement the national rankings by including hospitals with solid
performance in one or more of the 16 specialties in the Best Hospitals list.

"We are pleased by this special recognition of The Mount Sinai Hospital and our
many clinical centers of excellence," said Wayne Keathley, President and Chief
Operating Officer of The Mount Sinai Hospital. "This is especially meaningful to
the thousands of physicians, nurses, and support staff who serve our very
diverse patient population, which includes those from the most affluent and also
poorest neighborhoods in America. These physicians and staff represent the front
line of health reform and we salute their steadfast commitment to providing the
highest quality of care to all patients."

Dennis S. Charney, MD, Dean of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Executive Vice
President for Academic Affairs of The Mount Sinai Medical Center, said, "Mount
Sinai has a legacy of groundbreaking scientific discoveries that has led to
improved methods of diagnosing and treating human disease. Presently, we are
recruiting outstanding physicians and scientists to literally every Department
and Institute, while we plan the opening of our state-of-the-art Center for
Science and Medicine, thus ensuring that we will continue to be at the cutting
edge of biomedical science and clinical excellence."

The 2012-2013 edition of the Best Hospitals Honor Roll, published by U.S. News &
World Report, can be found online at www.usnews.com/besthospitals and will be on
newsstands Tuesday, August 28.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

