                              283 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

OHRH ranked in top seven hospitals in state

BYLINE: Jacob Dick, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 586 words


Aug. 09--Owensboro Health Regional Hospital has been named among the seven best
hospitals in Kentucky out of 120 in the new rankings of regional hospitals
released from U.S. News and World Report.

This is the first time the hospital has made the list occupied mostly by large
hospitals in Louisville, Lexington and Covington with health groups stretching
across Kentucky and Ohio. U.S. News and World Report ranks all qualified
hospitals in every state, but only awards recognition to hospitals meeting high
standards and for specific treatment areas with high performance.

The Kentucky list in ascending order of rank:

1.) University of Kentucky Albert B. Chandler Hospital, Lexington

2.) St. Elizabeth Healthcare Edgewood-Covington Hospital

3.) Baptist Health Lexington

4.) Norton Hospital, Louisville

5.) Baptist Health Louisville

6.) Jewish Hospital, Louisville

7.) Owensboro Health Regional Hospital

Greg Strahan, president and CEO of Owensboro Health, said the honor was
surprising but not unexpected after committed dedication to care initiatives at
the hospital.

"We've been dedicated to our strategic priorities of quality, safety, access and
affordability, so it's nice to see that work paying off," Strahan said. "We
weren't focused on this for the ranking, we were focused on this for the
patients and our improvement."

U.S. News and World Report uses a wide array of factors to organize its rankings
including performance in 16 specialties, patient feedback ratings and health
outcomes across several treatments and conditions.

The ranking of seven hospitals isn't an arbitrary number used by U.S. News and
World Report. Only hospitals meeting a benchmark of standards set by the
publication can be ranked in the state. In Kansas, two hospitals out of 150 are
ranked while seven out of 50 are ranked in Connecticut.

Strahan said being one of the only small regional hospitals to make the list
would serve as reinforcement for some of the engagements the facility has tried
to achieve with its community.

"It's almost like comparing yourself to a Fortune 500 company, seeing our name
next big hospitals with more resources, academic centers and more centralized
patient populations," Strahan said. "To be recognized among those groups is a
feather in our cap."

Owensboro Health was also recognized for high performance in heart failure, knee
replacement and hip replacement procedures. The highest scores for these
procedures came from reductions in patient stays, increase in outpatient
procedures, reduction in return stays and quality rehabilitation.

Strahan said the hospital had specifically focused on those initiatives as a
part of measurements given to hospitals after the Affordable Care Act was
enacted.

"The ACA has changed the landscape with how we've thought about delivering
health care," Strahan said. "We've developed more lean processes, used new
robotic and laparoscopic technology to reduce stays and extended care after
hospital stays."

According to U.S. News and World report, Owensboro Health Regional Hospital
currently has 356 beds, accepted 68,718 patients through its emergency room,
admitted 16,914 patients and performed 3,888 inpatient and 14,104 outpatient
surgeries last year.

Patient experience was ranked as average at three out of five stars.

Jacob Dick, 270-228-2837, jdick@messenger-inquirer.com,Twitter: @jdickjournalism

___ (c)2017 the Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Ky.) Visit the Messenger-Inquirer
(Owensboro, Ky.) at www.messenger-inquirer.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170809-OW-OHRH-ranked-in-top-seven-hospitals-in-state-0809-20170809

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2017 Messenger-Inquirer

