                              279 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               London Free Press

                            November 11, 2016 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Lawson keeps high ranking; London institute holds on to 8th spot on list of
Canada ' s Top 40 hospitalbased research centres

BYLINE: John Miner, The London Free Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 280  words


London's Lawson Health research institute has been ranked, again, among Canada's
top research hospitals.

The research institute of St. Joseph's Health Care London and London Health
Sciences Centre, Lawson placed eighth in the Top 40 list released Thursday.

Factors included in the ranking include total research income from the previous
year.

Last year, Lawson received about $115 million in research income, up2.2 per cent
from the previous budget year.

The ranking is done annually by research infosource inc., a Toronto-based
clearing house on research and development information.

Lawson also placed eighth on the list last year.

Lawson is one of two major medical research institutes in London. The other,
opened in 1986, is Robarts research institute at Western University. dr. David
Hill, Lawson's scientific director, said in a statement the results show Lawson
is up there with some of Canada's largest and most successful research
hospitals.

" Despite increased competition for research dollars, the ranking tells us that
Lawson and our two partner hospitals continue to be a major part of Canada's
academic hospital-based research ," he said.

Canada's Top 10 1. University Health Network (Toronto) 2. Hospital for Sick
Children (Toronto) 3. McGill University Health Centre (Montreal) 4. Hamilton
Health Sciences 5. Provincial Health Services Authority (British Columbia) 6.
Ottawa Hospital 7. Vancouver Coastal Health Authority 8. Lawson Health Research
Institute (London) 9. CHU de Quebec - Universite Laval (Quebec City) 10.
Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre (Toronto)

jminer @postmedia. com com twitter @JohnatLFPress !@COPYRIGHT=© 2016 Sun Media
Corporation. All rights reserved.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

