                              278 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    Prince George Citizen (British Columbia)

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Hospital ranking praised

BYLINE: Bernice Trick, The Citizen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 446  words


The Fraser Institute's ranking of Prince George Regional Hospital as the
sixth-best hospital in B.C. sits well with Northern Health.

"We're pleased with the way PGRH and northern hospitals in general were ranked
using this particular methodology," said Dr. David Butcher, NH vice-president of
medicine. "It validates that the care received in our facilities is of high
quality and comparable to what you'd expect elsewhere. So our first reaction is
we're very pleased with the way PGRH fared."

The report card includes 95 B.C. acute-care hospitals and compares their
performance on 39 separate indicators of quality and patient safety compiled
into a hospital mortality Index. The report card allows the public to look up a
specific condition or procedure and compare the outcomes in their hospital to
others in the province. The report is available online at
www.hospitalreportcards.ca.

Butcher said Northern Health's second reaction is that although the set of
indicators used will provide another way of measuring the quality of care and
performance, it doesn't tell the whole story.

"The hospital mortality index, for instance, is based on a very narrow range of
only nine indicators and because it includes things like death following hip
surgery, it rules out a number of our facilities where that type of surgery is
not done," Butcher said.

"The only NH facilities listed under the hospital mortality index are PGRH and
Dawson Creek (which ranked 20th in B.C.), where all nine of the indicators can
be measured. So the mortality index by itself is a fairly rough way of looking
at performance.

"But we do use the Canadian Institute for Health Information hospital
standardized mortality rate index which is based on 80 per cent of all in-
hospital deaths whereas the Fraser Institute is based on mortality rates in only
nine categories.

He said CIHI measures facilities against like-facilities across the country in
matters like population, demographics and complexity of care and places
facilities in groupings rather than simply numerically ranking them against
other facilities.

"To link Prince Rupert, Chetwynd and Vancouver General hospitals together in a
ranking system is not fair to any one of them," Butcher said.

He summed up the importance of the Fraser Institute report by saying "it's an
interesting way of viewing quality and allows us one way of examining it, but
more importantly we're looking within the report at specific indicators and
trends within the hospitals over time."

He noted that in some instance, those indicators "per 1,000" patients don't
always give the true picture in smaller facilities where patient numbers are
much lower than the larger hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: Citizen Photo by David Mah; Taste of summer  -- You know it's
summer when the drinking fountain is on at Fort George Park. Finn Thielmann, 2,
left, looks forward to his turn after four-year old Isaac Wright. ;

