                              277 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                              July 1, 2016 Friday

Dismal state of govt hospitals

SECTION: EDITORIAL

LENGTH: 344  words


When it comes to world rankings in any sector, Pakistan has hardly ever had
anything positive to write home about. The Ranking Web of World Hospitals
elucidates that Pakistan's best public-sector hospital ranks 5,911 in the entire
world. It is no wonder then that the country's leaders run to foreign shores as
soon as they need medical treatment; they do not trust the quality of service
offered by hospitals run under their own watch. According to this ranking, there
are only four public-sector hospitals among Pakistan's top 20 medical
establishments. The country's best hospital a privately-operated one ranks 1,842
in the world. It is a sorry situation for the majority of our citizens, who do
not have the expensive option of going abroad for medical treatment and must
make do with the local hospital system.

The rankings that have been released are used by international agencies, such as
the World Health Organisation (WHO) when deciding their grant allocations. With
such poor standing and rampant corruption in public-sector health, attracting
grants from foreign donors to improve the dilapidated conditions of our
hospitals is a tall order indeed. At the same time provincial and federal
governments seem to think that our tax money is better spent elsewhere. The
latest economic survey shows that the health sector received only 0.45 per cent
of GDP during the first nine months of the fiscal year, which is almost
unchanged from FY2014-15, when it stood at 0.42 per cent of GDP. According to
the World Bank, Pakistan spends $37 (Rs3,873) per capita on health, which is
lower than the WHO-prescribed level of $44 per capita (Rs4,606) the minimum
spending package required for essential health services. It is unjust that our
public office holders head abroad when they need treatment while millions of
impoverished citizens travel hours for subpar treatment at decrepit government
hospitals. It is a pity that we have been unable to produce a single world class
health institution in Pakistan's public sector even after almost 70 years of
independence.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

