                              284 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald-Tribune (Florida)

                             July 17, 2007 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

Low spot in ranks surprises hospital;
Sarasota Memorial is in top 50 in only two of U.S. News yearly specialty lists

BYLINE: By DAVID GULLIVER david.gulliver@heraldtribune.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 672 words

DATELINE: SARASOTA


For the past three years, Sarasota Memorial Hospital has trumpeted the release
of a national magazine's rankings of top hospitals.

In 2006, Sarasota Memorial was heralded as being among the nation's top 50
hospitals in six different specialties, including high-profile programs like
heart surgery and orthopedics.

This year's rankings, though, have hospital officials quietly poring over the
numbers.

U.S. News & World Report released its "America's Top Hospitals" rankings on its
Web site Friday. Sarasota Memorial ranked among the top 50 hospitals in two
specialties, cancer and geriatrics.

Officially, the hospital calls it an achievement just to make a list dominated
by big-name facilities like Johns Hopkins and the Mayo Clinic.

"We're delighted to be on the list at all, given that we're a community hospital
and not an academic medical center," President Gwen MacKenzie said.

Last year's performance led the magazine's health editor, a former National
Institutes of Health director, to single out Sarasota Memorial for showing how a
little hospital can match up with the nation's best.

But this year it fell off the charts in all but one of the six specialties noted
last year -- cancer care, where it ranked 45th. It also made the list at 48th
for geriatrics, which was not included in last year's rankings.

That sent MacKenzie and other hospital officials to their internal data, which
did not predict the magazine's findings.

"I'm surprised that we didn't maintain our position," said Judy Milne, executive
director of quality and patient safety.

The shuffled rankings may stem from a change in how the the magazine calculates
mortality rates, a key part of its system, U.S. News project editor Avery
Comarow said.

The magazine uses data from 2003 through 2005 on all Medicare patients at U.S.
hospitals.

In past years it looked at the percentage of a hospital's patients who died
before they could be discharged.

By that standard, Sarasota Memorial consistently scored better than the average
among the top 50 hospitals.

This year, the magazine moved to "30-day mortality rates," or the percentage who
died within a month of discharge.

That measure has become the health care industry standard, said Comarow, who has
edited all the "top hospital" projects.

"It recognizes that hospitals should bear some responsibility for the quality of
their health care even after patients go home," he said.

The new mortality rates affected hospitals more than any other change, Comarow
said. But he declined to discuss details for individual hospitals.

"Whether Sarasota was affected by this change I cannot say, but many hospitals
were," he said.

Milne said the hospital does not have 30-day mortality data, but related
measures like seven-day and 30-day readmission rates are low.

The hospital plans to purchase the magazine's analysis and examine how it
arrived at the results, she said.

Mortality data is only one-third of the analysis. It also uses a 2005 American
Hospital Association survey of members' technology, staffing and services.

That timing means recent changes were not included. Robotic surgery -- one of
five key technologies in the study -- came to Sarasota Memorial too late for
this year's survey, MacKenzie said.

The study also considers a hospital's reputation, measured by a survey asking
doctors to rank the top five U.S. hospitals for each specialty.

The survey, with its equal weight to mortality figures, has been the
most-criticized part of the U.S. News study.

In past years, Sarasota Memorial has received points for reputation only in
heart surgery and ear, nose and throat care. A small drop in survey responses
could have cost the hospital its status, MacKenzie said.

The hospital plans to keep citing the study, a mainstay of its marketing
efforts. It still is the only hospital south of Tampa making the list, and in
the top 3 percent nationally.

But its president said what matters is what the hospital and its peers are doing
to improve quality.

"The focus should be on what we're all doing for patients," MacKenzie said.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2007 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

