                              293 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             July 19, 2012 Thursday

Bibek Koirala joins Reliant med team

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 397 words


COLUMN: MEDICAL MEMOS

Reliant Medical Group announced the addition of Dr. Bibek Koirala to its medical
team. Dr. Koirala, an internist, will practice in Reliant Medical Group's
Department of Hospital Medicine at Worcester Medical Center (St. Vincent
Hospital).

He received his medical degree from Tribhuvan University in Kathmandu, Nepal. He
completed his internship and residency at Staten Island University Hospital in
Staten Island, N.Y. He is a candidate for certification from the American Board
of Internal Medicine.

UMass Memorial Medical Center has received 3-star rankings from the prestigious
Society of Thoracic Surgeons for two cardiac surgery procedures: coronary artery
bypass surgery

and aortic valve replacement surgery. Three stars is the highest quality ranking
given by STS. It is the sixth year in a row that UMass Memorial has received the
award for CABG surgery; the AVR ratings were released for the first time this
May. These are the only two surgeries that are currently rated by STS.

Only 3.2 percent of the 968 cardiac surgery programs nationwide earned the
3-star designation for AVR. The first release of the AVR data was done with
results from 2009 to 2011. The programs were evaluated based on patient
outcomes, number of deaths and complications.

Since 2006, when the first rankings were released by STS, the Cardiac Surgery
Program has consistently received the 3-star designation for CABG, achieved by
only 14 percent of hospitals nationwide.

The UMass Memorial program also had the lowest infection rates in Massachusetts
for CABG surgeries according to the most recent report from the Massachusetts
Department of Public Health.

With this latest ranking and others, the UMass Memorial Cardiac Surgery Program
remains a national leader in providing the highest quality care and services to
patients and their families.

UMass Memorial Health Care's Ronald McDonald Care Mobile provides medical and
dental services to people without health or dental insurance. The Care Mobile
will be providing services on Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 9 a.m. to 3
p.m. at the Worcester Department of Public Health at 25 Meade St. in Worcester.

For more information or to make an appointment, call (508) 334-6073. If you need
medical or dental insurance, call (508) 334-9300.

Send information for Medical Memos to submissions@telegram.com

ART: PHOTO

CUTLINE: Dr. Koirala

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Reliant Medical Group announced the addition of Dr. Bibek Koirala to
its medical team. Dr. Koirala, an internist, will practice in Reliant Medical
Group's Department of Hospital Medicine at Worcester Medical Center (St. Vincent
Hospital). He received his medical degree from Tribhuvan University in
Kathmandu, Nepal. He completed his internship and residency at Staten Island
University Hospital in Staten Island, N.Y. He is a candidate for certification
from the American Board of Internal Medicine.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

