                              288 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 13, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Mayo Clinic Children's Center Ranks in All 10 Specialties for Third Straight
Year in Best Children's Hospital Rankings

LENGTH: 364  words


New Delhi, June 13 -- Mayo Clinic Children's Center has again been ranked in all
10 pediatric specialties in U.S. News & World Report's 2013-14 Best Children's
Hospitals rankings. Each year, U.S. News & World Report, using an extensive
survey and input from pediatric specialists from around the country, ranks
nearly 200 of the nation's children's hospitals and identifies only the top 50
in each of 10 specialty areas. This is the third year in a row that the Mayo
Clinic Children's Center has been the only Minnesota hospital to rank in all 10
specialties. In fact, the Mayo Clinic Children's Center is the only children's
hospital not only in Minnesota but also the surrounding states of Wisconsin,
Iowa and the Dakotas to rank in each of the specialties included in the survey:
cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery,
orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.



"At the Mayo Clinic Children's Center, we take great pride in our ability to
quickly and efficiently provide high-quality integrated care to children with
routine or very challenging conditions, whether they come from around the state,
the region or the world," says hospital director, Randall Flick, M.D., M.P.H.

The Mayo Clinic Children's Center provides comprehensive, coordinated care to
children with many types of health concerns, including the innovative treatments
for congenital heart disease, fetal surgery, robotic surgery and comprehensive
transplant services, many of which are available nowhere else in the state or
region. The Mayo Clinic Children's Center was also the first children's hospital
in the state to offer Level One trauma care.

"Our ranking among the top children's hospitals in all 10 specialties speaks to
our unique capacity to assemble teams of specialists of all types at the bedside
of any child from before they are born, throughout childhood, adolescence and
seamlessly transition into adult care," says Dr. Flick.

Mayo Clinic and its children's center is the medical center most recognized as a
top choice for patients and families by U.S. News & World Report and many other
ranking organizations.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

