                              285 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                     PR.com

                       August 8, 2017 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

U.S. News & World Report Names The Medical Center of Aurora Among Best in
Colorado

BYLINE: The Medical Center of Aurora

LENGTH: 371  words


Aurora, CO,  August 08, 2017 --(PR.com)-- HCA/HealthONE's The Medical Center of
Aurora has been recognized as a Best Hospital for 2017-18 in the Denver metro
and Colorado by U.S. News & World Report.

The annual Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 28th year, are part of U.S.
News' patient portal, designed to help patients make informed decisions about
where to receive care for life-threatening conditions or for common elective
procedures.

The Medical Center of Aurora was also recognized as high performing in five
adult specialties which includes Diabetes and Endocrinology, Gastroenterology
and GI Surgery, Geriatrics, Nephrology, and Pulmonology. TMCA also rated as high
performing in four common adult procedures and conditions for the treatment of
patients who are 65 and older, which included Heart Bypass Surgery, Heart
Failure, Colon Cancer Surgery, and COPD.

"This ranking is a testament to the dedication of every employee and physician
at TMCA," said Dan Miller, President and CEO at The Medical Center of Aurora and
Spalding Rehabilitation Hospital. "We are blessed to have wonderful people who
truly enjoy their work and who are proud to be able to provide safe, high
quality care to our Aurora community."

For the 2017-18 rankings, U.S. News evaluated more than 4,500 medical centers
nationwide in 25 specialties, procedures and conditions. In the 16 specialty
areas, 152 hospitals were ranked in at least one specialty. In rankings by state
and metro area, U.S. News recognized hospitals as high performing across
multiple areas of care.

"For nearly three decades, we've strived to make hospital quality more
transparent to healthcare consumers nationwide," said Ben Harder, managing
editor and chief of health analysis at U.S. News. "By providing the most
comprehensive data available, we hope to give patients the information they need
to find the best care across a range of specialties."

The U.S. News methodologies include risk-adjusted survival and readmission
rates, volume, patient experience, patient safety, quality of nursing care and
other care-related indicators.

For more information on the 2017-18 rankings, please visit the U.S. News Best
Hospitals page and use #BestHospitals on Facebook and Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2017 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

