                              29 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        July 21, 2013 Sunday 6:30 AM EST

NWH Recognized as a Top Hospital for Gynecology, Geriatrics, Urology,
Orthopedics, and Neurosurgery

LENGTH: 392  words


New Delhi, July 21 -- Northern Westchester Hospital Announced today that it has
been ranked as one of the best hospitals in New York for 2013-14 by U.S. News &
World Report.  The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th
year, recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.
In addition to being recognized as a Best Hospital, Northern Westchester
Hospital was recognized regionally for expertise in Gynecology, Urology,
Geriatrics, Orthopedics, and Neurosurgery.



"Providing the highest quality, patient centered care is the primary focus of
the staff and physicians at Northern Westchester Hospital.  The Joint Commission
lists NWH among the top 5% highest quality hospitals in the U.S. and recently
AARP The Magazine reported NWH was ranked among the safest hospitals in America
by the Leapfrog Group.  We are proud of the high level of dedication to patient
care by our staff and are pleased to see this being recognized by national
organizations, including U.S. News and World Report," commented Joel Seligman,
President and CEO of Northern Westchester Hospital.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties.  In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age.  Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C.  Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.  The
rankings have been published at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


