                              302 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              May 12, 2003, Monday

Measuring up

SECTION: Features; 17

LENGTH: 641 words


Targets can damage your health. The Times reports today that the Government's
system of ranking hospitals is seriously flawed, with some top-ranked hospital
trusts having unnervingly high mortality rates and waiting times. While
measuring the performance of such complex organisations is extremely difficult,
it is quite wrong for ministers to judge hospitals primarily against political
targets, rather than clinical outcomes. If some second-rate hospitals are being
held up as models for others to follow, this is dangerously misleading as well
as grossly unfair, and will only set back the cause of NHS reform.

League tables for hospitals, like those for schools, are a sensible element of
the drive to raise standards. But their very public nature, and the extra money
and freedom that a high ranking can bring, make it vitally important to measure
what matters as accurately as possible. What is being measured when "three star"
status is given to the hospital trust in Walsall that has the highest mortality
rates in the country? Here, the difference between top and bottom is
significant: put crudely, a patient is twice as likely to die in Walsall as in
Barts. This cannot be accounted for simply by the fact that certain hospitals
are treating older, riskier patients. Barts and University College London, which
have the lowest mortality rates in the country, are teaching hospitals treating
their fair share of high risk patients. And the organisation that ranks
hospitals by mortality rates, the Dr Foster unit at Imperial College, London,
standardises as far as possible to take account of such factors.

Mortality is not the only issue. Fewer than ten of the 30 criteria used in the
NHS Performance Rankings actually attempt to judge how a hospital affects
patient health. Of the rest, too many are targets for waiting times or surveys
of staff and patient opinion, which are interesting but unlikely to be
conclusive. In order to be considered for a "three-star" ranking, hospitals have
to perform well on nine targets, all of which are managerial, such as "improving
working lives" and hospital cleanliness. It is only after meeting those that
clinical measures such as readmisssion are taken into account, and even these
look only at a small proportion of deaths - from heart bypass or non-elective
surgery.

These problems are an inevitable consequence of centralisation and bureaucracy.

The truth is that NHS services are already distorted to meet political targets.

(You get what you target - if you're lucky). Many of the hospitals with three
star rankings may have excellent clinical staff, but they are also very good at
managing to meet the targets, which is not the same thing. Many of those
hospitals that score well on dealing with outpatients in less than 26 weeks (the
NHS rating) do much less well against the 13-week target used by Dr Foster. But
if the Government moved the goal posts, the hospitals would change their
priorities.

In formulating their formulas, ministers have enormous influence over life and
death. We now routinely expect hospital managers to fiddle their waiting lists,
for example. Managers who prefer to be economical with the truth than to upset
Whitehall have good reason: the few who have dared to expose such practices are
regarded by government with deep suspicion and hostility. So most prefer to
wheel out the old saying of the Chinese Communists: "The situation is
excellent".

The need for targets, and the difficulty of formulating absolutely precise
targets, is indisputable. But seemingly scientific indicators can be motivated
more by policy than precision. The Government must review its targets and be
prepared to face the embarrassment of unfavourable outcomes in the short term.

These targets are now, literally, a matter of life and death.


LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2003 Times Newspapers Limited

