                              299 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                             April 13, 2014 Sunday

business briefs

BYLINE: Telegraph Herald

SECTION: B; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 291 words


Mercy Medical Center-Dubuque received a Blue Distinction Center Plus designation
for cardiac care and hip and knee replacement from Wellmark Blue Cross and Blue
Shield. Blue Distinction Centers are shown to deliver quality specialty care
based on objective, transparent measures for patient safety and health outcomes
and have a proven track-record for delivering better results - including fewer
complications and readmissions - than hospitals without this recognition.

*

Consumer Reports has released patient safety rankings provided by Becker's
Hospital Review for more than 2,500 hospitals. The rankings are based on a
composite score between 1 and 100 of five quality measures using data from the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention. The measures include mortality, admissions, overuse of imaging,
health care-associated infections and communication, according to a Medscape
report on the rankings. UnityPoint Health-Finley Hospital was ranked as one of
the top 15 hospitals.

*

DuTrac Community Credit Union ranks in the top 1 percent of all credit unions in
terms of total return of the member as of Dec. 31, 2013, according to Callahan &
Associates, which recently released its credit union rankings.

The return of the member index is able to demonstrate a member's relationship
with the credit union while focusing on the main functionalities of savings,
lending and product usage. Based on their analysis, Callahan & Associates
calculated how well DuTrac's ROM was in the three categories in comparison to
other credit unions across the United States. Callahan & Associates is a
25-year-old national firm that provides analytics and analysis for credit union
performance.

Telegraph Herald

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

