                              295 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      March 19, 2015 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

CPSI Highest Rated EHR Vendor for Fifth Consecutive Year; Eligible Providers
Successfully Attest for Meaningful Use Stage 2

LENGTH: 318  words


March 19 -- CPSI (NASDAQ: CPSI), a leading provider of electronic health record
(EHR) systems and services, today announced that it has been recognized as the
top ranked inpatient EHR vendor for hospitals under 100 beds by Black Book
Rankings. This is the fifth consecutive year CPSI has been recognized as the top
overall EHR vendor for small and rural hospitals under 100 beds and critical
access hospitals.

"We are very proud to again be recognized by Black Book Rankings," said Boyd
Douglas, President and Chief Executive Officer of CPSI. "Our place at the top of
these independent rankings for five years in a row is confirmation from our
clients that our system and support have continued to fully meet their needs
during this transitional period in healthcare IT. The top of the Black Book
rankings in conjunction with our industry leading 2014 Stage 2 Meaningful Use
(MU) attestations clearly supports CPSI's position as the leading EHR vendor for
rural and community hospitals."

CPSI also announced that providers using the company's Medical Practice EHR
platform have successfully attested to MU Stage 2. This announcement comes on
the heels of the most recent Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services report of
EHR Products used for MU in which CPSI leads all vendors in successful MU Stage
attestations for the Complete EHR/Inpatient/Hospital designation. Douglas
commented, "Many of our rural and community hospital clients own or manage their
physician practices. Therefore, having a single vendor integrated solution to
address both care settings offers them significant advantages in the delivery of
patient care as well as operational efficiencies. With the successful
attestation to MU Stage 2 by physicians using our ambulatory EHR product, our
customers can be confident they will receive not only the inherent benefits of a
single vendor solution but the financial ones as well."

Source: CPSI

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

