                              298 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    San Gabriel Valley Tribune (California)

                             August 4, 2009 Tuesday

Hospitals in Whittier, Pasadena score big on patient survey

BYLINE: By Daniel Tedford, Staff Writer

SECTION: BREAKING; News

LENGTH: 717 words


New rankings released by Consumer Reports reviewing patient satisfaction has two
San Gabriel Valley hospitals in the top 10 out of 145 southern California
hospitals.

At the same time, two area hospitals rank at the bottom of the list, according
to the rankings.



Compared to other hospitals in Ventura, San Diego, San Bernardino, Riverside,
Orange and Los Angeles Counties, Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in
Whittier ranked fourth with an 83 consumer rating -- first overall in Los
Angeles County. Huntington Memorial Hospital ranked sixth in southern
California.

"I think it is the hospital culture. We have a good working relationship with
all of our team," Chief Nursing officer Reanna Thompson said. "We listen to
their feedback. I think giving the people at the front line a voice on things
that need to be done ... is really the key to having an engaged work force. The
patients sense that."

The Southern California top five were:
1. Thousand Oaks Surgical Hospital, Thousand Oaks
2. Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian, Newport Beach
3. Bear Valley Community Hospital, Big Bear
4. Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital, Whittier
5. Scripps Green Hospital, La Jolla

Despite being a well-known hospital that many people choose, Huntington
officials are still pleased to see such results. The facility has the only
trauma center at a community hospital in the San Gabriel Valley, so keeping
patient satisfaction isn't easy, volunter and customer services director
Priscilla Gamb said.

"It is a challenge (to maintain patient satisfaction)," she said. "Every
department has specific service goals that they work on throughout the entire
year. It is a hospital wide effort."

The rankings are based on a quarterly federal survey of more than one million
hospital patients across the nation, the Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Healthcare Providers and Systems, or HCAHPS.

The survey asks patients about recent hospital experiences regarding doctor and
nurse communication, cleanliness and noise in hospital rooms, and discharge
information and medication.

Consumer Reports took the data and had statisticians put it into a ranking.

East Valley Hospital in Glendora was the third worst in southern California and
Whittier Hospital Medical Center was the sixth worst, according to the rankings.


East Valley Hospital did not immediately return messages seeking comment.

At Whittier Hospital Medical Center, officials believe reviews are going to
change.

The proper nursing leadership wasn't in place in the past, but with a new Chief
Nursing Officer since August 2008, the culture of the hospital is improving, CEO
Howard Ternes said.

"I will be honest with you. This hospital has suffered for several years,"
Ternes said. "We haven't had a strong nurse leader in 10 years until we hired
Phyllis (Snyder)."

Since she came on, Snyder has tried to address trouble areas, specifically
communication between nurses and patients, Ternes said.

"It becomes routine after a while. We don't realize there is a gap between what
the patient expects and what we expect," Ternes said. "If you improve the
communication with patients, problems get solved automatically."

Issues with information regarding medication and discharge was a problem for
most hospitals across the nation and in Los Angeles County, Consumer Reports
Senior Program Editor Nancy Metcalf said.

"(Hospital staffers) are constantly giving you a shot, or something in an IV, or
giving you a pill, or all of the above," Metcalf said. "The lack of
communication around that was richly reflected."

The federal survey takes into account some demographic information and whether
or not patients at one hospital are more sick over another, Metcalf said.

Consumer Reports didn't do any analysis on specific trends, but members of the
media have been telling Metcalf that hospitals in poorer neighborhoods have a
tendency to score lower on the survey, she said.

Also, specialty hospitals tend to score higher than others, Metcalf said.
Patients at those hospitals tend to have better insurance and are there for
elective surgery, versus being admitted for emergency services.

"What we find is that being admitted through the emergency room automatically
gives you a worse experience," Metcalf said. "Hospitals that don't have those
kinds of patients already start with an advantage."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Los Angeles Newspaper Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

