                              297 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

SMH tops region in ranking | Annual U.S. News "Best Hospitals" list is closely
watched in the health care industry | Annual U.S. News 'Best | Hospitals'
publication | is closely watched in | health care industry

BYLINE: Staff Report

SECTION: B; FL News; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 281 words


Sarasota Memorial Hospital was recognized Tuesday in the annual U.S. News "Best
Hospitals" report as the eighth-best acute health care facility in Florida, and
cited for high performance nationally in gastroenterology and gastrointestinal
surgery.

It was also listed as "top performing" in all nine common procedures and
conditions evaluated by the report: colon cancer surgery, lung cancer surgery,
COPD, heart failure, heart bypass surgery, aortic valve surgery, abdominal
aortic aneurysm repair, and knee and hip replacements. That makes it one of only
48 hospitals out of 4,500 in the United States to achieve this overall high
quality, and one of four in the state. The others are Florida Hospital in
Orlando, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville and Orlando Regional Medical Center.

This year's ranking is a slight slip from the 2016 report, which put Sarasota
Memorial at No. 7 in the state. No Florida facility made the publication's
"honor roll" of the top 20 hospitals, and only one of those - at Duke University
in North Carolina - was in the Southeast.

Other Southwest Florida hospitals did not make U.S. News' ranking of 35 top
hospitals in the state. But three were listed as high performing in one or more
treatments: Blake Medical Center in Bradenton in colon cancer surgery and hip
replacement; Doctors Hospital of Sarasota in knee replacement and Fawcett
Memorial Hospital in Port Charlotte in heart failure.

Of the many national hospital rating systems that analyze the same data - mostly
self-reported by hospitals to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services -
the U.S. News report is considered one of the most reputable because of its lack
of ties to the health care industry.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sarasota Memorial Hospital. [PROVIDED BY Sarasota Memorial Hospital /
AUGUST 2017]

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

