                              301 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Telegraph Herald (Dubuque, IA)

                           October 15, 2008 Wednesday

HealthGrades recognizes Finley

BYLINE: ERIK HOGSTROM TH staff writer/ehogstrom@wcinet.com

SECTION: A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 267 words


The health-care ratings company HealthGrades has given The Finley Hospital top
marks. HealthGrades, a health-care ratings company, ranked Finley Iowa's top
hospital for general surgery.

"To be the No. 1 hospital in the state of Iowa is definitely an accomplishment,"
said Kim Fortner, a consultant for provider services for HealthGrades. Finley's
ranking was included in the 11th annual HealthGrades Hospital Quality in America
study. The study also gave Finley the highest five-star rating for
appendectomies. "Finley has been noted for quality and success before by
HealthGrades, but this award was notable because of the ranking of No. 1 in Iowa
for general surgery," said John Knox, Finley's president and chief executive
officer. "The No. 1 in Iowa ranking is arrived at by close scrutiny to outcome
details. It is an award that reflects the quality in the surgery department and
the surgical groups that perform at Finley." HealthGrades analyzed more than 41
million Medicare hospitalization records from 2005 to 2007 at the approximately
5,000 nonfederal hospitals in the U.S. The general surgery ranking is based on
ratings for bowel obstruction, appendectomy and cholecystectomy procedures.
Cholecystectomy is the surgical removal of the gallbladder. "The conditions that
make such a distinction possible relate to the attention paid by our surgical
staff and physicians to safety," Knox said. "We continue to implement measures
that have helped us lower complications and provide better outcomes. We are
always looking for the best practices in our field and implement them as soon as
possible."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Woodward Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

