                              294 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                              June 5, 2012 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

Cream of the crop

BYLINE: BY HEIDI EVANS NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 455 words


New York-Presbyterian's children's hospital has been rated tops in the city for
pediatrics, getting high marks in nine of 10 medical specialties, according to
the latest U.S. News & World Report rankings.

The Morgan Stanley-Komansky Children's Hospital was among nine New York area
hospitals that made the grade for at least one specialty in the annual survey
released Tuesday.

None of the city's 11 public hospitals were singled out for excellence in any
specialties.

Although Morgan Stanley-Komansky fell off U.S. News' national honor roll this
year, hospital CEO Dr. Steve Corwin said it was great to be No. 1 in the city.

"Aside from the ranking, a region needs a great place where tough cases can go.
We are able to do that for the public good in a great city," Corwin said.

Mount Sinai's Kravis Children's Hospital on the upper East Side saw its standing
improve, ranked outstanding in six specialties.

Sinai's CEO and president, Dr. Kenneth Davis, noted that two specialties not
ranked last year made the grade this time around - cancer and urology - and
credited the recruitment of top-flight doctors and researchers.

Two other hospitals in the five boroughs were on the list: Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, for cancer, and the Children's Hospital at
Montefiore, which went from being recognized in 10 specialities last year to
four this time.

Dr. Philip Ozuah, Montefiore's chief operating officer and chief of pediatrics,
blamed the survey methods.

"The methodology for the rankings changes from year to year and that can impact
results, but our programs continue to excel in the results that matter most,
providing excellent patient care," he said.

"We are proud to be consistently ranked as a top hospital by U.S. News & World
Report."

Outside the city, children's hospitals that were recognized in more than one
specialty include Long Island's Steven and Alexandra Cohen Children's Medical
Center at North Shore-LIJ, Winthrop-University Hospital and New Jersey's Robert
Wood Johnson University Hospital.

The magazine also put out an "honor roll" of the best children's hospitals in
the country, with Children's Hospital Boston and Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia tying for first place.

New York-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley-Komansky was eighth last year but was
pushed off this year.

"We are disappointed because we believe we are one of the top hospitals in the
country, but at the end of the day it's about caring for children, not a number
on a ranking sheet," said Corwin.

He said turnover in the urology department may have been to blame for the
dropout.

"We just recruited a new chief from Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and a
former trainee from there," Corwin noted. "I think that it will turn itself
around."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr. Steven J. Corwin (near r.) and Dr. Kenneth L. Davis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2012 Daily News, L.P.

