                              296 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Johns Hopkins slips to No. 4 in magazine's hospital ratings

BYLINE: Andrea McDaniels

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 275  words


The Johns Hopkins Hospital fell a notch to fourth place in the nation in
rankings released Tuesday by U.S. News and World Report, an important assessment
in which the Baltimore hospital ranked for years in first place.

The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., ranked number one this year, followed by
the Cleveland Clinic and Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.

Hopkins began slipping in the rankings in 2012, when the magazine changed its
methodology to put less emphasis on reputation. The change ended Hopkins'
21-year run at the top spot.

The Baltimore hospital remained ranked No. 1 in the magazine's comparison of
Maryland hospitals. Ten specialties at the hospital ranked among the top five in
the nation and 14 specialties in the top 10.

"The Johns Hopkins Hospital's record as a U.S. News & World Report Best Hospital
over the past 27 years is unparalleled," Dr. Paul B. Rothman, dean of the
medical faculty and CEO of Johns Hopkins Medicine, and Ronald R. Peterson,
president of the Johns Hopkins Health System and executive vice president of
Johns Hopkins Medicine, wrote in a note to employees.

"It is thanks to our employees that Johns Hopkins' legacy of clinical excellence
and patient- and family-centered care continues to flourish," they wrote.

The hospital earned the highest ranking for 22 years, including an unprecedented
21 years in a row from 1991 to 2011.

Rothman and Peterson also congratulated the Mayo Clinic.

"We are honored to be among all the hospitals that made the list and, like us,
continue to improve care for the people in our local communities and around the
world," they said.

amcdaniels@baltsun.com

Twitter.com/ankwalker

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved

