                              305 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            August 8, 2013 Thursday

U.S. News & World Report: MUSC is state's No. 1 hospital

LENGTH: 538  words

DATELINE: Charleston


Medical University of South Carolina has issued the following news release:

MUSC was named by U.S. News & World Report as one of the country's best
hospitals in the treatment of ear, nose and throat disorders, nephrology, and
rheumatology.

MUSC was also categorized as a "high-performing" facility for the treatment of
cancer, gynecologic disorders, orthopedics and cardiology and heart surgery.
Programs for diabetes and endocrinology, gastroenterology, neurology and
neurosurgery, pulmonology, geriatrics and urology also were considered high
performing.

Richard M. Silver, M.D., who has been director of the MUSC Division of
Rheumatology and Immunology since 1995, was pleased his division was recognized
as one of the nation's leading rheumatology centers.

"Rankings for rheumatology are based solely on reputation, and such recognition
demonstrates the high regard our peers have for the patient care and expertise
in rheumatology provided at MUSC," Silver said. "We are particularly well known
for the exemplary care and research in autoimmune connective tissue diseases,
e.g., scleroderma and lupus. We are a tertiary care center for the most complex
and severe rheumatic disease patients. Our staff provides cutting edge
diagnostic and therapeutic services to patients of all ages - children and
adults - from all areas of South Carolina and beyond."

Fewer than 150 of the nation's 5,000 hospitals are nationally ranked in at least
one of 16 medical specialties.

MUSC ranked first in South Carolina and for the Charleston-North
Charleston-Summerville metro area. The state and local rankings recognize more
than 700 hospitals with a record of high performance in key medical specialties,
including hospitals already identified as the best in the nation.

"We are gratified that MUSC continues to be recognized as a leading hospital in
South Carolina and beyond," said Ray Greenberg, M.D., Ph.D., MUSC president.
"This is a great tribute to our outstanding faculty and staff who are among the
best in the country."

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face a particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

"The recognition as South Carolina's No. 1 hospital is particularly gratifying
for the dedicated teams of physicians and staff who provide high quality care
every day, but also teach the next generation, and test new discoveries. This is
further evidence of MUSC's focus on expertise and excellence through high
performance teamwork," said Patrick Cawley, M.D., MUSC executive director/CEO
and vice president for clinical operations.


For more information please visit: http://academicdepartments.musc.edu.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

