                              309 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              March 4, 2016 Friday

Blue Cross to upgrade RMC on its preferred hospital list

BYLINE: Patrick McCreless, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 770 words


March 04--Alabama's top private health care insurer has upgraded Regional
Medical Center on its preferred hospital list this year, preventing higher costs
for some patients.

Koko Mackin, spokeswoman for Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama, said the
insurer decided to upgrade the Anniston hospital, based on new information,
after lowering its ranking last month. Had the downgrade stuck, some Blue Cross
patients would have faced higher out-of-pocket costs had they been treated at
RMC, according to the insurer.

A Feb. 29 letter Blue Cross sent to some of its customers states the insurer had
adjusted its 2016 rankings of the most efficient, cost-effective hospitals in
its Hospital Tiered Network program.

The program, set to take effect April 1, measures and ranks Blue Cross'
in-network hospitals on quality, patient experience and cost. The letter states
the purpose of the program is to help Blue Cross customers in the program make
informed choices about their care.

Hospitals in the list are ranked as either tier 1 or the lower tier 2.

The list showed that RMC had been downgraded to a tier 2 ranking.

Mackin said Friday that RMC's tier 1 status has since been restored.

"There was a rescoring this week based on additional information and this
changed RMC from tier 2 to tier 1," Mackin said. "We will re-evaluate hospitals
throughout the year and allow facilities to move up if they meet criteria."

Hospitals will not be moved from tier 1 to tier 2 during this calendar year, she
added.

The letter states that any of Blue Cross' customers in the tier-ranking program
face higher out-of-pocket costs if they use a tier 2 hospital for health care
services as opposed to a tier 1 facility.

Kate Van Meter, RMC spokeswoman, said Blue Cross had initially sent notification
to RMC that its ranking would drop in April.

"Tier scoring is continually updated as new information becomes available and as
a result of the updated data, we received notification that RMC would remain a
tier 1 hospital," Van Meter said. "Our mission is to provide state-of-the-art
healthcare to our community and we are pleased to be able to continue that
mission as a tier 1 Hospital."

The list also showed that Stringfellow Memorial Hospital in Anniston will remain
a tier 2 hospital from the previous year. Gadsden Regional Medical Center will
remain a tier 1 hospital.

Meanwhile, St. Vincent's St. Clair hospital in Pell City has also been dropped
to tier 2 status, the list shows.

Michael Korpiel, president and COO of St. Vincent's St. Clair, in a Thursday
email to The Star, said St. Vincent's continues to meet and exceed all tier 1
measurements for quality and patient satisfaction.

"The tier change is a decision BCBS made based on financial criteria that we are
still reviewing," Korpiel said. "We understand the impact this decision will
have on our patients and continue to do everything we can to have St. Vincent's
St. Clair remain a tier 1 provider in the future."

Korpeil added that the tier one changes don't apply to everyone with a Blue
Cross plan and that customers should reach out to the insurer to see if they
will be impacted.

Mackin said many of the ranking changes this year were based more on cost.

"Due to recent increases in healthcare costs, this year's criteria placed
greater emphasis on cost," she said. "It is important that we continue to
provide our members information about the more cost-effective hospitals."

According to the Commonwealth Fund, a New York-based national foundation that
promotes health care improvement, employers are increasingly using
tiered-network health plans to steer employees toward lower-priced,
higher-quality care providers. In these plans, cost-sharing is lowest if members
choose providers from the preferred tier.

In a 2015 Commonwealth Fund-supported study, Harvard University researchers
found Blue Cross tiered-network customers in Massachusetts were more likely than
those in nontiered plans to receive care at a preferred hospital. Over the
course of the study, between 2009 and 2012, 44 percent of hospitals changed
tiers, mostly from a lower ranking to a preferred one, and nearly all because
they decreased their prices.

Rosemary Blackmon, vice president of the Alabama Hospital Association, said that
in general, hospitals in the state aren't opposed to the tiered program.

"Having a focus on quality and value is something all payers are looking at and
it's not something hospitals are saying is a bad thing," Blackmon said.

___ (c)2016 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160304-AO-Blue-Cross-to-upgrade-RMC-on-its-preferred-hospital
-list-0304-20160304

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2016 The Anniston Star

