                              31 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday
                              TUE REGIONAL Edition

MORE NEWS

BYLINE: John Ingold

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 395 words


The University of Colorado Hospital is the 15th best hospital in the country,
according to this year's edition of the prestigious U.S. News & World Report
rankings.

The measure is an improvement from last year, when CU ranked 20th in the
country, and it marks the highest a Colorado hospital has ever scored in the
overall rankings.

"We are obviously very thrilled and excited," said Will Cook, the CEO of
University of Colorado Hospital.

In the specialty of pulmonology, which deals with the lungs, U.S. News ranked
Denver's National Jewish Health the top hospital in the country. National Jewish
has been the first or second best hospital for pulmonology in the rankings every
year for more than two decades. The hospital is listed in the top spot this year
alongside University of Colorado Hospital, with which it shares an academic
affiliation.

"We are proud to be recognized as the leading respiratory hospital in the
nation," Dr. Michael Salem, the president and CEO of National Jewish Health,
said in a statement.

U.S. News compiles the rankings by looking at objective measurements of care
such as whether fewer patients die of certain conditions at the hospital than
would be expected based on national averages and patient safety. The rankings
also take into account a survey of about 16,000 doctors.

Overall, The Mayo Clinic in Minnesota was ranked as the nation's best hospital.

Dr. Jeff Glasheen, the chief quality officer for the broader UCHealth system,
said the rankings have in recent years placed more emphasis on the quality and
safety measurements and less on the survey. That, he said, has helped University
of Colorado Hospital ascend up the charts as it worked to improve patient
outcomes.

He pointed specifically to the hospital's efforts to control sepsis, a life
threatening infection that occurs most commonly in people who are hospitalized.
In the last year, the hospital has cut its death rate from sepsis by 10 percent.

"Which translates to around 30 patients per year who survive their stay who
wouldn't have," Glasheen said.

There were 12 hospitals in Colorado this year that scored highly enough and met
other eligibility criteria to be included in the U.S. News rankings.

Porter Adventist Hospital in Denver ranked second in the state, while Rose
Medical Center ranked third.

John Ingold: 303 954 1068, jingold@denverpost.com or twitter.com/johningold

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr. Akrum Al-Zubaidi, middle, performs a bronchoscopy on Orlando
Carrasco with the help of his team: Ana Stefan, Mike Galloway and Michael
Kessler. Helen H. Richardson, The Denver Post
Kathy Kramer asks patient John Castona to take big breaths at National Jewish
Health. Helen H. Richardson, The Denver Post

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved


