                              312 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                             August 14, 2017 Monday

Northwestern Hospitals Among the Best in Latest U.S. News Rankings

LENGTH: 480  words



Evenston: Northwestern University has issued has the following news release:
Three Northwestern Medicine hospitals have been recognized by U.S. News & World
Report in its 2017-18 Best Hospitals rankings.


Northwestern Memorial Hospital was once again recognized as one of the top
hospitals in the country, ranking 13th on the prestigious Best Hospitals Honor
Roll. Northwestern Memorial remains ranked 1st in both the Chicago Metro Region
and Illinois for the sixth consecutive year. Northwestern Medicine Central
DuPage Hospital was ranked 5th in both the Chicago Metro Region and Illinois.
Northwestern Medicine Lake Forest Hospital was ranked 18th in the Chicago Metro
Region and 23rd in Illinois.
"Northwestern Medicine's continued success in the U.S. News Best Hospitals
rankings is a reflection of our Patients First mission and our culture of
excellence that drives us to not only be Chicago's premier academic health
system, but one of the best health systems in the country," said Dean M.
Harrison, president and chief executive officer of Northwestern Memorial
HealthCare. "I applaud and congratulate our exceptional physicians, nurses and
staff who provide world-class compassionate care to our patients each and every
day. Without their talents and dedication, this accolade would not be possible."

The Best Hospitals Honor Roll is a distinction awarded to 20 U.S. hospitals that
deliver the highest quality of care across a range of specialties, procedures
and conditions. U.S. News evaluated hospitals across 16 specialties and nine
procedures and conditions.
Northwestern Memorial is nationally ranked in 11 out of 16 specialties with one
high performing specialty and is high performing in all nine
procedures/conditions. Central DuPage Hospital is nationally ranked in two
specialties with one high performing specialty and eight high performing
procedures/conditions. Lake Forest Hospital has two high performing specialties
and two high performing procedures/conditions.
Northwestern Memorial has four specialties that received top 10 recognition:
Cardiology & Heart Surgery (7th), Geriatrics (9th), Neurology and Neurosurgery
(9th) and Orthopaedics (9th). In addition to its top 10 programs, Northwestern
Memorial was also nationally ranked or recognized as high performing in the
following specialties: Cancer (16th), Diabetes & Endocrinology (31st),
Gastroenterology & GI Surgery (22nd), Gynecology (36th), Nephrology (23rd),
Pulmonology (21st), Urology (11th) and Rheumatology (High Performing).
Central DuPage Hospital was ranked highly in Gynecology (43rd) and Orthopaedics
(30th) and recognized as high performing in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery. Lake
Forest Hospital was recognized as high performing in Orthopaedics and Urology.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2017 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

