                              310 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday

Oklahoma Business Briefs

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 441 words


Integris gets state's top rankingU.S. News &amp; World Report has recognized
Integris Baptist Medical Center as Oklahoma's Best Regional Hospital for
2016-17, the fifth consecutive year the hospital has received the overall top
ranking for both the city and state.Baptist Medical Center ranked
high-performing in the following procedures and conditions: Abdominal aortic
aneurysm repair, heart bypass surgery, heart failure, colon cancer surgery, COPD
and hip replacement.Hospitals that achieved high-performing ratings for at least
four types of care are designated as Best Regional Hospitals.The U.S. News Best
Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year, help guide patients to hospitals
that deliver outstanding care across 25 specialties, procedures and conditions.
The Best Hospitals methodologies include objective measures such as patient
survival, the number of times a given procedure is performed, infection rates,
adequacy of nurse staffing and more."Both consumers and health care
professionals recognize U.S. News hospital rankings as the 'gold standard' of
excellence in U.S. hospital care," said Bruce Lawrence, president and chief
executive officer of Integris. "These awards are based not on someone's opinion
or on a few isolated data points, but rather on in-depth analyses of vast and
varied types of information about actual patient care and outcomes."Best
Hospitals was produced by U.S. News with RTI International, a leading research
organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C.Midcon building data
centerMidcon Recovery Solutions has started construction on a 60,000-square-foot
secure data center in the Quail Springs Business Park in northwest Oklahoma
City, the company said Tuesday.

The new center will be the third owned and operated by Midcon&nbsp;in Oklahoma.
When completed later this year, the new Midcon data center also will include a
self-contained office and business continuity section for companies requiring a
single site, full-service disaster recovery solution."We have seen a lot of
growth in hosting, monitoring, managing and securing of data for every type and
size of businesses the past three years," said Kurt Kraft, president of
Midcon&nbsp;Recovery Solutions. "In recent years, companies have made minimizing
business disruptions from natural disasters a top business priority. There is a
greater understanding of the importance of having a business continuity plan in
place, ready to execute on a moment's notice. For many, it has become a central
part of their risk management plan."The new data center is designed to withstand
an EF5 tornado and significant seismic events.From Staff Reports

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2016 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

