                              313 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              June 9, 2015 Tuesday

Pennsylvania: Children's Hospital ranked among best in nation in eight
specialties

LENGTH: 525  words

DATELINE: Harrisburg


University Park, The State of Pennsylvania has issued the following News
release:

Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital ranked in cancer, cardiology and heart
surgery, gastroenterology and GI surgery, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology. This marks the fifth
consecutive year in which Penn State Hershey has been ranked in multiple
specialties. The Children's Hospital first made the Best Children's Hospitals
list in 2008. The rankings come as no surprise to parents like Valerie Hester,
whose 6-year-old daughter Savannah has been treated at Penn State Hershey since
age 2, when she was diagnosed with gastroparesis, a condition that does not
allow the stomach to empty. After several surgeries and office visits over the
past four years, Savannah is wrapping up first grade and looking forward to
drawing, painting and playing outside this summer. "Their physicians and staff
are like family," Valerie said. "Their hearts are warm to the children. They
care for kids both physically and emotionally." Go to video Penn State Hershey
Children's Hospital again ranked nationally in multiple specialties Penn State
Hershey Children's Hospital is ranked by U.S. News and World Report in 8
pediatric specialties including: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, GI and GI
surgery, neurology and neurosurgery, nephrology, orthopedics, pulmonology, and
urology. The U.S. News rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of
10 pediatric specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and
endocrinology, gastroenterology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology and urology. "This national recognition
is a testament to the unparalleled care and support our physicians, nurses,
clinical specialists and other staff provide for children and families every
day," said Dr. Craig Hillemeier, dean of Penn State College of Medicine, chief
executive officer of Penn State Hershey Medical Center and Health System, and
Penn State's senior vice president for health affairs. "The U.S. News rankings
reinforce for our community that Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital is among
the best when it comes to offering a full spectrum of high-level pediatric care,
and we do it right here in central Pennsylvania." U.S. News introduced the Best
Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help families of sick children find the
best medical care available, especially for complex conditions. The rankings
offer families an array of detailed information about each hospital's
performance. In compiling the latest rankings, U.S. News considered several
objective criteria. Most of each hospital's score relied on patient outcomes and
care-related resources. U.S. News garnered clinical data from a detailed
questionnaire sent to 184 pediatric hospitals. A sixth of the score came from
annual surveys of pediatric specialists and subspecialists who were asked where
they would send the sickest children in their specialty, setting aside location
and expense.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2015 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

