                              311 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Vallejo Times Herald (California)

                            March 14, 2007 Wednesday

A healthy, welcome dose of self-policing

BYLINE: By Times-Herald editorial staff

SECTION: OUR VIEW

LENGTH: 490 words


Nothing is more nerve wracking or fearsome as the loss of one's health, and
going to the hospital for treatment should not make those fears more frazzled.

Yet, based on their own records many California hospitals, including those
serving Vallejo residents, have yet to understand fully how their operations
before the scalpel, as well as during and after surgery, greatly heighten or
soothe patient anxiety.

That is why we applaud the recent launching of a statewide Web site that
compares hospitals in some of the most critical forms of treatment patients
face. The site is www.calhospitalcompare.org


Times-Herald editorialsThe Times-Herald editorial board consists of Publisher
Ron Rhea, Editor Ted Vollmer, Managing Editor Jack F.K. Bungart and City Editor
Mary Leahy Enbom.

While the new Web site tends to oversimplify treatment rankings and is based on
relatively old data, it nevertheless serves as an important notice to hospitals
that they can no longer merely rely on perception to win patient confidence.

The hospitals already appear to be getting the message. Sutter Solano Medical
Center and Kaiser Permanente Medical Center, Vallejo both received poor scores
for treatment of heart failure. Kaiser, however, received a near perfect score
in how they treat heart attack victims.

Why the disparity? Kaiser officials say they provide excellent care for heart
patients, but until recently were admittedly inconsistent in how they recorded
that care on patient records. Given their new procedures, their scores will rise
much higher, they insist.

Sutter Solano officials offer a similar defense, saying they had pre-ranking
survey goals to meet by the end of 2006 and exceeded them.

A doctor who helped develop the ranking system said, however, that all
participating hospitals not only knew the methodology but accepted it.

We have no reason to doubt that the two hospitals as well as the 200-plus others
on the Web site will continue to work for improvements. The next report card
comes in June, and both Kaiser and Sutter Health facilities, we should point
out, volunteered the data that led to the various rankings.

Any improvements will obviously bolster the hospitals' operations. More
importantly, any reforms will work to provide not only better, more consistent
healthcare but also will ease concerns of most patients who have little or no
choice of hospitals they enter or doctors who treat them.

We commend the self-policing aims of the rankings, the participation of the
hospitals and hope there is a genuine growth of which areas are studied. The
California Hospital Assessment and Reporting Taskforce should also be commended
for working with focus groups to determine an easy and understandable way for
those outside the medical profession to access this information. Consumers will
benefit mostly, but improvements in the most critical of treatments should
trickle down to the most basic, and that's a very healthy development.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2007 The Times-Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

