                              306 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                             July 17, 2012 Tuesday

Cleveland Clinic adds to honors in latest report

BYLINE: By Brie Zeltner

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 410 words


For the 18th year running, the Cleveland Clinic has been named the nation's No.
1 heart care program in the annual U.S. News & World Report list of best
hospitals.

And the hospital system has two new reasons to boast this year: It is tops in
the nation in the areas of urology and nephrology (kidney diseases), too.

"Honestly I was expecting this (for both specialties), and they deserve what
they've accomplished," said Clinic Chief Executive Dr. Toby Cosgrove. The two
programs are merged in the Clinic's Glickman Urological and Kidney Institute.
"What they've been doing is leading-edge, and they've grown to one of the
largest departments in the country."

The rankings provide a GPS-type tool to point patients toward hospitals with
skill in treating difficult medical conditions, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor
Avery Comarow said.

"All of these hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your
list when you need the best care," he said. "They are where other hospitals send
the toughest cases."

"You have to be a fairly sophisticated tertiary care center to be able to get
into these rankings," said University Hospitals President Dr. Fred Rothstein.

UH ranked in the top 50 programs nationally for 12 of 16 specialties, up from 11
programs in 2011. Their new rankings are: cancer (18); cardiology and heart
surgery (29); diabetes and endocrinology (38); ear, nose and throat (19);
gastroenterology (14); geriatrics (27); gynecology (27); nephrology (31);
neurology and neurosurgery (28); orthopedics (20); pulmonology (38); and urology
(40).

"I think this underscores what our commitment has been to this community," said
Rothstein.

Other Cleveland area hospitals received recognition in the annual listing as
well. MetroHealth Medical Center was ranked 41st nationally in pulmonology and
Akron General hospital was ranked 49th in ear, nose and throat.

The Clinic has 14 nationally ranked programs, including 12 in the top five:
cardiology and heart surgery (1); diabetes and endocrinology (2); ear, nose and
throat (2); gastroenterology (2); geriatrics (4); gynecology (3); nephrology
(1); neurology and neurosurgery (5); orthopedics (3); pulmonology (3);
rheumatology (2); and urology (1).

Overall the Cleveland Clinic was ranked fourth nationally for U.S. hospitals for
the second year in a row. The top three hospitals were Massachusetts General
Hospital in Boston, Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore and the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester, Minn.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2012 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

