                              32 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                   USA TODAY

                           September 28, 2012 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A healthy disagreement;
Which hospitals are best? Even the experts can't agree

BYLINE: Jayne O'Donnell, @JayneODonnell, USA TODAY

SECTION: MONEY; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 1280 words


Nearly 40% of consumers surveyed last year said they use hospital ratings to
choose a health care facility, but there's little agreement among the lists,
raising questions about their value.

Consumers pore over reviews and ratings of everything from cars to washing
machines, but it's doctor and hospital rankings that may be the most confusing
and controversial. At least 15 different groups rank health care organizations,
but no two judge them the same way, which leads to widely divergent results,
says Brent James, a medical doctor who is chief quality officer at Intermountain
Healthcare in Salt Lake City.

"On some of those, we look pretty bad and on others we're golden; the best in
the nation," James says. "All of us publish newspaper ads that say we're the
best on one or another."

U.S. News & World Report, which has been ranking hospitals for 20 years, met
with dozens of hospital leaders Thursday to discuss ways to improve its own
list, which some doctors who head hospitals say is the best. Still, participants
grappled with issues including how and whether to rate a hospital's
"reputation," if a hospital's lower-income patient popula-tion should be
factored into the rankings and whether a hospital's more advanced technology or
even its ranking really relates to what a patient will actually experience
there.

What's a consumer to make of it all?

The survey of consumers' views on hospitals, by the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation and Harvard School of Public Health, found Americans evenly split on
whether they think there are big or small differences in the quality of care
among their local hospitals. And while 38% said they rely on rankings to choose
a hospital, 57% said they'd more likely go to a hospital they were familiar with
than they would go to one because it had a high ranking.

The U.S. News rankings are "as comprehensive a picture as possible of the
quality of hospitals in this country," says Peter Slavin, an internal medicine
doctor and president of Massachusetts General Hospital, which ranked first.

When Consumer Reports came out with its best hospitals list in July, however,
Mass. General was in about "the middle of the pack," in his own state, much less
the country, says Slavin. Consumer Reports ranks based only on safety, which
some argue is too narrow a focus.

"Different people care about different things," says Slavin. "Some are focused
on safety, others on service and convenience, or are looking for the most
innovative places where they are helping to write the textbooks -- not just read
them."

Safety in a hospital generally refers to avoiding harm caused by the doctor or
facility, such as a result of infection or post-operative complications.

While the magazine ultimately gave NYC hospitals, overall, low marks, Consumer
Reports did change its methodology to reflect some suggestions it received from
hospitals in the city, says John Santa, an internal medicine doctor who heads
the magazine's health ratings center. Its ratings, started in 2010, have also
been expanded to include a composite safety score and several new elements, such
as the likelihood a hospital would expose patients to the radiation in two CAT
scans rather than just one.

Other discrepancies between lists:

New York City's Peninsula Hospital Center was ranked relatively high for safety
by Consumer Reports this summer but was facing serious financial issues and was
shut down by the state because of safety problems three months before the
magazine came out. Santa calls the focus on Peninsula "a distraction by NYC
hospitals who cannot explain their poor performances."

The Joint Commission, which accredits health care facilities, released its list
of the "Top Performers" among hospitals last week, and it didn't include some of
the most respected, such as Baltimore's Johns Hopkins, which had long topped
U.S. News' list until Mass. General unseated it this year. Joint Commission
spokesman Bret Coons says it doesn't consider its list "a hospital ranking" and
says it is recognizing hospitals on "accountability measures" they report to its
Joint Commission.

And NYC's Mount Sinai Medical Center -- which hosted the meeting -- was 14th on
U.S. News' list while Consumer Reports' says the hospital is a "consistently
poor performer." Kenneth Davis, Mount Sinai's CEO, questions Consumer Reports'
ability to distinguish between hospitals: "This isn't like rating automobiles.
This is very complicated."

Santa says his ratings are more unbiased because the magazine doesn't accept
advertising or allow its brand be used in ads, and it has a long history in
patient safety.

U.S. News editor Brian Kelly acknowledges its ratings won't help every consumer.

"Ours are for high-level, specialty hospitals where you go if you are really
sick or got a big problem," says Kelly. "If you're going in to have a wart
removed, we can't help you with that."

While several of the hospital officials appeared to agree with Kelly's
characterization of U.S. News' rankings as the "gold standard," Davis and others
urged the magazine to make changes. Davis says the ratings should also factor in
the technological advancements, such as how "wired" a hospital is with medical
records.

Kelly says, though, that he thinks it's important his rankings take into
consideration that many of the hospitals accept the "tricky cases  the people
often have illnesses that have a high risk of death." Davis says these factors,
as well as mortality rates, should better emphasize the physical condition of
the patients some hospitals treat most frequently.

When rankings are adjusted for factors including race or socioeconomic status,
you "hide what is happening to those people," says Santa. And when it comes to
infections, he says, prevention is equal opportunity.

"Hospital infections can be prevented in all cases," he says. "There is no
evidence hospital infections are less preventable in African-Americans or
low-income persons."

One thing that all sides seem to agree on is that there is a larger benefit to
society if hospitals work to improve their rankings on the myriad lists.

While "rankings are not hugely accurate," James of Salt Lake City says they
prompt hospitals to focus "on better patient care, which is what they should
focus on."

"We welcome others wading into the challenge of figuring out what's wrong with
U.S. hospitals," says Santa. "They certainly have not figured it out
themselves."

---

'CONSUMER REPORTS' RANKINGS BY SAFETY

1. Billings Clinic, Billings, Mont.

2. Saint Clare's Hospital, Weston, Wis.

3. Alton Memorial Hospital, Alton, Ill.

4. Cent.  Vermont Medical Center, Berlin, Vt.

5. Kadlec Medical Center, Richland, Wash.

6. St. John's Hospital, Springfield, Mo.

7. Mayo Clinic Hospital, Phoenix

8. Northern Michigan Regional Hospital, Petoskey, Mich.

9. Bon Secours St. Francis Health System, Greenville, S.C.

10. Memorial Hospital of Union County, Marysville, Ohio

U.S. NEWS' 'HONOR ROLL' OF HOSPITALS

1. Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston

2. Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore

3. Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.

4. Cleveland Clinic

5. Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, Los Angeles

6. Barnes-Jewish Hospital/Washington University, St. Louis

7. New York-Presbyterian University Hospital of Columbia and Cornell, N.Y.

8. Duke Univ. Med. Center, Durham, N.C.

9. Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston

10. UPMC-University of Pittsburgh Medical Center

11. NYU Langone Medical Center, New York

12. Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago

13. UCSF Medical Center, San Francisco

14. Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York

15. Hospital of the University of Pennsyl- vania, Philadelphia

16. Indiana University Health, Indianapolis

17. University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers, Ann Arbor

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

