                              318 of 998 DOCUMENTS


            Intelligencer Journal/New Era (Lancaster, Pennsylvania)

                            June 11, 2014 Wednesday

5 Local Employers Lauded On Wellness Hershey Children's Hospital On 6 Lists

SECTION: B; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 262  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


Five local employers recently received Well Workplace Awards for improving
wellness in the workplace.

Among employers with 250 workers or less, Precision Medical Products won a gold
award and Dutchland Inc. won a platinum award.

Among employers with more than 250 workers, High Co. won a gold award and
Lancaster General Health won a platinum award.

And Herr Foods was honored with an innovation award for promoting good mental
health.

Competing companies were evaluated on 12 measures, including their efforts to
address physical activity, nutrition, weight management, stress management,
tobacco control and high blood pressure.

The awards were presented by Lighten Up Lancaster County, the Lancaster County
Business Group on Health, the Tobacco Free Coalition and the Lancaster Health
Improvement Partnership.

Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital has been ranked in six specialties - its
most ever - in U.S. News & World Report's latest annual Best Children's
Hospitals rankings.

Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital ranked in cancer, cardiology and heart
surgery, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, and urology.

This marks the fourth consecutive year in which Penn State Hershey has been
ranked in multiple pediatric specialties. The hospital first made the Best
Children's Hospitals list in 2008.

The rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of 10 pediatric
specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery,
orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Lancaster Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

