                              316 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            Noosa News (Queensland)

                                January 29, 2013

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 483  words

Noosa Hospital gets global ranking

RAMSAY Health Care, operator of Noosa Hospital, has been announced in the Global
100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World, at the World Economic Forum in
Davos (Switzerland).

The Global 100 is the world's most well-known and credible corporate
sustainability ranking. Now, in its ninth year, the index distils the top 100
companies from a universe of more than 4000 mid-cap and larger companies.

This is the second year in a row that Ramsay Health Care has been recognised in
the Global 100 list but, in 2013, the company moved significantly up the list
from a ranking of 99 in 2012 to a ranking this year of 68. Ramsay Health Care
was one of nine Australian companies that made it into the industry-leading
sustainability index.

Art grants worth up to $10,000

 THE latest major round of RADF is now open and offers up to $10,000 in funding
for concept, skills and career development.

Grants of up to $10,000 are available in this round of RADF to local artists and
organisations, helping them to develop or share skills, attend cultural
conferences and produce great projects.

For more information, phone 5441 8385, email
commcultural@sunshinecoast.qld.gov.au or visit sunshinecoast.qld.gov.au/grants.

Applications for the RADF grants close at 5pm on Friday, March 1.

Council traineeship on offer

SUNSHINE Coast Council is offering a range of 12-month full-time entry level
traineeships across the region.

Applications for traineeships are now open and offer opportunities to work in
administration, horticulture, customer contact, information technology and
libraries.

A full-time traineeship is for a period of 12 months, during which time trainees
gain knowledge, practical skills and qualifications that will help them gain
employment either with council or the wider job market.

Traineeship positions are advertised once a year. Traineeships for 2013
advertised with the council's current vacancies close on February 4.

The council will recruit for these positions in February with an anticipated
start date for the traineeships of March 11.

Music opportunity

SUNSHINE Coast Council's AMPED program has partnered with QMusic to provide a
unique opportunity for eight music industry professionals to be chosen to attend
a professional capacity building workshop.

Taking place at Coast venue Solbar on Wednesday, February 13 from 9.45am to 7pm,
this workshop aims to assist emerging music industry professionals to build on
their existing skills to carve out a successful career.

Eight participants will be selected through an expression of interest process
with one being chosen to obtain experience in planning and promoting phase two
of the AMPED workshop series and the AMPED Live events.

Applications close on January 31. View the council's website or phone 5475 7272
to talk to the creative development officer.

Got news?

Email noosaed@scnews.com.au

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SNN


                    Copyright 2013 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

