                              322 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                THE KOREA HERALD

                            January 8, 2015 Thursday

Hotel Shilla, Severance Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University top rankings

LENGTH: 270 words


Hotel Shilla, Severance Hospital and Sungkyunkwan University topped the consumer
satisfaction rankings in their respective industries, according to the NCSI
survey for 2014.

In the overall rankings, Hotel Shilla ranked top out of the surveyed 305
companies and institutions with 84 points, Severance Hospital at No. 5 with 81
points, and Sungkyunkwan University at No. 9 with 80 points.

Established in 1973 by Samsung Group founder Lee Byung-chull, Hotel Shilla is a
luxury hotel with locations in Seoul and Jejudo Island, and is a member of the
Leading Hotels of the World. The hotel in Seoul went through a seven-month
renovation in 2013, and now boasts an outdoor pool with a bar and bistro called
Urban Island as well as a fitness club and upscale restaurants.

Severance Hospital

Severance Hospital, which topped in the category of general hospitals, is the
oldest Western-style one in Korea, founded in 1885 as a royal hospital named
Gwanghyewon. It was renamed in 1904 after American donor Louis Severance.

Severance is well known for their risk-minimizing robotic surgery, and also has
one of the oldest international health care centers for foreign expats in Korea.

Sungkyunkwan University

Sungkyunkwan University, which ranked first in the sector of private college, is
a university with two campuses each in Seoul and Suwon. It is a successor to
Sungkyunkwan, a prestigious educational institution from the Joseon Dynasty
founded in 1398. The university offers a Global MBA program taught entirely in
English, and also boasts one of the best medical schools, affiliated with
Samsung Medical Center.

(sangyj@heraldcorp.c

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Korea Herald
                              All Rights Reserved

