                              319 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                   USA TODAY

                     August 2, 1996, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Johns Hopkins tops list of hospitals

BYLINE: Mike Madden

SECTION: LIFE; Pg. 1D

LENGTH: 380 words


Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore tops the list for the sixth
straight year in U.S. News & World Report's
annual ranking of the best hospitals in the USA, out Monday.

The hospital was among the nation's 10 best in almost every specialty
field the magazine surveyed, and it beat out 125 others for the
overall No. 1 spot. Rankings were based on reputation among doctors
and medical data like nurses-to-beds ratio and technological prowess.


"We're honored that once again we have been selected as the No.
1 hospital in the nation," says hospital president Dr. James
Block. "It is clearly a reflection of the remarkable medical
staff that we have, as well as our large group of dedicated employees."

Other hospitals ranked in the overall top five: the Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, Minn.; Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston; UCLA
Medical Center, Los Angeles; and Duke University Medical Center,
Durham, N.C. The top five were the same as last year. There were
only a few changes in the top 15.

The list's consistency isn't just a product of entrenched reputation,
says U.S. News senior editor Susan Brink. "Excellence
is excellence. What the doctors think is best also holds up when
you throw in objective measures."

To qualify for the rankings, a hospital had to be a member of
the Council of Teaching Hospitals, be affiliated with a medical
school or have half of the magazine's list of significant items
of medical technology.

New York has the most hospitals in the specialized top 10 rankings,
with 13. Nine were in Boston, eight were in Los Angeles and seven
in Chicago.



By specialty

Top hospitals by specialty:

AIDS: San Francisco General Hospital Medical Center.

Cancer: Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York. Close
second: University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston.

Cardiology: Cleveland Clinic.

Geriatrics: University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center.

Gynecology: Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore.

Neurology: Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.

Pediatrics: Children's Hospital, Boston.

Psychiatric Care: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, edging
out C.F. Menninger Memorial Hospital, Topeka.

Urology: Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore.

LOAD-DATE: August 02, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1996 Gannett Company, Inc.

