                              329 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                     Coffs Coast Advocate (New South Wales)

                           January 30, 2013 Wednesday

Ramsay is international leader

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 307  words


THE owner of Coffs Harbour's Baringa Private Hospital, Ramsay Health Care, has
been named among the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World.

The accolade was announced at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.

The Global 100 is the world's most well-known and credible corporate
sustainability ranking. Now, in its ninth year, the index distils the top 100
companies from a universe of over 4000 mid-cap and larger companies.

This is the second year in a row that Ramsay Health Care has been recognised in
the Global 100 list but, in 2013, the company moved significantly up the list
from a ranking of 99 in 2012 to a ranking this year of 68.

Ramsay Health Care was one of nine Australian companies that made it into the
industry leading sustainability index.

Ramsay Health Care managing director Chris Rex said it was a great achievement
to be recognised by the index as it confirmed the company's strategy and vision
to become one of the world's most respected private hospital operators.

"As a global company, employing 30,000 staff and caring for over one million
patients each year, we recognise that we have an enormous responsibility to
ensure we are maintaining the highest standards of quality and safety; that we
are creating a great place to work; and that, as much as possible, we are
operating our business with a focus on resource productivity," Mr Rex said.

"While we are well on the way to becoming one of the largest and most successful
private hospital operators in the world, we also have a vision to be one of the
world's most respected companies and to this end, we can take a leadership role
in shaping the world that we live in through our focus on the environment, good
corporate governance and societal issues at large.

"We are very pleased to have made this list for the second year."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CCA


                    Copyright 2013 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

