                              331 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            November 20, 2009 Friday
                                   L2 Edition

How your hospital fared on state report card

BYLINE: By Robert McCoppin Health & Fitness Reporter rmccoppin@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 733 words


Patients can compare rankings of Illinois hospitals for a wide range of
performance and cost measurements on a new Web site that debuted Thursday.

The Illinois Hospital Report Card, for the first time, ranks hospitals and
surgery centers based on quality of care, infections, complications, staffing
and cost, along with other criteria.

The site, by the Illinois Department of Public Health at
healthcarereportcard.illinois.gov or at idph.state.il.us, was so popular it
crashed twice before getting back up.

Consumers can choose which hospitals and which criteria they want to compare by
facility, county, or geographic radius.

A sampling of searches found some patterns.

Advocate Good Samaritan Hospital in Downers Grove, for instance, ranked in the
top three among local hospitals in all three quality of care measures, which
rated how often a hospital followed recommended treatments for pneumonia, heart
attack and heart failure patients. Also in the top five in all quality of care
categories: St. Alexius Medical Center in Hoffman Estates and Advocate Lutheran
General Hospital in Park Ridge.

Many hospitals struggled with patient satisfaction, with the rankings among
local hospitals ranging from 76 to 44 percent who were highly satisfied. Central
DuPage

Hospital in Winfield topped the list among local hospitals, while Adventist
GlenOaks in Glendale Heights came in lowest.

The national average for highly satisfied patients is 64 percent.

Jacqueline Conrad, chief nursing officer at Adventist GlenOaks in Glendale
Heights, noted that the survey results are a year old, and said her hospital has
made great strides trying to improve patient satisfaction since then.

GlenOaks started a program last year to build morale and engagement among
front-line caregivers, training employees to introduce themselves and describe
their background to patients, and explain any procedures they're about to go
through.

"We recognize the patients are at their most vulnerable when they come to a
hospital, and we want to reduce their anxiety," Conrad said.

Some criteria seem quirky but mean a lot to patients. Among the local hospitals,
Delnor Community in Geneva kept patient rooms the quietest at night and Centegra
Northern Illinois Medical Center in McHenry responded to call buttons most
consistently.

Advocate Good Shepherd Hospital in Barrington came up as the lowest cost among
local hospitals for numerous procedures. Advocate Condell in Libertyville often
came out on the top of the cost list.

So many factors go into cost, Good Shepherd spokesman Mike Deering said, it's
hard to explain why. But he said hospitals are very mindful of cost, avoiding
unnecessary stays and unnecessary tests, for instance.

The cost data on the site is probably the least useful, because most fees are
negotiated lower with insurers or patients, said Ian Jones, vice president for
clinical performance at Sherman Hospital in Elgin, which came in around the
middle of most cost comparisons for local hospitals.

In general, he said of the rankings, "Anything that sheds light on medical care
and outcomes that patients can access is a good thing."

Illinois was a pioneer when lawmakers directed the report card to be created in
2003, but the state now lags behind others. It took six years to work out
funding, staffing and logistics, Illinois Department of Public Health
spokeswoman Melaney Arnold said.

Hospitals report the information and have the opportunity to check it for
accuracy. Some categories, such as mortality rates, were not initially on the
site, but more items will be added as time goes on.

After years of operating in obscurity, hospitals are increasingly being judged
online at a variety of sites.

Also Thursday, at the national level, America's Health Rankings rated Illinois
29th among states for its overall health, crediting us for a high number of
primary care physicians, but dinging us for pollution and a high rate of binge
drinking.

Those rankings are based on community behavior, the environment, health policy
and clinical care.

The findings are published jointly by United Health Foundation, American Public
Health Association and the Partnership for Prevention.

Consumers also can find performance data at the Hospital Compare Site at the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and the Illinois Hospital
Association is working on a Web site to compile patient safety, satisfaction and
performance data.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Paddock Publications, Inc.

