                              330 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Herald Bulletin (Anderson, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            March 30, 2011 Wednesday

Madison County ranks low for health

BYLINE: April Abernathy, The Herald Bulletin, Anderson, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 876 words


March 30--ANDERSON, Ind. -- Madison County isn't the healthiest place to live in
Indiana, but it's getting better -- relatively speaking.

County Health Rankings released reports early Wednesday morning ranking Madison
County 75th, improving from last year's ranking of 79th, out of 92 Indiana
counties in overall health.

"We're up four from last year," Stephenie Grimes, public health coordinator of
Madison County, said. "We're happy with that."

The health rankings are part of the Mobilizing Action Toward Community Health
projects, according to the County Health Rankings website. The rankings come as
part of a collaboration between the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the
University of Wisconsin Population Health Institute.

The rankings compare the health in more than 3,000 counties and the District of
Columbia. Rankings are based on length of life, or mortality, and quality of
life, or morbidity. Madison county ranked 62nd in mortality and 84th in
morbidity.

Other health factors such as smoking and obesity, clinical care and social,
economic and physical environments were researched.

People are nearly twice as likely to be in fair or poor health in the
unhealthiest counties, according to a press release from County Health Rankings.
Unhealthy counties have significantly lower high school graduation rates, twice
as many children in poverty, fewer grocery stores and farmers markets and higher
rates of unemployment.

With a high percentage of smokers and adult obesity and a high number of
sexually transmitted diseases, Madison County ranked 91st in health behaviors,
leading county health officials, hospitals and clinics to create initiatives to
improve health.

Grimes said through the Public Health System Quality Improvement Process
(PHSQIP), the State Health Department sponsored the Madison Health Partners
Board, a group of health officials from local hospitals, to come together for
four weeks to share where the county was ranked, educate, inform and work
together.

"As a result, the committee went through training," Grimes said. "They
prioritized and continued with strategic planning."

Because the percentage of smokers in the county stayed the same, the board
identified smoking as the issue to work on.

"They had to choose a health initiative and a system plan," Karesa Knight,
executive director, Intersect Inc., said. "The initiative was smoke-free air and
the system plan was to build on  more cohesive health in the community."

Intersect offers a statewide quit line through Indiana Tobacco Prevention and
Cessation (ITPC), where people can call to receive four free counseling sessions
from a trained counselor in order to quit smoking.

"We have worked with businesses including the City of Anderson and Red Gold to
train people to hold classes for their employees," Knight said. "In 2009 (and)
2010 we received quality of life grants to work with physicians, dentists and
anyone in the health field to refer to the quit line," Knight said.

She helped work with health service providers to implement the "two A's and R":
Ask at every visit if the patient uses tobacco, assess them if willing to quit
and refer them to either a pharmacy for medication.

"If a health provider encourages a patient to quit, they are twice as likely
to," she said. "Comprehensive smoke-free air laws show a decrease in adult
smoking rates."

Although Madison County ranked toward the bottom overall, the county did have a
few high marks, including a ranking of 27th for clinical care (down from last
year's rank of 20) and 33rd for physical environment.

"We inspire to be better," Tom Van Osdol, CEO of St. John's Hospital and Chair
of Madison Health Partners, said. "The movement from last year to this year
shows we are moving in the right direction."

Area hospitals like St. John's Hospital are recruiting primary and specialty
care physicians in addition to expanding with dialysis centers, oncology,
endocrinology and geriatrics.

"We need to close the patient-physician ratio gap," he said. "We need to get
people the help they need."

Beyond physician and specialty care recruitment, screening services and
assistance to those underinsured or not insured have increased.

"From my experience, I know you can 'lead a horse to water, but you can't make
it drink,'" Bill VanNess, M.D. and President/CEO Community Hospital Anderson,
said. "At Community, we offer weight management classes and programs for adults
and kids, routine free health screenings for our community, support groups and
educational classes, smoking cessation programs and countless other
opportunities for individuals to better their health."

VanNess added that it is the job of the hospital to offer these types of
opportunities and more to patients. The problem is that the hospital cannot
force a person to alter his or her choices and choose a healthier lifestyle.

Contact April Abernathy, 640-4861, april.abernathy@heraldbulletin.com

To see more of The Herald Bulletin, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.theheraldbulletin.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Herald Bulletin,
Anderson, Ind. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110330-HU-Madison-County-ranks-low-for-health-0330-20110330

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HU


                       Copyright 2011 The Herald Bulletin

