                              332 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                           February 4, 2010 Thursday

Berkshire Medical Center earns top ratings for care

BYLINE: Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: BUSINESS; Headlines; Health

LENGTH: 477 words


PITTSFIELD -- Berkshire Medical Center has received five-star ratings and top
national rankings for clinical quality from HealthGrades, the leading
independent health care ratings organization.

The recognition is based on HealthGrades' 12th annual Hospital Quality in
America study, which analyzes patient outcomes at virtually all of the nation's
hospitals, using publicly available data.

In the 2010 HealthGrades ratings, BMC achieved national recognition for cardiac
services, pulmonary services, stroke services and critical care services. BMC
was honored with the 2010 Pulmonary Care Excellence Award, achieving a ranking
among the top 5 percent in the nation for pulmonary services, and the 2010
Stroke Care Excellence Award, ranking BMC among the top 10 percent in the nation
for stroke services.

"These accomplishments relate to important services for our community in areas
of care that our families and friends will likely need at some point in their
lives," said Diane Kelly, chief operating officer of BMC. "When we are
recognized for being the absolute best in an area like critical care, our
patients can be confident that the same level of commitment to high quality care
will be there for them in all of our services."

"It is clear from the continuing national recognition, as found in the latest
HealthGrades rankings, that patients of Berkshire Medical Center receive the
highest quality care, on a par with the best hospitals in the country," said
David Phelps, president and CEO of Berkshire Health Systems. "Berkshire Health
Systems is committed to providing best in the nation care to our community, with
leadership from the Board of Trustees and dedicated care from all of our
physicians, nurses and staff."

The HealthGrades study, the largest annual report of its kind, analyzed patient
outcomes in nearly 40 million Medicare hospitalization records from 5,000
hospitals over the years 2006, 2007 and 2008.

This year's study found:

n Across all 17 procedures and diagnoses in which mortality was studied, there
was an approximate 72 percent lower chance of dying in a five-star rated
hospital compared to a one-star rated hospital, and a 52 percent lower chance of
dying in a five-star hospital compared with the national average.

n If all hospitals performed at the level of a five-star rated hospital across
the 17 procedures and diagnoses studied, 224,537 Medicare lives could
potentially have been saved from 2006 through 2008.

HealthGrades' hospital ratings and awards reflect the track record of patient
outcomes at hospitals in the form of mortality and complication rates.
HealthGrades rates hospitals independently based on data that hospitals submit
to the federal government. No hospital can opt in or out of being rated, and no
hospital pays to be rated.

More information on the HealthGrades study, can be found at www.healthgrades.com
.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

