                              327 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                      July 17, 1998, Friday, ALL EDITIONS

Emory on list of top U.S. hospitals

BYLINE: Diane Lore

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 02C; Pg. 02C

LENGTH: 323 words


Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C., ranked fourth among America's
best hospitals in U.S. News & World Report's ninth annual survey --- the only
Southern hospital to make the magazine's "honor roll."

But Emory University Hospital in Atlanta also made the list of top hospitals in
the country, ranking seventh in cardiac care and among the top 45 hospitals in
11 other specialties.

"We're delighted; we're very pleased with these results, although we want to
keep improving," said Dr. Douglas Morris, director of the Emory Heart Center. "I
think this reflects the fact that we can offer not only metro Atlanta, but the
state of Georgia and the Southeast a broad range of expertise --- which is our
ultimate goal."

The magazine assessed about 2,000 hospitals, with 132 scoring high enough to be
ranked.

In overall quality, Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore ranked No. 1 in the
country, followed by the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., Massachusetts General
Hospital in Boston and Duke. The four hospitals held the same rankings in 1997.

This year, Emory ranked 45th for cancer, 37th for endocrinology, 33rd for
gastroenterology, 16th in neurology and neurosurgery, 26th in gynecology, 23rd
in geriatrics, 14th in orthopedics, 33rd in otolaryngology, 14th in
ophthalmology, 30th in rheumatology and 22nd in urology.

Other Southeastern medical facilities scored well in certain specialities. In
endocrinology, the only other Georgia hospital to make the list --- Memorial
Medical Center of Savannah --- ranked 31st, and Medical University of South
Carolina in Charleston ranked 25th. Vanderbilt University Hospital and Clinic in
Nashville ranked 21st in cancer and the University of North Carolina Hospitals
(Chapel Hill) ranked 26th in geriatrics.

The rankings are based on a model that combines the reputation of doctors along
with patient information and mortality statistics supplied by the hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Metro Final Today's News

                    Copyright 1998 The Atlanta Constitution

