                              323 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Springfield News-Sun, Ohio

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              July 29, 2016 Friday

Springfield surgical hospital one of few in Ohio to receive top rating

BYLINE: Matt Sanctis, Springfield News-Sun, Ohio

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 734 words


July 29--A Springfield surgical hospital ranks among the top in the state for
patient care, while other regional hospitals also received high marks on new
federal scorecards.

The Ohio Valley Surgical Hospital received the top possible score for patient
care, earning a five-star rating this week according to the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services. Only nine hospitals statewide received the top score.

>>RELATED:Surgical hospital creates 250 jobs, medical hub in Springfield

Mercy Memorial Hospital in Urbana also fared well -- earning four stars -- while
Springfield Regional Medical Center earned three stars.

The goal of the federal ranking is to help patients make decisions on where to
get the best care, as well as to encourage hospitals to improve quality. The
ratings are based on a range of factors, including effectiveness of care,
patient experience and mortality rates.

This is the third time in recent years the Ohio Valley Surgical Hospital has
earned the highest ranking, said Steve Eistrager, president at Ohio Valley. The
results are compiled quarterly, but this time new safety and quality measures
were included in the rankings, he said.

Fewer than 200 hospitals nationally received the top five-star rating, he said.

"The secret ingredient here is we're private, physician-run," Eistrager said.
"This is our hospital and there's a lot of pride in that."

Ohio Valley is the second-busiest provider of outpatient surgery in the
Springfield-Dayton region, second only to Miami Valley Hospital, Ohio Valley
officials said.

Officials from both Ohio Valley and Community Mercy Health Partners pointed to
steps they have taken in recent years to improve everything from patient
satisfaction to access to care. At Ohio Valley for example, the surgical
hospital has focused on improving patient satisfaction at every step, from
making it easier to register through follow-up calls after the procedure is
complete.

"It's scary sometimes for people coming to health care and they're afraid or
don't know what to expect," Eistrager said.

At the same time, the data used in the star-rating system is at least a year
old, so it doesn't fully include the latest measures or results, cautioned Paul
Hiltz, president and CEO of Community Mercy.

"One of the things we're very focused on here is preventive care, which really
isn't much a part of these rankings but is related," Hiltz said. "We're
interested really in trying to keep people out of the hospital and doing
preventive care in the primary care offices and partnering with public health to
work on having a healthier population here in Clark and Champaign County."

CMHP also appointed Dr. Donald Johnson, a longtime Springfield clinician, to
work with area physicians to look for ways to improve primary care.

He also led the development of CMHP's chronic disease program in Urbana. That
program helps patients manage conditions like diabetes, congestive heart failure
and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease to improve care and reduce
re-admissions to the hospital.

>>MORE DETAILS:Mercy Chronic Care Clinic in Urbana already seeing growth

"Having the physicians engaged and driving this is one of the reasons you're
seeing improvements in our scores," Hiltz said.

The ratings system doesn't take into account the different missions of various
hospitals, he said, or the kinds of patients they serve.

"In Clark and Champaign County we have environmental and social factors like
high smoking rates, high obesity rates and high diabetes rates," Hiltz said.
"Those things may not be accurately reflected in this rating."

The ratings can be a useful tool for patients, said John Palmer, a spokesman for
the Ohio Hospital Association. But consumers have an increasing number of
sources for information online, including separate rankings from organizations
like Consumer Reports and U.S. News and World Report.

"Ultimately it's collaborating and talking with their health-care provider that
is highly recommended for the consumer to make the best choice possible," Palmer
said.

Complete coverage

The Springfield News-Sun provides unmatched coverage of health care in Clark and
Champaign Counties, including recent stories on obesity rates and smoking.

On the web:

https://www.medicare.gov/hospitalcompare/search.html

___ (c)2016 Springfield News-Sun, Ohio Visit Springfield News-Sun, Ohio at
www.springfieldnewssun.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160729-1SP-Springfield-surgical-hospital
-one-of-few-in-Ohio-to-receive-top-rating-0729-20160729

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1SP


                   Copyright 2016 Springfield News-Sun, Ohio

