                              324 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      January 20, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Baylor University Medical Center at Dallas: Three-Star Rating Earned in
Cardiovascular Care

LENGTH: 353  words


New Delhi, Jan. 20 -- The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano begins 2014 with another
three-star quality rating, the highest rating possible from The Society of
Thoracic Surgeons (STS), for aortic valve replacement surgery (AVR) and coronary
bypass surgery (CABG). Only 2.3 percent of cardiovascular programs nationwide
receive a three-star ranking in both these categories, based on STS quality
methodology.



In addition to achieving these top rankings again, The Heart Hospital Baylor
Plano earned another three-star rating in a new category of aortic valve
replacement plus coronary bypass procedure.

"With this latest STS quality ranking, The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano is one of
14 programs in the United States to hold a three-star ranking in all three
categories," says Mark Valentine, president, The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano.
"This is a testament to the expertise of our healthcare team."

THHBP's top ratings in bypass surgery were measured the reporting period of
fiscal year 2013. The measurement period for the aortic valve replacement
surgery and the new category of combined aortic valve plus bypass surgery was
fiscal years 2010 - 2013.

The STS Adult Cardiac Surgery Database is the world's premier clinical registry
for cardiac surgery. The Database houses nearly five million surgical records
and gathers information from more than 90 percent of the groups that perform
cardiac surgery in the United States. In 2012, the Database welcomed surgeons
from Brazil, Israel, and Turkey as its first international participants.

The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano

The Heart Hospital Baylor Plano is ranked eighth in the country in heart valve
surgeries based on patient volume and is the first and only freestanding,
full-service hospital in this region dedicated solely to heart and vascular
health care. The hospital is recognized as one of the top 10 largest heart
surgery centers in the country, the largest cardiothoracic surgery program in
Texas. The 116-bed hospital was created through a partnership between Baylor
Regional Medical Center at Plano and cardiovascular physicians and surgeons
practicing in North Texas.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

