                              328 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 8, 2017 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Boca Regional Again Garners Top-Ranked Regional Hospital Award

LENGTH: 332  words


Aug. 8 -- Boca Raton Regional Hospital has again been cited as a top-ranked
regional hospital in U.S. News & World Report's 2017-2018 annual review of its
Best Hospitals. The Hospital is currently ranked 16th out of approximately 300
hospitals in Florida and 6th in the Miami-Fort Lauderdale metro area, making it
the highest ranked hospital in Palm Beach County.

U.S. News & World Report also rated Boca Regional a high-performing hospital in
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), colon cancer surgery, heart
failure and lung cancer surgery.

"We are pleased to once again be acknowledged as a top-ranked hospital in the
region," said Jerry Fedele, President and CEO of Boca Raton Regional Hospital.
"Of the more than the 4,500 hospitals evaluated nationally by U.S. News & World
Report, barely 10% earned this prestigious accolade. It is truly gratifying to
receive such a significant honor for the level of care we provide."

The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 28th year, help patients
make informed decisions about where to receive care for life-threatening
conditions or for common elective procedures. The Best Hospitals methodologies
include objective measures such as risk-adjusted survival and readmission rates,
volume, patient experience, patient safety, quality of nursing care and other
care-related indicators.

"For nearly three decades, we've strived to make hospital quality more
transparent to healthcare consumers nationwide," said Ben Harder, Managing
Editor and Chief of Health Analysis at U.S. News. "By providing the most
comprehensive data available, we hope to give patients the information they need
to find the best care across a range of specialties."

The regional hospital rankings are aimed primarily at consumers who may not be
willing or able to travel long distances for medical care. The rankings help
guide patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 16 specialties,
procedures and conditions.

Source: Boca Raton Regional Hospital

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

