                              339 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                              June 23, 2008 Monday
                           4 State / Suncoast Edition

HSN PUMPS UP NATIONAL ADS TO CREATE BUZZ

SECTION: TAMPA BAY; WORK WEEK; Pg. 6B

LENGTH: 370 words


HSN's first national advertising campaign was credited with helping the network
"turn the corner" by luring new customers to see its new look last summer. So
the St. Petersburg TV shopping network is doing it again, this time buying or
bartering for twice the media exposure in a campaign being announced today. TV
spots will start airing Saturday on everything from Law and Order to the
Olympics, and print ads will appear in several Conde Nast fashion magazines. HSN
is staging a sweepstakes this time with more than $200,000 in prizes to people
who register online at hsn.com. The spot features a catchy tune by pop singer
Toby Lightman, whose CD will be sold on HSN. Prizes include dinner with Emeril
Lagasse at his New Orleans restaurant, a party for 10 organized by Oprah's home
entertainment guru Colin Cowie, and a $5,000 room makeover by decorator Nate
Berkus.

Get the rundown on hospital care

Watch for another set of hospital rankings Tuesday. The Healthcare Financial
Management Association has analyzed 1,500 hospitals nationwide by the relative
value of care they provide. Such rankings could affect hospital reimbursements,
as the federal government considers proposals to pay hospitals based on the
value of the care they provide. Results will be unveiled at the annual meeting
of the trade group, which includes hospital CFOs and controllers. The rankings
also will be available at www.hospitalvalueindex.com.

Jabil reports 3rd-quarter results

St. Petersburg electronics manufacturer Jabil Circuit will disclose
third-quarter earnings on Tuesday. CEO Tim Main will discuss results on a
Webcast at jabil.com at 4:30 p.m., a half-hour after releasing numbers.

Fed meets, but don't expect much

The Federal Reserve Board meets on Tuesday and Wednesday, but the betting is
that we won't seeaction on interest rates until August. With inflation
threatening, the next move is likely to be up. The Fed would like to see signs
that the economy is improving before putting a damper on borrowing with higher
rates.

This could spoil your appetite

Regions Financial chief economist Bob Allsbrook will talk about recession and
stagflation Wednesday at a Tampa Chamber of Commerce breakfast. Call (813)
276-9440 for information.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright  2008 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved

