                              334 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday

Lehigh Valley Hospital, Lancaster General, and Reading Hospital earn high marks
in U.S. News annual survey

BYLINE: Matthew Nojiri, Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 381 words


July 15--A few of the area's hospitals received high marks and were recognized
for providing some of the best specialty care in the nation, according to U.S.
News & World Report's Best Hospitals rankings released today.

The 25th annual report compiles data in 16 adult specialties for nearly 5,000
medical centers in the U.S. Nationally ranked hospitals received a gold
designation and high-performing hospitals just outside the national rank
received the silver grade.

Lehigh Valley Hospital near Allentown was among the region's best, ranking third
in the state. It was also nationally ranked for 10 of its adult specialties:
cardiology; diabetes endocrinology; ear nose and throat; gastroenterology;
geriatrics; gynecology; neurology; orthopedics; pulmonary; and urology.

Lancaster General Hospital was the fifth-best in Pennsylvania and was among the
nation's top-ranked hospitals in diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology;
orthopedics; and pulmonology. It also received high-performing marks in seven
other specialities.

Both Lehigh Valley and Lancaster General received the gold designation.

For the 2014-15 report, only 144 hospitals performed well enough to be
nationally ranked in one or more specialties.

Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center moved up three spots to 13th in the
state and had 10 high-performing specialties.

Reading Hospital was 24th in Pennsylvania, up 10 spots from last year. It
received high-performing marks for five of its specialties. Reading Hospital and
Penn State Hershey received the silver designation.

St. Joseph Medical Center was not ranked.

Officials from U.S. News & World Report say the annual rankings are designed to
help patients with serious conditions find hospitals that excel in treating
challenging cases.

The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center was the top hospital in
Pennsylvania, with 14 nationally ranked specialties and two high-performing
specialities.

Nationally, the top three hospitals were the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.,
Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston and Johns Hopkins Hospital in
Baltimore, Md.

Contact Matthew Nojiri: 610-371-5062 or mnojiri@readingeagle.com

___ (c)2014 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140715-RE-Lehigh-Valley-Hospital-Lancaster-General-and-Reading-
Hospital-earn-high-marks-in-U-S-News-annual-survey-0715-20140715

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2014 Reading Eagle

