                              340 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                              July 8, 2005 Friday

Respiratory care at Grandview;
'U.S. News' also recognizes its neurosurgery

BYLINE: By Kevin Lamb klamb@DaytonDailyNews.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 267 words


DAYTON - Grandview Hospital and Medical Center is on U.S. News' 2005 Best
Hospitals list in two specialties, respiratory care and neurology-neurosurgery.

The magazine will publish its annual top-50 rankings in 17 specialties at
www.usnews.com/Besthospitals today and in its July 18 edition on sale Monday. No
other Dayton-area hospital is among the 176 medical centers to be listed.

Grandview ranks 44th in each specialty, its third consecutive year in U.S. News'
elite for respiratory care.

"Everybody has heard of this honor and patients use the Best Hospitals issue as
a reference tool," Grandview President Roy Chew said Thursday. "It really grows
our reputation across the country, and is something we will use in our physician
recruitment efforts."

Unlike some other hospital rankings, U.S. News does not require hospitals it
recognizes to pay application or licensing fees. It evaluates all 6,007
nongovernmental U.S. hospitals.

Criteria for the rankings include mortality rates, patient volume,
nurse-to-patient ratios, technology, patients' services and reputation, based on
surveys of board-certified physicians. The heavily weighted reputation scores
tend to favor hospitals in the large markets or those affiliated with
universities.

Grandview overcame its 0.0 percent reputation scores by having the lowest listed
mortality rate in neurology and neurosurgery, adjusted for patients' severity,
and the second-lowest in respiratory care.

Miami Valley Hospital went unrecognized this year after making 11 specialty
lists in the past three years. It had ranked between 24th and 33rd in
respiratory care.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2005 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

