                              341 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                     PR.com

                      August 4, 2016 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

U.S. News & World Report Names Hoag Among Best Hospitals

BYLINE: Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian

LENGTH: 528  words


Newport Beach, CA,  August 04, 2016 --(PR.com)-- Hoag Memorial Hospital
Presbyterian has been recognized as one of the best hospitals for 2016-17
according to U.S. News & World Report.

Hoag was ranked the 6th best hospital in the Los Angeles metro area and tied for
11th best hospital in California.

"We are honored to be recognized as one of the best hospitals by U.S. News &
World Report and be included in the rankings with the top health care
institutions across the country," said Robert T. Braithwaite, Hoag president and
CEO. "Thanks to the hard work and dedication of our physicians, nurses, staff
and volunteers, Hoag continues to deliver an unsurpassed level of personalized
care to the communities we serve."

Hoag's 2016-2017 rankings also included:

Ranked 34th nationally in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

High performing in three adult specialties, including Geriatrics, Pulmonology
and Urology

High performing in nine types of care, including Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm
Repair, Aortic Valve Surgery, Colon Cancer Surgery, COPD, Heart Bypass Surgery,
Heart Failure, Hip Replacement, Knee Replacement and Lung Cancer Surgery

The U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year, help guide
patients to hospitals that deliver outstanding care across 25 specialties,
procedures and conditions. The Best Hospitals methodologies include objective
measures such as patient survival, the number of times a given procedure is
performed, infection rates, adequacy of nurse staffing and more.

To view the full rankings of U.S. News & World Report, visit Best Hospitals.

AboutBOUT Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian

Hoag is an approximately $1 billion nonprofit, regional health care delivery
network in Orange County, California, that treats more than 25,000 inpatients
and 369,000 outpatients annually. Hoag consists of two acute-care hospitals -
Hoag Hospital Newport Beach, which opened in 1952, and Hoag Hospital Irvine,
which opened in 2010 - in addition to seven health centers and nine urgent care
centers. Hoag is a designated Magnet hospital by the American Nurses
Credentialing Center (ANCC). Hoag offers a comprehensive blend of health care
services that includes five institutes providing specialized services in the
following areas: cancer, heart and vascular, neurosciences, women's health, and
orthopedics through Hoag's affiliate, Hoag Orthopedic Institute, which consists
of an orthopedic hospital and two ambulatory surgical centers. In 2013, Hoag
entered into an alliance with St. Joseph Health to further expand health care
services in the Orange County community, known as St. Joseph Hoag Health. Hoag
has been named one of the Best Regional Hospitals in the U.S. News & World
Report Metro Edition, and Becker's Hospital Review named Hoag as one of the 2016
"100 Great Hospitals in America" - a designation Hoag has received four times.
National Research Corporation has endorsed Hoag as Orange County's most
preferred hospital for the past 20 consecutive years and, for an unprecedented
20 years, residents of Orange County have chosen Hoag as one of the county's
best hospitals in a local newspaper survey. Visit www.hoag.org for more
information.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


               Copyright 2016 PR.com, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

