                              33 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                  The Clinch County News (Homerville, Georgia)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                January 29, 2014

CMH gets high marks in patient satisfaction rankings

BYLINE: The Clinch County News staff

LENGTH: 308  words


Clinch Memorial Hospital patients are among the most satisfied in the country,
according to an analysis done by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
(CMS).

The Pay-For-Performance Measure Trends Analysis collected by CMS showed Clinch
Memorial had the top ranking in the state out of 112 Georgia hospitals in
"Communication with Nurses," and finished second in the state in five other
categories - "Communication with Doctors," "Responsiveness of Staff,"
"Communication about Medicines," "Patient's Rooms and Bathrooms Were Always Kept
Clean," and overall rating of hospital.

"I want to convey to the community that we are good, but still have a ways to go
to be the best," said new CMH Administrator Greg Brown. "We are particularly
proud 'of the #1 ranking for communication with nurses. As a organization, we
want to make all of the #2s into #ls and focus initially on making the not so
good rankings into single digits as soon as possible. The hospital staff is
excited about the rankings and have accepted the challenge to strive for better
ranking scores."

There were three other categories in the rankings. In "Pain Management," CMH was
fourth in the state. In "Area Around Patient's Room Always Kept Quiet At Night,"
CMH was 11th in the state. And in "Discharge Information," Clinch Memorial was
106th out of 112 state hospitals.

The overall rating of the hospital was 83% (2nd in state and 234th out of 3,891
nationally). In the "Communication with Nurses" category, CMH was 25th
nationally out of 3,903 hospitals in the United States. CMH also was in the top
100 in "Communication with Doctors" (92nd), "Communication about Medicines"
(95th), and patient room and bathroom cleanliness (77th) nationally.

You can find more information about Clinch Memorial's and other hospital's
rankings at. http://healthinsight.org/rankings/hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

