                              335 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 27, 2017 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Children's Hospital at Montefiore Marks a Decade of Recognition as One of the
Best in the Nation According To U.S. News & World Report

LENGTH: 524  words


June 27 -- For the tenth year in a row the Children's Hospital at Montefiore
(CHAM) ranks among the best in the nation according to U.S. News & World Report.
On the just-released list of Best Children's Hospitals in the United States,
CHAM places among the top 50 in Cancer, Diabetes & Endocrinology,
Gastroenterology & GI Surgery, Neonatology, Nephrology, Orthopedics and Urology.
CHAM continues to lead the way in providing highly-sophisticated care to
children and families from around the community, around the country and around
the world.

"Our talented pediatric specialists and exceptional care teams at CHAM are
renowned for providing high quality care to children with complex medical
needs," said Judy Aschner, M.D., physician-in-chief, CHAM, and Michael I. Cohen,
M.D., university chair and professor of pediatrics, Albert Einstein College of
Medicine. "We are delighted to be recognized by U.S. News & World Report for our
excellent outcomes in multiple pediatric subspecialties and for delivery of
advanced, evidence-based therapies and care coordination for the children under
our care."

Among the specialties ranked at CHAM:

* Pediatric Cancer is ranked number 37 in the nation, reflecting strong quality
and outcomes data, including:

-Three times lower than the national average central line-associated bloodstream
infection rates.

-Over 90 percent of patients undergoing bone marrow transplant survive more than
100 days after therapy.

* Gastroenterology & GI Surgery ranked number 30 in the nation this year,
demonstrating excellent outcomes with:

-100 percent one year and three year survival for liver transplant patients.

-Recognized success with complicated surgeries, including the Kasai procedure
for biliary atresia and complex endoscopy procedures.

* Orthopedics ranks number 23 - reflecting the high numbers of patients choosing
CHAM for their orthopedic surgery care and the excellent outcomes produced by
the team, particularly for scoliosis procedures.

* Diabetes & Endocrinology moves up, now ranking at number 42.

* Nephrology continues to be ranked in the top 25 year over year, this year
placing at number 24.

* Urology ranked number 41 in the nation.

* Neonatology also recognized in top 50 for outstanding patient safety and
outcomes.

U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help
families of children with rare or life-threatening illnesses find the best
medical care available. They are the only comprehensive source of
quality-related information on U.S. pediatric centers. The rankings rely on
clinical data and reviews generated by pediatric specialists who complete an
annual survey about their peers in the field. The rankings methodology considers
clinical outcomes, such as mortality and infection rates, efficiency and
coordination of care delivery and compliance with "best practices."

For more information about CHAM, go to http://www.cham.org. This year's rankings
will be published in the U.S. News & World Report's "Best Hospitals 2018"
guidebook and available on newsstands September 12. Visit Best Children's
Hospitals for the complete rankings.

Source: Montefiore Medical Center

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

