                              336 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 21, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Once Again Among US News & World Report's
Top Children's Hospitals

LENGTH: 362  words


June 21 -- The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) has once again ranked
among the country's finest in the 2016-17 U.S. News & World Report's Honor Roll
of Best Children's Hospitals announced June 21. Eight of CHOP's clinical
programs ranked within the top three nationally in each of the 10 specialty
areas evaluated in the U.S. News survey.  CHOP ranked second overall on the
Honor Roll and is the only pediatric hospital in the tri-state region named to
the prestigious list.

The annual U.S. News rankings highlight the top 50 U.S. hospitals in each of
these pediatric specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and
endocrinology, gastroenterology and GI surgery, neonatology, nephrology,
neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology, and urology.

"To be ranked among the top pediatric hospitals is an honor, which reflects our
commitment to provide the optimum care for every child and family we serve,"
said Madeline Bell, president and chief executive officer of The Children's
Hospital of Philadelphia. "The level of clinical excellence among the hospitals
evaluated makes our inclusion gratifying and I am proud of our dedicated and
talented physicians, nurses and clinical support staff for their efforts on
behalf of our patients," Bell said.

The U.S. News survey methodology combines clinical and operational data, results
from a reputational survey of board-certified pediatric specialists, and
supplemental information from resources such as the National Cancer Institute.
Most of the 183 facilities surveyed for the 2016-17 Best Children's Hospitals
rankings are either freestanding children's hospitals or a "hospital within a
hospital" - a large and essentially autonomous multidisciplinary pediatric
department within a major medical center. In the 2016-17 rankings, 78 of the 183
surveyed hospitals were ranked in one or more specialties. The Best Children's
Hospitals Honor Roll recognizes hospitals with scores in the top 10 percent in
at least three specialties. The 2016-17 Honor Roll lists 11 such hospitals.
Almost all are members of the Children's Hospital Association (CHA).

Source: Children's Hospital of Philadelphia

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

