                              333 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            August 28, 2007 Tuesday

Primary named one of top children's hospitals in nation

BYLINE: By Lisa Rosetta The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 410 words


Primary Children's Medical Center was ranked among the top 30 children's
hospitals in the country based on a three-part mix of reputation, low death rate
and other care-related factors, according to U.S. News & World Report.

Children's hospitals, which in the past were lumped together with all other
hospitals in the news magazine's annual ranking, were examined in a stand-alone
report published in its Sept. 3 issue, which hit newsstands Monday.

The top three hospitals were Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Children's
Hospital Boston and Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore.

Primary Children's - which was ranked 18th overall - received the highest score
of all children's hospitals in the category of death rate, meaning its mortality
rates for key procedures were lower than the 113 hospitals who responded to the
news magazine's survey.

Each hospital's mortality was ranked on a 0 to 6 point scale, based on the
mortality rates and the total number of key procedures. A 6 was the best score
possible, with 0 the worst. Primary Children's was the only children's hospital
receiving the full 6 points.

Among the procedures considered were heart and neurosurgery operations, as well
as bone marrow transplants. Hospitals had to meet a minimum volume requirement
for each procedure and achieve an acceptable death rate to receive points. Death
rate counted as one sixth of each hospital's score.

"This recognition in U.S. News and World Report confirms something that we've
known for years - that we have one of the best children's hospitals in the
country," said Primary Children's CEO Joe Mott in a news release. "But we are
most proud of our top ranking in lowest mortality rates."

The hospitals' scores for reputation were based on a survey of 100
board-certified pediatricians, adolescent medicine specialists and
neonatologists. Reputation counted as two thirds of each hospital's overall
score.

The care-related factors included factors such as volume, nursing care and
advanced technology. Care-related factors counted as one sixth of the score.

A medical facility was considered eligible for this year's rankings if
classified by the National Association of Children's Hospitals and Related
Institutions as a free-standing children's hospital or as a children's hospital
within a hospital - a large multidisciplinary pediatric service within a medical
center. In March, 122 hospitals met this standard, and 113 responded to the
survey.

lrosetta@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

