                              337 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 7, 2016 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Moffitt CEO Alan List Named to Becker's Hospital Review's 110 Physician Leaders
of Hospitals and Health Systems

LENGTH: 374  words


Sept. 7 -- For the second year in a row, Moffitt Cancer Center President and CEO
Alan F. List was named to Becker's Hospital Review's 110 Physician Leaders of
Hospitals and Health Systemslist. The 2016 edition features presidents and CEOs
of hospitals and health systems who also hold medical degrees.

"I am honored to be included on this list, which contains so many nationally
known leaders within the hospital community," says List, M.D. "It is a dynamic
group of individuals who are helping to define the future of our health care."

Each of the recipients has demonstrated outstanding leadership and clinical
expertise throughout their careers, leading initiatives to improve their
individual organizations and the health care of the communities they serve.

List is internationally recognized for his many contributions in the development
of novel, more effective treatment strategies for myelodysplastic syndromes
(MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). His pioneering work led to the
development of lenalidomide (Revlimid) from the laboratory to clinical trials,
which went on to receive fast-track designation from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration and approval for the treatment of patients with MDS and multiple
myeloma.

This new ranking is just one of many accolades the cancer center has received as
it approaches its 30th anniversary. In early August, Moffitt was ranked No. 6 on
U.S. News & World Report's Best Hospitals for Cancer rankings. In March 2015,
Moffitt earned the prestigious nursing Magnet designation recognizing our
nursing excellence. Serving patients from all 50 states and more than 100
countries, Moffitt boasts patient outcomes that beat the national average.
Moffitt is one of 47 National Cancer Institute-designated Comprehensive Cancer
Centers and the only one based in Florida.

Additional accolades include the 2015 Working Mother 100 Best Companies national
list, No. 6 ranking on DiversityInc's 2016 Top 10 Hospitals and Health Systems
list, and the 2016 Leader in LGBT Healthcare Equality.

The Becker's Hospital Revieweditorial team selected hospitals for inclusion
based on editorial judgment and discretion, and nominations were considered when
making selections for this list.

Source: Moffitt Cancer Center

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

