                              338 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 23, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Augusta Health Receives Two National Recognitions for its Value to its Community

LENGTH: 422  words


New Delhi, July 23 -- Augusta Health has recently been recognized by two
national organizations for its high quality care, service and value to the
community. Becker's Hospital Review featured Augusta Health on its annual "100
Great Community Hospitals" list. Additionally, based on its Community Value
Index score, Augusta Health ranked as a Community Value 100 Hospital-one of the
100 best hospitals in the nation for value to its community in the 10th annual
Community Value Index Study.



"Every physician and employee at Augusta Health is dedicated to providing the
best care possible with the most reasonable charges possible to their friends,
family and neighbors," said Mary N. Mannix, FACHE and CEO of Augusta Health.
"It's the foundation of being a community hospital. Our charges are the seventh
lowest in the state of Virginia, according to the 2012 Industry Report published
by Virginia Health Information. We are also extremely proud of the quality of
care we deliver, and grateful for the community who supports us by choosing us
to provide that care."

The Community Value Index score, calculated annually by Cleverley + Associates,
provides a relative ranking that benchmarks hospitals against hospitals in a
peer group by measuring four areas-hospital quality performance, financial
viability and plant reinvestment, hospital cost structure and hospital charge
structure. Fundamentally, the Community Value Index asserts that a hospital
provides value to its community when it provides high quality care to its
patients, is financially viable, is appropriately reinvesting back into the
facility, maintains a low cost structure and has reasonable charges.

Hospitals operating with a high Community Value Index are low cost, low charge,
and use their strong financial position to reinvest back into the provision of
quality care at their facility. Hospitals in the top 20% are designated
"Community Value Five Star" facilities, and the highest scoring hospitals in
this group are designated the "Community Value 100" hospitals. Augusta Health
received both designations.

Becker's "100 Great Community Hospitals" list includes hospitals with fewer than
550 beds that are dedicated to high quality care and service to the community.
The editorial team selects these community hospitals based on ranking and awards
from iVantage Health Analytics, Truven Health Analytics, HealthGrades and The
Joint Commission-all rankings of quality and service. Becker's notes that
hospitals do not pay and cannot pay to be included on the list.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

