                              349 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Grand Haven Tribune, Mich.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            April 27, 2016 Wednesday

NOCH gets 'A' in safety

BYLINE: Marie Havenga, Grand Haven Tribune, Mich.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 585 words


April 27--North Ottawa Community Hospital is an "A" student when it comes to
safety, according to the rankings of a national organization.

The Leapfrog Group's Spring 2016 Hospital Safety Score update assigned letter
grades to more than 2,500 U.S. hospitals, assessing medical errors, accidents,
injuries and infections.

The study also found that patients in lower-ranking hospitals nationwide have a
much greater risk of avoidable death when compared to "A" hospitals -- 9 percent
higher in "B" grade hospitals, 35 percent in "C" hospitals, and an astounding 50
percent higher in "D" And "F" hospitals.

Of the 2,751 hospitals in the study, 798 received an "A," 639 a "B," 957 a "C",
162 a "D" and 15 got an "F."

Last fall, the Leapfrog Group gave NOCH a "B" grade.

The ratings are based on patient experience, hospital-acquired conditions and
outcome data.

"It just reinforces that North Ottawa Community Hospital is a presence in the
community as a provider of high-quality health care," said Susan McKinnon,
director of quality for the Grand Haven hospital. "We are and continue to be a
reliable, high-quality source for health care in our community. But there's
always opportunity for improvement. Even getting an 'A' you don't want to rest
on your laurels."

NOCH scored high in doctor communication skills -- 84 percent of patients
surveyed said their doctors always communicated well, above the 81 percent state
average and 82 percent national average.

Ninety percent of patients reported they were were always given information on
what to do while recovering at home. The state average is 88 percent and the
national average is 86.

More than 81 percent of NOCH patients said their nurses communicated well. That
state average is 81 percent and the national average is 79.

The Family Birthing Unit also scored well.

NOCH's rankings show potential need for improvement in the areas of care
transitions (51 percent reported positive results, a tick below the 52 percent
state and national averages) and in explaining medicines before patients took
them (60 percent positive rankings, compared to 64 percent in the state and 65
nationally).

"Even though we excelled in areas, we don't want to lose our traction there
because we always have the opportunity to improve," McKinnon said.

McKinnon said a community hospital atmosphere leads to more personalized
service.

"If you look at our employee base, many of these employees live in the
community," she said. "The patients our employees are taking care of are their
friends, their neighbors, the people they see at church, at the grocery store,
the people who sit beside them at music at the park. It really is a community
hospital. I think that plays a big part."

McKinnon said she's most proud of the patient experience data.

"That truly is the patients reporting how they felt their care was delivered in
the organization," she said. "It's not just the doctors, it's not just the
nurses, it's everyone -- right down to how clean your room was. ... It's nice to
be recognized for the work that you do."

Jen VanSkiver, chief communications officer for the North Ottawa Community
Health System, said she is also proud of the recognition.

"We're pretty jazzed about it," she said. "We're delighted, of course, because
it does reflect lots of work and lots of people rowing in the right direction."

___ (c)2016 the Grand Haven Tribune (Grand Haven, Mich.) Visit the Grand Haven
Tribune (Grand Haven, Mich.) at www.grandhaventribune.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160427-NA-NOCH-gets-A-in-safety-0427-20160427

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NA


                   Copyright 2016 Grand Haven Tribune, Mich.

