                              347 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                     August 6, 1996, Tuesday, ALL EDITIONS

Emory ranked among best research facilities

BYLINE: Ann Hardie; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 08C

LENGTH: 350 words


Emory University Hospital is among the nation's top research facilities in the
fields of cardiology, ophthalmology and urology, according to the current issue
of U.S. News & World Report.

"It's gratifying to see Emory's accomplishments recognized yet again," said Dr.
Michael Johns, head of the Emory's health care system. "But we won't be
satisfied until we are in the top 10 of the majority of our programs."

Emory is the only Georgia hospital near the top of any of 16 specialties
analyzed by the magazine. The Medical College of Georgia, which has appeared in
previous years in the specialities of neurology and endocrinology, was absent
this time around.

"Nothing has changed about our organization or operation except to improve it,"
said Pat Sodomka, the Medical College's executive director.

The magazine was quick to say that the lists in the fields ranging from AIDS to
geriatrics are not an indication of a hospital's worthiness, but rather a tool
for consumers shopping for health care.

"Not to be on one of these lists does not mean that a hospital is substandard in
any respect," said Avery Comarow, editor of "America's Best Hospitals," featured
in the August 12th issue.

The magazine, which has been ranking hospitals since 1990, this year considered
1,961 comprehensive, major medical centers with teaching and research
components.

In 12 specialties, reputation among specialists, death rate and other medical
data each accounted for one-third of a hospital's score.

The top 42 institutions - representing the top 3 percent in the nation - are
published in the magazine.

Emory was ranked sixth in cardiology, up from eight last year, and 22nd in
urology.

The remaining four specialities - ophthalmology, psychiatry, pediatrics and
rehabilitation - were ranked solely on reputation. Emory was listed 14th in
ophthalmology.

Duke University was the only Southeast hospital to make the magazine's "honor
roll" of 16 institutions ranking in the top 10 of at least three of the
specialties. Johns Hopkins for the sixth straight year ranked No. 1 nationwide.

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 The Atlanta Constitution

