                              345 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                  The State Journal-Register (Springfield, IL)

                            October 26, 2004 Tuesday

St. John's ranked in nation's top 100 for heart care

BYLINE: DEAN OLSEN STAFF WRITER

SECTION: MARKETPLACE; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 591 words


St. John's Hospital is one of the nation's 100 best hospitals for cardiovascular
care, an Evanston-based health-care information company said Monday.

The ranking from Solucient follows recent five-star ratings for heart care for
St. John's from HealthGrades, another company that helps hospitals analyze their
ability to provide high-quality care. "This latest recognition underscores the
fact that our patients have access to health care that is among the best in the
nation," St. John's executive vice president Richard Carlson said in a news
release.

"With cardiovascular disease as the nation's No. 1 killer, it's reassuring to
know that the residents of downstate Illinois can turn to Prairie Heart
Institute at St. John's Hospital for some of the best care in the country for
treating heart disease."

St. John's was the only hospital in Illinois outside the Chicago area to land on
the top 100 list.

"Prairie prides itself on maintaining a value base of excellence, which ensures
our patients do well not only while in the hospital, but as they return to an
active lifestyle at home," Prairie Heart Institute executive director Jim Zito
said in the news release.

Unlike with some health-care award programs, hospitals do not pay any money to
be considered for the Solucient ranking. The company analyzes hospitals
nationwide using data that hospitals generate when caring for Medicare patients.

Monday's rankings were based on Medicare data from 2002 and 2003.

St. John's last placed among the top 100 hospitals for heart care in 1999.

Memorial Medical Center wasn't in this year's group and has not placed in the
top 100 since Solucient began the ranking six years ago.

"We don't know why we weren't scored in there," said Michael Schroyer,
Memorial's executive director of cardiac and vascular services, noting that
Memorial has received five-star ratings from HealthGrades in the past.

Memorial runs a heart program that is smaller than the one at St. John's, but
Memorial's still is one of the largest programs in the state.

Schroyer noted that most of the cardiologists who provide heart care at both
hospitals are members of the same physician group practice, and Springfield's
heart surgeons practice at both hospitals.

"We feel that St. John's has a great program down the street, and so do we,"
Schroyer said. "Springfield's very fortunate to have two top-quality heart
programs."

Solucient says it scores hospitals on factors such as death rates, medical
complications and length of stay for patients undergoing various types of heart
surgery, as well as conditions such as heart attack and congestive heart
failure.

The company also applies mathematical formulas to adjust for variations between
hospitals in the level of illness among their patients.

Solucient then compares each hospital's performance to the performance of their
"peer" hospitals. The company doesn't reveal which of the top 100 hospitals
perform the best overall. Instead, it breaks down the top hospitals into three
categories.

St. John's was one of 40 top-ranked institutions that are "teaching hospitals" -
meaning they help to train young doctors in residency programs - but don't offer
specific training programs in cardiovascular care.

Other hospitals in the group containing St. John's included St. James Hospital
and Health Centers in Olympia Fields, and hospitals in Des Moines, Iowa, San
Diego, Baltimore, Phoenix and Salt Lake City.

More information on Solucient's rankings is available at
www.100tophospitals.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LOCAL

                   Copyright 2004 The State Journal-Register

