                              348 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                              March 2, 2009 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Trustees seek to conceal test results; Minister asked to mask FSA data to
prevent Fraser Institute from compiling annual report card

BYLINE: Mary Frances Hill, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 591  words


B.C. school trustees are asking Education Minister Shirley Bond to take steps to
prevent the Fraser Institute from using annual test results in its controversial
ranking of elementary schools.

Trustees want the minister to disguise results of the Foundation Skills
Assessment tests, or FSAs, to prevent what some consider the misuse of the
information by the conservative think-tank.

"We're talking about masking numbers so that they aren't used for any purpose
they aren't intended for," said B.C. School Trustees Association president
Connie Denesiuk.

BCSTA members at a provincial council meeting Saturday voted unanimously to ask
the education ministry to "revise its policy relating to the release of
assessment data sets, specifically the FSA results to external bodies such as
the Fraser Institute, so that access for the purposes of ranking or
identification of schools is no longer allowed."

Mike Lombardi, a trustee who attended the meeting on behalf of the Vancouver
board of education, said BCSTA members suggested that Bond follow the example of
Health Minister George Abbott's policy on hospital rankings.

Last February, the Fraser Institute issued its first B.C. Hospital Report Card
to rank nearly 100 acute-care facilities.

The government and health authorities refused to divulge the names of hospitals
checked for 39 quality indicators, meaning hospitals were identified by numbers
only.

"Abbott had enough gumption to stand up and say, 'We're not going to allow our
hospital care to be abused and misused with inappropriate information,'" said
Lombardi.

Peter Cowley, director of school performance studies at the Fraser Institute,
which posts elementary school rankings online, said the BCSTA move shows it has
no interest in either improving performance by comparing schools or being
accountable to taxpayers.

"These people are saying, 'Let's take the taxpayers' money from a public
enterprise, and not tell them about the results.' "

Parents often use the rankings on the Fraser Institute's website to choose and
compare among schools, paying attention to data including FSA results, average
income of parents, and populations of ESL and special needs students, Cowley
said.

Bond didn't comment on whether she would move to mask the FSA results, but said
B.C. can't control what happens to the information once it's released.

She said her ministry is concerned about the way the Fraser Institute conducts
its research.

"We continue to be concerned that the Fraser Institute reports tell only part of
the story," Bond said.

"The [Fraser Institute's] 2008 report for elementary schools ignores other
important information such as demographics, school programs and other forms of
student achievement data."

The education ministry's own website states that "attempting to rank schools or
districts based on FSA results invites misleading comparisons that ignore the
particular circumstances that affect achievement in each school."

Though the wording of the BCSTA resolution referred to masking FSA results to
"outside bodies such as the Fraser Institute," Lombardi admitted the debate was
focused squarely on the organization's use of the FSA results.

The FSA tests are widely used by academics and other interest groups.

In an opinion piece for The Vancouver Sun, Simon Fraser University public policy
professor John Richards said FSA tests are integral to research.

"The tests ... allow researchers to track students through the educational
system. B.C.'s FSA data are among the best educational research data in Canada."

mfhill@vancouversun.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

