                              350 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   The Record-Eagle (Traverse City, Michigan)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            December 3, 2010 Friday

BRIEF: Munson tops bypass surgery rankings

BYLINE: The Record-Eagle, Traverse City, Mich.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 251 words


Dec. 03--TRAVERSE CITY -- Munson Medical Center is the best place in the country
for coronary bypass surgery, according to a medical rating service.

The ranking is by CareChex, part of the Delta Group, a company that compares
hospital and physician care to national, state and local standards. Data
included safety, quality, mortality, complication and patient satisfaction
scores.

Munson's score was in the 99.9th percentile for coronary bypass surgery.

Thomson Reuters, a national health care and information services organization,
also put Munson in the top 50 hospitals nationwide for cardiac care. It's the
seventh time the hospital has been recognized.

Munson is one of five hospitals in Michigan in the top 50. Thompson Reuters
evaluated 1,022 hospitals.

The Thomson Reuters study shows that 96 percent of cardiovascular patients at
Munson survive and approximately 93 percent remain complication free.

Both ratings follow an October Consumer Reports magazine report that listed
Cardiothoracic Surgeons of Grand Traverse as among the 50 top-rated heart bypass
surgical groups in the nation.

More than 4,000 cardiac patients are treated annually at Munson.

To see more of The Record-Eagle or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.record-eagle.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, The Record-Eagle, Traverse
City, Mich. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20101203-ZK-BRF-Munson-tops-bypass-surgery-rankings-20101203

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZK


                        Copyright 2010 The Record-Eagle

