                              344 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  The Leader-Telegram (Eau Claire, Wisconsin)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 22, 2009 Wednesday

Local hospitals earn above average ratings

BYLINE: Christena T. O'Brien, Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire, Wis.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 597 words


Apr. 22--The federal government's latest survey of hospital patients is out, and
for the first time, the ratings are available for all Chippewa Valley hospitals.

Ranked highest for overall patient satisfaction was OakLeaf Surgical Hospital.
Among full-service hospitals, Luther Midelfort, St. Joseph's Hospital, Red Cedar
Medical Center and Sacred Heart Hospital also received overall scores above the
statewide and national averages.

The rankings, available on Medicare's "Hospital Compare" Web site, are based on
patient surveys required by the federal government. The surveys gauge how well
doctors and nurses communicate, whether patients believe they received help in a
timely manner, and whether they would recommend a hospital to others.

Of the five local facilities, 97 percent of patients responding to the survey
said they'd recommend OakLeaf; 79 percent of Luther Midelfort patients, 78
percent of Sacred Heart patients, 76 percent of St. Joseph's patients and 73
percent of Red Cedar's patients reported the same.

Michael McClain, chief executive officer of OakLeaf, was pleased with the
surgical hospital's scores.

"I think patient satisfaction is one of the areas specialty hospitals excel in,"
he said.

"Here, the one thing we focus on very heavily is the patient experience,"
McClain said. "We're smaller, so I think we can respond to patients' needs
better."

That said, unlike full-service hospitals, OakLeaf solely focuses on surgery
patients, he noted.

The results of the patient surveys were first released by some hospitals,
including Luther Midelfort, last year. The government required all hospitals to
disclose their survey results this year.

The surveys are limited only to patients requiring an overnight stay.

"Overall, I was impressed with the overall scores for our community," said Pam
Prissel, Luther Midelfort director of customer service. "I think we're fortunate
to have good health care in the Chippewa Valley."

That said, officials at Luther Midelfort are always looking for ways to improve.

"We know it's not always a patient's first choice to come to a medical facility,
so we're always trying to make the experience the best it can be," she said.

In some cases, specific measures such as the percentage of surgery patients
given the right antibiotic at the right time might be important but not relevant
to most people. In others, the rankings can be confusing.

A study published late last year in Health Affairs, a policy journal, found that
the rankings vary widely. Even in the same market, a hospital near the top in
one ranking might be near the bottom in another.

Still, the Health Affairs study noted that patients want to know about other
patients' experiences: Did patients receive help quickly from the staff? Was
their pain well-controlled? Did the staff explain what a medication was for?

Those are among the 10 measures of patient satisfaction available on the "
Hospital Compare" site.

Hospitals have long surveyed patients on what they thought of their care. But
using those results as a gauge of hospital quality and disclosing them publicly
represent a cultural change.

The Associated Press contributed to this report.

To see more of the Leader-Telegram or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.leadertelegram.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, Leader-Telegram, Eau Claire,
Wis. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090422-EW-HOSPITALS-RATINGS-20090422

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EW


                                 Copyright 2009

