                              346 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                           Long Island Business News

                             June 27, 2017 Tuesday

LI children's hospital again ranks among country's best

BYLINE: LIBN Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 310  words


Northwell Health's Cohen Children's Medical Center has achieved its highest-ever
rankings as one of the nation's top children's hospitals.

The New Hyde Park medical center earned top 50 national rankings for exceptional
care in nine pediatric specialties, according to US News & World Report's
2017-18 Best Children's Hospitals.

It's the 11th consecutive year that the Cohen complex has been listed among the
country's best by US News. Cohen's rankings jumped in nearly all seven specialty
areas in which it was ranked last year and landed on the top-50 list in two new
clinical disciplines, diabetes/endocrinology (36th nationally) and nephrology
(45th), according to a Northwell Health statement. US News ranked Cohen ninth in
the nation for its expertise in pediatric urology. In the area of pediatric
cancer, Cohen's national ranking rose from 43rd to 20th.

Cohen also saw its rankings improve from 29th to 19th in neonatology, from 39th
to 23rd in neurology/neurosurgery, from 40th to 25th in pulmonology, and from
40th to 35th in orthopedics. The hospital also ranked 39th nationally in
gastroenterology/GI surgery in the US News report.

"US News' latest survey results underscore the progress we've made in improving
clinical outcomes, especially in the area of cancer where we have built a team
of nationally recognized, pediatric hematologists and oncologists with both
clinical and research expertise," Dr. Charles Schleien, Cohen's executive
director and senior vice president and executive director of pediatric services
at Northwell Health, said in the statement.

Founded in 1983, the 202-bed Cohen Children's Medical Center is dedicated
exclusively to the care of children and is the largest provider of pediatric
health services in New York State.

Click here for more from this resource.

Copyright © 2017 BridgeTower Media.  All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

