                              351 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Tribune-Star (Terre Haute, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 8, 2010 Wednesday

Magazine ranks Union Hospital nationally among best hospitals to work for

BYLINE: Brian Boyce, The Tribune-Star, Terre Haute, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 599 words


Sept. 08--TERRE HAUTE -- Union Hospital's ranking as a top national-level
employer wasn't a surprise to the employees who made it so, but definitely an
honor.

And Jamie Gregory was quick to answer that she's not looking to change employers
any time soon.

The registered nurse now in her 10th year at Union Hospital was among those
celebrating the facility's most recent accolade, being named one of the "Best
Places to Work in Health Care 2010" by Modern Healthcare Magazine. Union
Hospital ranks among the nation's top 100 facilities, according to the
publication's study, and specific rankings will be released Oct. 25.

Interim CEO Scott Teffeteller made the announcement Tuesday afternoon inside the
hospital's employee breakroom to a crowd of enthusiasts.

"It's a great honor for Union Hospital to be rated among the best," he said.

There are approximately 6,000 hospitals in America, he said after the
announcement, adding that Modern Healthcare Magazine is one of the nation's
largest trade publications for the industry. The rankings are based on employee
surveys measuring facility leadership, training and overall culture, he said.

Union Hospital has been named one of Indiana's best employers on numerous
occasions, he said. But this study marks the first time the hospital has
received a national ranking.

"It just continues to elevate our community," he said, noting the recent
announcement proclaiming Terre Haute as the Indiana Chamber of Commerce's
Community of the Year. "It will help us recruit the absolute best physicians. It
will help us recruit the absolute best staff."

Sally Zuel, vice president of human resources, said it's particularly important
to note that the facility's employees gave their employer this award.

"We are really thrilled," she said. "Our employees are the heart of Union
Hospital."

With nearly 2,400 employees, it's tough to keep everyone happy, she said. But
the facility strives to offer programs which benefit all segments of its
community. From onsite exercise facilities and programs to employee picnics,
longevity awards and achievement recognition, Zuel attributed "multiple
initiatives" as the cause of their worker satisfaction.

"When you look at Union Hospital, you're really talking about family," she said.

Both Zuel and Teffeteller said employee satisfaction is important, because happy
employees are more productive.

"The real winners are our families, our neighbors and our friends who continue
to receive wonderful health care," Teffeteller said.

Gregory, an Indiana State University and Terre Haute North Vigo High School
alumnus, said Union is the only hospital at which she's ever worked, and she has
no plans of leaving.

"I think it's great," she said of the award. "I've worked here 10 years and I
really enjoy working here."

Gregory attributed her overall satisfaction to good management, good colleagues
and a positive atmosphere. "I think we take excellent care of people. Patient
care is great," she said.

The top 100 hospitals will be individually ranked Oct. 25. For more information,
visit www.modernhealthcare.com.

Brian Boyce can be reached at brian.boyce@tribstar.com or 812-231-4253.

To see more of The Tribune-Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.tribstar.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, The Tribune-Star, Terre Haute,
Ind. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com, e-mail services@mctinfoservices.com, or
call 866-280-5210 (outside the United States, call +1 312-222-4544).

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100908-TX-Magazine-ranks-Union-Hospital-nationally-among-best-
hospitals-to-work-for-0908-20100908

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TX


                        Copyright 2010 The Tribune-Star

