                              357 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday

2 Pennsylvania hospitals ranked among top 20 in U.S.

BYLINE: Matthew Nojiri, Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 502 words


Aug. 02--Two Pennsylvania hospitals were among the best in the country,
according to the annual U.S. News & World Report rankings released Tuesday.

Among the 20 "Honor Roll" hospitals in the U.S., the Hospitals of the University
of Pennsylvania-Penn Presbyterian in Philadelphia was ninth and the University
of Pittsburgh Medical Center Presbyterian-Shadyside moved up a position from
last year to 12th.

The 27th annual rankings compare nearly 5,000 medical centers across the country
in 25 specialties, procedures and conditions. The rankings adjust for factors
such as income and credit hospitals that make data public in cardiology and
heart surgery.

"We strive to provide patients with the highest-quality information on hospitals
available," Ben Harder, chief of health analysis at U.S. News, said in a
statement. "Driving for broader transparency and evaluating hospitals in a
comprehensive, fair way reflects that mission."

The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., topped the list, followed by the Cleveland
Clinic in Ohio and Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.

Thomas Jefferson University hospital ranked third in Pennsylvania followed by
Lehigh Valley Hospital near Allentown, Lancaster General Hospital and Penn State
Milton S. Hershey Medical Center.

Reading Hospital moved up eight spots from last year's list to eighth. The
hospital was ranked 49th in the country in pulmonology and had high-performing
marks in urology, congestive heart failure, colon cancer surgery, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease and hip and knee replacements.

The annual list from U.S. News & World Report comes on the heels of hospital
data released last week by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The
Medicare report ranked hospitals for quality from one to five stars.

While ranked among the best in the country, UPMC Presbyterian-Shadyside received
just two stars out of five from the Medicare ratings.

Some hospital lobbyists and officials have criticized the Medicare ratings,
arguing they need to be adjusted more for issues like poverty and treating
patients with complex health issues.

Officials with the federal government have said they created the rating system
to provide more information about the care available at area hospitals.

"We have received numerous letters from national patient and consumer advocacy
groups supporting the release of these ratings because it improves the
transparency and accessibility of hospital quality information," Dr. Kate
Goodrich, director of the Center for Clinical Standards and Quality, said in a
blog post last week.

Contact Matthew Nojiri: 610-371-5062 or mnojiri@readingeagle.com

Matthew Nojiri -- Reporter

Reporter Matthew Nojiri covers the medical beat and the areas within the
Schuylkill Valley and Conrad Weiser school districts for the Reading Eagle.

Phone: 610-371-5062

Email: mnojiri@readingeagle.com

TODAY'S SPONSOR:

___ (c)2016 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160802-RE-2-Pennsylvania-hospitals
-ranked-among-top-20-in-U-S-0802-20160802

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2016 Reading Eagle

