                              34 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                July 13, 2002 Saturday 0 South Pinellas Edition

Magazine praises Moffitt in latest hospital rankings

BYLINE: RYAN MEEHAN

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 475 words

DATELINE: TAMPA


The national reputation of H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center got another boost Friday
when it was ranked 10th in the U.S. News & World Report annual list of best
cancer hospitals.

The magazine, which analyzed data from 205 medical centers nationwide, rated
Moffitt just below Memorial Sloan-Kettering, Johns Hopkins and the Mayo Clinic.

Patricia Goldsmith, a Moffitt spokeswoman, said the distinction is a tribute to
the 15-year-old center's doctors, nurses and researchers.

"These (other institutions) are decades older than ours," Goldsmith said. "It
tells you we're doing something right."

The magazine's rankings are based on several categories, including mortality
rates, the ratio of nurses to beds and technology services. Also critical is a
hospital's reputation among doctors nationwide.

Moffitt, on the University of South Florida campus, didn't even make the list
four years ago. Last year it was ranked 21st.

Three other Tampa Bay area hospitals made the magazine's Top 50 in different
specialties.

Bayonet Point Regional Medical Center in Hudson was ranked 27th in hearts and
heart surgery. Tampa General Hospital ranked 47th in the kidney disease
category.

St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa made the list in two areas: 48th for urology and
34th for digestive disorders.

Dr. Frank Mastandrea, a urologist at St. Joseph's, attributes the department's
rise to younger doctors' being trained to perform more complex surgeries and the
hospital's investment in detecting and treating prostate cancer.

"It's nice to know someone noticed," Mastandrea said.

Not everyone holds the U.S. News rankings in high esteem.

Bill Hervey, a spokesman for Bayfront Medical Center in St. Petersburg, which
didn't make the list, said there are hundreds of entities that rank hospitals
each year. Some, he said, even strike deals in which hospitals are ranked in the
top 10 but then have to pay the ranking organization to use the distinction in
their marketing.

While Hervey said he isn't trying to diminish the achievements of area
hospitals, he said only one ranking matters to Bayfront, that of the Joint
Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Organizations. "It's the gold
standard," Hervey said.

In 2000, he said, Bayfront received the commission's highest ranking -
accreditation with commendation.

Other Florida hospitals making the list were Shands Hospital at the University
of Florida, Florida Hospital Medical Center in Orlando and the Mayo Clinic in
Jacksonville.

Rankings

Tampa Bay area hospitals included in the U.S. News & World Report national
rankings:

Cancer: H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center (No. 10)

Urology: St. Joseph's Hospital (No. 48)

Digestive disorders: St. Joseph's Hospital (No. 34)

Kidney disease: Tampa General Hospital (No. 47)

Hearts and heart surgery: Bayonet Point Regional Medical Center (No. 27)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 2002 Times Publishing Company


