                              355 of 998 DOCUMENTS


              San Gabriel Valley Tribune (West Covina, California)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             March 6, 2007 Tuesday

Web site grades hospitals on quality of care, satisfaction

BYLINE: Kevin Smith, San Gabriel Valley Tribune, Calif.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 506 words


Mar. 6--Finding a good plumber or mechanic can be relatively easy. You ask
around, evaluate word-of-mouth references and get some estimates.

But how do you go about selecting the best hospital for your maternity stay or
heart bypass surgery?

Beginning today, CalHospitalCompare.org is hoping to make the choice a little
easier.

The Web site -- the result of a partnership between the California HealthCare
Foundation, UC San Francisco Institute for Health Policy Studies, and California
Hospitals Assessment and Reporting Taskforce -- offers comprehensive information
on more than 200 hospitals, representing 70 percent of all hospital admissions
in the state.

Hospitals are rated on 50 performance indicators, including patient satisfaction
and specific conditions ranging from maternity services to heart disease
treatment.

"We worked with consumer focus groups to make sure we designed the Web display
in a way that would work for patients and families," said Maribeth Shannon, who
directs the Market and Policy Monitor program for the California HealthCare
Foundation. "The benefit of this Web site is that it encourages improvement in
hospitals."

Huntington Hospital in Pasadena earned an average quality-of-care rating for
treatment of heart attack and superior rankings in the areas of patient
satisfaction and timeliness of care.

Seventy-eight percent of heart attack patients indicated they would recommend
the hospital.

In the maternity patient satisfaction category, 91 percent of patients said they
would recommend Huntington Memorial.

Kaiser Permanente Baldwin Park Medical Center garnered an above-average rating
in the quality-of-care category for heart attack and a superior medical patient
satisfaction ranking.

Alhambra Hospital Medical Center didn't fare as well, with a poor
quality-of-care rating under heart attack treatment.

However, the Alhambra center received a superior quality-of-care ranking for
treatment of pneumonia.

R. Adams Dudley, associate professor of medicine and health policy at UC San
Francisco and project director for the Institute for Health Policy Studies, said
the Web site ratings are adjusted for differences in the patient mix.

"When you do patient surveys, for example, maternity patients are always happier
than other types of patients," he said. "We corrected for that."

Surgical patients likewise tend to be happier than medical patients because
"when they leave the hospital they go home with their problem fixed," Dudley
said.

Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital in Whittier nabbed a superior rating for
heart attack care and a superior patient satisfaction ranking.

To see more of the San Gabriel Valley Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper,
go to http://www.sgvtribune.com. Copyright (c) 2007, San Gabriel Valley Tribune,
Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070306-GB-HOSPITAL-RATINGS-20070306

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GB


                   Copyright 2007 San Gabriel Valley Tribune

