                              356 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Lima News (Ohio)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 11, 2015 Tuesday

Lima Memorial top hospital for infection prevention

BYLINE: John Bush, The Lima News, Ohio

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 520 words


Aug. 11--LIMA -- Lima Memorial Health System has been rated one of the best
hospitals in the United States for infection prevention.

A recent study by Consumer Reports revealed Lima Memorial is one of nine
hospitals in the U.S. that achieved the magazine's top ranking in avoiding
bacteria known as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and Clostridium
difficile, as well as three other infections. Lima Memorial was also the only
hospital in the Midwest to achieve this ranking.

"It's quite gratifying," said Dr. Wilfred Ellis, chairman of infection control
at Lima Memorial. "A great amount of effort has taken place at the hospital in
preventing infection, and I take great pride in that."

The ranking is based on data hospitals reported to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention between October 2013 and September 2014. Hospitals who
achieved the highest ranking successfully eliminated infections from MRSA, and
C-diff, along with surgical-site infections and infections associated with
urinary-tract and central-line catheters.

Ellis said Lima Memorial's ability to successfully fight infection is a "group
effort" among hospital staff and administration.

"We have to work together in order to institute policies which we have developed
over the course of time and with trial and error," he said. "We work
tremendously well as a team, and we address problems when they come up in an
effective manner."

A policy Ellis said has been extremely effective is the antibiotic stewardship
program, which is meant to ensure patients get the right drug at the right time
and with the proper dose.

"The most important cause of antibiotic resistance is the overuse of
antibiotics," Ellis said. "They are very potent tools for fighting infection,
but when they're overused, they're also the sources of resistance."

Ellis said antibiotic stewardship allows the hospital's infection control staff
to monitor the use of antibiotics and adjust the usage so that it is
appropriate.

"That's been an excellent program that's made us much better over the last
several years," he said.

Ellis said one of the biggest ways to fight infection in a hospital like Lima
Memorial is to simply practice proper hand-washing techniques. Though it may
seem simple, Ellis said it is vital in preventing the spread of infection.

"The No. 1 approach to prevention of infection is careful hand-washing," he
said. "We have hand-washing stations all throughout the hospital."

Going forward, Ellis said Lima Memorial will continue to be one of the country's
top hospitals for infection prevention if the staff stays vigilant and the
administration continues to implement effective policies.

New technology will also play a role, Ellis said, as the hospital will soon be
receiving a germ-eliminating robot that uses ultraviolet rays to fight bacteria
that cause infection. The robot, known as the Tru-D SmartUVC, will be arriving
at Lima Memorial within two weeks.

Reach John Bush at 567-242-0456 or on Twitter @bush_lima.

___ (c)2015 The Lima News (Lima, Ohio) Visit The Lima News (Lima, Ohio) at
www.limaohio.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150811-LM-Lima-Memorial-top-hospital
-for-infection-prevention-0811-20150811

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LM


                          Copyright 2015 The Lima News

