                              358 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                              July 16, 2007 Monday

LDS Hospital, U. hospitals land spots as best in U.S.

BYLINE: By Lisa Rosetta The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 367 words


Two Utah hospitals - LDS Hospital and University Hospitals and Clinics - were
among 173 in the country to earn a spot in U.S. News & World Report's "America's
Best Hospitals" guide, on newsstands today.

In its 2007 guide, the magazine ranked LDS Hospital 23rd in the nation for
urology, 44th for treatment of kidney diseases and 47th for endocrinology or
diabetes care.

"This is wonderful recognition of the dedication to excellence and
patient-centered focus that drives everything we do," said LDS Hospital CEO
Mikelle Moore.

University Hospitals and Clinics' gynecologic and cancer care, meanwhile, were
ranked 18th and 32nd in the country. The Huntsman Cancer Institute is part of
the U. hospital system.

"It is always gratifying to be recognized as one of the best, and this really
reflects the hard work and dedication of our faculty and staff," said David
Entwistle, University Hospitals and Clinics' CEO.

The magazine initially evaluated 5,462 hospitals based on three standards:
membership in the Council of Teaching Hospitals, affiliation with a medical
school and the availability of at least nine out of 18 key technologies, such as
shaped beam radiation and advanced cancer therapy.

Hospitals that met one of these three standards were then considered for
rankings in one of 16 specialties.

To be ranked among the top 50 in a specialty, such as gynecology, a hospital had
to meet one of two requirements: It must have treated a minimum number of
Medicare or Medicaid patients who had specific conditions or underwent certain
procedures during a three-year period, or it had to be named among the best by
at least one physician in the latest three annual surveys.

The rankings took into account three factors: reputation, death rate and care
factors, such as the patient-to-nurse ratio.

Of the 173 hospitals that are ranked in this year's guide, 18 earned "honor
roll" status by ranking at or near the top in at least six specialties. The top
three were Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, the Mayo Clinic in Rochester and
the UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles.

Pediatric hospitals will be ranked separately in the Sept. 3 issue of U.S. News
& World Report, on newsstands Aug. 27.

lrosetta@sltrib.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

