                              354 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Lehigh Valley Business

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

Lehigh Valley Hospital-Cedar Crest ranks nationally in U.S. News report others
receive high-performing marks

BYLINE: Stacy Wescoe

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 362  words


It also was ranked as high performing for the nine areas the report tracks -
abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, aortic valve surgery, heart bypass surgery,
heart failure, colon cancer surgery, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hip
replacement, knee replacement and lung cancer surgery.

The hospital also ranked as No. 5 in the state of Pennsylvania. It was the only
hospital in the Greater Lehigh Valley to receive a national ranking.

St. Luke's University Hospital-Bethlehem was rated as high performing in seven
areas: abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, aortic valve surgery, heart bypass
surgery, heart failure, colon cancer surgery, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease, and lung cancer surgery. It was ranked as No. 7 hospital in the state.

Lehigh Valley Hospital-Muhlenberg was ranked as high performing in three areas:
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, heart failure and colon cancer surgery.

U.S. News & World Report on Tuesday released the 2017-18 Best Hospitals rankings
. In their 28th year, the rankings and ratings compare more than 4,500 medical
centers nationwide in 25 specialties, procedures and conditions.

Coordinated Health Bethlehem was ranked as high performing in two areas, hip
replacement and knee replacement. Coordinated Health's Surgical Specialty Center
in Allentown was ranked as high performing in knee replacement.

St. Luke's Hospital-Warren was ranked as high performing in one area, heart
failure.

Grand View Hospital in Sellersville was ranked as high performing in one area,
knee replacement.

Doylestown Hospital was ranked as high performing in three areas: heart failure,
knee replacement and hip replacement.

The U.S. News methodologies in most areas of care are based largely on objective
measures such as risk-adjusted survival and readmission rates, volume, patient
experience, patient safety and quality of nursing, among other care-related
indicators.

View the full article from Lehigh Valley Business at
http://www.lvb.com/article/20170809/LVB01/170809861/lehigh-valley-hospitalcedar-
crest-ranks-nationally-in-us-news-report-others-receive-highperforming-marks.
Copyright © 2017 BridgeTower Media. All Rights Reserved.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

