                              363 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                            October 8, 2009 Thursday

Mass. is 7th in health care survey // In hospital access, rank was 33

BYLINE: Jessica Leving

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 652 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


WASHINGTON - Massachusetts placed seventh in a national state-by-state ranking
of health care quality by the Commonwealth Fund Commission on a High Performance
Health System.

The rankings, made public today, were broken down according to access to health
care, prevention and treatment, avoidable hospital use and costs, equity, and
healthy lives of citizens.

Nationwide, the study found wide variations in health care quality among the
states and reported that insurance coverage and affordability are growing
concerns.

Massachusetts was first among all states in access, and made the Top 10 in all
other areas except avoidable hospital use and costs, where it came in at 33.
That number is up three from 2007, when the first Commonwealth Fund report
appeared. Massachusetts was ranked eighth overall in the 2007 report, and has
improved or stayed near the same in most areas.

"In Massachusetts, you see an intense effort to improve," said Cathy Schoen,
senior vice president of the Commonwealth Fund. "Every time we do this report,
there's a lot of scrutiny on getting the numbers right because Massachusetts
would like to be number one in all the indicators, not just one."

Robert Klugman, chief quality officer at UMass Memorial Medical Center, said
some of the hospital usage numbers in the report might be skewed by
demographics.

"Some of that data is not really reflective of reality," he said. "There's
definitely room for improvement, but that particular area is a little bit
skewed. We have some world-class academic organizations that tend to attract
some of the sickest people not only from the state but from the region. There's
an educational cost factor as well in educating the next generation of new
doctors and testing new technologies. That makes it difficult to compare apples
and oranges."

Despite the blemish in avoidable hospital use and costs, Toni McGuire, president
and chief executive officer of the Great Brook Valley Health Center in
Worcester, said there is a lot to be proud of in Massachusetts.

"The best care comes through coordination with the patient as a partner," she
said. "We have really good primary care doctors, which is maybe why our numbers
are so high." Jean C. Sullivan, director of the Center for Health Law and
Economics at the University of Massachusetts Medical School, said she was
concerned about the slight drop in rankings on equity measures.

"While still relatively high, at seventh overall, this rank is a drop from the
first-in-the- nation ranking in 2007," she said. "It appears that those who
remain uninsured in this state are having increasing difficulty getting
preventive care and seeing a doctor. Jennifer Kritz, spokeswoman for the
Massachusetts Executive Office of Health and Human Services, had not yet
reviewed the full report but said the state is taking measures to improve health
care quality.

"Massachusetts now leads the nation in insurance coverage, and we have also seen
improved access to medical and dental care," she said. "A state commission
recently issued recommendations for reforming how we pay for health care.
Instead of our current `fee-for-service' system-which rewards more care but not
necessarily the right care - the commission endorsed a `global payment' model
that prioritizes coordinated, efficient and effective patient care and will
ensure the long-term sustainability of reform."

Neighboring New England states made a good showing in the report as well, with
Vermont ranked first overall, and Maine, New Hampshire, Connecticut and Rhode
Island all in the top 25 percent. Mississippi came in last of all the states.

The goal of the study was to examine how states have done and spur action across
the country, Ms. Schoen of the Commonwealth Fund said. "Where you live
matters... and it shouldn't," she said.

The Commonwealth Fund is a private foundation that supports independent research
on health policy reform and performance.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WASHINGTON - Massachusetts placed seventh in a national state-by-state
ranking of health care quality by the Commonwealth Fund Commission on a High
Performance Health System. The rankings, made public today, were broken down
according to access to health care, prevention and treatment, avoidable hospital
use and costs, equity, and healthy lives of citizens. Nationwide, the study
found wide variations in health care quality among the states and reported that
insurance coverage and affordability are growing concerns.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

