                              366 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 13, 2012 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Mayo Clinic Lauded as One of Nation's Best Hospitals in U.S. News & World Report
Rankings

LENGTH: 538  words


New Delhi, Sept. 13 -- Mayo Clinic ranked near the top of the 23rd U.S. News &
World Report annual America's Best Hospital list, earning the No. 3 overall spot
on its "Best Hospitals" list. Mayo Clinic in Rochester also was rated best in
the nation in three clinical areas - gynecology, diabetes and endocrinology, and
gastroenterology.



Hospitals included in the U.S. News Honor Roll, such as Mayo Clinic, are part of
an elite group recognized for "breadth of excellence," according to the
magazine. To make the magazine's "Honor Roll," a medical center must rank at or
near the top in at least six of 16 specialties. Mayo Clinic made the top 10 in
15 of the 16 specialties. The rankings were announced today on U.S. News & World
Report's website. Print editions will be on newsstands starting Aug. 30.

Mayo Clinic in Rochester ranked No. 1 or No. 2 in eight of the 12 specialties
measured based on reputation, services and volumes, safety and clinical
outcomes. The eight specialties are:

* Gynecology (1)

* Diabetes and endocrinology (1)

* Gastroenterology (1)

* Nephrology (2)

* Neurology (2)

* Cardiology (2)

* Pulmonology (2)

* Orthopedics (2)

Mayo Clinic also took honors in urology (3), cancer (4), rheumatology (4),
otolaryngology (6), rehabilitation (6), geriatrics (7), psychiatry (7), and
ophthalmology (14).

New this year are state and regional rankings. Mayo Clinic took the No. 1 spot
in Minnesota, ranked No. 2 in Arizona and in the Phoenix metro area, and landed
in the No. 17 overall spot in Florida and ranked No. 4 among top hospitals in
the Jacksonville area.

Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Fla., received regional recognition as high
performing in specialties including cancer, gastroenterology, geriatrics,
nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics, and urology.

Mayo Clinic in Scottsdale and Phoenix, Ariz., received national recognition in
geriatrics (24) and nephrology (34). In addition, Mayo Clinic in Arizona was
recognized as regionally high performing in cancer, diabetes and endocrinology,
otolaryngology, gastroenterology, gynecology, neurology and neurosurgery,
orthopedics, pulmonology, rheumatology, and urology.

"More than any other health care organizations, Mayo Clinic's model of care is
defined by teamwork, with a group of experts focusing their expertise on one
patient at a time. U.S. News is an important ranking that patients and Mayo
Clinic take seriously," says John Noseworthy, M.D., Mayo Clinic's president and
CEO. "We are honored by this recognition, and we remain focused on our primary
mission: putting the needs of our patients first and creating for them the best
possible, most trusted and affordable model of health care for the future."

Many private organizations and government agencies recognize hospitals for high
levels of quality and safety. Each uses its own assessment of what best
determines hospital quality, and as a result, rankings often differ.

"Mayo Clinic is ranked highly by more of the well-known national ranking systems
than any other major U.S. hospital or clinic, and we are proud to have been
recognized by so many," Dr. Noseworthy says. "The endorsement reinforces our
century-old commitment to providing the highest quality care to each patient
every day."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

