                              367 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 2, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

US News & World Report Puts Houston Methodist Hospital on Its Honor Roll

LENGTH: 404  words


Aug. 2 -- U.S. News & World Report has recognized Houston Methodist Hospital as
one of the nation's top 20 hospitals, placing it for the second time on the
magazine's prestigious Honor Roll.

Houston Methodist Hospital is also named the No. 1 hospital in Texas for the
fifth consecutive year, and is the only hospital in Texas to earn a spot on the
"Best Hospitals" Honor Roll. The Honor Roll, which includes 20 hospitals
throughout the country, recognizes hospitals that are the "best of the best" in
patient care, patient safety, outcomes, nursing, advanced technology and
reputation.

This year, Houston Methodist Hospital ranks No. 19 on the Honor Roll, a
recognition last achieved by the hospital in 2009. The hospital is ranked in 10
out of 16 specialties, the most of any hospital in the state.

Two of our community hospitals also appear in the regional and state rankings.
Houston Methodist Willowbrook Hospital ranks No. 8 in Houston and No. 19 in the
state. Houston Methodist Sugar Land Hospital ranks No. 9 in Houston and No. 23
in the state.

U.S. News recognizes Houston Methodist Hospital for superior performance in nine
common adult procedures and conditions including abdominal aortic aneurysm
repair; aortic valve surgery; heart bypass surgery; heart failure; colon cancer
surgery; chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD); hip replacement; knee
replacement; and lung cancer surgery.

"Making the Honor Roll is a tremendous achievement for our physicians, nurses
and employees who give the best of themselves every day to our patients," said
Marc Boom, M.D., president and CEO of Houston Methodist. "This is validation
that we are leading medicine, providing our community the highest quality
medical care, research and education for almost 100 years."

Houston Methodist Hospital is ranked in cancer; cardiology/heart surgery;
diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology/GI surgery; geriatrics; nephrology;
neurology/neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology. Five of these
specialties are ranked in the top 20.

The hospitals ranked nationally are scored by reputation, mortality and a group
of care-related factors such as nursing and technology. Each specialty lists the
50 highest-scoring hospitals. In all, 4,667 hospitals are eligible for the
rankings, and only 153 were ranked in at least one specialty.

The rankings are online at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

Source: Methodist Hospital

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

