                              365 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Telegraph (Alton, Illinios)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 10, 2012 Tuesday

Magazine rates Alton Memorial No. 1 in state

BYLINE: Jill Moon, The Telegraph, Alton, Ill.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 315 words


July 10--ALTON -- Hometown Alton Memorial received high marks in the August
edition of Consumer Reports magazine, including as the No. 1 Illinois hospital.

The Consumer Reports article listed not only that Alton Memorial Hospital is No.
1 in the state but also No. 3 in the country, focused on patient safety rankings
.

"Consumer Reports is a tool frequently used when buying a new automobile or
appliance; they are known for setting the gold standard of rating different
things that consumers purchase," AMH spokesman Rusty Ingram said Monday.

The rankings are the first time that Consumer Reports rated hospitals for
safety, using the most current data available at the time of the analysis.

The analysis includes information from government and independent sources on
1,159 hospitals in 44 states. The authors also interviewed patients, physicians,
hospital administrators and safety experts; reviewed medical literature; and
looked at hospital inspections and investigations.

Consumer Reports also focused on six categories in its safety ratings:
infections, re-admissions, communication, CT scanning, complications and
mortality.

"The safety score gives patients a way to compare hospitals on patient safety
before selecting where to go for their care," AMH President Dave Braasch said.
"Our top ranking is validation of the efforts put forth each day by our
physicians and staff to ensure our patients receive excellent care."

Braasch said it's an honor, of which the administration, faculty and staff are
very appreciative.

"It's a demonstration of Alton Memorial Hospital's culture and the focus we have
given to rapid improvement events, process change, a quick response to
instilling best practices and communication," Braasch said.

jmoon@thetelegraph.com

___ (c)2012 The Telegraph (Alton, Ill.) Visit The Telegraph (Alton, Ill.) at
www.thetelegraph.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120710-AI-Magazine-rates-Alton-Memorial-No-1-in-state-0710-20120710

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AI


                          Copyright 2012 The Telegraph

