                              359 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             July 16, 2009 Thursday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

3 OF NATION'S TOP 20 HOSPS RIGHT HERE

BYLINE: BY HELEN KENNEDY DAILY NEWS STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 497 words


NEW YORK CITY has never been a better place to get sick.

For the first time, three New York hospitals made the U.S. News and World Report
ranking of the nation's top 20 medical centers.

New York-Presbyterian was the city's top hospital, as it reliably has been for
years, in the 2009 rankings posted to the magazine's Web site yesterday.

But for the first time, two other city institutions joined it on the magazine's
"honor roll" of outstanding hospitals: NYU Medical Center and Mount Sinai
Medical Center.

"New York is hot. Everybody wants to come here," said Dr. Herbert Pardes,
president and CEO of New York-Presbyterian.

"We get the best medical students, the best residents. People know we are
knocking the ball out of the park. The best doctors come here because they say
we are the best. It's a circular effect in the right direction."

New York-Presbyterian, the nation's largest nonprofit, nonsectarian hospital,
sees 2 million patients a year, treats the most burns and performs the most
heart transplants.

"We take care of everybody. You're the wealthy head of a company? That's fine.
You don't have a penny in your pocket? That's fine, too," Pardes said.

The hospital won special kudos for its psychiatry and neurology departments and
for its treatment of kidney disorders and diabetes.

The magazine looked at 4,861 medical centers, winnowing them down to 170
hospitals that were judged excellent in at least one of 16 specialties. The top
20 were judged tops in six or more specialties.

"Fewer than one half of 1% of hospitals received this honor. It is an
extraordinary achievement," said Dr. Kenneth Davis, president and CEO of Mount
Sinai Medical Center.

The rankings take into account factors ranging from reputation to death rates to
quality of care. For the first time this year, patient safety was included.

The magazine's annual rankings carry a lot of influence - both among patients
looking for care and doctors looking for work, translating into money and
prestige for the hospitals who make the 20-year-old list.

"This recognition highlights a tradition of excellence at NYU Langone Medical
Center and serves as yet another reminder of how learning and innovation can
come together to make our institution one of the best in the nation," said Dr.
Robert Grossman, CEO of NYU Langone Medical Center.

GRAPHIC: GETTING THE BEST CARE

Some of the top 20 U.S. hospitals as ranked by U.S. News and World Report:

1 Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore

2 The Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.

3 Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, Los Angeles

5 Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston

6 New York-Presbyterian University Hospital Columbia and Weill Cornell, New York

8 Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia

9 Barnes-Jewish Hospital/Washington University, St. Louis

10 Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston

15 Stanford Hospital and Clinics, Stanford, Calif.

17 NYU Medical Center, New York

18 Yale-New Haven Hospital, New Haven

19 Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York

hkennedy@nydailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC;LIST

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Daily News, L.P.

