                              368 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                           October 10, 2009 Saturday

BMC gets high mark

BYLINE: By Tony Dobrowolski, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: NEWS; Health; Headlines

LENGTH: 556 words


Sunday, Oct. 11PITTSFIELD -- Berkshire Medical Center has been ranked first in
both the state and New England in a nationwide study conducted by a Tennessee
firm that measures health-care value.

Nationally, BMC was ranked 86th out of the 4,500 hospitals that were considered
for the 2009-2010 Hospital Value Index by Data Advantage LLC of Nashville, a
privately held health-care information company that has specialized in providing
the healthcare and business communities with independent and objective
information about the country's hospital industry since 1992.

Only acute-care general service hospitals that participate in the Medicare
reimbursement program were considered for the Hospital Value Index, said Data
Advantage's senior adviser John Morrow. Specialty hospitals, veterans hospitals,
and private health organizations that don't participate in federal programs were
excluded, he said.

The rankings are based on each hospital's quality, affordability, efficiency and
patient satisfaction performance under the Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Healthcare Providers and Systems (HCAHPS) regulations. BMC received high marks
in all four of those areas. The index is designed to use only objective,
verifiable, and quantitative data that are consistent and complete across the
country to ensure objective measurement rather than anecdotal evidence,
according to Data Advantage.

Berkshire Health Systems Chief Operating Officer Diane Kelly said BMC's ranking
is the culmination of a "10-year journey" that began when BMC's board of
directors and president and CEO David Phelps made a commitment to quality that
began when Gray Ellrodt was hired as chair of medicine a decade ago.

"What's different and exciting about this award is that it has a strong
component in quality of care, which is really the mission and purpose of
everything that we do here at BMC," Kelly said. "I'm happy to see that we have
valuation from external organizations such as the index not just in top
performance in quality, but having done so in a cost-effective manner, which is
critical for any health-care system."

"These national achievements for Berkshire Medical Center are a testament to the
dedication of our medical staff, employees, trustees, and leadership team, and
reinforce our commitment to providing the highest level of quality care for our
patients," Phelps said in a written statement.

This is the third time that Data Advantage has compiled the Hospital Value
Index, but only the second time it has released the rankings publicly, Morrow
said. The company's previous rankings were focused on hospitals that are located
in the country's 100 largest metropolitan statistical areas.

"I don't know off the top of my head if we ranked BMC previously," Morrow said.
"In the previous rendition, we didn't rank and report on the findings, but in
this rendition we did because we had expanded the analysis to include many, many
more markets."

Before the advent of the Hospital Index, no public measurement existed to
integrate efficiency, affordability and quality, Ellrodt said.

"In my mind what's exciting about this award and the Data Advantage approach is
to be able to look at quality and at what cost," Ellrodt said. "This is a big
discussion in Congress right now, value."

To reach Tony Dobrowolski:
 TDobrowolski@berkshireeagle.com
or (413) 496-6224

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2009 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

