                              370 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      September 9, 2013 Monday 6:30 AM EST

MedCenterDisplay: Patients Prefer Digital Communications to Print

LENGTH: 455  words


New Delhi, Sept. 9 -- Three out of four patients and caregivers who viewed
hospital messaging on digital screens in eight hospitals in the U.S. found the
content enhanced the hospital experience and provided health information they
could use, according to a study by media and marketing research firm Arbitron,
Inc.



MedCenterDisplay, a leading provider of digital patient engagement networks for
hundreds of hospitals in the U.S., commissioned Arbitron to conduct on-site
interviews of adults who had viewed hospital and health-related information
running on flat screen monitors placed in hospital waiting areas and cafeterias.


The study, which evaluated the effectiveness of patient engagement and hospital
-branded messaging, revealed that nearly 75 percent of visitors who viewed the
MedCenterDisplay screens could recall at least one message running on the
network.

Survey respondents said the video screens were informative and educational,
better than print as a means of distributing information, and that they learned
something new from the screens, ranking this information from 4.0 to 4.5 on a 1
to 5 scale, with 5 being the highest ranking.

"We believe these findings clearly reinforce the value in establishing a robust
patient engagement network that brings patients and hospitals together to
improve healthcare," said Gregg Tarquinio, Ph.D., chief executive officer of
MedCenterDisplay. "Already hospitals that communicate key healthcare delivery
messages on digital screens are seeing lower readmissions and higher 'HCAHPS'
patient satisfaction scores."

On average, visitors were exposed to patient education and hospital content an
average of one hour and eight minutes while in the hospital.

Those surveyed found information on hospital news, general health news, and tips
on maintaining good health most interesting, ranking the information from 4.0 to
4.6 on a scale from 1 to 5. These rankings mirror recent reports that healthcare
has become one of the highest search topics online.

The report also found that only one-third of all visitors to the hospital were
actually patients. Two-thirds were family members and caregivers of patients,
which correlates with national estimates on the rising number of adult
caregivers reaching nearly 45 million, according to AARP.

"In any patient engagement effort, hospitals have a real opportunity to reach
out to everyone involved in a patient's long-term recovery process," said
Tarquinio.

"Our research has shown viewers of digital displays often trust the information
they see on point-of-care networks," said Diane Williams, senior media research
analyst for Arbitron. "This increased credibility clearly distinguishes these
networks from other digital and video channels."

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

