                              372 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         Morning Star (Wilmington, NC)

                             July 11, 2000, Tuesday

CORRECTION

SECTION: Local/State; Pg. 2A

LENGTH: 1228 words


Because of incorrect information provided by U.S. News & World Report, The
Associated Press on Friday included erroneous national rankings for three
departments at two North Carolina hospitals.

According to corrected data from the magazine, Duke University Medical Center
was rated No. 4, not No. 3, for geriatrics; and No. 8, not No. 7, for kidney
disease and digestive disorders. North Carolina Baptist Hospital in
Winston-Salem was ranked No. 24, not No. 23, in geriatrics.

Morning Star

Category: Local/State

Published: 07/07/2000

Page: 3B

Keywords: Duke University; U.S. News & World Report; hospitals

THE STATE; DUKE GETS HIGHEST RANKING AT 6; 4 N.C. hospitals ranked among best in
nation

CORRECTION DATE: 07/11/2000

CORRECTION: Because of incorrect information provided by U.S. News & World
Report, The Associated Press on Friday included erroneous national rankings for
three departments at two North Carolina hospitals.  According to corrected data
from the magazine, Duke University Medical Center was rated No. 4, not No. 3,
for geriatrics; and No. 8, not No. 7, for kidney disease and digestive
disorders. North Carolina Baptist Hospital in Winston-Salem was ranked No. 24,
not No. 23, in geriatrics.

Byline: Compiled from staff and wire service reports

Duke University Medical Center was ranked No. 6 on U.S. News & World Report's
"honor roll" of the nation's best hospitals. Three other North Carolina
institutions were singled out for outstanding care in various specialties.

In its July 10 issue, U.S. News rated Duke, University of North Carolina
Hospitals at Chapel Hill, North Carolina Baptist Hospital in Winston-Salem and
Carolinas Medical Center in Charlotte.

Duke ranked among the nation's top 50 hospitals in 13 specialties. It also
received recognition in three other specialties for which 22 or fewer hospitals
were rated. It was rated No. 3 for geriatrics; No. 5 for cancer and heart
disease; No. 6 for orthopedics and urology; and No. 7 for kidney disease and
digestive disorders.

Fifteen hospitals were named to U.S. News' "honor roll." Johns Hopkins Hospital
led the honor roll, followed by Mayo Clinic, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Cleveland Clinic and UCLA Medical Center. Institutions had to display unusual
competence in at least six of the 17 specialties rated to get on the list. Duke,
ranked No. 6, was deemed exceptional in 12 specialties.

University of North Carolina Hospitals in Chapel Hill received top-50 ratings in
10 specialties, with its best ranking 14th place for gynecology.

North Carolina Baptist Hospital in Winston-Salem was singled out for its care in
six specialties. Its highest rating was for geriatrics, for which it was ranked
23rd. Carolinas Medical Center was ranked 38th for urology, its only top 50
ranking.

The hospitals were scored according to reputation, mortality and factors such as
technology, procedure volume and nursing care.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2000 Wilmington Star-News, Inc.

