                              374 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        SUNDAY TELEGRAM (Massachusetts)

                              April 7, 2013 Sunday

Hospital is No. 1 in patient safety

SECTION: BUSINESS MATTERS; MEDICAL MEMOS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 697 words


HealthAlliance Hospital in Leominster continues to lead the state on patient
safety and quality outcomes based on data from several national surveys.

Consumer Reports, using government reports and independent information on 2,031
hospitals across the country, ranked HealthAlliance Hospital as the safest
hospital in Massachusetts for the second year in a row.

In addition to the Consumer Reports' findings, HealthAlliance Hospital's awards
and achievements include an "A" hospital safety score from The Leapfrog Group; a
Tier 1 hospital ranking by most major health insurance plans, the best ranking
for quality metrics; a ranking as the fourth leading hospital in the state for
surviving a heart attack, two years in a row; a recipient of health care's Most
Wired Award, four years in a row; one of the first hospitals in the country to
commit to electronic medical records; and the only hospital-based complementary
care center in north Central Massachusetts.

Research advances

The Alzheimer's Association will host "A Focused Conversation on New Research
Advances," featuring Dr. Brent Forester, April 10 at Quinsigamond Community
College, 670 West Boylston St., Worcester.

Registration and a reception begin at 6:15 p.m.; the presentation starts at 7.

Dr. Forester is the director of the Geriatric Mood Disorders Research Program at
McLean Hospital and an assistant professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical
School. He is also co-chairman of the Medical and Scientific Committee for the
Alzheimer's Association, Massachusetts and New Hampshire chapter, and a member
of the association's board of directors.

Dr. Forester will speak about advances in Alzheimer's research, including new
diagnostic criteria, treatment studies and the use of PET scan technology, which
can see Alzheimer's disease in the brain.

The program is free and open to the public; reservations are requested. For more
information or to make a reservation, email Christine.brown@alz.org or call
(508) 799-2386.

Fit-Friendly

Milford Regional Medical Center has been recognized as a Platinum-Level
Fit-Friendly Worksite by the American Heart Association for helping employees
eat better and exercise more.

Platinum-level employers offer employees physical activity options in the
workplace; increase healthy eating options at the worksite; promote a wellness
culture in the workplace; implement at least nine criteria outlined by the
American Heart Association in the areas of physical activity, nutrition and
culture; and demonstrate measurable outcomes related to workplace wellness.

For more information about the Fit-Friendly Worksites program and how it is
helping to improve the health of Americans visit startwalkingnow.org.

Top ranking

Harrington HealthCare System's emergency departments in both Southbridge and
Webster rank among the top 49 healthcare systems in the country, or the top 2
percent, for short waiting times, according to statistics compiled by Becker's
Hospital Review.

The average wait in the emergency departments at Harrington Hospital and
Harrington HealthCare at Hubbard in Webster was 6 minutes for the first quarter
of 2012.

Becker's compiled the data from information that Harrington provides each
quarter to the national Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The time
represents the average time patients spent in the emergency departments before
they were seen by a health care provider. CMMS examines the emergency department
waiting times in more than 3,500 hospitals nationwide.

Harrington publishes the waiting times in both emergency departments on its
website, harringtonhospital.org.

Tuberculosis care

State Rep. Ryan Fattman, R-Sutton, and state Sen. Richard T. Moore, D-Uxbridge,
recently joined state Rep. Peter Durant, R-Spencer, to honor Harrington Memorial
Hospital as the recipient of the Institutional Partner Award for Excellence in
Tuberculosis Care.

Mr. Durant presented the award to members of Harrington's TB Clinic at a
Statehouse ceremony in recognition of World No TB Day 2013. Accepting the award
was Arleen Smith, Harrington's director of preventive health; Nancy Johndrow,
administrative assistant for the TB Clinic; and Debra Vescera, the TB Clinic's
primary nurse.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2013 Worcester Telegram & Gazette, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

