                              376 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Denver Post

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday
                              WED REGIONAL Edition

A healthy showing for Colo. hospital

BYLINE: John Wenzel

SECTION: ASECTION; Pg. 7A

LENGTH: 594 words


For the first time in its 27 year history of health care rankings, U.S. News &
World Report has listed a Colorado hospital on its Best Hospitals Honor Roll, a
list of the top hospitals in the country.

The University of Colorado Hospital the academic home for UCHealth, a nonprofit
health care system that includes five hospitals and more than 100 clinics
throughout Colorado muscled its way onto the 20th and final spot on the list,
distinguishing itself among 5,000 hospitals considered nationally.

It's a prestigious nod and a sign of the Aurora based hospital's continued
growth, said Will Cook, CEO and president.

"What it really means is that for people who live in the Rocky Mountain Region,
when they're diagnosed with a serious disease, they don't need to leave the
region for quality care," said Cook, a 20 year industry veteran who joined
UCHealth in September. "They don't need to go to the east or west coast because
they can get the very best care here locally."

The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, N.Y., was named best hospital in the United
States.

In addition to UCHealth ranking as best overall in Colorado, U.S. News
recognized it as second in the nation for pulmonology (respiratory care), a
distinction it shares with partner organization National Jewish Health. The
report also lauded UCHealth for its work in diabetes and endocrinology (14th in
the nation), kidney disorders (15th), cancer (22nd), gastroenterology and GI
surgery (22nd), gynecology (32nd), geriatrics (36th), cardiology and heart
surgery (42nd), orthopedics (42nd) and neurology and neurosurgery (43rd).

Last year, the hospital handled nearly 101,000 emergency department visits and
cared for more than 46,000 inpatients. The hospital also performed almost 300
organ transplants and delivered more than 3,600 babies. More than 1,800
physicians and providers work at the hospital (out of a total of more than 6,000
employees), and its annual economic impact exceeds $4.5 billion, according to a
2014 report from the University of Colorado.

The hospital was founded in 1885 as a 30 bed institution located on CU's Boulder
campus.

"We wouldn't have a ranking like this without our partnership with CU School of
Medicine, since we're the only academic medical center in the region," Cook
said. "But we also wouldn't have it without our dedicated doctors, nurses and
staff. And this helps attract talent, because so many people are moving to this
region, and when you're looking to expand to meet that need it helps when you're
recruiting."

Hospitals received points in the rankings if they were nationally ranked in one
of the 16 specialties the higher they ranked, the more points they got and how
many ratings of "high performing" they earned in the nine procedures and
conditions. The top 20 point getters made up the Honor Roll.

The only other hospital to earn a specialty nod was Craig Hospital of Englewood,
which came in seventh nationally for rehabilitation care.

Other Colorado hospitals joining UCHealth on the list of best hospitals in the
state are: Porter Adventist Hospital of Denver (second), Medical Center of the
Rockies of Loveland (third), Penrose St. Francis Health Services of Colorado
Springs (fourth) and Poudre Valley Hospital of Fort Collins (fifth). Memorial
Hospital of Colorado Springs, St. Mary's Hospital and Medical Center of Grand
Junction and Sky Ridge Medical Center of Lone Tree all tied for sixth place.

To see the the full list, including specialties and children's hospitals, go to
health.usnews.com

John Wenzel: 303 954 1642, jwenzel@ denverpost.com or @johnwenzel

LOAD-DATE: August 06, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Denver Post
                              All Rights Reserved

