                              369 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            St. Marys Journal Argus

                           December 14, 2013 Saturday
                                  ONT Edition

Hospital tops rankings for patient satisfaction

SECTION: Pg. 0

LENGTH: 495  words


Stew SlaterSt. Marys Journal Argus

Across Ontario, there is one hospital to which patients under acute care or
emerging from acute care are most likely to recommend to others, compared to
other hospitals. And that hospital is St. Marys Memorial.

The Queen Street West facility received outstanding reviews in an annual survey
of patients across Ontario, the results of which were released to the media
earlier this week. The survey covers patient experience between April, 2011 and
March, 2012, and is part of an annual report by the National Research
Corporation of Canada (NRCC).

"These results reflect our healthcare team's unwavering commitment to providing
the very best care possible," said Dick Burgess, in a news release sent out by
the Huron Perth Healthcare Alliance (HPHA) that operates St. Marys Memorial
along with facilities in Stratford, Clinton and Seaforth. Burgess, from
Seaforth, is chair of the HPHA board of directors.

Reached for comment on Monday afternoon, HPHA CEO Andrew Williams said he wasn't
surprised by the results.

"Whenever we see positive patient satisfaction results in St. Marys or at our
three other sites, it simply re-affirms to me that the direction we've been
taking, with an emphasis on patient engagement and patient family engagement, is
the right direction," Williams told the Journal Argus.

"We know from research that's been done that, when you start to look at quality
of care, how responsive you are to the patients is a big driver," he said,
adding the HPHA board has set a strategy of patient-centred care. "And we also
are aware that the level of engagement with the public that our St. Marys site
has is strong."

Williams noted that the categories in which St. Marys Memorial received top
marks included "all hospital peer groups" â\x80" meaning it runs the gamut from
small, rural facilities like those in St. Marys, Seaforth and Clinton, to
"community hospitals" like Stratford General, to big-city teaching hospitals and
region-wide providers.

Results from the NRCC survey reveal St. Marys Memorial stood alone atop the
2011-12 rankings for "likelihood to recommend in acute inpatient care," and also
emerged in a two-way tie atop the rankings in "overall care in acute inpatient
care."

Seaforth Community Hospital also achieved a top-level ranking, emerging as the
"top performing hospital in Ontario for overall care in the Emergency Department
(in) all hospital peer groups." St. Marys Memorial and Clinton Public Hospital
were both in the top 10 per cent for both "overall care" and "likelihood to
recommend" in the Emergency Department category.

"The HPHA Board congratulates and thanks the entire HPHA team for this
commitment. We look forward to continuing to work hard to meet and exceed the
needs of those we are here to serve," Burgess said in the news release.

Williams added that "it's something we should celebrate and learn from and move
forward . . . We can always get better . . . You can never be complacent."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

