                              36 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 5, 2012 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

DMC Children's Hospital of Michigan Earns Top Rankings from U.S. News & World
Report

LENGTH: 294  words


New Delhi, June 5 -- DMC Children's Hospital of Michigan is among the best in
the country in pediatric specialties according to the U.S. News & World Report's
2012-13 Best Children's Hospitals rankings. DMC Children's Hospital of Michigan
ranked in cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, neonatology, nephrology,
neurology and neurosurgery, orthopaedics, pulmonary and urology.

The rankings recognize the top 50 children's hospitals in each of the 10
pediatric specialties: cancer, cardiology and heart surgery, diabetes and
endocrinology, gastroenterology, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology, and urology. Eighty hospitals across the
country ranked in one or more specialties.

For families of sick children, Best Children's Hospitals provides unparalleled
quality-related information in addition to rankings, including survival rates,
adequacy of nurse staffing, procedure volume, and much more. Since their 2007
debut, the rankings have put an increasing emphasis on data that directly
reflect hospitals' performance over the opinions of physicians.

In its sixth year, U.S. News surveyed 178 pediatric centers to obtain hard data
such as availability of key resources and ability to prevent complications and
infections. The hospital survey made up 75 percent of the rankings. A separate
reputational survey in which 1,500 pediatric specialists-150 in each
specialty-were asked where they would send the sickest children in their
specialty made up the remaining 25 percent.

Survey rankings are available online at www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals. The
U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook, available in August, will also include
the rankings.

To learn more about Children's Hospital of Michigan, visit www.childrensdmc.org.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


