                              381 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Reading Eagle (Pennsylvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             July 21, 2015 Tuesday

Philadelphia hospital ranked 1st in state, 9th-best in country

BYLINE: Matthew Nojiri, Reading Eagle, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 429 words


July 21--For the second straight year, the Hospitals of the University of
Pennsylvania-Penn Presbyterian was the top hospital in the state and one of the
best in the country, according to rankings released today by U.S. News & World
Report.

The Philadelphia-based hospital system came in as the ninth-best in the country
and earned a national ranking in 13 of 16 complex specialties. The University of
Pittsburgh Medical Center was second in the state and 13th in the country.

"Patients deserve high-quality information on hospitals," Ben Harder, chief of
health analysis at U.S. News, said in a statement. "We strive to provide them
with the most comprehensive data available so they can make more informed
decisions together with their doctor about where to undergo treatment."

The report covers complex care in 16 medical and surgical specialties. Just 3
percent of hospitals in the nation earned a national ranking in at least one
speciality.

It also looks at five areas of common care, such as hip and knee replacement,
heart bypass surgery, heart failure and chronic lung disease.

In the region, Lehigh Valley Hospital near Allentown ranked third in the state;
Lancaster General Hospital, fifth; Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center,
seventh; and Harrisburg-based PinnacleHealth Hospitals, eighth.

Reading Hospital received high-performing status for knee replacement and heart
failure and was in an 11-way tie for 16th in the state. Penn State Health St.
Joseph Medical Center was not ranked in the report.

The list is designed to be a starting point for patients with life-threatening
or rare conditions as they look to identify hospitals that excel in treating
difficult cases.

U.S. News notes in its overview of the report that patients do not always need
to go to hospitals at the top of the list, particularly for more common
procedures and care that is offered at their community hospitals and is more
likely covered in their insurance plans.

The best hospitals in the country earned spots on the honor roll for being
nationally ranked or near the top in six or more specialties.

The top hospital in the United States was Massachusetts General Hospital in
Boston, moving up a spot from last year. The Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.,
was second and Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore and UCLA Medical Center in
Los Angeles tied for third.

Contact Matthew Nojiri: 610-371-5062 or mnojiri@readingeagle.com

TODAY'S SPONSOR:

___ (c)2015 the Reading Eagle (Reading, Pa.) Visit the Reading Eagle (Reading,
Pa.) at readingeagle.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150721-RE-Philadelphia-hospital
-ranked-1st-in-state-9th-best-in-country-0721-20150721

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RE


                          Copyright 2015 Reading Eagle

