                              379 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      November 28, 2011 Monday 6:30 AM EST

DR Systems: KLAS Ranks DR Systems the Top PACS Vendor for Large Hospitals

LENGTH: 459  words


New Delhi, Nov. 28 -- DR Systems, one of the most respected names in healthcare
information systems, has once again been recognized by KLAS as the leading PACS
vendor for large hospitals. This is the second year in a row that the company
has received the top ranking.

The ranking is published in the KLAS Specialty Report: PACS 2011. The company
was rated ahead of all other PACS companies including McKesson, Fuji, GE Medical
Systems, Siemens, Philips, and Merge.

The DR Systems Unity RIS/PACS received the top ranking in the category of large
hospitals - defined as hospitals with 200 or more beds. Research for the report
encompassed interviews with 423 healthcare provider organizations.

KLAS cited DR Systems for its continued "strong run of high performance in the
large-hospital PACS market" and noted that "clients evangelize DR Systems more
than they evangelize any other PACS vendor."

The company also received the highest percentage of positive commentary among
all PACS vendors, including 100% positive commentary in functionality/upgrades.

"Most [DR Systems] customers reported feeling they have a true partnership and a
voice in the ongoing development and progress of the Unity PACS platform," KLAS
reported.

DR Systems has also been recognized by KLAS as the #1 overall PACS vendor in
four of the last ten years (2001, 2006, 2007 and 2010). The 2011 winner will be
announced later this year.

In addition to its overall first-place ranking in the large-hospital category,
DR Systems achieved top scores in numerous topical areas. They included:

Service and support

* Quality of implementation

* Quality of training

* Quality of phone/web support

Technology/Product Quality

* Best solution compared to others

* Money's worth

* Supports integration goals

* Overall satisfaction

* Recommend to a peer/friend

Relationship with Customers

* Executive involvement

* Overall communication

"We've always made it our first priority to help our customers maximize their
clinical and financial success," said Murray Reicher, M.D., the company's
chairman and co-founder. "Receiving this recognition for the second time in a
row is tremendously rewarding because it speaks to the bond we have forged with
our customers.

"As we move ahead in this era of enterprise imaging systems, DR is very well
prepared because of our wide array of RIS, CVIS, PACS, Reporting, Meaningful
Use, and Information/Image sharing products and services. We thank our customers
for this tremendous honor from KLAS."

KLAS is a prominent research and consulting firm that specializes in monitoring
and reporting the performance of healthcare information technology vendors,
including picture archiving and communication systems (PACS) companies. For more
information about KLAS, visit www.KLASresearch.com.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2011 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

