                              37 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW HOSPITAL NAMED BEST IN STATE IN LATEST US NEWS LIST

BYLINE:  LARRY AVILA lavila@madison.com, 608-252-6155

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 337 words


UW Hospital and Clinics is the state's top hospital for the fifth consecutive
year and is among the nation's top 50 hospitals in nine medical and surgical
specialties, one fewer than last year, according to U.S. News and World Report's
latest rankings released Tuesday.

UW's national rankings in the specialties are cancer, 43rd; gastroenterology/GI
surgery, 30th; geriatrics, 30th; gynecology, 13th; nephrology, 28th; neurology
and neurosurgery, 40th; orthopedics, 50th; pulmonology, 33rd; and urology, 21st.
UW last year ranked 49th in ear, nose and throat but did not rank in the
category this year.

UW also rated high-performing for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair, aortic
valve surgery, heart bypass surgery, heart failure, colon cancer surgery,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), hip and knee replacements and lung
cancer surgery.

St. Mary's Hospital ranked sixth among Wisconsin hospitals, up two spots from
last year. The hospital received high-performing marks for AAA, congestive heart
failure, coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), congestive heart failure (CHF),
colon cancer surgery, COPD, and hip and knee replacements.

Meriter Hospital finished in a five-way tie for seventh, an improvement from its
eighth- place ranking last year. It earned high-performing ratings for care of
CHF, COPD, and hip and knee replacements.

Mercy Health Hospital in Janesville ranked fourth in the state, a three-place
improvement from 2015. Mercy also ranked 29th nationally in urology and received
a high-performing specialty ranking in nephrology. Mercy also received
high-performing marks for CHF, COPD and colon care.

No Wisconsin hospitals made the 2016-17 Best Hospitals Honor Roll. Topping that
list was Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, followed by Cleveland Clinic;
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston; Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore; and
UCLA Medical Center.

This is the 27th list of hospital rankings released by U.S. News and World
Report, which compared nearly 5,000 hospitals around the country.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JOHN HART - State Journal UW Hospital and Clinics, which U.S. News and
World Report ranked among the nation's top 50 hospitals -- and the best in the
state -- was named 43rd in cancer treatment.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2016 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


