                              382 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Timaru Herald (New Zealand)

                           October 24, 2013 Thursday

DHB hails hospital ranking system

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 407 words


Timaru patients will get a chance to rank their hospital stays from next year
under a system similar to Trip Advisor, a travel review website.

South Canterbury District Health Board (SCDHB) chief executive Nigel Trainor has
welcomed the proposed national ranking system, to be rolled out across all
public hospitals.

The concept will allow patients to rank their hospital stays on a one-to-10
scale.

"Feedback and information regarding care is vital to ensuring our service is
meeting people's needs, the quality of our service rates well and highlights
areas where we can improve," Mr Trainor said.

Timaru Hospital patients can already provide feedback on their time in hospital
using a range of resources, including "complaint and i-forms", which are
available on the SCDHB website.

The "i-form" is an informal feedback process available to anyone who visits a
SCDHB service. The forms can be filled out and placed in a locked box at the
hospital or posted to the Quality and Risk Department. The box is cleared
monthly and the information is collated into a document, which is shared around
the organisation, Mr Trainor said.

"Responses are provided to the individual if requested when a name and contact
details are provided."

The SCDHB also sends out a patient satisfaction survey to 170 "randomly
selected" inpatients and outpatients each fortnight. The responses are sent to
an independent company for collation and the anonymous data is provided to the
DHB each quarter.

The health board is also piloting a new "consumer experience questionnaire".

Focus groups are being held in Timaru this week to go over the concept.
Developers will also work with those groups to review the proposed
questionnaire.

On average the SCDHB receives eight written complaints a month.

Mr Trainor said "a number" of compliments were also received, but a record of
those was not kept.

He said a range of DHBs will pilot the proposed ranking system before the
national roll out. It is not yet known if the SCDHB will be one of those.

The ranking system will focus on four key areas - communication, partnership,
co-ordination and physical and emotional needs.

Health Minister Tony Ryall said the survey would provide "invaluable"
information to DHBs about what they are doing well and the areas they could
improve on.

"It will be the first time this information has been collected and measured in
the same way across the whole country."

The results will be publicly reported.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved

