                              385 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Telegraph-Journal (New Brunswick)

                             April 19, 2013 Friday

Good hospitals, or bad statistics?

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 700 words


The CBC's Fifth Estate recently broadcast Rate My Hospital, a "sweeping
cross-country investigation into Canada's hospitals.

"Manufacturing scaremongering headlines on junk-science hospital ratings"
however, would have been a better description. The last time there was an
'investigation' like this, they found Galileo guilty.

Interviews of health system administrators trying to explain their poor ratings
only added to the sleaziness. It's like asking a confidence game victim to
explain how they were conned before they realize they have been.

Yorkton Regional Health Centre spokesperson Sharon Tropin did an admirable job
explaining a D rating, criticizing the rating tool for having only five
indicators. That's a good point.

Here's a better one. The CBC rankings are fairy tale products of an elaborate
con game. Statistical techniques are misused to manufacture phony findings while
giving the (false) impression of scientific rigor.

The Fifth Estate's website indicates the statistical methodology was developed
by biostatisticians noted for their work in evaluating health system
performance. Their credentials are impressive. But science doesn't work by
credentials. It works by data, and evidence produced through rational, logical,
analysis. Evidently, researchers substituted extensive data torture for
rationality and logic, the better to hear what was wanted, I guess.

Here's how this data torture took place:

Hospital report card grades were determined by measuring the number of standard
deviations a hospital is from the average for all hospitals. (Standard deviation
is a measure of the variability in the data.) For example, a grade of 'A' is
given to hospital whose standardized performance score is 1 or more standard
deviations from the average. A grade of 'B' is given if the hospital score is
between 0.5 and 0.999 standard deviations better than the average, and so forth
all the way to 'D'. There are three problems with this.

1. The expected operating range of any process is +/- 3 standard deviations.
Using +/- 1 standard deviation means the CBC had to narrow the definition of
expected performance because the data were otherwise unable to produce any
findings. In other words, the data supported no conclusions of scientific or
practical importance so statistical technique was manipulated to manufacture
some.

2. Combined with the system of grades, this data torture transforms measured
ratings into ordinal rankings. If your data proves nothing, ranking makes it
look as though it did. The CBC's report card proves nothing more than that, in a
ranking of hospitals (or anything else), some will be at the top, some at the
bottom, and about half will be below average. I wonder how much the CBC paid to
validate Grade 10 arithmetic?

3. Most importantly, the method rests on a logical fallacy. The report card
standard deviations are the probabilities of obtaining a performance rating,
assuming hospitals are the cause. But the CBC conclusions concern the
probability the hospital is the cause, given the ratings.

It's a statistical sleight of hand called the fallacy of the transposed
conditional, and yes, it's confusing. But that's what makes this con so
effective.

Think of it this way. The CBC measured the probability that a person would die
after jumping off Toronto's CN Tower. It then used these same probabilities to
conclude that a man found dead in Saskatchewan must have jumped from the Toronto
landmark.

Admittedly, the CBC is not alone in using these techniques. They are ubiquitous
in reporting from provincial health systems, quality councils, health ministries
and the Canadian Institute for Healthcare Information. But shouldn't the media
be exposing scientifically incompetent practices rather than promoting them?

The health-care system in Canada has enough problems. It doesn't need hacks
manufacturing new ones.

Robert Gerst is a columnist for Troy Media and partner in charge of operational
excellence and research &statistical methods at Converge Consulting Group Inc.
He is author of "The Performance Improvement Toolkit: The Guide to
Knowledge-Based Improvement" and numerous articles in peer-reviewed
publications. This article was syndicated by TroyMedia.ca

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2013 CanWest Interactive, a division of CanWest MediaWorks
                               Publications Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

