                              377 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                           December 25, 2014 Thursday

GRU-affiliated hospitals rank high in state

LENGTH: 428  words

DATELINE: Augusta


Georgia Regents University has issued the following news release:

Georgia Trend magazine ranked Georgia Regents Medical Center - the flagship
hospital for the Medical College of Georgia at Georgia Regents University - and
Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital in Albany -- at No. 3 and No. 7, respectively --
among the Top Teaching Hospitals in the state in their 2014 Top Hospitals
feature. Phoebe Putney is the hub of MCG's fi11-14-cover-743e6678rst satellite
medical campus - the Southwest Georgia Clinical Campus - for third- and
fourth-year medical students. The Children's Hospital of Georgia also has a
pediatrics presence at Phoebe. In addition, Floyd Medical Center, part of GRU's
Northwest Clinical Campus for MCG students, was ranked second best teaching
hospital in the state.

There are more than 130 hospitals dotting the Georgia landscape. To determine
the rankings, officials at Georgia Trend grouped hospitals of similar size and
mission together and compared them with their peer institutions. The top
hospitals are listed in five categories: Teaching Hospitals, Large Hospitals
(more than 400 beds), Medium-sized Hospitals (151-399 beds), Small Hospitals
(fewer than 150 beds), and Critical Access Hospitals (rural community hospitals,
typically with fewer than 25 beds).

The data used to compile the rankings came from publicly available information
on quality of care, patient satisfaction, mortality and readmission statistics,
and hospital-acquired infections and conditions. The information comes from the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) and is available at
hospitalcompare.hhs.gov. The data download date for our analysis is July 2014.

TOP TEACHING HOSPITALS
Hospitals affiliated with accredited medical schools that provide education and
training opportunities for students:

Emory University Hospital - Atlanta
    Floyd Medical Center - Rome
    Georgia Regents Medical Center - Augusta
    Navicent Health** - Macon
    Emory University Hospital Midtown - Atlanta
    Midtown Medical Center - Columbus
    Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital - Albany
    Atlanta Medical Center - Atlanta
    Houston Medical Center - Warner Robins
    Memorial Health University Medical Center - Savannah
    Mayo Clinic Health System in Waycross - Waycross
    Grady Memorial Hospital - Atlanta

**Formerly Medical Center of Central Georgia

To see other hospital categories and rankings, read the full article in the
December issue of Georgia Trend magazine.

In case of any query regarding this article or other content needs please
contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

