                              38 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Bismarck Tribune

                           October 27, 2007 Saturday

BYLINE: Tribune Staff report

SECTION: DAKOTA WIRE

LENGTH: 336 words


St Alexius Medical Center in Bismarck received the most "above average" or
"better than expected" procedure or diagnoses rankings among the state's 56
hospitals reviewed by Health-Grades, a group that disseminates information on
hospital patient safety activities to consumers, payers and employers.

HealthGrades, which also provides reports to professional medical liability
insurance underwriters for nursing homes, hospitals and physicians that assist
those companies in assessing risk and verifying background information, gave St.
Alexius eight "above average" rankings out of 25 procedures or diagnoses
performed at the hospital.

Medcenter One of Bismarck was one of six other hospitals receiving "above
average" rankings with five of 27 procedures or diagnoses performed. The others
were Altru Hospital in Grand Forks (six of 25), Innovis Health of Fargo (five of
26), Meritcare Health Systems of Fargo (four of 27), Mercy Hospital of Valley
City (two of six) and Mercy Medical Center in Williston (two of 14).

Several procedural-diagnoses rankings of "best" were awarded to the state's
hospitals, while some rankings were "average" or "poor." Several hospitals were
not ranked because of a lack of statistically required volume. The complete list
of rankings can be found on the Net at http://www.healthgrades.com/hospital
-directory/north-dakota-nd.

St. Alexius was given "excellence awards" in the following areas: cardiac care,
cardiac surgery, coronary intervention, gastrointestinal care, gastrointestinal
surgery and joint replace-ment. It also received five-star rankings in care in
the areas of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, coronary interventional
procedures (angioplasty/stent), gastrointestinal surgeries and procedures, heart
attack, heart bypass surgery, valve replacement surgery and pneumonia.

Medcenter One had five-star ratings in care in the areas of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, heart attack, heart failure, resection/replacement of
abdominal aorta, respiratory failure and stroke.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright 2007 The Bismarck Tribune, a division of Lee Enterprises
                              All Rights Reserved


