                              389 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              January 8, 1998, Thursday, 0 South Pinellas Edition
                              Correction Appended

Markets

SECTION: BUSINESS; Correction; Pg. 1E

LENGTH: 524 words



LATE RALLY EVENS DOW: A late surge of bargain hunting left most stock  measures
only slightly lower Wednesday. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, down  nearly
130 points in the early afternoon, finished 3.98 lower at 7,902.27  after
mounting an 85-point rally over the final 15 minutes of trading. The  rally
wiped out the bulk of the day's losses for most broad-market indicators,  but
the technology group, considered most vulnerable to economic troubles  overseas,
lagged the rebound.

Tampa Bay/State

HOSPITALS IN TOP 100: Four Tampa Bay area hospitals are among the nation's top
100 in a ranking compiled by HCIA Inc. of Baltimore, and William M. Mercer  Inc.
of Washington, D.C. Mease Countryside Hospital in Safety Harbor and
Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp.'s hospitals in Largo, Brandon and Bradenton were
among 17 Florida hospitals named to the list. Researchers from Mercer and HCIA
reviewed data on quality and cost efficiency from more than 7,000 hospitals to
compile the annual list.

Nation

JUSTICE ENTERS PHONE FRAY: The U.S. Justice Department asked a federal court  in
Texas on Wednesday to delay a decision striking down a key part of the
telecommunications act while the decision is appealed. U.S. District Judge Joe
Kendall ruled last month that a 1996 telecommunications act requirement that
the Baby Bell telephone companies fulfill market-opening requirements before
they offer customers in their regions long-distance service is
unconstitutional. Kendall said the requirement unfairly discriminates against
the regional Bells because other local phone companies aren't held to similar
rules. The Justice Department's request follows similar motions by AT&T Corp.
and MCI Communications Corp.

AOL FIGHTS E-MAIL SPAM: America Online has filed suit against three bulk  e-mail
companies, seeking injunctions and unspecified damages. In a lawsuit  filed in
federal court in Alexandria, Va., on Tuesday, the nation's largest  online
service accused IMS of Knoxville, Tenn., Gulf Coast Marketing of Baton  Rouge,
La., and TSF Marketing of Riverside, Calif., of stuffing members'  electronic
mailboxes with unsolicited bulk e-mails with bogus return addresses  and
refusing to stop when asked by AOL. "We expect to build precedents that  show
spamming is illegal," said George Vradenburg, general counsel for the  online
service. The lawsuit follows a victory for the online company in  December
against Over the Air Equipment Inc., which was enjoined from sending  similar
bulk e-mails to AOL members and forced to pay damages.

Correction

The Rev. Robert B. Inhoff is president and chief executive officer of American
Baptist Homes of the Midwest, which owns Palm Shores Retirement Center in St.
Petersburg. An item in Monday's Business Times was incorrect.

DOW               DOLLAR              YIELD

30 INDUSTRIALS    VS. JAPANESE YEN    30-YEAR U.S. BOND

7902.27           131.25              5.78

-3.98             -2.40              +0.06

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 10, 1998

CORRECTION:
 The list of the nation's top 100 hospitals compiled by HCIA Inc. and William M.
Mercer Inc. includes two Pasco County hospitals as well as four other facilities
in the Tampa Bay area. The hospitals on the list are Columbia / HCA Healthcare
Corp. hospitals in Dade City, New Port Richey, Largo, Brandon and Bradenton, as
well as Mease Countryside Hospital in Safety Harbor. An item in Wednesday's
editions did not include the Pasco hospitals.

TYPE: CORRECTION; DIGEST

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company

