                              392 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  July 07, 2000, Friday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Moffitt moves up in rankings of cancer treatment centers

BYLINE: WES ALLISON

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 339 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The Tampa research facility is rated 22nd, up from 34th in the nation last year.

The H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute again has been ranked
one of the nation's top hospitals for cancer treatment.

The July 17 issue of U.S. News & World Report rated Moffitt 22nd out of 50
hospitals. Last year, Moffitt ranked 34th.

"We feel that this is a reflection of our outstanding research and clinical
expertise and our continuing emphasis on bringing new discoveries to bear on the
treatment and care of our patients," Dr. John C. Ruckdeschel, the center's
director, said in a statement.

Moffitt, at the University of South Florida in Tampa, is the state's only
National Cancer Institute research center and regularly conducts research and
clinical trials of national significance. Its physicians also teach at USF.

The magazine ranked hospitals in 16 specialties, including cancer, pediatrics,
orthopedics, geriatrics and cardiology. It based the rankings on reputation,
mortality rates,  procedures offered, nursing care and other factors.

First overall, for excelling in many specialties, was Johns Hopkins Hospital in
Baltimore, followed by the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. First in cancer care
was the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center.

No other Tampa Bay-area hospitals made any of the lists, although several
hospitals elsewhere in Florida were honored: Shands at the University of Florida
in Gainesville was ranked 35th in cancer care, compared with 23rd place last
year. Shands also ranked 48th in the treatment of digestive disorders.

In cardiology, Orlando Regional Medical Center ranked 24th, while its neighbor,
Florida Hospital Medical Center, placed 41st. Martin Memorial Medical Center in
Stuart was ranked 45th for treating respiratory disorders.

In the pediatrics category, which was ranked by reputation alone, Jackson
Memorial Hospital at the University of Miami was 21st of 22 hospitals.

The America's Best Hospitals issue of the magazine hits news stands Monday.


LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE; CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE

                    Copyright 2000 Times Publishing Company

