                              396 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Wenatchee World (Washington)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 25, 2009 Tuesday

Medical Center tops Consumer Reports list

BYLINE: Dee Riggs, The Wenatchee World, Wash.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 477 words


Aug. 25--WENATCHEE -- Expect to find excellent communication between patients
and medical staff at Wenatchee Valley Hospital.

The facility, operated by the Wenatchee Valley Medical Center, just got the top
ranking in Washington state for communication skills, according to Consumer
Reports.

The main criterion was not quality of care, but how well doctors and nurses
communicate with patients, magazine officials said. The results, all patient
opinions, were published online this month through Consumer Reports.

"We are really pleased," said Dr. David Weber, the medical center's chief
executive officer and chairman of the board of directors. "Communication has
been an emphasis of ours."

Of the 58 hospitals ranked in the state, Wenatchee Valley Hospital garnered the
most points for patient services -- with a heavy emphasis on communication
skills -- at 85 out of 100. The only other hospital ranked in North Central
Washington, Wenatchee's Central Washington Hospital, received 66 points.

That is about the middle of the state rankings, in which the Auburn Regional
Medical Center came in at the lowest level with 47 points. Consumer Reports
officials said the national average was 65.

The results were based on patient surveys collected by the federal government's
Hospital Consumer Assessments of Healthcare Providers and Systems Survey,
Consumer Reports officials said. Not all hospitals were ranked. Criteria
included those turning in a large number of patient surveys. Consumer Reports
officials said they plan to update the lists quarterly, as more data are turned
in.

At Central Washington Hospital, quality coordinator Jane Budden said she was
disappointed in the hospital's ranking but was not surprised.

Tracey Kasnic, the hospital's vice president of patient care services, said
Central Washington Hospital offers such services as open heart surgery,
neurosurgery and end-of-life care, which are not offered at Wenatchee Valley
Hospital and which result in a higher intensity of care, which can cause more
stress for patients.

The survey ranked both hospitals high for doctor and nurse communication with
patients.

Wenatchee Valley Hospital ranked higher than CWH, however, on its discharge
instructions, communications about medications and quietness of the rooms.

The survey ranked more than 3,200 hospitals in the nation. The results are
available for subscribers at www.consumerreportshealth.org.

Dee Riggs: 664-7147

deeriggs@wenatcheeworld.com

To see more of The Wenatchee World or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.wenworld.com. Copyright (c) 2009, The Wenatchee World, Wash.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090825-ZY-Medical-Center-tops-Consumer-Reports-list-0825

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZY


                                 Copyright 2009

