                              387 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Pittsburgh Post-Gazette (Pennsylvania)

                            October 13, 2006 Friday
                                 REGION EDITION

UPMC URGING DOCTORS;
TO VOTE TO FORTIFY RANKING

BYLINE: Christopher Snowbeck Pittsburgh Post-Gazette

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 632 words


Politicians aren't the only ones orchestrating get-out-the-vote campaigns this
fall.

Dr. Loren Roth, chief medical officer of the University of Pittsburgh Medical
Center, distributed a letter to local physicians last month in which he
encouraged them to vote early and often for UPMC hospitals should they be among
the lucky doctors asked to participate in U.S. News & World Report magazine's
annual survey of "best hospitals."

Noting the medical center's recent success in the ranking by U.S. News -- UPMC
was rated this year as one of the 14 best hospitals in the nation -- Dr. Roth
told his physicians that: "We would like to build on this upward momentum. Hence
now more than ever, UPMC needs your vote."

"If you receive a survey and respond by selecting a UPMC teaching facility (such
as UPMC Presbyterian Shadyside, Children's Hospital and/or Magee-Womens
Hospital), you can help advance UPMC's ranking," Dr. Roth wrote in the Sept. 20
letter. "In the survey you may list one hospital, several hospitals, or all of
them."

While Dr. Roth was not available for comment yesterday, spokesman Frank
Raczkiewicz said health system officials have sent similar letters for the past
three years or so to remind physicians about the survey, and encourage their
participation.

Mr. Raczkiewicz did not say how many physicians received the letter, which
encourages doctors who are surveyed by U.S. News to alert the marketing office
at UPMC so that officials can "update our database." The September letter
encouraged doctors to submit their surveys in time for the Halloween deadline.

"Only 200 physicians across the United States in each of 16 specialties receive
this survey," Dr. Roth wrote. "Therefore, your response is critical, and holds
tremendous weight."

The U.S. News ranking has become a serious business for hospitals, which often
incorporate accolades from the magazine in their own marketing campaigns. As
such, it's not surprising that hospitals including UPMC would work to get out
the vote, said Betsy Gelb, a professor of marketing and entrepreneurship at the
Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston.

She likened the UPMC outreach to those made by professional baseball teams as
they encourage fans to cast votes in favor of hometown players for the All-Star
Game.

"You're not really influencing their opinion -- I think that is the honest
fact," Ms. Gelb said. "You're trying to get people who would vote for your folks
anyway, to, in effect, go to the polls and do so."

That may be, but it reflects poorly on the U.S. News methodology, said Ken Segel
of the Value Capture Policy Institute, a North Side group that was founded in
part by former Alcoa chairman and U.S. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill.

Some experts in health care quality have long bemoaned the public attention
given to the magazine's rankings, in part because U.S. News uses a hospital's
reputation among physicians as one of its three main data points. A Dartmouth
College study published in Health Affairs during 2004, for example, raised
questions about the magazine's methodology by finding that Medicare patients
with similar chronic conditions receive strikingly different care among
hospitals identified as "best" in geriatrics by U.S. News.

"U.S. News is, in a sense, getting what they deserve by setting up the criteria
in a way that rewards reputation disproportionately," Mr. Segel said. "They need
to really shift the ratings away from reputation and toward hard evidence --
that the right outcomes are being achieved, and the right processes are being
followed."

U.S. News officials did not respond to written questions seeking comment.

Dr. Roth hopes the same won't be true of UPMC physicians.

"We thank you in advance," he wrote, "for casting your vote for one or all of
the eligible UPMC facilities."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Christopher Snowbeck can be reached at csnowbeck@post-gazette.com or
412-263-2625.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 P.G. Publishing Co.

