                              390 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday
                                  ML2 Edition

High degree of care Suburban hospitals fare well in U.S. News rankings

BYLINE: By Deborah Donovan ddonovan@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 658 words


U.S. News gives kudos to suburban hospitals for their performance in 16
specialized areas, in their annual rankings published online Tuesday.

The publication puts these suburban hospitals in the top 25 percent nationally
in the specialties for which they were listed.

Forty-four of 121 Chicago area hospitals were ranked as "high performing" in one
or more specialties.

U.S. News & World Report presents its rankings every year. This year they are
based on data from 2007-2009.

In most specialties the rankings rely on hard data for Medicare patients such as
death rates and number of patients. Surveys of specialist physicians are
important, and ratio of nurses to patients is also taken into consideration.

In four specialties, ophthalmology, psychiatry, rehabilitation and rheumatology,
the ranking is solely by reputation among specialists.

The U.S. News website assures readers that in most situations people can get
great care by going to a good hospital, and only the most difficult cases would
need the expertise at the best centers in the country.

Here are the suburban hospitals that made this year's list, how they rank in the
Chicago area, and the specialties labeled "high performing" by the publication.

* Alexian Brothers Medical

Center, Elk Grove Village. Ranked seventh in the Chicago area based on the
following specialties: Cancer; diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat;
gastroenterology; geriatrics; gynecology; heart and heart surgery; kidney
disorders; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

* St. Alexius Medical Center, Hoffman Estates. Tied for ninth in the Chicago
area, for: Cancer; diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat;
gastroenterology; geriatrics; gynecology; kidney disorders; neurology and
neurosurgery; orthopedics; and pulmonology.

* Advocate Good Samaritan, Downers Grove. Tied for 11th, for: Cancer; diabetes
and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat; gastroenterology; geriatrics;
gynecology; kidney disorders; pulmonology; and urology.

* Central DuPage Hospital, Winfield, tied for 11th: Ear, nose and throat;
gastroenterology; geriatrics; gynecology; heart and heart surgery; neurology and
neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

* Provena St. Joseph, Joliet, tied for 11th: Cancer; gastroenterology;
geriatrics; gynecology; kidney disorders; neurology and neurosurgery;
orthopedics; pulmonology; urology.

* Northwest Community, Arlington Heights, ranked 16th: Ear, nose and throat;
gastroenterology; gynecology; kidney disorder; orthopedics; urology.

* Advocate Lutheran General, Park Ridge, tied for 17th: Cancer; ear, nose and
throat; gastroenterology; gynecology; urology.

* Provena St. Joseph, Elgin, tied for 17th: Diabetes and endocrinology;
gastroenterology; geriatrics; neurology and neurosurgery; and orthopedics.

* Adventist Hinsdale, tied for 23rd: Ear, nose and throat; gynecology; and
orthopedics.

* Edward Hospital, Naperville, tied for 23rd: Gastroenterology; orthopedics; and
urology.

* Sherman Hospital, Elgin, tied for 23rd: Diabetes and endocrinology;
geriatrics; and kidney disorder.

* Advocate Condell, Libertyville, tied for 30th: Kidney disorder; and urology.

* Rush-Copley, Aurora, tied for 30th: Gynecology; and orthopedics.

* Advocate Good Shepherd, Barrington, tied for 35th: Heart and heart surgery.

* Delnor Community, Geneva, tied for 35th: Gynecology.

Five major Chicago area hospitals were ranked best in the country: Northwestern
Memorial with national rankings in 13 specialties; University of Chicago in 12
areas; Rush University in 10 areas; Loyola University in four; University of
Illinois and Rehabilitation Institute each in one.

Children's hospitals are ranked separately. Children's Memorial and University
of Chicago are at the top of the ratings and Advocate Hope in Oak Lawn and Rush
Children's also ranked.

The complete list of best hospitals in the Chicago area is at
health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/area/chicago-il/specialty

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mark Black/mblack@dailyherald.com The view from one of from one of the
Quiet Lounges in the new South Pavilion at Northwest Community Hospital in
Arlington Heights, which looks out over the golf course. Mark
Black/mblack@dailyherald.com The view from one of from one of the Quiet Lounges
in the new South Pavilion at Northwest Community Hospital in Arlington Heights,
which looks out over the golf course. Mark Black/mblack@dailyherald.com The view
from one of from one of the Quiet Lounges in the new South Pavilion at Northwest
Community Hospital in Arlington Heights, which looks out over the golf course.
Mark Black/mblack@dailyherald.com The view from one of from one of the Quiet
Lounges in the new South Pavilion at Northwest Community Hospital in Arlington
Heights, which looks out over the golf course.Courtesy Edward HospitalEdward
Hospital in Naperville has grown into a regional health care provider with
word-class cardiac, cancer and stroke care. Courtesy Edward Hospital
 Edward Hospital in Naperville was ranked in three specialties by U.S. News.

 Mark Black/mblack@dailyherald.com
 This is a "quiet lounge" at Northwest Community Hospital in Arlington Heights.
The hospital was ranked in six specialties by U.S. News.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Paddock Publications, Inc.

