                              388 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        July 19, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Mayo Clinic Lauded in Quality Rankings, Most Recently by U.S. News & World
Report

LENGTH: 817  words


New Delhi, July 19 -- There are many external agencies that rate quality in
health care and Mayo Clinic is top ranked for quality by more well-known
national assessment organizations than any other academic medical center in the
nation.



"These endorsements reinforce our century-old commitment to provide the highest
quality care to each patient every day. While no single set of measures can
perfectly represent health care quality, we are proud to be recognized by so
many," says John Noseworthy, M.D., Mayo Clinic's president and CEO. "We are
honored by this recognition, and we remain focused on our primary mission:
putting the needs of our patients first and creating for them the best possible,
most trusted and affordable model of health care for the future."

Most recently, Mayo Clinic was highly rated in the 24th U.S. News & World Report
annual America's Best Hospitals list released today. As in 2012, Mayo earned the
No. 3 overall spot on the "Best Hospitals" list. Mayo ranked No. 1 in the nation
in five clinical areas - gynecology, diabetes and endocrinology,
gastroenterology, nephrology and pulmonology. In addition, Mayo is ranked No. 2
in five additional specialties - cardiology & heart surgery, ear, nose & throat,
geriatrics, neurology & neurosurgery and orthopedics. Mayo Clinic earned the No.
1 spot in Minnesota, ranked No. 1 in Arizona and specifically in the Phoenix
metro area, and earned the No. 1 rank as best hospital in the Jacksonville area.


Hospitals included in the U.S. News Honor Roll, such as Mayo Clinic, are part of
an elite group recognized for "breadth of excellence," according to the
magazine. To make the magazine's "Honor Roll," a medical center has to rank at
or near the top in at least six specialties included in the rankings. Mayo
Clinic ranked in the top five in 14 specialties of the 16 specialties. Mayo
Clinic landed a ranking of No. 1 or No. 2 in ten of the 12 specialties that are
measured based on reputation, services and volumes, safety and clinical
outcomes.

Mayo Clinic's specialty rankings with links to detailed rankings for each
specialty area are as follows: gynecology (1); diabetes & endocrinology (1);
gastroenterology & GI surgery (1); nephrology (1); pulmonology (1);
cardiology-and-heart-surgery (2); ear, nose & throat(2); geriatrics (2);
neurology & neurosurgery (2); orthopedics (2); cancer (3); rheumatology (3);
urology (3); rehabilitation (5); psychiatry (7); and ophthalmology (15).

The Arizona campus of Mayo Clinic also ranked nationally in cancer (33), ENT
(25), gastroenterology & GI surgery (20), geriatrics (17), gynecology (26),
nephrology (21), neurology & neurosurgery (38), orthopedics (43), pulmonology
(50), and urology (31). In addition, the Arizona campus was recognized as high
performing in cardiology & heart surgery, diabetes & endocrinology, and
rheumatology.

The Florida campus of Mayo Clinic ranked nationally in cancer (34) and was
recognized as high performing in diabetes & endocrinology, ENT, gastroenterology
& GI surgery, geriatrics, gynecology, nephrology, neurology & neurosurgery,
orthopedics, pulmonology and urology.

Mayo Clinic Health System in Eau Claire is ranked No. 4 in Wisconsin and is
recognized among the Best Hospitals in Northwestern Wisconsin. The Eau Claire
facility is also nationally ranked in urology (No. 50) and was also recognized
as high performing in cardiology & heart surgery, diabetes & endocrinology,
gastroenterology & GI surgery, geriatrics, orthopedics and pulmonology.

Mayo Clinic Health System in Mankato is ranked No. 14 in Minnesota and is
recognized among the Best Hospitals in Southern Minnesota. The Mankato facility
is also recognized as high performing in orthopedics.

"Our employees work diligently every day to make each patient's experience the
best it can be, and that's reflected in the fact that we consistently rank
highly in quality measurements," says Dr. Noseworthy. "We have a deep commitment
to delivering the highest quality care that best meets patients' needs. We owe
our success to truly dedicated staff working together with an unwavering focus
on the patient that I believe is unmatched, anywhere."

Many private organizations and government agencies recognize hospitals for high
levels of quality and safety. Each uses its own assessment of what best
determines hospital quality, and as a result, rankings often differ.

The following organizations recognize Mayo Clinic for high levels of quality and
safety: U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals Honor Roll; UHC Quality
Leadership Award; The Leapfrog Group Top Hospitals; Leapfrog Hospital Safety
Score; ANCC Nursing Magnet status; Consumer Reports hospital safety; The
American College of Surgeons and National Surgical Quality Improvement Program.

The rankings were announced today on U.S. News & World Report web site. Print
versions of the guidebook editions will be on sale starting Aug. 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

