                              395 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 2, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Brigham and Women's Hospital Ranked 13 on US News, World Report Honor Roll of
Best Hospitals

LENGTH: 356  words


Aug. 2 -- Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH) has once again earned a spot on the
U.S. News & World Report Honor Roll of America's Best Hospitals for the 24th
consecutive year, ranking 13th in 2016.

"I'm extremely proud of our continued presence on the Honor Roll of Best
Hospitals, which is possible because of our employees' steadfast commitment to
carrying out our mission," said Betsy Nabel, MD, president of Brigham and
Women's Health Care. "More important than any awards or accolades we receive is
the way we work together to provide comfort to those entrusted to our care and
offer hope for patients around the world."

Twelve BWH specialties achieved rankings, including: Cancer, Cardiology & Heart
Surgery, Gynecology, Nephrology, Pulmonary, Rheumatology, Diabetes and Endocrine
Disorders, Geriatric Care, Neurology and Neurosurgery, Gastroenterology & GI
Surgery, Urology and Orthopedics.

Disclaimer: The table has been omitted (The document can be viewed at
http://www.brighamandwomens.org/about_bwh/publicaffairs/news/pressreleases/Press
Release.aspx?sub=0&PageID;=2472)

"While we were disappointed to learn that we didn't maintain last year's rank of
number six, we are delighted that we continue to be recognized by U.S. News &
World Report on their Honor Roll of America's top hospitals," Nabel said.

U.S. News performs a comprehensive, nation-wide evaluation of hospitals in 16
adult specialties and composes the lists of top hospitals and specialties.
According to U.S. News & World Report, "the Best Hospitals Honor Roll has been
revamped for 2016-17 to take both the national rankings and the procedure and
condition ratings into account. Hospitals received points if they were
nationally ranked in one of the 16 specialties - the higher they ranked, the
more points they got - and how many ratings of "high performing" they earned in
the nine procedures and conditions. The top 20 point-getters made up the Honor
Roll." The complete listing of America's Best Hospitals can be found online and
will be published in the magazine's August issue as part of its 2016-2017 Best
Hospitals guide.

Source: Brigham and Women's Hospital

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

