                              404 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Charleston Daily Mail (West Virginia)

                            July 24, 2008, Thursday

CAMC set to open floor of building

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P7A

LENGTH: 392 words


The first occupants of the new five-floor Robert C. Byrd Ambulatory Building at
CAMC Memorial Hospital could be moved in as soon as next week.

The Charleston division of West Virginia University's Health Sciences Center
will move some operations into the building's fifth-floor offices and clinics,
and doctors will begin seeing patients Monday, said David Ramsey, CAMC's chief
executive officer.

The building, which also will house two cardiac catheterization labs, will be
fully open by January. Different departments will move in as lower floors are
ready.

"Everybody's pretty excited about it, as a modern medical education facility,"
Ramsey said after the CAMC Board of Trustees met Wednesday.

The board also authorized an application for 34 more acute care beds at
Memorial. The beds have already been placed at the hospital for use in
preparation and post-procedure observation, but need to be licensed by the
Health Care Authority. The process could take several weeks, but the cost will
be only for the application fees.

Though CAMC hospitals admitted about 5 percent fewer patients this June than a
year ago, that doesn't reflect the actual number of beds occupied, said Larry
Hudson, CAMC's chief financial officer. When patients stay longer than expected
or need observation without meeting the criteria for admissions, the hospital
can still need more beds.

"Memorial is so full that we think we will clearly be able to show the Health
Care Authority there's a need," Ramsey said. The state authority must sign off
on major projects for West Virginia hospitals.

The CAMC board is also waiting to hear the results from its Trauma Survey
evaluation last week by the American College of Surgeons.

Hospitals are evaluated every three years by the ACS and receive a ranking of
their ability to provide emergency medical services. The survey team must
discuss its evaluations with a committee, but Ramsey said the response from the
survey team indicates a Level I ranking is likely, meaning CAMC would be
equipped to manage the highest level of emergency care.

Ramsey said the hospital is already designated as a Level 1 center by the state,
but was given a Level II ranking by the ACS during the last evaluation. However,
the hospital has increased its research activity in the last three years, a
deficiency for the Level 1 criteria in the last ranking.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2008 Charleston Newspapers

