                              397 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      Saint Paul Pioneer Press (Minnesota)

                      May 29, 2005 Sunday ST. PAUL EDITION

HEALTH INSURANCE TIERS MUST MEASURE VALUE, NOT JUST COST

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. B10

LENGTH: 714 words


Fast forward about five years. You've just been diagnosed with diabetes. You
turn to a statewide "tier" ranking system that shows the doctors and hospitals
with the best success rates in treating diabetes. The system also shows which
providers achieve that outcome at the lowest out-of-pocket cost to you. You scan
the information, and call to make an appointment. For now, Minnesota is slowly
moving in that idealized direction. Two health insurance companies -- Blue Cross
and Blue Shield of Minnesota and Medica -- will roll out tiered ranking systems
next year that categorize medical providers based on cost and effectiveness. The
state of Minnesota earlier implemented a tiered coverage system, the Minnesota
Advantage Health Plan, for 120,000 state employees and dependents. And starting
it all, HealthPartners introduced a tiering system a decade ago that intertwined
best medical practices with costs.

All health-care consumers will benefit if insurers and providers use this new
system to measure not only cost, but value. Focusing solely on cost might make
fiscal sense in the near term, but would almost certainly cost employers and
individual consumers more in the long run.

CHANGE IS NECESSARY

Changes in the health-care industry are imperative. Patients, doctors, insurance
companies -- all must take more active roles if Minnesota is to retain its
reputation for high-quality health care. The "tier" ranking system, when it
focuses on quality and cost in a format easily accessible and understandable to
patients, is one promising approach.

The subject arose earlier this month when Blue Cross and Blue Shield came under
fire for one aspect of its proposal to put providers in one of two tiers, with
patients paying more for access to "second tier" doctors and hospitals. Doctors
objected to being categorized based on whether or not they were affiliated with
the lower-cost Blue Cross-preferred hospitals. Earlier this month, Blue Cross
decided to drop doctors from its rankings, focusing instead on hospitals and
clinics. We're glad Blue Cross, as the state's largest health insurer, stepped
back to reconsider its methodology of doctor ranking. The financial efficiency
of a hospital is important, but doctors' rankings should be more than a
reflection of a hospital ledger.

Ultimately doctors, too, will need to make changes if a statewide tier system is
to work. HealthPartners, for example, created a model for diabetes treatment
based on best practices recommended by the Institute for Clinic System
Improvement. The HMO then looked at the performances of the clinics in its
network and tracked patient care.

The hospitals and clinics that had the best outcomes -- fewer diabetes-related
amputations or heart disease for example -- received more compensation. Those
providers were also graded on cost containment. It's hard to imagine that a
physician would turn a blind eye to a proven form of treatment, but it happens.
An effective tier system underscores best practices and rewards practitioners
for their use of them. Of HealthPartners 630,000 members, 150,000 participate in
the tier system, which is believed to be the largest tier system group in the
country.

CONSUMERS HAVE ROLE, TOO

Keep in mind patients, also, must become better advocates for themselves. Most
patients are unaware of the best way to treat a disease, yet medical research
shows certain treatments are highly effective. Patients will need to become more
proactive and ask about best medical practices with the same ease today that
they ask about drugs advertised on television.

While we're pleased to see more and more insurers move to a tier system that
evaluates costs and outcomes, we'd like to see more consistency and agreement on
effective treatment. That information needs to be made available to the public
in an understandable form.

Everyone -- consumers, providers and insurers -- have a role in reshaping the
health care system. Health plans must make their information to patients more
transparent. Insurers have to establish bonds of trust with medical providers so
accurate information can be freely exchanged. And consumers need to ask more
questions and make more demands for the best medical practices.

Change is difficult but necessary.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 St. Paul Pioneer Press
                              All Rights Reserved

