                              399 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               July 10, 1999, Saturday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Suncoast hospitals make list of best

BYLINE: SUE LANDRY

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 622 words



The Tampa treatment center ranks 34th on a national list of cancer care
facilities. A Pasco hospital ranks 50th for cardiology.

The H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute in Tampa and Regional
Medical Center at Bayonet Point in Hudson have been named for the first time to
a list of the nation's top hospitals compiled each year by U.S. News and World
Report.

Moffitt ranks 34th on a list of the best hospitals in the specialty of cancer
care, a list topped by such big names as Memorial Sloan-Kettering in New York
and the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center at the University of Texas in Houston.

The only other Florida hospital on the cancer list is Shands Hospital at the
University of Florida in Gainesville, which ranked 23rd.

"This makes us very proud," said Nick Porter, Moffitt's chief executive.

The Bayonet Point hospital ranked 50th in the specialty of cardiology and heart
surgery behind facilities such as the Cleveland Clinic and the Mayo Clinic.

"That is our primary specialty. For a lot of years, no one recognized that,"
said Chris Hyers, the hospital's vice president of marketing.

In compiling the rankings in 12 specialties, U.S. News and World Report takes
into account death rates, availability of key technologies and the number of
registered nurses per bed. But a third of the score is based on the hospital's
reputation among specialists in the field.

Because of the reliance on reputation, some experts say the list favors older,
more established institutions and larger institutions. Moffitt, which opened in
1986, is quite young compared to many other hospitals on the list.

"We want consumers to know that this is just one resource they have in terms of
all the things they have to consider in choosing a hospital," said Dionne
Dougall, spokeswoman for the American Hospital Association. "If someone's local
hospital is not on the list, I definitely don't think that's an indication that
they're not a good hospital."

Moffitt's inclusion on the list this year reflects its growing national
reputation, Porter said.

"Our reputation clearly has grown exponentially over the past four years,"
Porter said. "I was at (Johns) Hopkins for 18 years before I came here, and an
institution like that that has 110 years worth of history, clearly their
reputation becomes spectacular. We are a very bright diamond but we tend to be a
bit smaller than the other diamonds that are out there."

Hyers said Bayonet Point has been building a reputation for top-notch cardiac
surgery for years and has been listed high in a number of studies and rankings.

Making the U.S. News and World Report list means the hospital's reputation is
getting to be known more widely, he said.

"We sit in Hudson. We're definitely not at the epicenter of the Tampa Bay
market, yet we have felt for a long time that we do as good quality work as
anywhere, so getting some recognition of that is very validating for the staff,"

 Hyers said. "Recognition of this caliber would have come to this program a lot
sooner if we were just down the road a half hour."

Five other Florida hospitals are recognized in the listings.

Shands Hospital at the University of Florida in Gainesville is named in five
specialties - cancer, gynecology, digestive disorders, orthopedics and ear, nose
and throat. Jackson Memorial Hospital at the University of Miami is named in six
specialties - digestive disorders, geriatrics, gynecology, eyes, pediatrics and
ear, nose and throat.

Florida Hospital Medical Center in Orlando, Lakeland Regional Medical Center and
Winter Haven Hospital are listed among the top 50 in hormonal disorders.

(RANKING OF AMERICA'S TOP HOSPITALS NOT PROVIDED ELECTRONICALLY, PLEASE SEE
MICROFILM.)


LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE CHART; Ranks America's top hospitals

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company

