                              39 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The News-Gazette (Champaign, Illinois)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 18, 2013 Thursday

Carle listed as No. 14 hospital in Illinois

BYLINE: DEBRA PRESSEY, The News-Gazette, Champaign-Urbana, Ill.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 318 words


July 18--URBANA _ A new ranking of the nation's best hospitals has placed Carle
Foundation Hospital 14th on the list in Illinois.

The 24th annual rankings done by U.S. News & World Report looked at nearly 5,000
medical centers in the country and 16 medical specialties, with Johns Hopkins
Hospital in Baltimore ranked at the top of a national honor roll of 18
hospitals.

The only Illinois hospital to make the national honor roll was Northwestern
Memorial Hospital in Chicago, ranked sixth.

Carle was ranked 14th overall out of 220 hospitals in Illinois and was ranked
"high-performing" in 10 specialties: cancer; cardiology and heart surgery;
diabetes and endocrinology; ear, nose and throat; gastroenterology and GI
surgery; geriatrics; gynecology; nephrology; orthopedics; and pulmonology.

Many hospitals weren't ranked _ among them the two Presence Health hospitals in
Urbana and Danville. But information is still provided for unranked hospitals,
such as their adult specialties and customer satisfaction ratings.

Other ranked hospitals in central Illinois included Memorial Medical Center in
Springfield, 28th and high performing in three specialties, and OSF St. Joseph
Medical Center in Bloomington, 35th and high-performing in one specialty.

The U.S. News & World Report rankings are updated each July.

Hospitals were ranked for their performance in four of the specialties based on
physician surveys and for 12 of the specialties using data from Medicare and
other sources.

Across the 16 specialties, 147 U.S. hospitals performed well enough to be
nationally ranked in one or more specialty. Another 591 hospitals were
considered regional high performers, the publication said.

The complete rankings are available at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

___ (c)2013 The News-Gazette (Champaign, Ill.) Visit The News-Gazette
(Champaign, Ill.) at www.news-gazette.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130718-CM-HOSPITAL-RANKING-20130718

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CM


                        Copyright 2013 The News-Gazette


