                              398 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday

Teamwork returns Mayo Clinic to No. 1

BYLINE: Brett Boese, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 647 words


Aug. 02--After a year holding the red ribbon, Mayo Clinic has reclaimed the
coveted top spot in U.S. News & World Reports Best Hospitals rankings.

The new rankings, released today, recognized the Rochester-based health care
facility for its "breadth of excellence." Mayo finished No. 1 in eight of the 12
specialties, while also claiming the top spot for such categories as reputation,
mortality index, patient safety, nurse staffing and Magnet status, patient
services and technology.

Massachusetts General Hospital earned the top spot in last year's rankings,
while Mayo finished second. Massachusetts General is third in this year's
rankings. Cleveland Clinic is ranked No. 2. Johns Hopkins Hospital is No. 4.

Mayo received 418 points in U.S. News' scoring system. Cleveland Clinic had 378
points, Massachusetts General 371 points, and Johns Hopkins 349 points.

Mayo CEO John Noseworthy says the new ranking "affirms the Mayo care model."

"This basically demonstrates why Mayo has the most trusted name in health care
globally," Noseworthy said. "That's why patients come from 140 countries and 50
states."

Mayo sits atop the rankings thanks to its stellar performance in the individual
specialties that were measured by the magazine. It ranked first in more
specialties than any other hospital in the country, including diabetes and
endocrinology, gastroenterology and GI surgery, geriatrics, gynecology,
nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, pulmonology, and urology.

Additionally, Mayo ranked second in orthopedics, cardiology and heart surgery,
and ear, nose, and throat care. It finished third in cancer care.

Noseworthy says he's most proud of Mayo's team-based care model, rather than the
work of any specific discipline.

"What we're really really good at is this physician-led team ... where all these
experts work together," Noseworthy said. "That's the system we've engineered
over the past (150) years. That's really our sweet spot.

"You don't have to beg from favors from your colleagues because you're all
working toward the same goal. That's really the secret sauce for our success."

U.S. News & World Report has been compiling its list of best hospitals for 27
years, but didn't actually declare an overall No. 1 until 2014. Mayo has claimed
top honors in two of the three years since then.

Mayo was ranked as the top health care facility in three different states:
Minnesota, Arizona and Florida. While the main Minnesota campus is in the midst
of an ambitious $6 billion, 20-year expansion project dubbed Destination Medical
Center, Noseworthy specifically cited Mayo's Florida campus as a site that's
made major strides in recent years.

Thanks largely to an aggressive recruiting effort for highly trained specialists
made at the Jacksonville site, Mayo's ranking in Florida has risen from fifth in
2014 to fourth in 2015, to No. 1 in the latest analysis.

"We've been steadily working on (working) together across the disciplines across
the sites," Noseworthy said. "There's been a strong refocus in Florida and
Arizona to establish them as regional, national and international care centers."

Noseworthy said that the new rankings will be shared with Mayo staff right away,
and banners will be hung at some facilities to mark the occasion. He says Mayo's
top rankings are critical to attracting new patients from across the globe, many
of whom consult the U.S. News & World Report rankings before deciding where to
seek treatment.

However, the news won't change anything from the initial vision and mission of
the Mayo brothers.

"We've been the most trusted name in health care for a very long time, according
to market research," Noseworthy said. "This ranking, it's wonderful to have
achieved it and earned it, but it's not going to change anything we do."

___ (c)2016 the Post-Bulletin Visit the Post-Bulletin at www.postbulletin.com
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160802-RC-Teamwork-returns-Mayo-Clinic-to-No-1-0802-20160802

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2016 Post-Bulletin

