                              413 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                       Tweed Daily News (New South Wales)

                              May 7, 2011 Saturday

Baby-friendly award

BYLINE:  Ellisha Puglia

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 263  words



HIGHLIGHT: John Flynn rated the third-best maternity hospital


AS thousands of first-time mothers celebrate Mother's Day tomorrow, John Flynn
Private Hospital has been highly-rated in a maternity survey.

Medibank Private has released results of a national survey into maternity
hospital experiences with John Flynn, in Tugun, ranking third in Australia.

Group general manager provider relations Cindy Shay said Medibank was pleased
with the performance of private hospitals.

"Giving birth is an exciting yet challenging event for any family, and the
overall experience can be heavily influenced by what happens at the hospital,"
she said.

"We are very pleased to announce that the highest ranked maternity hospital in
Australia, as rated by Medibank members, was the Sunshine Coast Private Hospital
in Queensland.

They were followed by Cabrini Hospital in Victoria, and John Flynn Gold Coast
Private Hospital in Queensland."

John Flynn chief executive officer Greg Jenke said the hospital was delighted
about the high ranking.

"We are really thrilled at this achievement and it is great for our staff and
doctors to receive this feedback independently and in the lead-up to Mother's
Day," Mr Jenke said.

"John Flynn Private Hospital delivers over 800 babies per year and was the first
accredited baby-friendly hospital on the Gold Coast ensuring the best possible
support is provided for parents to give babies the best start in life.

"We have a terrific maternity team, who work very hard to ensure our patients
have an excellent experience and they really deserve this accolade."

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DDN


                    Copyright 2011 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

