                              409 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday
                          SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

FOR TOP CARE, IT'S HERE If you're sick, city is place to be, thanks to array of
elite medical options

BYLINE: BY HEIDI EVANS NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 648 words


Even when it comes to getting sick, there's no place that compares to New York
City.

Three Manhattan hospitals were among the top 17 medical centers of more than
4,700 in the nation - making New York the only city in the country that can make
such a boast, according to the 2014-15 rankings released Tuesday by U.S. News &
World Report.

And in the New York metropolitan area, 50 of the 180 area hospitals were
recognized by U.S. News for excellence in one or more specialties as well.

Ranked No. 1 in the Big Apple - and No. 6 in the nation - was New
York-Presbyterian Hospital, affiliated with Columbia and Cornell and with
locations in Washington Heights and the Upper East Side.

"We are honored to once again be recognized as the top hospital in New York,"
said Dr. Steven Corwin, the hospital's chief executive. "This achievement is
made possible by the amazing team of doctors, nurses, and staff at New
York-Presbyterian who are dedicated to providing the highest-quality and most
compassionate care, every day to every patient. This recognition from U.S. News
reinforces our commitment to New Yorkers and all who seek our care."

The 2014-15 rankings were based on the evaluation of 4,743 hospitals in the U.S.
Factors used to compile the rankings include survival rates, safety procedures,
nurse-to-patient ratios, infection control and reputation of specialists.

Of those, just 144 were nationally ranked in at least one of 16 specialties,
representing just 3% of all the hospitals analyzed.

"New York-area consumers who have complex, challenging medical needs have access
to some of the nation's best hospitals," said Ben Harder, managing editor and
director of health care analysis for U.S. News.

"New York is also unique among metro areas in that it has three of the 17
hospitals on the U.S. News Honor Roll this year - including New
York-Presbyterian, NYU Langone Medical Center and Mount Sinai Medical Center,"
Harder added. "These three institutions have demonstrated a remarkable depth and
breadth of medical expertise."

Nadine Morsi, whose 6-year-old daughter, Kinsey, underwent a successful kidney
transplant at Mount Sinai on May 27, echoed the U.S. News findings.

"I thought the care the nephrology team and transplant surgeons gave us was
absolutely incredible," said Morsi, of Oakland Gardens, Queens. "Every one of
the doctors and staff at Mount Sinai was very thorough and caring toward Kinsey.
They made us feel at ease in such a scary time."

New York- area hospitals also had bragging rights for having at least one of the
nation's top 10 programs in the 16 medical specialties that U.S. News evaluates
- from cardiology and cancer to geriatrics and psychiatry.

For example, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center on Manhattan's East side is
ranked No. 1 in the nation in cancer this year, up from No. 2 last year, and it
ranked No. 4 in gynecology and No. 9 in urology, specialties involved in caring
for some cancer patients.

The Hospital for Special Surgery ranked No. 1 in orthopedics. The Kessler
Institute for Rehabilitation, in West Orange, N.J., was No. 2 nationally in
rehabilitation, and New York Eye and Ear Infirmary ranked 10th in the country in
ophthalmology.

St. Francis Hospital on Long Island ranked No. 9 in the U.S. for cardiology and
heart surgery.

Even two municipal hospitals - Bellevue and Harlem hospitals - were ranked "high
performing" in one specialty: nephrology.

"We are delighted and honored to once again be a top hospital for cancer, but
this recognition is really a reflection of an entire community of exceptional
people - our dedicated staff of almost 13,000 and our patients who have placed
their trust in our care," said Memorial Sloan- Kettering CEO Dr. Craig Thompson.
"We may be No. 1 in the national rankings for this year, but our patients are
No. 1 to us every day."

For the complete 2014-15 rankings, see health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Our city, known for its great skyline, is also home to some of the
world's top hospitals. New York-Presbyterian (far l.), NYU Langone (r. and below
r.), Mount Sinai (below) and Memorial Sloan-Kettering (bottom) offer some of the
best care in the country.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Daily News, L.P.

