                              408 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                            December 17, 2010 Friday

BMC earns honors

BYLINE: By Amanda Korman, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 551 words


Saturday December 18, 2010

PITTSFIELD -- Berkshire Medical Center has been ranked as one of the top
hospitals in the state and in the upper echelon nationally in several categories
in a study conducted by a national organization.

The independent study by Health- Grades, a health care ratings group, lists the
Pittsfield hospital in the top 10 percent in the nation in both stroke care and
pulmonary care. BMC earned excellence awards in both categories.

In Massachusetts, BMC was ranked first among hospitals in the treatment of
stroke and critical care services.

HealthGrades rates 5,000 hospitals nationwide, and institutions cannot choose
not to be rated. The 2011 rankings are based on mortality and complication rates
from 2007 to 2009.

"The reason we take a lot of stock in this particular [rating system] is that
everyone has to participate; you don't opt in, you don't opt out," said Diane
Kelly, chief operating officer of Berkshire Health Systems. "To me, this is one
of the more significant benchmarking programs out there."

BMC earned the 2011 Stroke Care Excellence Award for the second year in a row
and the 2011 Pulmonary Care Excellence Award for the third straight year.

In the past two years, BMC has hired four new neurologists who have improved
care for the 225 to 250 patients each year who have a stroke or a stroke
warning, according to Gray Ellrodt, the hospital's chief of medicine.

Critical care services encompass multiple conditions, the most common of which
is sepsis, or overwhelming infection in the bloodstream. BMC earned a 5-star
rating for sepsis treatment.

"The results are obtained by integrating care from the moment the patient
presents and calls EMS through the time the patient is at home, receiving
ongoing care," Ellrodt said.

The hospital has slipped in the rankings in gastrointestinal medical treatment.
Two years ago HealthGrades ranked BMC first in the state in that category. This
year BMC was given a poor, or 1-star, rating gastrointestinal surgeries and
procedures category.

Kelly said that what drove those numbers down was not the surgeries themselves,
but that patients were developing pressure ulcers afterward. BMC has since taken
measures to reduce those complications, she said.

Fairview Hospital in Great Barrington was not rated by HealthGrades due to its
small size, according to Berkshire Health Systems' spokesman Michael Leary.

While North Adams Regional Hospital did not win any state or national accolades,
the hospital maintained average ratings in most categories of treatment and had
5-star ratings in pulmonary treatments six months after hospitalization. The
hospital was rated 1-star in maternity care.

NARH does not specifically use the HealthGrades rankings to evaluate itself,
according to Jennifer Rush, vice president of quality for Northern Berkshire
Healthcare. She said that the raw data used to calculate the rankings comes from
public sources the hospital already takes into account.

HealthGrades issues star ratings for 26 procedures and medical treatments:
5-star ratings indicate a mortality or complication rate below the national
average; 3-star means performance is as expected; and 1-star illustrates a
mortality or complication rate higher than the national average.

To reach Amanda Korman:
 AKorman@berkshireeagle.com
(413) 496-6243

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RN's discuss a patient at Berkshire Medical Center's critical care
unit.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

