                              414 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Thomasville Times-Enterprise (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                          December 16, 2015 Wednesday

Archbold holds spot in Georgia Trend rankings

BYLINE: Thomasville Times-Enterprise, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 320 words


Dec. 16--For the fifth consecutive year, Georgia Trend magazine has named
Archbold Memorial Hospital a "Top Georgia Hospital." This year, Archbold ranks
third in the large hospital category (hospitals in Georgia with more than 250
beds), and is the highest ranked large hospital in South Georgia.

The information used to compile the rankings was based on publicly reported data
acquired in July 2015 from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS), which
administers the nation's Medicare and Medicaid .

The data analyzed specifically relates to quality of care, patient satisfaction,
mortality, readmission statistics and data on hospital acquired infections and
conditions.

"Patient safety is a tremendous part of the culture at Archbold," said Amy
Griffin, vice president of Patient Care at Archbold. "Our staff is committed to
constantly looking for new ways to improve the care we provide our patients. And
in addition, we're all dedicated to ensuring every patient receives the right
care at the right time, every time at Archbold."

In addition to being named a Georgia Trend Top Hospital in 2015, Archbold
Memorial Hospital also recently earned an "A" for patient safety from Leapfrog
Group, an independent nonprofit organization that focuses on driving quality,
safety, and transparency in the U.S. health system.

"Our community can be confident that they are in the very best hands when
receiving care at Archbold," said Perry Mustian, Archbold president and CEO.
"I'm very proud of our team and the emphasis they place on patient safety. It's
rewarding for our staff to be recognized for their dedication to provide the
best care possible to our patients, and it's also very rewarding to again be
named a top hospital in the state."

___ (c)2015 Thomasville Times-Enterprise (Thomasville, Ga.) Visit Thomasville
Times-Enterprise (Thomasville, Ga.) at www.timesenterprise.com Distributed by
Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151216-TZ-Archbold-holds-spot-in-Georgia-Trend-rankings-1216-20151216

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TZ


                  Copyright 2015 Thomasville Times-Enterprise

