                              416 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                 Aswat Masriya

                            February 5, 2016 Friday

Matariya doctors threaten to submit mass resignations

BYLINE: Aswat Masriya

LENGTH: 388  words


CAIRO, Feb 5 (Aswat Masriya) - Doctors at Matariya Teaching Hospitaldecided
Friday to submit their resignation to the Minister of Health if alleged police
assault on doctors is not investigated.

The Matariya doctors said they will resume work at the reception and emergency
departments of the hospital despite not having had their "rights" given back to
them, according to a statement published on Friday on the Egyptian Medical
Syndicate wesbsite.

The doctors at the Matariya hospital have held a week-long strike after low-
ranking policemen reportedly assaulted two doctors at the hospital in January.

A video published by Egyptian news portal Mobtada late January featured a doctor
who works at the Hospital,detailing the purported assault against him by low-
ranking policemen as he attempted to provide one of them with healthcare.

The video featured doctor Ahmed Abdallah recounting the details of how he was
"dragged" and "handcuffed", after he told a low ranking policeman that hiswound
was"superficial" and would likely not require stitches.

As tensions escalated, more low-ranking policemen arrived at the hospital and
Abdallah was thrown into a vehicle, by which he and a colleague were taken to
the police station.

The Matariya prosecution ordered the release of the policemen after they
reconciled with the two doctors but a syndicate official said the doctors waived
the complaint after they were subjected to "severe pressures" inside the
Matariya police station. A police official told Aswat Masriya that there were no
"pressures or threats".

Last Saturday, the Egyptian Doctors' Syndicate announced the "forced closure" of
theMatariya Teaching Hospital, which will remain shut until there are clear
arrest warrants for the policemen and they are referred to trial.

The syndicate called on the interior minister to suspend the low-ranking
policemen believed to be involved in the purported assault on two doctor,
statingthat if no legal action is taken against the policemen, "all options to
escalate" are on the table. This included holding a partial strike "in order to
preserve the dignity of the masses of doctors."

An emergency general assembly meeting of the syndicate is due to be held on Feb.
12, to which the health minister and senior ministry officials will be invited.

All rights reserved 2016 Aswat Masriya

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: 1026


                          Copyright 2016 Aswat Masriya
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

