                              412 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                       May 21, 1995, Sunday, ALL EDITIONS

SPECIAL ANNUAL REPORT;
THE GEORGIA 100;
THE BEST OF BUSINESS;
Software company thrives on change in health systems;
Feeding growth: HBO & Co. wants to link the separate facilities of giant medical
networks with its computer programs.

BYLINE: Andy Miller; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 13T

LENGTH: 796 words


Asked about the future of HBO & Co., Charles W. McCall, president and chief
executive, pulls out a diagram.

It has several elements: hospitals and clinics, health insurance, physician
practices, home health care, pharmacies, long-term care - all connected by
arrows.

HBO & Co. wants to supply the arrows.

The Atlanta-based company wants to link the separate facilities of giant medical
systems with its financial and clinical software. Anything from a patient's
medical history to insurance claims information could be called up, at any site,
with a click of a button.

Right now, those networks provide just a small piece of HBOC's revenue. But as
hospitals and other medical providers are forced to get more efficient, McCall
sees it as a big growth area.

That would continue to feed a steep growth curve HBOC has built since 1991.

Last year, HBOC's revenue increased 30 percent and earnings 50 percent. It's No.
2 among providers of information systems and services in health care, bearing
down on No. 1, Pennsylvania-based Shared Medical Systems.

A deal announced Tuesday would bring it much closer. HBOC said it would buy
Charlotte-based Health Systems Group, a unit of First Data, for more than $ 180
million in stock.

Stock 'reasonably valued'

The company's stock price has followed the growth curve, though it has been
accompanied by a high price-to-earnings ratio. Currently it's 50.3, compared
with the S&P 500's 16.2.

"It's reasonably valued," said Stephen Shook of Interstate/Johnson Lane.

HBOC has 2,100 hospital customers. And it holds a large share of the market of
hospitals with 500 or more beds - those expected to survive and lead the rush to
consolidation.

For clients, HBOC's core products can track patient care, along with radiology,
pharmacy and laboratory operations. HBOC's financial systems cover billing and
collections, accounting and budgeting.

Such data help hospitals make decisions on cost and patient care quickly and
accurately.

HBOC also provides staff to run hospitals' data systems, and sells computer
hardware.

But last year's revenue spurt came not just from these core products but from
new products and acquisitions.

HBOC added hospital customers by buying IBAX Healthcare Systems, then added to
its product line by purchasing Serving Software. The latter's software is used
in scheduling.

Earlier this year, HBOC acquired a company specializing in laboratory
information systems, and struck a deal to buy Pegasus Medical, which has
developed a hand-held, computer-based patient records system, primarily for
doctors' offices.

McCall has received high marks for this expansion. In 1991, the year he joined
HBOC from CompuServe, HBOC lost $ 3.4 million on revenue of $ 170.7 million.
McCall oversaw a restructuring in which one division was sold and another two
were combined.

"I think McCall has a very good feel of both computer markets and health care
markets," said Alan Jenks of Jenks Healthcare Business Report, an industry
newsletter. "This is a case where one person has made a big difference."

Revolution

Another plus for the company is the revolution revamping the payment scheme in
health care.

Under the old rules, hospitals felt little pressure to be cost- effective. The
more medical services performed, the more revenue generated.

Now, hospitals and other medical providers are being forced to be more efficient
than ever - to improve quality of care and drive costs down, he said.

For HBOC, change is good. First, technology to help hospitals handle managed
care premiums and payments has great potential, he says.

In addition, many hospitals have consolidated to provide metrowide care systems.
The push is not just to have access to financial data but to connect medical
providers with clinical information.

"Once you link up with all providers, you need to communicate electronic medical
records," said analyst Steven Halper of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.

Thus, HBOC's health-network diagram is important to the company's future, Halper
added.

But change can be a two-edged sword, McCall admits.

"The one thing that's good - change - is something you need to watch, too," he
said. "There's a certain amount of risk," including possible problems with new
services, or being late to market with a product.

Just as change remains an underlying theme at HBOC, McCall admits to some talk
of switching the company's name. Many confuse it with the cable TV channel.

McCall chuckles about it but adds that HBOC has good name recognition where it
counts: among its customers.

"We've almost come to the conclusion that we will try to manage the confusion
over the name," he said, "because of the strength it means in our marketplace."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Part of the Atlanta Journal-Constitution annual special report called
"The Georgia 100: The Best of Business." This story features HBO & Co., a health
care software and information systems company, ranked number 3 among Georgia's
Top 100 businesses.

GRAPHIC: Photo: HBO & Co.'s chief executive Charles W. McCall / PHIL SKINNER /
Staff
Chart: HBO & CO. - Number 3
Headquarters: Atlanta
Business: Health care software, information systems
Chief executive officer: Charles W. McCall
Employees: 2,383
Return on equity: 39.8 percent
Industry average return on equity: 31.2 percent
Line graph: End-of month stock prices (from January 1993 through April
1995) Line graph: Revenue annually in millions from 1992 through 1994
Line graph: Net income annually in millions from 1992 through 1994
Line graph: Net income per share annually from 1992 through 1994
/ Mark Giles / staff

                    Copyright 1995 The Atlanta Constitution

