                              407 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

Washington: HON. DANIEL WEBSTER OF FLORIDA IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 15, 2014

LENGTH: 322  words

DATELINE: Washington


The Library of Congress, The Government of USA has issued the following Speech:

Mr. WEBSTER of Florida. Mr. Speaker, Arnold Palmer Medical Center in Orlando,
Florida has, once again, been recognized as one of the best children's hospitals
in the country by U.S. News & World Report. Arnold Palmer Medical Center,
comprised of Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children and Winnie Palmer Hospital for
Women & Babies, was ranked by U.S. News & World Report in eight different
specialties this year--the most they have ever received.

In 2007, U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in order to
help

[Page: E1158] GPO's PDF

families find the best medical care available for their children. These rankings
include detailed information about the hospitals' performance and their
reputation in the pediatric community.

Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children is a world-class facility dedicated
exclusively to the needs of children. The hospital provides expertise in
pediatric specialties and is known for its excellence in cardiac care,
neurology, orthopedics and sports medicine.

Adjacently, the Winnie Palmer Hospital for Women & Babies is a 285-bed facility
dedicated to the care of women and babies. It is a national leader in neonatal
intensive care and is highly regarded for providing comprehensive healthcare for
women throughout all stages of life.

Both of these institutions are Magnet-designated for their commitment to quality
patient care, safety, research, and service excellence. Arnold Palmer Medical
Center attributes its many accolades to the high level of care its medical team
provides every day. I take comfort in knowing that the women and children of
Central Florida have access to the nation's best care close to home. It is my
distinct pleasure to recognize Arnold Palmer Medical Center for their dedication
to the Central Florida community.

For more information please visit: http://thomas.loc.gov/

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

