                              417 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Kentucky)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             July 16, 2016 Saturday

Packing a healthy punch

BYLINE: Austin Ramsey, Messenger-Inquirer, Owensboro, Ky.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 949 words


July 16--The region most served by hospitals in and around Owensboro has been
identified as one of the healthiest in the state by a foundation aimed at
promoting high-performance health.

The Commonwealth Fund, based in New York, identified the Owensboro hospital
referral region as a top performer in the Midwest. Still, statewide health
indicators remain below the national average, and the Owensboro region dropped
several rankings since the last Commonwealth Fund scorecard was released in
2011.

Hospital referral regions represent regional health care markets with at least
on hospital in which complex surgeries are performed. Locally, that's Owensboro
Health Regional Hospital, which is the apex of of the Owensboro Health nonprofit
system.

Owensboro is joined by four other hospital regions with major centers in
Kentucky. It is by far the smallest; only OHRH in Owensboro and Ohio County
Hospital in Hartford serve the region. The latter, much smaller, 25-bed facility
is too small to register on Dartmouth's registry of hospital care and does not
qualify as a complex surgery center.

The Commonwealth Fund rankings are divided into four dimensions: access,
prevention and treatment, health lives and avoidable trips to the hospital
(including hospital costs). Owensboro improved its ranking in only access and
affordability.

The small region, however, posts big numbers when compared to those in a more
than 300-mile radius. It ranks 173rd of 306 in the nation and maintains the only
3 of 5 quintile ranking.

OH officials say the region's dominance is at least partly an indication of its
mission to change the landscape of health care locally. OH has identified access
to care as a strategic priority. It is undertaking major outreach operations in
neighboring cities and counties such as three new multimillion-dollar outpatient
medical facilities in Henderson, Madisonville and Powderly set to open next
year.

Even though OHRH is the only hospital in its region equipped to handle complex
medical procedures, CEO Greg Strahan, however, said he doesn't believe there is
a lack of competition in the area. Patients, he said, can choose care in larger
communities such as Evansville or Louisville. He said he believes people realize
that there is quality service offered locally. Third-party ratings agencies have
noted, though, that the OH network captures 92 percent of the Daviess County
market. That's not an indication of a saturated market, however, Strahan urged.

Improvement in both the region's and state's access to care has also been
attributed to a sharp decline in the number of uninsured Kentuckians under the
2014 Medicaid expansion and creation of the state health insurance marketplace.
Strahan said he believes state and federal policies like that have created a new
population of patients who are empowered to take control of their health in ways
they never have before.

"Any time you provide access to care through insurance, you make it more
affordable for people to care for themselves," he said. "They realize that they,
too, are entitled to come to a doctor and be covered."

Owensboro's uninsured adults dropped 9 percentage points from 2011, down to 10
percent in 2014.

Owensboro fell in other ranking dimensions such as prevention and treatment,
hospital visits and healthy lives, but not as much as other regions including
Lexington, Louisville and Nashville, which serves parts of Kentucky. The
Lexington region, which encompasses all of eastern Kentucky, has some of the
poorest health rankings in the nation.

Some of Owensboro's worst declines were in breast cancer deaths and infant
mortality.

OH Chief Medical Officer Michael Scherm said many of the medical needs in the
community are linked. Access, while improved, can go a long way toward stopping
fast-moving breast and colorectal cancers. Much of the data collected in the
nationwide report released this week comes from 2014, but Scherm said OH has
been working diligently before and ever since at proving even more screening
opportunities both at its largest hospital in Owensboro and at clinics and
health centers region-wide.

Health care, he said, is about creating an awareness and giving people control
of their needs.

"We have to give people more access to early care and screenings," he said.
"We're pushing for things like primary care services, because it's what stops
these diseases and complications in their tracks."

Regular care, he added, makes for longer, healthier lives.

Though small, that's precisely why officials at Ohio County Hospital say their
facility is in demand for residents in cities such as Hartford, Beaver Dam and
Fordsville.

"Our mission is to provide as many health care services at a local level as we
can," said Cecelia Robinson, supervisor of Community Relations. "We have to
bring medical services to the people."

The hospital's outreach mission is evidenced by its roles in the Green River
Area Health Council and the Ohio County Health Coalition, she said.

The interconnectivity of health demands is also present in unhealthy habits like
smoking, said Debbie Fillman, Green River District Health Department public
health director. She said smoking is part of the culture of western Kentucky.
Smoking cessation efforts affect the number of cancer patients, low birth
weights and chronic health conditions.

"We might be the best in the state," she said, "but we're the best in an
unhealthy state. We have a lot of work to do."

Austin Ramsey, 270-691-7302, aramsey@messenger-inquirer.com, Twitter:
@austinrramsey

___ (c)2016 the Messenger-Inquirer (Owensboro, Ky.) Visit the Messenger-Inquirer
(Owensboro, Ky.) at www.messenger-inquirer.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160716-OW-Packing-a-healthy-punch-0716-20160716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OW


                       Copyright 2016 Messenger-Inquirer

