                              421 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 31, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Geisinger Medical Center one of 100 Hospitals, Health Systems with Great
Oncology Programs

LENGTH: 373  words


July 31 -- Pennsylvania-based Geisinger issued the following news release:


Geisinger Medical Center (GMC) has been named one of the "100 Hospitals and
Health Systems with Great Oncology Programs" by Becker's Hospital Review.
According to Becker's, this year's honorees are "leading the way in terms of
quality patient care, cancer outcomes and research."



The Becker's Hospital Review editorial team selected hospitals for inclusion
based on rankings and awards they have received from a variety of reputable
sources. The following awards were considered as part of the criteria for
inclusion on the list: U.S. News & World Report cancer rankings, Truven Health
Analytics, CareChex cancer care rankings, National Cancer Institute
designations, the American College of Surgeons Commission on Cancer
accreditations, American Nurses Credentialing Center designations and awards and
Blue Distinction Center recognition from the BlueCross BlueShield Association.

"Earning a spot on Becker's '100 Hospitals with Great Oncology Programs' is as
affirming a recognition of quality cancer care as any other our facility could
have received," said James Wade (at right), M.D., chairman, Geisinger Cancer
Institute. "It's our unique approach to cancer care that treats each patient as
an individual case with customized treatments that we feel sets us apart and
distinguishes our center as a premier destination for cancer care."

Joining GMC on the list of "100 Hospitals with Great Oncology Programs" were
esteemed medical centers such as the Cleveland Clinic, Ohio; Mayo Clinic,
Rochester, Minn.; Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York City; John
Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center, Baltimore; and Yale-New Haven Hospital, Conn. GMC
was one of just seven Pennsylvania hospitals to make the list and the only one
not located in Philadelphia or Pittsburgh.

Earlier this month, GMC was listed among Becker's list of "100 Great Hospitals"
when it was also ranked 74th nationally in the National Patient Engagement
Rankings. Geisinger also recently partnered with German tumor repository and bio
bank Indivumend to utilize Geisinger samples to further cancer research and
develop new individualized treatments for certain types of cancer.

Source: Geisinger

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

