                              423 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Chronicle (Centralia, Washington)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 18, 2009 Thursday

EDITORIAL: Providence Centralia Hospital Deserving of High Marks

BYLINE: The Chronicle, Centralia, Wash.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 550 words


Jun. 18--Sometimes we take for granted aspects of our community that over time
we become so familiar with, we don't recognize their quality.

Such is the case of Providence Centralia Hospital. Results from a recent survey
of Medicare and Medicaid patients show out of seven hospitals in the Western
Washington region (Providence St. Peter Hospital in Olympia, Providence
Centralia Hospital, Good Samaritan Hospital in Puyallup, Capital Medical Center
in Olympia, Tacoma General, St. Joseph Hospital in Tacoma, and St. John in
Longview), Providence Centralia Hospital overall has the highest positive
rankings.

The national standardized test is called the Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Health Care Providers and Systems. This data comes from surveys of patients
taken between July 2007 and June 2008.

Yet when patients were asked if they would recommend Providence Centralia
Hospital to family and friends, Providence Centralia Hospital came in third out
of the seven (although 68 percent said they would forward such a
recommendation).

Out of the 10 question categories, Providence Centralia Hospital came in first
three times, second five times and third two times. Overall it had the highest
cumulative rankings out of all the hospitals. The top rankings were in the
categories of: "How often did nurses communicate well with patients," "How often
did patients receive help quickly from hospital staff," and "How often did staff
explain about medicines before giving them to patients."

When compared to the Washington state and United States averages, Providence
Centralia Hospital ranks higher in eight of the 10 categories.

In light of those statistics, why doesn't Providence Centralia Hospital rank
first or second in patient recommendations?

"We tend to rank lower because we're a smaller facility and people believe they
need to go to a larger hospital, and sometimes that's the case," said Jeanell
Rasmussen, vice president and chief nursing officer at Providence Centralia
Hospital.

We've known people to complain about our local hospital. We've also heard
glowing reports of great health care.

We rely, however, more on the hospital's track record and strong data such as
this recent study, over anecdotal material.

The track record: in 2007, Providence Centralia Hospital offered $5 million in
free and discounted medical care for the needy, and another $7 million in
covering unfunded parts of government-sponsored medical care. In the mid-1990s
they spent $15 million on an expansion of the hospital. Three years ago they
completed an emergency department expansion and added a new professional center.
Last year they added a new MRI suite. And late last year the hospital broke
ground on its $6 million, 17,000-square-foot cancer center.

It all adds up to a professional, caring and modern health care facility that
serves this community well. Just ask the patients that go there.

To see more of The Chronicle or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.chronline.com/. Copyright (c) 2009, The Chronicle, Centralia, Wash.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090618-1CE-EDITORIAL-Providence-Centralia-Hospital
-Deserving-of-High-Marks-0618

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1CE


                                 Copyright 2009

