                              41 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Daily Record of Rochester (Rochester, NY)

                              April 1, 2011 Friday

U.S. News ranks University of Rochester Medical Center as top rated Rochester
hospital

BYLINE: Todd Etshman

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 478  words


In its first ever regional ranking of major metropolitan area hospitals, U.S.
News and World Report placed the University of Rochester Medical Center as the
top rated hospital in the Rochester area.

The magazine has been ranking hospitals for over 20 years but expanded it this
year to include regional rankings in the 52 largest metropolitan areas,
explained URMC spokeswoman Teri D'Agostino.

The listing recognizes hospitals with a top 25 percent ranking in at least one
of 16 medical specialties.

"We're number one in the Rochester area because we have 11 high performance
specialties," D'Agostino said.

URMC high performance specialties included: cancer, endocrinology,
gastroenterology, geriatrics, gynecology, heart and heart surgery, kidney
disorders, neurology, orthopaedics, pulmonology and urology.

"We know from our own analysis of U.S. News' methodology that a number of URMC's
programs including gynecology, urology and kidney disease are among the top 60
in the nation," said Dr. Robert Panzer, URMC chief quality officer. "So being
recognized in 11 of the 12 specialties that include a quality component (the
other four factors were based on reputation) validates our efforts to
consistently improve the quality and safety of our patients' care and be at the
level of the best programs nationally. "

D'Agostino said the magazine's methodology "is getting better" but is just one
of several hospital rankings and URMC has other ways of comparing itself to
similar hospitals. The University HealthSystem Consortium is URMC's "most
definitive measure" in that it compares URMC against its peers.

D'Agostino said the U.S. News study includes smaller hospitals that may not
offer the same services or serve as many patients.

"U.S. News is something consumers do watch," D'Agostino said. "It's one more
piece of information. When patients are facing serious cancer [for example],
they'll look at resources such as this. "

Of the 13 hospitals in the area, the ranking listed Rochester General Hospital
second with nine ranked specialties and Highland Hospital third with one
(gynecology).

In the Buffalo area, Roswell Park Cancer institute took the top ranking followed
by Buffalo General Hospital and Kenmore Mercy Hospital.

U.S. News also compiled an honor roll of the top hospitals in the country using
the specialty criteria. Baltimore's Johns Hopkins Hospital took the top honor
roll spot followed by the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.

The entire rankings, along with an explanation of the criteria used, may be
found at www.usnews.com/hospitals.

"No matter how skilled or deep their expertise, even 'best hospitals' don't do
everything right," said U.S. News & World Report writer Avery Comarow. "But when
high stakes call for unusual capabilities, they are hospitals that can save
lives that might be lost or preserve quality of life that might be sacrificed. "

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

