                              420 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     February 20, 1999, Saturday, Edition 1

ONTARIO CANCER AGENCY
 LOOKS TO U.S. RANKINGS

BYLINE: Lisa Priest

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 347 words


Guide lists clinics where Canadians sent



 STAFF REPORTER

 Are hospital rankings of any real value?
 Cancer Care Ontario certainly thinks so.
 The agency, which oversees cancer treatment for the Ontario
 government, is perusing Best Hospitals - a book published by U.S.
 News And World Report magazine - as they try to figure out where
 to send Ontario cancer patients for radiation treatment south of
 the border.
 ''Certainly that's part of it, but that's not all of it,'' says
 Dr. Tom McGowan, the agency's co-ordinator of radiation
 treatment.
 McGowan says officials have done site visits, and will be looking
 at hospital accreditation, in addition to checking Best
 Hospitals.
 The book ranks hospitals by reputation, death rate, technology
 and nurse-to-bed ratio, among other criteria.
 Ontario's first hospital report card is scheduled to be published
 by the Ontario Hospital Association this fall.
 Three American hospitals being considered by Ontario are on the
 1998 Best Hospitals list of top cancer hospitals: Buffalo-based
 Roswell Park Cancer Institute in Buffalo is ranked No. 11[semi] the
 Cleveland Clinic is No. 18[semi] and Detroit-based Henry Ford Hospital
 is No. 30.
 A fourth hospital under consideration - the Detroit-based Barbara
 Ann Karmanos Cancer Institute, which is part of the Harper
 Hospital - didn't make the list.
 Asked why, Yvette Monet, the institute's public information
 co-ordinator, replied:
 ''You've asked a question that could start wars.''
 An escalating backlog in patients waiting for radiation therapy
 has forced the provincial government to take the unprecedented
 step of sending Ontario cancer patients to the U.S. for
 treatment.
 Prime candidates for south-of-the-border care include women with
 breast cancer in the early stages who have recovered from surgery
 and need radiation to help prevent a recurrence.
 Others are men with prostate cancer who had a biopsy and medical
 therapy, but need radiation to slow the disease.


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.

