                              418 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                              April 5, 2013 Friday

Terrorism ranking questioned

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 264 words


A ranking by the US Federal Bureau of Investigation that placed Thailand as the
No 1 most likely country in Asia and fifth in the world to be hit by a terrorist
attack was the result of "a misunderstanding". A military attache with the US
Embassy has apologised over the issue, Army commander General Prayuth Chan-ocha
said yesterday.

The Army chief said he sent word to an FBI-hosted meeting on the issue in
Brunei, seeking clarification about the ranking. A military staffer from the US
Embassy in Thailand who was present at the session explained that it was "a
misunderstanding" and apologised. [2A]

Rural hospitals at a loss

The mass resignation of doctors and specialists to protest the new
pay-for-performance (P4P) scheme is causing chaos in many rural hospitals.
According to the P4P scheme, a doctor's salary and additional allowance are
calculated according to the number of patients they see. Since the Public Health
Ministry initiated its plan to implement the P4P scheme on April 1, up to 148
doctors have quit rural hospitals. Some have moved to state hospitals in town,
private hospitals or beauty clinics. [3A]

Backing for solar-driven power

Former energy minister Piyasavasti Amranand has come out in support of using
solar power as an alternative to natural gas in generating electricity. He said
the cost of solar-power production was trending down and was now close to the
cost of electricity generation by the country's large independent power plants,
especially those using liquefied natural gas (LNG), imports of which are rising
for use in generating electricity. [1B]

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

