                              435 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             July 23, 2009 Thursday

For SMH, superlative in area of geriatrics

BYLINE: KEVIN L. MCQUAID

SECTION: C; ARTICLE; Pg. C06

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: SARASOTA


SARASOTA

Sarasota Memorial Hospital has been named among the best health care centers in
the nation for the treatment of seniors, the third consecutive year it has
received the superlative ranking.

U.S. News & World Report's annual "best hospitals" ranking, in its 20th year and
considered one of the top measurements of care in 16 various specialties, listed
Sarasota Memorial as 37th on a list of 50 for geriatric care.

The hospital had been ranked 43rd in 2008. Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, in
Los Angeles, was ranked tops this year.

More than half of the roughly 103,000 patients Sarasota Memorial treats annually
are 65 or older, hospital data shows.

"Sarasota Memorial has put together an extraordinary group of physicians and
taken numerous steps in quality improvements, steps that are ahead of the
nation," said Dr. Bruce Robinson, a board certified geriatrician and medical
director of the hospital's geriatric services.

The magazine considered reputation; a hospital's ability to keep patients alive;
how well it minimized harm to patients; and nurse staffing, technology and other
patient care-related information in compiling its rankings.

Sarasota Memorial is one of six Florida hospitals recognized for geriatric care.
The others were Shands Healthcare at the University of Florida, Gainesville;
Mount Sinai Medical Center, in Miami Beach; Jackson Memorial Hospital at the
University Of Miami; the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville; and Tampa General.

Robinson said Sarasota Memorial's electronic record-keeping, focus on patient
safety and medical library, in particular, make the hospital stand out when
treating seniors.

Sarasota Memorial also maintains a memory disorder center for the treatment of
Alzheimer's Disease, and is among only 5 percent of U.S. hospitals designated by
an American Nurses Association group as a "magnet" hospital for nursing
excellence.

"We've learned to create systems that make it harder for individual mistakes to
result in bad patient outcomes," Robinson said.

In all, the magazine and North Carolina-based research firm RTI International
analyzed 4,861 hospitals nationwide and determined just 174 met criteria to be
on their list.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dr. Bruce Robinson heads the Memory Disorder Clinic at Sarasota
Memorial. The hospital has won praise for its treatment of seniors for a third
year in a row. PHOTO:HERALD-TRIBUNE ARCHIVE / 2007 / DAN WAGNER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

