                              433 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                The Berkshire Eagle (Pittsfield, Massachusetts)

                            July 21, 2010 Wednesday

High grades received

BYLINE: By Derek Gentile, Berkshire Eagle Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 456 words


Thursday July 22, 2010

STOCKBRIDGE -- The Austen Riggs Center, a not-for-profit psychiatric facility
founded in the center of town 91 years ago, has been ranked 11th nationally
among such facilities in the United States, according to a study by U.S. News
and World Report.

The story will run in the August edition of the magazine but is already
available online at www.usnews.com/besthospitals . The magazine will be on
newsstands on July 27, according to the website.

According to the website, U.S. News evaluated a total of more than 5,000
hospitals nationally, in 16 different adult categories, including psychiatry.

The rankings in 12 of the 16 specialties were driven by hard data, according to
Health Rankings editor Avery Comarrow. These numbers included death rates,
procedure, volume and nurse-patient ratio. The four other categories, including
psychiatry, were ranked by reputation.

A total of 152 psychiatric facilities were included in the survey, according to
Lisa Lewis, director of communications for Riggs. Of that number, 24 made the
final cut.

The outstanding factor in the report, according to Chauncey Collins, director of
operations and finance at Riggs, is that Riggs is by far the smallest facility
on the list, with 74 beds and a total of 79 patients. The next closest in the
Meninger Clinic, in Houston, Texas, with 104 beds. Most of the rest of the top
10 are hospitals with hundreds of beds and greater resources, he said.

"We are a tiny hospital, a $17 million operation, compared to facilities like
Duke, Yale and Mass. General, which are much larger," he said.

"[The high ranking] shows that what we offer our patients, what we do here, we
do it well," said Lewis.

The hospital is the only such facility in the country that specializes in
intensive psychotherapy in an open setting, according to Riggs Medical
Director/CEO Dr. Edward Shapiro.

Another of the strengths of Riggs, said Lewis, is the longer term programs,
which allow patients to slow their treatment down, and give them time to
improve. Most psychiatric hospitals treat patients for days. Many of Riggs
treatment programs can last months.

This latest ranking comes on the heels of a $20 million expansion and renovation
program at Austen Riggs that is ongoing, said Collins.

The renovation work is continuing on several on-campus structures, as well as
work on Lavan Hall, located on West Main Street just down the street from Riggs,
and the so-called Lenox House, which Riggs bought a few years ago and worked on.
This was the old Lilac Inn.

Riggs has also completed a new Community Center at the rear of the main
structures. There are still some ongoing projects, said Collins, which will
admittedly depend on how much money is raised to cover their costs.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The newly built Community Center is juxtaposed with the original
administration building at the Austen Riggs Center in Stockbridge.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2010 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

