                              430 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                      July 22, 1997, Tuesday, ALL EDITIONS

Hospitals rated; Emory not listed because of glitch

BYLINE: Amanda Husted; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 03C

LENGTH: 377 words


An annual magazine report on the nation's best research hospitals was published
Monday, with no major surprises, except one.

Ranked No. 1 for the seventh straight year by U.S. News & World Report is Johns
Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. Not ranked is Emory University Hospital, but it
hasn't suddenly fallen in status.

The company hired by the magazine to rank the hospitals excluded Emory from
consideration because it didn't fill out an American Hospitals Association
survey, one of the sources of data for the list.

"Emory failed to submit data for the major categories in our survey; it's an
unfortunate clerical error," said magazine spokesman Bruce Anka.

So Emory, which in previous years was ranked high in a number of specialities,
including sixth in cardiology, is listed this year only in ophthalmology.
Emory's ophthalmology department is 16th, a ranking based on reputation and a
survey of physicians.

Only one other Georgia hospital, Memorial Medical Center in Savannah, is listed
in the magazine ---39th in the speciality of orthopedics. Medical College of
Georgia, which made the magazine's list in previous years in the specialities of
endocrinology and neurology, dropped from the list last year and didn't reappear
in the current rankings.

The magazine itself says the rankings, in fields ranging from AIDS to
geriatrics, are not an indication of a hospital's worthiness, but a tool for
consumers shopping for health care.

Among Southern research hospitals, Duke University Medical Center at Durham,
N.C., was fourth on the magazine's list of 16 "honor roll" hospitals, behind
Johns Hopkins, the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., and Massachusetts General in
Boston.

Several other Southern hospitals besides Duke ranked in the top 20 in individual
specialities, but didn't make the honor roll. They include the University of
Alabama at Birmingham, ninth in AIDS, 12th in cardiology, seventh in
rheumatology, 20th in geriatrics and 19th in pulmonary diseases; the University
of Virginia Health Sciences Center at Charlottesville, 17th in cancer, 12th in
endocrinology, 19th in neurology, and 20th in otolaryngology; Vanderbilt
University Hospital and Clinic in Nashville, 18th in endocrinology and 18th in
otolaryngology.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1997 The Atlanta Constitution

