                              432 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Wisconsin State Journal (Madison, Wisconsin)

                              May 26, 2017 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

WEST MILWAUKEE MAN DIES IN CUSTODY

BYLINE:  State Journal, Associated Press

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 603 words


MILWAUKEE ? A West Milwaukee man died after he was taken into custody by
officers who used stun guns during the arrest, police said.

Police said they were called to the man's apartment about 5 a.m. Thursday on
initial reports of a person naked, speaking incoherently and flooding the
apartment.

West Allis and West Milwaukee police said in a joint release that the man was
combative and officers used stun guns to take him into custody. Police said the
man stopped breathing while officers were monitoring him.

The man was taken to a hospital where he was pronounced dead. The cause of death
wasn't immediately known.

Police said a West Milwaukee officer suffered a minor injury and was treated at
a hospital and released.

Patient info breach at UW Hospital

MADISON ? An unauthorized person gained access to information about 2,036 UW
Hospital patients in March, a spokeswoman said Thursday.

While the breach didn't include patients' Social Security numbers, health
insurance information or other financial information, it did include files on
patient names, addresses, dates of care, reasons for visits, medical history and
conditions, medications, diagnostic results and/or social history, among others.

The March 16 incident was discovered by UW Hospital on March 28, spokeswoman
Lisa Brunette said.

The person accessed the information through an employee's email. Once
discovered, UW Hospital started an investigation, disabled the employee's email
and reset the password, Brunette said.

UW Hospital is sending letters to a group of patients about the incident and has
set up a call center to answer patient questions, she said.

Madison's parks rate No. 9 in nation

MADISON ? Madison's city parks are among the best in the country, ranked ninth
out of the 100 largest cities, according to a survey out on Thursday.

The Trust for Public Land's 2017 edition of ParkScore moved Madison up from a
tie for 10th in 2016 to ninth this year.

The Trust for Public Land expanded the rankings in 2016 to include the 100
largest cities in the U.S. ParkScore previously ranked the 40 largest cities in
the first year of rankings in 2012, then 50 cities in 2013, 60 cities in 2014
and 75 cities in 2015.

ParkScore uses a variety of factors in ranking a city's parks, including access,
acreage, facilities and investment.

Madison ranked high in number of basketball hoops, dog parks and playgrounds in
the city parks, as well as easy access, with 90 percent of the city's residents
within a 10-minute walk of a city park.

"Madison's ranking is something our community should be proud of," Parks
Superintendent Eric Knepp said.

"The commitment to quality public parks has provided for the development of a
park system that is the envy of many." Knepp said Minneapolis and St. Paul came
in 1-2 in the rankings again, followed by San Francisco; Washington, D.C.;
Portland, Oregon; Arlington, Virginia; Irvine, California; New York; Madison;
and Cincinnati.

Woman leaps into action, foils thief

MILWAUKEE ? A Wisconsin woman pumping gas near downtown Milwaukee stopped a
thief from stealing her SUV by jumping on its hood and clinging to the
windshield wipers as the man tried to drive away in her vehicle.

Melissa Smith admits it may not have been the best thing to do but says it was a
gut decision to stop the carjacking Tuesday afternoon.

Video of the attempted carjacking shows the would-be thief braking in the gas
station parking lot as he tries to throw Smith off the hood.

The thief gave up and got into another vehicle waiting in the parking lot.

Smith chased after the SUV as it rolled driverless into the street. She jumped
in and managed to stop it.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

