                              428 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   The Times-Tribune (Scranton, Pennsylvania)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday

Magazine recognizes Regional Hospital of Scranton as area's top medical facility

BYLINE: James Haggerty, The Times-Tribune, Scranton, Pa.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 307 words


July 20--A news magazine's ranking of the nation's leading hospitals identifies
Regional Hospital of Scranton as the area's top medical facility.

U.S. News & World Report identified Scranton Regional as the leading hospital in
the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre/Hazleton metro area. The magazine cited the hospital's
high score in patient-safety metrics, reported the facility performed well in
gastroenterology procedures and rated above-average in some patient-satisfaction
categories.

Scranton Regional succeeded Mercy Hospital in May, when Community Health Systems
Inc., a Nashville-area for-profit corporation, completed a $150 million
acquisition that also included Tyler Memorial Hospital in Tunkhannock and
Special Care Hospital in Nanticoke.

"Everyone here at Regional Hospital of Scranton is delighted with this
recognition and we welcome the validation of the care we provide to our
community every day," said hospital spokeswoman Gladys Bernet.

A University of Scranton health administration professor said Scranton Regional
deserves credit for the recognition, but cautioned against relying too heavily
on any singular report or ranking.

"We should not put all of our eggs in one quality-rating basket, so to speak,"
said Peter Olden, director of the university's graduate program in health
administration. "We ought to not get too focused on any one particular
measurement or report and we ought to look at a wide variety of information and
reports."

Contact the writer: jhaggerty@timesshamrock.com

To see more of The Times-Tribune or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://thetimes-tribune.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Times-Tribune, Scranton,
Pa. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more information
about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services
(MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110720-YT-Magazine-recognizes-Regional-Hospital
-of-Scranton-as-area-s-top-medical-facility-0720-20110720

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: YT


                        Copyright 2011 The Times-Tribune

