                              431 of 998 DOCUMENTS



             The Wabaunsee County Signal-Enterprise (Alma, Kansas)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                October 28, 2010

Wamego City Hospital ranked best in the nation

BYLINE: The Wabaunsee County Signal-Enterprise staff

LENGTH: 407  words


Wamego City Hospital has been recognized as the number one Small Hospital in the
nation in Modern Healthcare Magazine's Best Places to Work in Health Care
program. The hospital was also ranked twenty-fourth among the top 100 list and
fifth among healthcare groups with one to 99 employees.

The rankings were announced in Dallas on Oct. 18 at the awards gala, with
several Wamego City Hospital administrators and employees in attendance.

"We could not have been more proud to have been there to receive these honors on
behalf of our employees," Shannan Flach, CEO of Wamego City Hospital, said. "It
is because of their dedication and hard work that we were even considered for
the rankings."

The application for the Best Places to Work in Healthcare program consisted of
27 pages, which asked for employee statistics, as well as bonus and incentive
programs, community service initiatives the hospital sponsors and supports, and
what the organization did to promote exercise and fitness. One of two open-ended
essays asked employees to describe what makes the hospital a great place to
work. The application process also included a 72-question internal Employee
Engagement and Satisfaction Survey.

In its ranking of twenty-fourth among the top 100 Best Places to Work in
Healthcare, the hospital was measured against health care organizations from all
over the country and from the smallest with 25 employees to the largest with
over 12,000 employees. Wamego City Hospital has 75 employees.

"Being named one of the best places to work in healthcare in the nation was an
incredible honor, but to be named the Best Small Hospital is a real indication
that our employees are among the most passionate providers of excellent, high
quality health care in the country," Flach said.

Modern Healthcare is a highly recognized and respected magazine in the health
care industry, with a circulation of over 70,000. The Best Places to Work in
Healthcare program is sponsored by The Studer Group and the What's Right in
Health Care Conference and is intended to recognize outstanding employers in the
health care industry on a national level.

"Our healthcare team enjoys coming to work every day and serving the community
to the best of their ability, and for them to be recognized for that on a
national level, means that we are continuing the high level of service to this
community for which Wamego City Hospital has been known for nearly 100 years,"
Flach said.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

