                              429 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 22, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Wolters Kluwer Clinical Drug Information Used by More Than 96% of Honor Roll
Hospitals in Latest US News, World Report Rankings

LENGTH: 349  words


Sept. 22 -- Netherlands-based Wolters Kluwer Health issued the following news
release:

Wolters Kluwer Health, a leading global provider of information for healthcare
professionals and students, announced today that its Clinical Drug Information
solutions are currently used by more than 96% of hospitals achieving Honor Roll
status in U.S. News & World Report's Best Hospitals 2014-2015 and Best
Children's Hospital's 2014-2015 rankings.

The 2014-15 hospital rankings evaluated surveys of more than 9,500 physicians
across nearly 5,000 medical centers in the U.S. High scores within at least six
of the 16 specialties evaluated earned 17 hospitals a place on the Honor Roll.
Death rates, patient safety and hospital reputation were a few of the many
factors considered.

In the category of children's hospitals, evaluations were conducted across 10
specialties, and high scores in three or more specialties earned Honor Roll
Status. Specifically, Lexicomp-a comprehensive drug reference solution offered
through Wolters Kluwer Clinical Drug Information-is currently used by 19 of the
20 top-ranked pediatric hospitals for neonatology.

Wolters Kluwer Clinical Drug Information unites the expertise of more than 300
professionals to provide consistent drug information across its leading
solutions Lexicomp, Medi-Span and Facts & Comparisons.

Through the provision of innovative and reliable resources in multiple formats,
these solutions help reduce errors, improve patient safety, lower system-wide
costs and increase workflow efficiency throughout the continuum of care.

"In today's performance-driven healthcare climate, hospitals must arm clinicians
with the best clinical decision support tools available to drive higher quality
care delivery and improved outcomes," said Steven Kerscher, Vice President &
General Manager, Clinical Drug Information, Wolters Kluwer Health, Clinical
Solutions.

"We are pleased to be a trusted source of information by the top hospitals in
the U.S. and will continue to build upon our track record of innovation and
excellence in the market."

Source: Wolters Kluwer Health

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

