                              434 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             June 21, 2016 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

Youth WILL BE SERVED N.Y. area dominates list of best health centers for kids

BYLINE: BY LISA L. COLANGELO NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 404 words


They are medical centers that serve some of the youngest and most fragile of
patients, ranging from tiny premature babies to teens suffering from
debilitating diseases.

Nine New York area hospitals placed in the top 50 in the country in at least one
medical specialty, according to annual rankings released Tuesday by U.S News &
World Report.

"We know how desperate parents are for information when their child is in the
middle of a major medical crisis and decisions have to be made fast," said Avery
Comarow, health rankings editor at U.S News & World Report.

The magazine's researchers evaluated 183 children's hospitals across the nation
and determined how they ranked among 10 specialties that include cancer,
neonatology, cardiology and heart surgery.

New York-Presbyterian Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital ranked in the top 50
for all 10 specialties, reaching No. 9 in the nation for both neonatology and
diabetes/endocrinology.

The rigorous analysis was based on data from the hospitals as well as a survey
of pediatric specialists.

"It says something about a real commitment to care that more than 100 children's
hospitals voluntarily completed our clinical survey," Comarow said. "It is very
long and complicated. We've been told it costs a hospital tens of thousands of
dollars in staff time."

Three local hospitals made the top 50 rankings in seven categories: the Steven
and Alexandra Cohen Children's Medical Center in New Hyde Park, L.I.; Mount
Sinai Kravis Children's Hospital in Manhattan, and the Children's Hospital at
Montefiore in the Bronx.

Cohen was ranked 13th nationally for urology, while Mount Sinai ranked 21st for
pulmonology and urology and Montefiore ranked 17th for nephrology.

Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center was ranked 14th in the nation for
pediatric cancer care. Other New York metropolitan area hospitals that ranked in
the top 50 in at least one category included Maria Fareri Children's Hospital in
Westchester County; Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, L.I.; Bristol-Myers
Squibb Children's Hospital at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New
Brunswick, N.J., and Yale-New Haven Children's Hospital in Connecticut.

Analysts also put together an annual Honor Roll for hospitals with exceptionally
high scores in three or more specialties. This year's list includes 11
hospitals, leading off with Boston Children's Hospital followed by the
Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mothers and fathers have a wealth of excellent options in the
metropolitan area if their children require specialized medical attention. KATHY
KMONICEK; ROBERT SABO/DAILY NEWS; MICHAEL SCHWARTZ

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Daily News, L.P.

