                              444 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Brattleboro Reformer (Vermont)

                              June 13, 2014 Friday

Grace Cottage Hospital recognized as one of the best in New England

SECTION: HEALTH; Lifestyle

LENGTH: 336 words


TOWNSHEND -- Grace Cottage Hospital has been named one of New England's Top 50
Hospitals based on patient satisfaction, according to a report recently
published by GoLocalProv. Grace Cottage was rated No. 14 of all New England
hospitals in the ranking, the highest among Vermont hospitals.

Hospitals do not apply for this award, but are selected for this prestigious
annual list based on a scoring process that incorporates Hospital Consumer
Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems standardized surveys completed by
patients. Eighty-eight percent of Grace Cottage's patients who completed the
surveys said that "Doctors always communicate well" and the same percentage said
that "Nurses always communicate well."

"Everyone who works here at Grace Cottage goes beyond patient care," said Grace
Cottage CEO Roger Allbee, "and we are pleased that patients recognize this when
they complete their patient satisfaction surveys."

Grace Cottage Hospital, Copley Hospital, Mt. Ascutney Hospital, and Southwestern
Vermont Medical Center were the four Vermont hospitals recognized in the Top 50
listing. South County Hospital in Rhode Island, Fairview Hospital in
Massachusetts, and Mount Desert Island Hospital in Maine were the top three
hospitals in the ranking. For more information about the survey, go to
www.golocalprov.com .

Founded in 1949 by Dr. Carlos Otis, Grace Cottage Hospital is a Critical Access
Hospital offering a variety of health care services, including: a 19-bed
hospital with a 24/7 emergency department; an imaging department with digital
X-ray, CT scanner, bone densitometer, and ultrasound; a full-service lab; a
rehab department with physical, occupational, and speech therapy services for
inpatient and outpatient treatment; an outpatient rural health clinic with
family practice doctors and a mental health department; a community wellness
center hosting a variety of classes; and a full-service pharmacy open to the
public.

For more information about Grace Cottage, visit www.gracecottage.org .

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2014 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

