                              442 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Morning Call

                            January 3, 2017 Tuesday
                                 FIRST Edition

Medicare penalizes 3 Valley hospitals

BYLINE: Michelle Merlin

SECTION: NEWS; A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 732  words


Three hospitals in the Lehigh Valley are taking a financial hit for being among
facilities nationwide with infection and complication rates that the federal
government considers high.

A new report places Easton Hospital, Lehigh Valley Hospital-Cedar Crest and St.
Luke's Anderson campus in the bottom 25 percent for hospital-acquired
conditions. The ranking means that Medicare is reducing payments to those
hospitals by 1 percent for one year - a period that began in October.

This year 769 of 3,203 hospitals reviewed were penalized, up from 751 last year,
according to the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

St. Luke's University Health Network's Miners campus in Schuylkill County,
Geisinger Medical Center in Montour County and the University of Pennsylvania
and Thomas Jefferson University hospitals in Philadelphia also are among the 40
facilities in Pennsylvania facing cuts.

The report, released in December, is part of the Affordable Care Act's Hospital
-Acquired Condition Reduction Program, which seeks to get hospitals to stem
preventable conditions such as surgical-site infections, post-operative hip
fractures, sepsis and accidental lacerations.

Nationally, hospital-acquired conditions fell by 21 percent between 2010 and
2015, according to the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. The
biggest reductions were for bad reactions to medicines, catheter infections and
post-surgical blood clots. The rankings are based on infection data from January
2014 to December 2015 and other patient safety data from July 2013 to June 2015.

For Lehigh Valley Health Network's Cedar Crest campus, the penalty will result
in a loss of more than $1 million, said Dr. Anthony Ardire, LVHN senior vice
president for quality and patient safety. This is the third year the hospital is
in the bottom quartile, according to data from Kaiser Health News that looked
at which hospitals were on the list in past years.

Officials at Easton Hospital and St. Luke's didn't say how much their 1 percent
losses amounted to.

This is the first year Easton Hospital and St. Luke's Anderson and Miners
campuses are on the list.

Ardire lauded efforts to make hospitals safer. But he said the ranking is unfair
because it doesn't account for the type of patient that facilities such as
Lehigh Valley Hospital-Cedar Crest attracts - those with more serious conditions
who have longer stays and weakened defense systems. Smaller community hospitals,
he said, tend to have healthier patients who get released faster, reducing the
chance for hospital-acquired conditions.

"It penalizes hospitals with the sickest patients that get all the referrals,
with the regional burn centers and the regional trauma centers," Ardire said.

But a spokesperson for the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
said in an email that the rankings are adjusted for risk, including factors that
could affect infection rates such as patient age.

Ardire said the Lehigh Valley Hospital-Cedar Crest has improved its outcomes
since the latest rankings were tallied. From July to November of this year,
infections were down compared to the previous five months, with the rate of
catheter-associated urinary tract infections and central-line-associated
bloodstream infections down more than 50 percent.

Infections from clostridium difficile, a bacterium that can cause
life-threatening inflammation of the colon, have fallen 43 percent. He said the
entire network made several changes, including using vein catheters that release
antibiotics and antibiotic-treated dressings and allowing nurses to remove
catheters in a more timely fashion.

Easton Hospital spokesman Stephen Wilson said the hospital recruited a new
director for infection prevention in 2015 and saw an overall decrease in
hospital-acquired infections in 2016, specifically in central-line-associated
bloodstream infections and catheter-associated urinary tract infections. He said
the hospital also is focused on reducing surgical-site infections and has
updated its policies.

"We also regularly conduct staff training, consult with wound specialists for
best dressing techniques and a multidisciplinary team addresses identified
infections," Wilson said in a statement.

St. Luke's spokeswoman Mariella Miller said current data have shown improvement,
but had no additional information.

Database editor Eugene Tauber contributed to this story.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2017 Capital Gazette Communications, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

