                              440 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Joplin Globe (Missouri)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            April 27, 2017 Thursday

Business briefs

BYLINE: The Joplin Globe, Mo.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 526 words


April 27--Tyson Foods to acquire

AdvancePierre Foods

Tyson Foods announced this week that it plans to acquire AdvancePierre Foods
Holdings Inc. for $40.25 per share in cash.

Ohio-based AdvancePierre is a national producer of ready-to-eat lunch and dinner
sandwiches, sandwich components and snacks, "with product categories that are
complementary to Tyson's current offerings," the two companies said in a joint
statement.

The total value of the deal, which has been approved by the boards of directors
of both companies, is approximately $4.2 billion.

Freeman earns honor

for patient safety

Freeman Health System was honored with an A grade in The Leapfrog Group Spring
2017 Hospital Safety Score. Freeman is one of 22 hospitals in Missouri to
receive the grade. The score rates how well hospitals protect patients from
errors, accidents, injuries and infections.

The Hospital Safety Score is compiled under the guidance of the The Leapfrog
Group and is the first and only safety rating to be peer-reviewed in the Journal
of Patient Safety. The score uses 30 measures of publicly available hospital
safety data to produce a single-letter grade.

Freeman operates hospitals in both Joplin and Neosho.

Mercy earns top rank

in Truven rating

Mercy announced that it was ranked one of the top five large health care systems
in the country in the 2017 Truven Health 15 Top Health Systems rating.

The ranking analyzes 337 health systems and 2,924 hospitals across the United
States, and awards five large, five medium and five small health care systems.

Shorter hospital stays, fewer complications and better patient results are just
a few metrics used in the ranking. Other factors that were included in the
ranking were cost of care, higher patient satisfaction and shorter wait times in
emergency rooms.

Mercy operates hospitals in Joplin, Carthage, Aurora and Cassville, as well as
in Columbus and Fort Scott, Kansas.

People in business

DAN STANLEY, a member of the board of directors for the Joplin Regional
Community Foundation, recently received a Board Member Award of Excellence from
the Community Foundation of the Ozarks.

Stanley was one of five board leaders within the CFO's 49-member affiliate
network honored at the annual affiliate conference on April 19 in Springfield.

"Dan has been a champion for the Joplin area for many years and we want to
recognize and honor those contributions, particularly through his work with the
Joplin Regional Community Foundation," CFO President Brian Fogle said.

The JRCF was founded in 2006 and holds more than 90 funds with assets of more
than $5 million as of March 31.

JIM HOGAN, a graduate of Pittsburg (Kansas) State University, will be inducted
into the Kansas Teachers Hall of Fame, the university announced.

Hogan taught high school industrial arts for 35 years in Coffeyville and
Independence before retiring in 2005.

Hogan graduated from PSU with a bachelor's degree in industrial arts education
in 1970 and earned a master's degree in industrial arts education from PSU in
1978.

___ (c)2017 The Joplin Globe (Joplin, Mo.) Visit The Joplin Globe (Joplin, Mo.)
at www.joplinglobe.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170427-JL-Business-briefs-0427-20170427

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: JL


                        Copyright 2017 The Joplin Globe

