                              438 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Lowell Sun (Massachusetts)

                              June 22, 2015 Monday

Expert: Hospital ratings need 'scrutiny' after LGH gets vastly different
rankings

BYLINE: By Grant Welker, gwelker@lowellsun.com

SECTION: TODAY'S HEADLINES

LENGTH: 975 words


Someone looking to gauge how well local hospitals keep patients safe are
confronted with a dizzying array of methods that groups use: letter grades,
numbers, stars, check marks, percentages and colors. In few cases do hospitals
receive an overall easy-to-comprehend score.

Lowell General Hospital recently earned a "C" for its Varnum Avenue campus, its
lowest score in several years issued by the nonprofit health-care advocate The
Leapfrog Group. The hospital's Saints campus, the former Saints Medical Center,
earned a "B."

The scores are a surprise to those who work in patient care and safety at Lowell
General.

"It actually kind of caused us to scratch our heads a little bit," said Erin
Donovan, the hospital's director of quality and risk management.

The Leapfrog ratings are just one of several that offer a look at patient safety
at each hospital, each using a different way of showing how well hospitals do.
While Leapfrog issues separate scores for both of Lowell General's main
campuses, the other main rating websites lump the Varnum Avenue and Saints sites
together.

QualityCheck.org issues stars, plus and minus signs, and check marks. It gave
Lowell General a gold seal as a sign of high achievement. The gold seal was the
result of a lot of plus signs and check marks in such areas as heart-attack
care, perinatal care and pneumonia care.

PatientCareLink compares Lowell General Hospital to peer hospitals in nearly 50
areas, as well as hospitals nationally and statewide in another dozen
categories. In each of those 12 categories, the hospital, rated as a single
campus, was rated as "no different" than the national rate.

Compare that to the Leapfrog scores, in which the Varnum Avenue and Saints
campuses were each scored in 28 categories -- and none fell into the average.

Leapfrog rates each category by the colors green, yellow or red -- that is,
above average, average or below average, respectively. Both hospital campuses
were either green or red in each of the 28 categories.

The two hospitals performed best in the surgery safety categories, each landing
above average in such areas as the use of antibiotics and blood-clot prevention.

Medicare.gov , an official federal government rating service, showed Lowell
General at three stars out of five in a patient survey.

In dozens of other areas, the hospital was reviewed by Medicare.gov as the
percentage of patients who answered in the affirmative to care in a number of
categories. Those percentages are then compared to state and national averages.

"The data can be sliced and diced many different ways," said Donovan, whose
staff includes about 20 workers who focus on patient safety.

Dr. Deeb Salem, the physician-in-chief and chairman of Tufts Medical Center's
Department of Medicine, co-authored with two colleagues a study over the spring
in the Journal of General Internal Medicine that found that hospital rankings
"may be inadequate, inaccurate or even potentially harmful to patients."

Salem said rankings or reviews should be subjected to a peer review before being
published as benchmarks.

"People talk about the scores," he said in an interview, "but it needs more and
more scrutiny, where they're coming from and who is doing them."

Just this month, the Journal of the American Medical Association published an
article that acknowledged limitations of one hospital-ranking system, that of
the U.S. News & World Report, which is also known for its college rankings.

The authors, both with the U.S. News & World Report, said reviewing services
"must make numerous trade-offs" in creating methods for data. The publication
plans to refine its reporting methods, they said.

"Quality measurement is an immature science," the authors said.

Salem said he came across one ranking service, which he declined to name, that
is known to assign a hospital a low score, offer consulting work to improve its
grades, and then bump the hospital's score. In another case, an agency ranked
Tufts first for stroke death rates one year and then worst in the next, he said.

"But nothing changed" to account for the ratings difference, he said.

Still, he added, hospitals do pay attention to the external reviews out of
concern for their reputations.

Leapfrog's ratings are established enough to be linked to by a state health
website.

Tufts Medical Center, with which Lowell General Hospital formed a new umbrella
parent company last year called Wellforce, received a "B."

Lowell General's latest scores by Leapfrog represented the lowest rating for its
main campus in the several years the rating system has been in place. Hospitals
are rated twice each year.

For the first 2 1/2 years, the Varnum Avenue campus earned an A, the highest
score.

But last fall, it got a B for the first time. This time, it fell to a C, landing
in the lowest 15 percent of Massachusetts hospitals that were studied.

The Saints campus performed better. The campus, which offers the same services
as the main campus except for maternity, earned a B this spring. It had scores
ranging between As and Cs in the past.

Follow Grant Welker on Twitter and Tout @SunGrantWelker.

Breakout

Massachusetts hospitals fared well in the latest Leapfrog ratings. Of 62
hospitals ranked in the state, 32 earned an A. Twenty received a B, and 10 got a
C.

Nationwide, three-fifths of hospitals earned an A or a B. The largest number
received a C, with smaller numbers earning a D or an F.

Area hospital scores as ranked this spring by Leapfrog:

Emerson Hospital, Concord -- A

HealthAlliance Hospital, Leominster -- C

Holy Family Hospital, Methuen -- A

Lahey Hospital and Medical Center, Burlington -- A

Lawrence General Hospital, Lawrence -- C

Lowell General Hospital Varnum Avenue campus -- C

Lowell General Hospital Saints campus -- B

Nashoba Valley Medical Center, Ayer -- A

St. Joseph's Hospital, Nashua -- C

Southern New Hampshire Medical Center, Nashua -- A

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

