                              445 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            December 17, 2010 Friday

Editorial: San Rafael Kaiser scores points on 2 key fronts

BYLINE: Marin Independent Journal Editorial

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 370 words


KAISER MEDICAL Center in San Rafael is on a roll.

The Marin facility was named one of the top 65 hospitals in the United States by
a Washington, D.C.-based coalition of purchasers of health insurance coverage.

Leap Frog Group based its ranking on each participating hospital's performance
in key areas of patient care and quality. Kaiser was among 1,200 U.S. hospitals
that took part in Leap Frog's annual review. There are about 5,800 registered
U.S. hospitals, according to the American Hospital Association.

Kaiser's local physicians, nurses, technicians, administrators and staff should
take pride in the hospital's impressive ranking.

Kaiser's Marin membership has grown in recent years as it has expanded its
services and attracted local physicians into its ranks.

Leap Frog's review is available at www.leapfroggroup.org ; the group's name
illustrates its goal to encourage great leaps forward in quality of care and
safety for patients.

The honor was announced the same week as Kaiser's plans to expand its Terra
Linda medical campus, including adding much-needed parking made the front page.

Kaiser's growth is illustrated most days as vehicles overflow the hospital's
parking lot and garage and line Montecello Road, often stretching onto nearby
neighborhood streets.

Kaiser set up shop in Terra Linda in the early 1960s and has grown to where
about 50 percent of Marin's insured households are Kaiser patients.

Kaiser's plan to build a new garage with 290 more parking spaces should be
welcome news for neighbors and Kaiser's patients.

The hospital also wants to expand its emergency room to add three more treatment
bays.

The hospital sits on top of a hill and is surrounded by homes and a school,
makes expansion more complicated than if it was on a flat site with more elbow
room.

But Kaiser's plan appears workable, for the hospital and for neighbors, who have
coped with parking problems for a long time.

Kaiser wisely has indicated it will work closely with its neighbors in coming up
with a solution that will benefit all concerned.

The hospital's commitment to quality and service is a big reason why it earned
such an impressive ranking. Solving its parking problem will score more points
with patients and neighbors.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2010 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved

