                              439 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Ledger (Lakeland, Florida)

                             July 15, 2001, Sunday

POLK FACILITIES LEFT OFF LIST OF BEST HOSPITALS

BYLINE: ROBIN WILLIAMS ADAMS The Ledger

SECTION: Metro; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 374 words


LAKELAND -- Polk County doesn't have any hospitals on the annual "America's Best
Hospitals" list by U.S. News & World Report, which is due on newsstands Monday
and already is on the magazine's Web site.

Five in Florida are, however, including H. Lee Moffitt Cancer and Research
Center at the University of South Florida in Tampa. The magazine ranked Moffitt,
which has affiliate doctors in Polk County, 21st in cancer care.

The center has been moving up in that report, going from 22nd last year and 34th
in 1999.

"You can get as good cancer care here as anywhere in the country," said Jack
Pledger, associate center director for basic research, pointing out that
15-year-old Moffitt is "probably the newest cancer center on this whole list."

Moffitt employees can be proud of the ranking, which also reflects favorably on
the USF College of Medicine, he said.

Dr. John C. Ruckdeschel, chief executive at Moffitt, said the ranking and
Moffitt's recent designation as a National Cancer Institute comprehensive cancer
center show the center's research and clinical expertise.

Shands Hospital at the University of Florida placed in nine categories: 24th in
cancer treatment, 32nd in kidney diseases, 37th in hormonal disorders, 48th in
gynecology, 20th in orthopedics and 25th in digestive disorders, neurology,
ear-nose-and-throat and urology.

Bascom Palmer Eye Center at the University of Miami ranked second nationwide in
ophthalmology. The university's Jackson Memorial Hospital was 20th in
pediatrics, 42nd in orthopedics and 43rd in kidney disease.

Florida Hospital Medical Center in Orlando, 601 E. Rollins, placed 32nd in heart
treatment, 34th in hormonal disorders and 49th in digestive disorders.

Orlando Regional Medical Center ranked 17th in heart treatment.

Rankings are based on such things as reputation, reflecting the percentage of
doctors naming a hospital in three annual surveys; mortality rate, actual
compared with expected deaths; and other factors such as the ratio of registered
nurses to hospital beds, the magazine said.

The rankings can be viewed on line at www.usnews.com by clicking "Best
Hospitals."

Robin Williams Adams can be reached at robinwadams99@yahoo.com or 863-802-7558.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

             Copyright 2001 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation

