                              443 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Post-Bulletin (Rochester, Minnesota)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

U.S. News ranking could draw more patients to Mayo Clinic

BYLINE: Jeff Hansel, Post-Bulletin, Rochester, Minn.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 616 words


July 16--Mayo Clinic's No. 1 hospital ranking by U.S. News & World Report might
have economic implications for Rochester.

Brad Jones, executive director of the Rochester Convention and Visitors Bureau,
said 70 percent of Rochester visitors travel to the city for reasons connected,
in some way, to Mayo.

About 10 percent of those people are vendors, convention attendees, contractors,
suppliers, pharmaceutical representatives, etc. But the rest visit for medical
reasons.

The No. 2 and No. 3 hospitals, Massachusetts General in Boston and Johns Hopkins
Hospital in Baltimore, are located in large cities that might not even notice an
uptick in visitors related to health care.

Sara Hismoto, a spokeswoman for the Baltimore Convention and Visitors Bureau,
said Baltimore has "not done any research on the U.S. News and World Report
rankings and how it relates to economic impact."

"At this time, we only track visitation in general terms -- overall visitors
broken down into leisure and business -- we haven't breached the medical tourism
category to get into any specifics in that arena," she said.

Both Boston and Baltimore have populations of more than 600,000 people, whereas
Rochester has recently surpassed the 100,000 mark and is growing.

On Tuesday, Mayo Clinic quickly arranged a question-and-answer session for local
media with CEO Dr. John Noseworthy.

He said the U.S. News rankings include measures of reputation, patient volume,
services and quality of care.

"We're very pleased to be recognized for that," he said.

Will the No. 1 ranking affect Rochester's standing related to the $6 billion
Destination Medical Center effort?Noseworthy said it will, but he emphasized
that DMC is broader than Mayo Clinic. It's a community effort.

The Mayo ranking, Noseworthy noted, includes No. 1 spots in eight specialties
and No. 2 spots in three.

"Mayo Clinic has the largest percentage of patients who travel to get that
care," he said. "It'll bring more patients to Mayo Clinic, and that's a good
thing, in my opinion."

What's different this year that pushed Mayo to the top? Noseworthy said that
remains unclear, and staff will be analyzing data as it becomes available from
U.S. News.

He surmised Mayo's continued focus on hospital mortality rates and infection
rates might have had an impact and pointed to Mayo employees as the reason for
improvement.

"We have the best staff in the world," he said.

Jones said there are many ranking lists. But U.S. News is considered the gold
standard. About 30 percent to 40 percent of patients in general will look at
rankings when deciding upon a medical center.

"That number soars with specialties," Jones said. When patients are seeking a
specialist in, say, neurosurgery (Mayo is ranked No. 1 in the country), 70
percent to 80 percent will consider rankings before making an appointment.

It's always going to be a race for No. 1, Jones said. But any time a medical
center is in the top three or four (Mayo ranks there in 11 out of 12
specialties), patients will have confidence.

DMC, Jones said, is not limited by health expertise -- because it's always been
clear Mayo has that expertise available. Rather, DMC will depend upon adding
community amenities to support the availability of that medical expertise.

"We have a very, very bright future. It's a great time to be in health care.
It's a great time to be at Mayo Clinic," Noseworthy said.

The ranking gave a morale boost to Rochester and infused extra positivity into
the Mayo work environment on Tuesday.

"I think there's a little bit of a spring in our step today," Noseworthy said.
"It's nice."

___ (c)2014 the Post-Bulletin Visit the Post-Bulletin at www.postbulletin.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140716-RC-U-S-News-ranking
-could-draw-more-patients-to-Mayo-Clinic-0716-20140716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RC


                          Copyright 2014 Post-Bulletin

