                              449 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The East Bay Times (California)

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday

UCSF and Stanford in top 20 in US News hospital rankings

BYLINE: Lisa M. Krieger

LENGTH: 379 words



HIGHLIGHT: Of hospitals in California, three stood out: UCSF, UCLA Medical
Center and Stanford.  All were nationally ranked in nine to 15 specialties.


The Bay Area has two of the top ten medical institutions in the nation,
according to the US News & World Reports 2017-2018 Best Hospitals survey.

UCSF Medical Center ranks fifth and Stanford Health Care-Stanford Hospital ranks
ninth, according to the popular accolade, released Tuesday.

An increasing number of organizations, such as Consumer Reports and the federal
governments Medicare and Medicaid Services, evaluate hospitals on a broad array
of data-driven measures.           Beloved doctor, 92, closes decades-old
practice, ends era of old-fashioned house calls

First human embryo editing experiment in U.S. corrects gene for heart condition

Stanford research: Autism linked to imbalance in how brain cells chat

Dolores Huerta: Voter-approved death with dignity laws threatened by Congress

UC Berkeley fights back over epic loss in CRISPR verdict

But hospitals take great pride in reaching the top of the annual US News & World
Report ranking, which names 20 hospitals the publisher believes deliver
exceptional treatment in multiple areas of specialized, high-complexity
inpatient care.

In addition to UCSF and Stanford, the top ten hospitals in the nation were Mayo
Clinic, Cleveland Clinic, Johns Hopkins, Massachusetts General, University of
Michigan, UCLA Medical Center, New York-Presbyterian and University of
Pennsylvania.

Of hospitals in California, three stood out: UCSF, UCLA Medical Center and
Stanford.  All were nationally ranked in nine to 15 specialties.

In the South Bay, these were the three leaders: Stanford, El Camino Hospital in
Mountain View and Kaiser Permanente in Santa Clara.

In San Francisco and the East Bay, the three leaders were: UCSF and John Muir
Medical Centers in Walnut Creek and Concord.

In a separate set of pediatric rankings, UCSF Benioff Childrens Hospitals, with
locations in Oakland and San Francisco, placed among the nations premier
childrens hospitals in nine pediatric specialties and was first in Northern
California in five of those: cancer, diabetes and endocrinology, neonatology,
neurology and neurosurgery, and urology.

To read the details of the survey, which also ranks hospitals by specialty and
procedure, go to: http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2017 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

