                              451 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                           January 21, 2016 Thursday

Tuen Mun Hospital worst in surgery;
Improvements demanded as ratio of unexpected deaths after operations worsens
after the facility demonstrated headway in the previous year

BYLINE: Elizabeth Cheung

SECTION: /EDITORIAL/CONTENT/SCMP/NEWS/CITY; nws city front.pgl; Health; Pg.1

LENGTH: 464 words


Tuen Mun Hospital ranked worst among all public hospitals for the sixth time in
surgical performances, with the highest ratio of unexpected deaths after
surgery.

In the Hospital Authority's latest report on surgical performances, the hospital
in Tuen Mun had the highest ratio of fatalities for scheduled operations at
2.202 - meaning the actual number of deaths was a little more than double the
number of patients expected to die after surgery.

Princess Margaret Hospital in Kwai Chung performed the worst in emergency
operations, with a fatality ratio of 1.48.

Of the 13 hospitals doing emergency operations, Ruttonjee Hospital was
considered the best with a fatality ratio of 0.298. For scheduled operations,
there were 17 hospitals ranked in the survey, of which Tuen Mun was the worst.

"The report was not a ranking, but just [a way] to evaluate the performance of
individual hospitals and look for improvement for less satisfactory hospitals,"
said Professor Paul Lai Bo-san, director of the authority's surgical outcomes
monitoring and improvement programme.

The report, which recorded around 25,000 surgeries between July 1, 2014 and June
30 last year, measured surgical performance by a ratio of actual fatalities over
expected number of deaths.

Lai said no reasons were found by data analysis to explain the two hospitals'
poor performances.

However, he believed taking in extra patients for vascular surgeries could
explain the problem at Princess Margaret Hospital.

Lai said that in the past two years some patients who were originally scheduled
at other hospitals within the Kowloon West cluster were transferred to Princess
Margaret Hospital.

While Tuen Mun Hospital showed improvement in 2013-2014 after ranking last for
five consecutive years since monitoring started in 2008, Lai said experts were
surprised that the hospital had scored worse this year.

"Our targeted measures were once effective," said Lai. "The result was a bit
surprising to our expert panel."

Dr Lee Tsz-leung, the authority's chief manager for quality and standards, said
further support would be provided for vascular surgeries at Princess Margaret
Hospital. Another vascular surgeon had been added to the hospital to enhance
service.

To meet growing demand in New Territories West, Pok Oi Hospital in Yuen Long
would add 15 sessions of operations each week this year. Six more sessions would
be added the following year to relieve the burden at Tuen Mun.

Tsang Kin-ping, vice-chairman of Hong Kong Patients' Voices, said the authority
should take more aggressive action to improve performance at Tuen Mun.

"Measures in the past few years might not have addressed the issues in New
Territories West," said Tsang. "If the low ranking were to repeat, not only
services but staff morale would be affected too."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2016 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

