                              452 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      January 21, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Methodist Hospital: FORTUNE Ranks Houston Methodist among '100 Best Companies to
Work for' 2014

LENGTH: 315  words


New Delhi, Jan. 21 -- For the ninth year in a row, Houston Methodist has been
ranked on FORTUNE magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For" list, remaining
the only hospital system ranked in Texas.



Houston Methodist ranks No. 46 on the 2014 list, moving up 21 spots from last
year. Houston Methodist is one of five Houston companies to receive the
prestigious distinction, and one of 12 Texas companies on the list. Among the
other U.S. companies listed, Methodist ranked No. 4 for the percentage of
minorities employed. "Our employees and physicians make it possible to be
honored as one of the best companies to work for in America for nine consecutive
years," said Marc Boom, M.D., president and CEO of Houston Methodist. "Houston
Methodist is a great place to work because of our employees' complete and
selfless dedication to our patients and to our values."

Houston Methodist, which includes a flagship teaching hospital, four community
hospitals and a top-ranked research institute, was awarded the ranking for
providing an exemplary workplace for employees.

Houston Methodist was selected based primarily on a confidential survey sent to
randomly selected employees, who were asked questions on the level of trust,
pride and camaraderie within their workplace.

Houston Methodist also submitted documentation about its work environment, from
benefits to corporate policies to employee demographics. Houston Methodist
offers competitive benefits, diversity in the workforce, recognition for
employees and a unique environment focused on integrity, compassion,
accountability, respect and excellence.

Houston Methodist Hospital is consistently ranked by U.S. News & World Report as
one of America's best hospitals, ranking in 12 of 16 adult specialties for 2013,
the most in the state. Houston Methodist Hospital also was ranked by the
magazine as the No.1 hospital in Houston and in Texas.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

