                              43 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                          February 20, 2013 Wednesday

Dayton hospitals top U.S. rankings;
Low mortality rates land region in No. 1 spot on Health Grades' list.;
HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: By RandyTucker

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 431 words


The Dayton area is at the top of a national list ranking hospitals with low
mortality rates, according to a report Tuesday from the health care ratings
firm, Health Grades Inc.

Dayton ranked first, and three other Ohio metros - Cincinnati, Cleveland and
Akron - ranked in the Top 20. The ranking was based on whether the mortality
rate was lower than the national average for 16 different conditions and
procedures. Dayton's in-hospital mortality rate for those conditions ranked
first at 4.68 percent, compared to a 6.52 percent national average.

The rankings were drawn from publicly available data using Medicare cost reports
for 4,500 hospitals across the country, said Dr. Archelle Georgiou, a physician
and adviser to Health Grades.

"Hospitals can't choose to participate or not participate," Georgiou said.
"Sometimes there's a misperception that we promote these hospitals because they
pay to play. But there is no pay to play. These are simply the quality results
they have achieved."

Health Grades reviews hospitals independently but charges hospitals that promote
its ratings.

Underscoring its objectivity, Georgiou said, the only hospital in the Dayton
area to be named in the Health Grades report is not a subscriber.

Kettering Health Network's Grandview Medical Center has been named as one of the
Top 50 hospitals in the nation based on mortality and complication rates across
27 different conditions and procedures for at least the past seven years.

The data was compiled from 2005 to 2011.

Richard Haas, president of Grandview Medical Center, said the rankings, which
include results for Southview Medical Center in Washington Township, reflect
years of dedication in applying evidence-based best practices at the hospitals.

"We just do things consistently," Haas said. "The medical staff and nursing
staff follow the same procedures with every patient."

The rankings, he said, "are a tribute to all of the hospitals in our community
and the quality of care that they give."

While the report was limited in scope, Bryan Bucklew, president and CEO of the
Greater Dayton Area Hospital Association, said the areas under review for the
rankings were the ones that resonate most with patients.

"When people go to the hospital, they want to know No. 1, am I going to die, and
No. 2, if I get something done in the hospital are there going to be
complications?" Bucklew said. "That's what this report looks at, and not only
does it say great things about Grandview, it says good things about the Dayton
region overall."

Contact this reporter at 937-225-2437 or email Randy.Tucker@coxinc.com

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


