                              446 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                Sentinel & Enterprise (Fitchburg, Massachusetts)

                              June 22, 2015 Monday

Many yardsticks for hospital grades

BYLINE: By Grant Welker, gwelker@lowellsun.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 887 words


Someone looking to gauge how well local hospitals keep patients safe are
confronted with a dizzying array of methods that groups use: letter grades,
numbers, stars,

check marks, percentages and colors. In few cases do hospitals receive an
overall easy-to-comprehend score.

HealthAlliance Hospital in Leominster earned a C, its third straight semiannual
period with that score, after otherwise recording A's and B's from the nonprofit
health-care advocate The Leapfrog Group.

The Leapfrog ratings are just one of several reviews that give patients a look
at patient safety at each hospital, each using a different way of showing how
well hospitals do. Not only do they all use different methods but all seem to
give conflicting pictures of how well a hospital is doing.

HealthAlliance, part of UMass Memorial Health Care, ranked as the safest in
Massachusetts for consecutive years by Consumer Reports, said Dr. Dan O'Leary,
the hospital's chief medical officer, "but in those two years, we weren't ranked
high by Leapfrog."

If HealthAlliance's performance were truly worth a C, "we would not be happy,"
O'Leary said.

But there are a range of other groups that rank hospital performances.

QualityCheck.org issues stars, plus and minus signs, and check marks. It gave
HealthAlliance a gold seal as a sign of high achievement. The gold seal was the
result of a lot of plus signs and check marks in areas including heart-attack
care and pneumonia care.

PatientCareLink compares HealthAlliance Hospital to peer hospitals in nearly 50
areas, as well as hospitals nationally and statewide in another dozen
categories. In each of those 12 categories, the hospital was rated as "no
different" than the national rate.

Compare that to the Leapfrog scores, in which HealthAlliance was scored in more
than 20 categories -- and none fell into the average.

Leapfrog rates each category by the colors green, yellow or red -- that is,
above average, average or below average, respectively. HealthAlliance landed in
either green or red in each category, as did many others, including Lowell
General Hospital.

Medicare.gov , an official federal government rating service, showed
HealthAlliance at three stars out of five in a patient survey.

In dozens of other areas, the hospital was reviewed by Medicare.gov as the
percentage of patients who answered in the affirmative to care in a number of
categories. Those percentages are then compared to state and national averages.

HealthAlliance has a better and more updated method to gauge its performance,
O'Leary said -- a monthly evaluation it gives regularly to the hospital's board
of trustees.

Compared to ratings agencies that can use data that in some cases is several
years old, "we care about tomorrow's performance," O'Leary said.

"They get data that is real time, last month's performance," he said of the
hospital's trustees.

Many others in health care have reservations or worse about outside reviews.

Dr. Deeb Salem, the physician-in-chief and chairman of Tufts Medical Center's
department of medicine, co-authored with two colleagues a study this spring in
the Journal of General Internal Medicine that found that hospital rankings "may
be inadequate, inaccurate or even potentially harmful to patients."

Salem said rankings or reviews should be subjected to a peer review before being
published as benchmarks.

"People talk about the scores," he said in an interview, "but it needs more and
more scrutiny, where they're coming from and who is doing them."

Just this month, the Journal of the American Medical Association published an
article that acknowledged limitations of one hospital-ranking system, that of
the U.S. News & World Report, which is also known for its college rankings.

The authors, both with the U.S. News & World Report, said reviewing services
"must make numerous trade-offs" in creating methods for data. The publication
plans to refine its reporting methods, they said.

"Quality measurement is an immature science," the authors said.

Salem said he came across one ranking service, which he declined to name, that
is known to assign a hospital a low score, offer consulting work to improve its
grades, and then bump the hospital's score up. In another case, an agency ranked
Tufts first for stroke death rates one year and then worst in the next, he said.

"But nothing changed" to account for the ratings difference, he said. Still, he
added, hospitals do pay attention to the external reviews out of concern for
their reputation.

Follow Grant Welker on Twitter and Tout @SunGrantWelker.

Mass. hospital ratings

Massachusetts hospitals fared well in the latest Leapfrog ratings. Of 62
hospitals ranked in the state, 32 earned an A. Twenty received a B, and 10 got a
C.

Nationwide, three-fifths of hospitals earned an A or a B. The largest number
received a C, with smaller numbers earning a D or an F. Area hospital scores as
ranked this spring by Leapfrog:

* Emerson Hospital, Concord -- A

* HealthAlliance Hospital, Leominster -- C

* Holy Family Hospital, Methuen -- A

* Lahey Hospital and Medical Center, Burlington -- A

* Lawrence General Hospital, Lawrence -- C

* Lowell General Hospital Varnum Avenue campus -- C

* Lowell General Hospital Saints campus -- B

* Nashoba Valley Medical Center, Ayer -- A

* St. Joseph's Hospital, Nashua -- C

* Southern New Hampshire Medical Center, Nashua -- A

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright 2015 MediaNews Group, Inc. and Mid-States Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

