                              448 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                      The Woodinville Weekly (Washington)

  This content, including derivations, may not be stored or distributed in any
  manner, disseminated, published, broadcast, rewritten or reproduced without
                      express, written consent from STPNS

                                November 4, 2013

EvergreenHealth recognized among best hospitals in the nation by Healthgrades

BYLINE: The Woodinville Weekly staff

LENGTH: 446  words


EvergreenHealth recently announced it has earned several distinctions for 2014
across many of the health care system's specialties from Healthgrades, the
nation's leading independent provider of information to help consumers make
informed decisions about a physician or hospital.

Among the 2014 accolades, Healthgrades named EvergreenHealth one of "America's
100 Best Hospitals" in three specialty areas - pulmonary care, gastrointestinal
care and general surgery.

This places EvergreenHealth among the top 5 percent of hospitals in the nation
for clinical excellence in each of those specialties.

To determine the rankings, Healthgrades evaluated nearly 4,500 hospitals
nationwide for 31 of the most common inpatient procedures and conditions and
identified the 100 best hospitals within each procedure. The ranking were
released today in American Hospital Quality Outcomes 2014: Healthgrades Report
to the Nation.

"Delivering the highest level of quality care and service to our patients and
their families is at the very heart of everything we do," said EvergreenHealth
CEO Robert Malte. "Recognitions like this underscore that commitment to our
community, and it's the hard work of each physician, provider, nurse, staff
person and volunteer that helps us achieve excellence in these and many other
specialties and practices across the organization."

In addition, EvergreenHealth is also among the top 10 percent of hospitals in
the nation for the treatment of stroke for the fifth consecutive year.
EvergreenHealth's stroke care has earned an Excellence Award and 5-star rating
from Healthgrades each year since 2010. A 5-star rating indicates the hospital
consistently helps patients achieve better-than-expected outcomes.

Other 2014 5-star rankings, which place EvergreenHealth in the top 15 percent of
hospitals in the nation, include recognition for treatment of heart failure,
pneumonia and sepsis; and for gastrointestinal care such as treatment of GI
bleed and pancreatitis and for both colorectal surgery and appendectomy
procedures.

According to Healthgrades, if all hospitals had performed similarly from 2010 to
2012 to hospitals receiving 5 stars, on average 234,252 lives could potentially
have been saved and 157,418 complications could potentially have been avoided.

EvergreenHealth strategic partner Virginia Mason Medical Center was also
recognized for quality care by Healthgrades, earning both the "America's 100
Best Hospitals" designation and Excellence Awards for cardiac care, pulmonary
care, gastrointestinal care, critical care and general surgery, in addition to
an Excellence Award for stroke care.

For more information visit www.evergreenhealth.com/quality.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

