                              454 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         Portland Press Herald (Maine)

                       May 15, 2005 Sunday, FINAL Edition

Hospitals taking notice of BIW's rankings;
The company aims to improve quality of care and reduce costs for its 16,000
workers and dependents.

BYLINE: Matt Wickenheiser staff writer

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. F1

LENGTH: 1451 words



During the next few weeks, about 16,000 Bath Iron Works employees and their
dependents will get a report card from the company ranking local hospitals on
subjects ranging from in-patient costs to infection control.

BIW officials said this is the second year they have put out such a ranking, and
they hope it will help their workers and dependents become savvy health-care
consumers. They also hope it pushes hospitals to improve to better serve their
workers.

In a bottom-line way, having employees healthy and working rather than living
through an extended hospital stay due to medical errors makes good business
sense.

"Our attempt with the report card on the hospital side is to encourage them to
improve, and we've had some good response from them," said Kevin P. Gildart,
vice president of human resources at BIW. "It's worked really well. What I've
been most encouraged by is the hospitals' behavior."

Leveraging a 16,000-strong population of health consumers ensures that southern
Maine hospitals have to pay attention.

"It clearly has the potential of changing referral patterns almost overnight,"
said Dr. George L. Higgins III, chief medical officer and vice president for
medical affairs at Maine Medical Center in Portland. "These report cards are
making us do the hard work in making sure that we're delivering on what they
want."

Hospital officials said they support the idea of educating consumers about their
health-care choices, but the officials also noted that a static report card has
limitations. Some of the data is old and some is not validated and is based on
self-reported surveys.

In some cases, the data - which BIW took from independent state and national
groups that specialize in examining hospitals - tell only part of the story.

Still, the effort is a move in the right direction, hospital officials said.

"It is very early in the evolution of how to present this and what it means,"
said Dr. Stephen Sears, chief medical officer at MaineGeneral Medical Center,
which has hospitals in Augusta and Waterville. "I think we're moving into an era
where we expect transparency. I don't think it is going to go away, I would
think and hope we find methods to improve the information so it's a valid
reflection and people can use it to make informed decisions.

"I don't think we're there yet."

The concept of transparency in hospitals is a hot topic in the industry, said
Higgins. Consumers want to be better informed about their hospitals before they
go in for non-emergency care. That information can be particularly helpful in an
area like southern Maine, where consumers have a number of hospitals to choose
from that are geographically convenient.

A number of groups provide information online, but consumers would have to work
their way through Web sites to collate a complete picture.

What BIW has done is synthesize information from several of these groups,
including the Maine Health Management Coalition, The Leapfrog Group and the
Maine Hospital Association. The resulting four-page copy isn't only a physical
scorecard anyone can use; it has extensive narrative about where the information
came from, how to interpret it and why it is important.

Businesses have done similar projects in other states, but it's believed to be
the first in Maine. Other companies, like Hannaford, are moving in similar
directions and have Web-based offerings akin to what BIW did, Gildart said.

As in almost every business, health care is one of the single most significant
costs for BIW. The idea of the report card grew out of work that BIW, in
conjunction with labor representatives, began about five years ago.

"I was convinced early on that the kind of saber rattling around premium costs
really wasn't the issue," Gildart said. "You have to get past the insurance
piece of it and start paying attention to what's really going on in the
health-care arena and look at the behavior of all the parties."

"Quality was what we were going to drive," he said. "If you can improve quality,
other things start to fall in place, like cost, etc."

BIW officials began meeting with hospital executives several years ago to
discuss expectations - what a major employer wants from a health-care provider.
On the report card, the company also points to other reasons why it undertook
the project:

A 1999 study from the Institute of Medicine estimated that each year up to
98,000 people nationwide die from preventable medical errors in hospitals.

In 2004, Maine hospitals reported 15 deaths due to medical errors.

It's logical that BIW should have expectations of hospitals, said Higgins. The
company expects its employees to take part in wellness programs, quit smoking
and do other things to improve their health, he noted, and expects hospitals to
provide great care by physicians with cutting-edge skills.

"I can't argue with any of those," he said.

BIW's report card ranked eight hospitals. Maine Med topped the list,
MaineGeneral was toward the bottom. Gildart suggested that the overall rankings
of the hospital didn't matter much; some hospitals received lower ratings in
certain areas because they choose to specialize in niche services and not in
areas that the rating groups place more importance on. And, said both Higgins
and Sears, the numbers don't necessarily tell the whole story.

Information on the card from the Maine Hospital Association ranks patient
satisfaction surveys and evaluates treatment patients got for heart attacks and
heart failures, said Sears. That information, which is outcome-based, is a valid
measurement, he said.

Less valid, in his opinion, are rankings from the Maine Health Management
Coalition because it evaluated processes (not outcomes), and information was
collected through hospital surveys and was not validated.

And, he said, the information is stale - at least a year old.

"I would venture if we filled out that survey now we would score significantly
better. That part of it is probably the oldest of the data on there," said
Sears.

Higgins noted that Maine Med didn't receive a perfect score in the heart failure
ranking. The MHA looks at seven elements, and one of them has to do with having
an effective smoking cessation counseling program for patients. That hasn't been
a priority for Maine Med, said Higgins, so the hospital's score is ticked.

In data from The Leapfrog Group, Maine Med wasn't ranked perfectly because it
had a less-than-average number of surgeries done for pancreatic cancer. But the
reason the hospital does less is because it has some very expert
gastroenterologists who have perfected procedures that eliminate the need for
the surgeries, he said.

"It is confusing, isn't it? You look at something that's not a full pie and say
OGee, I'm a little concerned,' " said Higgins, referring to the pie-shaped icons
on the chart.  "We have to accept the fact that there are some imperfections. We
all want to be an A-student; the fact is if you look at the BIW score card,
Maine Medical Center has done well, but there's opportunities to improve."

Higgins said Maine Med will have to further develop its on-line connectivity
with its potential patients. As consumers consider the hospital for a procedure,
the Web site can have full information about the staff, the operation,
statistics, and other data. In that way, he said, the sometimes-partial story
told by various surveys and rankings would be fleshed out.

Gildart said the card wasn't meant to be an "infallible measurement." Also, he
said, it is likely to change over time as more information becomes available,
and as hospitals and ranking organizations have further dialogue regarding
what's fair and important information to study.

"If this, limited as it may be, gets people to ask questions and providers to
recognize that they need to do something in this area, encouraging that dialogue
between a patient and a provider is exactly what it is supposed to be about,"
said BIW spokesman Dirk Lesko.

Lesko said measuring the monetary benefit of an initiative like this is
impossible, because predicting the cost of health care from one year to the next
is equally challenging.

But a program like this could show benefits 10 years down the road as overall
health-care quality in Maine rises, helping not only BIW's work force, but the
entire state.

"I think that this is the right direction. I think there's going to be a lag
between producing these very worthwhile and informative score cards and before
the general public becomes facile in using them, but it's exactly the right
direction to go," said Higgins.

Staff Writer Matt Wickenheiser can be contacted at 791-6316 or at:
mwickenheiser@pressherald.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A detail of the report card BIW compiled from independent state and
national hospital examinations. It is intended to help the company's employees
and dependents make informed decisions about where to obtain the best health
care in southern Maine.
Staff photo by Herb Swanson
Molly Mitton, left, and Christine Cyr check charts at Maine Medical Center in
Portland, which came in at the top of BIW's rankings. "These report cards are
making us do the hard work in making sure that we're delivering on what they
want," said Dr. George L. Higgins III, chief medical officer and vice president
for medical affairs at Maine Med.

                 Copyright 2005 Blethen Maine Newspapers, Inc.

