                              458 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                           December 1, 2007 Saturday

Revealing hospital mortality rankings: Will it lead to better health care?

SECTION: IDEAS; Pg. ID02

LENGTH: 487 words


Publishing the rankings can lead to better care for the individual because a
choice can be made based on that information. In my opinion, the medical system
keeps the patients in the dark about the simplest things like it is a holy inner
sanctum and the peasants are not worthy of the information. Patients, in being
able to choose which hospital they wish to be admitted to, can improve their
chances of survival.

Carol Edger-Magill, Georgetown

It is unfair to look at a hospital without looking at the health stats for the
area it serves (which may have quite different demographics than other areas/
hospitals - and health stats generally are different for different demographic
groups). In addition, some hospitals specialize in "higher-risk" traumas and
some do not even have emergency services. Publishing stats comparatively for all
hospitals, without categorizing the hospitals into sub-groups, can lead to
unwarranted public concern and actually cause people to try to avoid certain
hospitals.

Bob Brewer, Oakville

With this kind of publicly available information, hospitals now have no choice
but to enact new policies and practices so that the next time the rankings are
revealed, they will be seen in a better light. Most disturbing is the lack of
information from Humber River Regional Hospitals. Will this also lead to more
people avoiding lower-ranked hospitals? I hope that it will not place a burden
on those hospitals that did well.

Sandra Brawley, Toronto

Publishing mortality ratings of hospitals will make the public more aware that
our health-care system is not infallible. This might empower people to ask
questions of their health-care providers. It may also force hospital
administrators to be more diligent in providing ongoing training for their
staffs.

Deborah Kennedy, Innisfil

While I applaud the government for making the mortality rates in the various
hospitals more transparent, there are two cautions here: (1) Not all hospitals
are the same. Sunnybrook hospital, for example, is a level 3 trauma hospital,
and many badly injured patients do not survive. Trauma hospitals will have a
higher mortality rate than other hospitals of similar size. (2) Statistical
clumping can happen at any time, so the mortality rates will have to be looked
over a long period to be of value.

Don Philip, Burlington

My biggest concern is that this will not so much improve hospital care as it
will drive administrators to suppress information for fear of civil litigation.

Susan Cain, Brampton

Hospitals rated as not so good, are all local hospitals. I think looking into
the populations that use these hospitals might be a fairer approach. Do the
measurements take into account the average ages of patients within a year at a
particular hospital? Lengths of stay? I think some hospitals might be
stigmatized, without all pertinent statistics being revealed: like the
demographics of a community.

Michael Sullivan,

Toronto

.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

