                              459 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                               May 6, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Ontario eyes name/shame hospital ranking; Similar scheme has been used in
Britain, but not without difficulties

BYLINE: Pauline Tam, Postmedia News, With A File From Andrea Woo, Vancouver Sun

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 701  words


The Ontario government is considering a provincewide ranking system for
hospitals that would provide information that would allow patients to compare
hospitals, reward hospitals for good performance and identify poor performers.

The "name-and-shame" scheme, designed to give patients a clearer picture of
service quality, would be modelled after a short-lived one in Britain, which was
shown to have improved hospital standards, according to documents obtained by
the Ottawa Citizen.

No such scheme is under consideration in B.C., according to Ministry of Health
spokeswoman Michelle Stewart.

"In short, the Ministry of Health is not actively developing or contemplating a
hospital report card," Stewart said. "Health authorities do an annual report on
their service plans and provide a variety of other performance indicators on
their public websites."

Under the proposed Ontario system, hospitals would be given a rating of up to
three stars for their performance in areas such as treating patients safely and
effectively, reducing surgical and emergencyroom waits and improving
cleanliness.

Another system under consideration would simply rate hospitals "excellent,"
"good," "fair" or "weak," according to documents released under
freedomof-information laws.

The merits and pitfalls of a star-rating system were discussed in 2009 by a
panel of 13 experts advising the Health Ministry. However, it's not clear if the
government has adopted the idea.

In recent years, Ontario hospitals have gradually adopted ways of measuring
their own quality and making their leaders responsible for improving patient
care. Last month, new rules kicked in that linked a portion of executive pay to
how well hospitals took care of patients.

The new rules require the province's 154 hospitals to publicly post annual
reports detailing their progress in meeting a long list of "quality indicators,"
ranging from getting more staff to wash their hands when dealing with patients
to reducing rates of inhospital infections.

The Ontario government sees the new accountability rules as a way not only to
improve care and rein in executive salaries, but also to provide taxpayers with
a standardized way to compare hospitals and the care they deliver.

A ranking system would appear to be the next logical step.

It could also lay the groundwork for more sweeping changes to how hospitals are
funded, with the goal of rewarding those that are more efficient and treat
patients safely and effectively.

After Britain introduced a star-rating system in 2001, hospitals showed a
noticeable improvement in how well they cared for patients.

High-performing hospitals were rewarded with more funding and financial freedom
from the government, allowing them the right to borrow money and organize
services to meet local needs.

At facilities with few or no stars, corporate decisions were scrutinized more
closely, and executives were told they could lose their jobs if they didn't do
better.

A major downside was that the star-rating system did not take into account the
key measure of whether a hospital's finances were being managed well.

As a result, the system encouraged low-performing hospitals to spend their way
out of trouble, resulting in massive deficits.

The reports released to the Ottawa Citizen also indicated that some British
hospitals manipulated their data to look like they had improved standards when
they actually hadn't.

For example, to meet the target of a maximum four-hour wait for treatment in
emergency departments, some hospitals made patients wait in ambulances outside
the hospital until staff were confident they could be treated.

The reports concluded that services excluded from the ranking system tended to
be neglected by hospitals.

As a result, "a low rating in itself will not necessarily encourage
organizations to improve on areas where improvement may be needed if there is no
measurement in place for those areas."

In 2005, amid political and union opposition to the starrating system, the
British government scrapped the scheme in favour of a two-tiered system that
measured quality of patient care and use of resources.

Instead of stars, hospitals were given a rating on a fourpoint scale ranging
from excellent to weak.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ted Rhodes, Postmedia Files; While Ontario is considering using a
hospital ranking system, no such scheme is being looked at in B.C., the Ministry
of Health says.;

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2011 The Vancouver Sun, a division of CanWest MediaWorks Publication
                                      Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

