                              462 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Warrnambool Standard

                             June 29, 2013 Saturday

ST John of God Warrnambool hospital has been ranked

BYLINE: EVERARD HIMMELREICH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 307 words


ST John of God Warrnambool hospital has been ranked the best in Australia by
patients.

The hospital this year received the highest ranking of all participating
hospitals in a recent national survey of patient satisfaction, surpassing the
score it achieved last year when it was in the top group of Australian private
hospitals.

This year it scored highest in both the "all private hospitals" and "50-100 bed
hospital" categories, while ranking in the top percentile of all participating
hospitals for its overall inpatient satisfaction score.

The Press Ganey Survey was held from February through March, quantifying the
views of admitted patients on factors such as doctor and nursing care, admission
and discharge processes, meals and catering, facilities for visitors and
families and the standard of hospital rooms.

St John of God Warrnam-bool hospital chief executive officer Glen Power said the
outcome was a tremendous endorsement of the skill and professionalism, diligence
and dedication of all treating doctors and caregivers.

"Patients were extremely complimentary of the overall service standard, the
quality of the rooms and facilities, and most importantly the quality of the
care that they received while admitted," Dr Power said.

The top report card given by patients showed the hospital was delivering on its
core values such as compassion, hospitality and excellence, Dr Power said.

"The hospital provides a welcoming environment, with attentive staff who can
take all the time needed to aid in a patient's full recovery.

"Our hospital rooms are very private, generous in size, and offer a quiet
sanctuary for patients, their families and visitors.

"Our kitchen is also a fresh-cook kitchen that can meet special meal requests
for patients, which has contributed to the strong scores we have received."

ehimmelreich@fairfaxmedia.com.au

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

