                              457 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                          Sunday Times (South Africa)

                                November 7, 2004

Bill may curb private healthcare

BYLINE: Adele Shevel

SECTION: Economy, Business & Finance; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 374 words




Hospitals could be coming to the end of their strong run

ADELE SHEVEL

THE big three private hospital groups, accused by the government of making
"super profits", are again highly ranked in the Top 100 Companies.

This year the three - Netcare, Afrox Healthcare and Medi-Clinic - rank in the
top 20 performers in terms of returns to shareholders over five years. Last year
they were among the top 15.

But hospitals may be coming to the end of their strong run, given the regulatory
pressure that could reduce their huge earnings.

The National Health Bill, which has been signed by President Thabo Mbeki, is
aimed at regulating the services of private healthcare.

This includes the issuing of "certificates of need", which will require doctors
and healthcare facilities such as private hospitals to apply for permission to
practise in a specific area. Hospitals are particularly vulnerable because of
the high levels of investment required to set up and run their operations.

Pressure is also coming from medical schemes and their administrators, which are
looking at ways to counter the power of private hospital groups.

The Council for Medical Schemes, the body that regulates medical schemes, says
the private hospital market is highly concentrated.

The council's view is that medical schemes need to offer a consistent set of
benefits to members.

The hospitals have the power to put forward increases which medical schemes
don't have the power to counter. If schemes refuse to accommodate the demands of
hospitals, the hospitals have the power to make members pay out-of-pocket. This
leaves members irate with the medical schemes.

The local private-hospital industry has a captive local market, with no sign of
other competition. Growth options being pursued include offshore acquisitions,
expansion and upgrading of existing local facilities and public-private
partnerships.

*Government intervention in private healthcare is gaining momentum. Legislation
was passed recently to make drugs more affordable and promote the use of generic
equivalents. The medical-schemes industry is more regulated to prevent it from
discriminating against "high-risk " individuals - the aged and the sick.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                       Copyright 2004 Times Media Limited

