                              460 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                              July 7, 2006 Friday

Morning briefs

SECTION: Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 582 words


PSS WORLD MEDICAL LISTED ON NEW NASDAQ MARKET

Jacksonville-based PSS World Medical Inc. said Thursday its common stock has
been selected for inclusion on the new Nasdaq Global Select Market.

PSS, a medical distribution company, employs about 3,200 company-wide, more than
450 locally.

Nasdaq is the largest U.S. electronic stock market.

The Nasdaq Global Select Market has the highest initial listing standards of any
exchange in the world based on financial and liquidity requirements.

PSS, which had been listed on the Nasdaq National Market, will continue to trade
under the symbol "PSSI."

On July 3, Nasdaq-listed companies were reclassified under three listing tiers -
Nasdaq Global Select Market, Nasdaq Global Market, and Nasdaq Capital Market.
Nasdaq plans to launch indexes based on these new tiers.

Urvaksh Karkaria/The Times-Union

ST. VINCENT'S HONORED FOR HEART SPECIALTY

U.S. News & World Report named St. Vincent's Medical Center one of America's
Best Hospitals in the category of Heart and Heart Surgery in its 2006 rankings
released today.

St. Vincent's is the only Jacksonville hospital recognized this year for work in
any of the 16 specialties ranked by the magazine.

In the 2006 rankings, 50 medical centers are named as America's best in the
category of Heart and Heart Surgery.

St. Vincent's is ranked 47 and is one of only two Florida hospitals named among
the top 50. This is the third time St. Vincent's has been ranked among the
nation's finest heart hospitals.

The "America's Best Hospitals" rankings cover 16 specialties from cancer and
heart disease to pediatrics and urology.

Out of the 5,189 hospitals evaluated, only 176 scored high enough to be ranked
in any specialty.

Urvaksh Karkaria/The Times-Union

EBAY LOSES KEY EXECUTIVE; FACES STIFF COMPETITION

EBay Inc. faced a double blow Thursday as it announced a key executive's plans
to leave and an analyst said Google Inc.'s new online payment service represents
a bigger threat than expected to the Internet auction company's health.

Jeff Jordan, who most recently was president of eBay's PayPal payment business,
led eBay's North America division from 2000 to 2004 and had been presumed by
some analysts as the likely successor to Chief Executive Meg Whitman. He said in
an interview that he wants to spend more time with his wife and two children.

He will be replaced by Rajiv Dutta, who has been with the company since 1998,
serving as chief financial officer, head of strategy and president of Skype, the
Internet phone service eBay acquired last year.

The San Jose-based company's shares fell $1.51, to $26.85 on the Nasdaq Stock
Market

Associated Press

AOL CONSIDERS MORE FREE SERVICES

AOL LLC may give away even more of its services, including its vaunted AOL.com
e-mail accounts now limited to paying subscribers, to boost ad revenues and
offset declines in subscriptions, a person familiar with the talks said
Thursday.

One proposal under consideration among top AOL executives calls for Time Warner
Inc.'s online unit to stop charging subscription fees to users who have
high-speed Internet access or even dial-up service from a rival provider.

The person familiar with the talks said a major strategic review over the past
several months sought to identify additional ways to keep users within the AOL
family regardless of whether they want to keep paying monthly fees of as much as
$25.90 a month.

Under the planl, the company would continue to charge the fees for those needing
dial-up access through AOL.

Associated Press

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Florida Times-Union

