                              463 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   The Record-Eagle (Traverse City, Michigan)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            August 8, 2013 Thursday

Mixed diagnosis for Munson

BYLINE: Anne Stanton, The Record-Eagle, Traverse City, Mich.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 606 words


Aug. 08--TRAVERSE CITY -- The most recent issue of Consumer Reports gave Munson
Medical Center its lowest rating for surgery, based on the percentage of people
who died in the hospital or stayed longer than expected for a given procedure.

Only four hospitals of 29 in Michigan earned the magazine's "worst" rating.

Yet Consumer Reports also gave Munson Medical Center a first place ranking in
the state for patient safety in its May issue. Its ranking was based on
infection, re-admission, complication and adverse effects data.

Consumer Reports used length of hospital stay in its ranking because research
shows a correlation with complications. But there are two sides to the coin,
said David McGreaham, a physician and Munson's vice president of medical
affairs.

"You don't want to get people out of the hospital before they are ready,"
McGreaham said. "But you don't want to stay in the hospital because it's a very
dangerous place to be with the potential for infections, and it's very
expensive. We're trying to walk that line and get people out at an appropriate
time. We looked at benchmark data, and we do have opportunities in certain
areas."

Munson has "challenges" with longer patient stays because it serves a large
rural area and deals with transportation and follow-up issues, he said.

Consumers Report also used patient mortality as a measure. Munson looked at its
benchmarks and is at or below expected number of deaths, McGreaham said.

"It's very confusing. If we look at surgical complications, we're better than
expected in the Medicare database," he said.

Consumers Report based its ranking on billing claims submitted to Medicare from
2009 to 2011 for patients 65 and older for 27 types of surgeries.

In a supplementary report, Munson received the "worst" rating for knee and hip
replacements. It received top scores for pain control and patient communication
with nurses and doctors.

McGreaham said Munson closely tracks medical databases and tries to learn from
them. On the other hand, he sees an increasing number of hospital quality
rankings, all based on different databases.

"We need to come together and develop a database for consumers that everyone can
understand that are based on metrics that are validated," he said.

This is Consumers Reports' first effort to compare how surgical patients fare in
2,400 U.S. hospitals. The magazine conceded in a press release that it used the
best data available, but could have used more comprehensive, standardized data.

"We know the ratings aren't a perfect measurement but we think they're an
important first step in giving patients the information they need to make an
informed choice," said John Santa, medical director of Consumer Reports Health.

Munson frequently has ranked as a "Top 100 Hospital" over two decades, but
consumers don't have access to the report's detailed findings. This year, Munson
didn't make it into the Top 100; the president of Munson Medical Center cited
length of patient stay as a factor.

McGreaham agreed with Consumers Report that patients would be wise to research
their medical options. He recommended checking out a surgeon's reputation and
depth of experience, along with talking to their physician. A hospital's
reputation also comes into play if a type of surgery is rarely done there.

"That makes it a little riskier," he said.

He also believes Munson needs to play a role by providing transparent medical
data.

"We're moving in that direction, and we're not quite there yet," he said.

___ (c)2013 The Record-Eagle (Traverse City, Mich.) Visit The Record-Eagle
(Traverse City, Mich.) at record-eagle.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130808-ZK-Mixed-diagnosis-for-Munson-0808-20130808

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ZK


                        Copyright 2013 The Record-Eagle

