                              44 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 28, 2012 Tuesday

RMC makes list of top regional hospitals

BYLINE: Patrick McCreless, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 832 words


Feb. 28--As far as one national publication is concerned, Regional Medical
Center is one of the best regional hospitals in the nation.

U.S. News and World Report listed the Anniston hospital this year in its annual
Best Regional Hospitals report. Only 140 out of nearly 5,000 surveyed hospitals
across the nation were included among the best regional hospital ranking. This
is the first time RMC has qualified for the ranking.

"That's definitely good," Alabama Hospital Association President Rosemary
Blackmon said of RMC's ranking. "I think the bottom line is people hold this
report in very high regard."

U.S. News defines regional hospitals as those that serve residents living
outside large metropolitan areas.

In a recent press release, U.S. News Health Rankings editor Avery Comarow said
hospitals such as RMC offer a high level of medical care to communities that
otherwise might have limited options.

"All Best Regional Hospitals are what we call 'high performers'," Comarow said.
"They are fully capable of providing first-rate care, even to most patients who
have serious conditions or need demanding procedures."

U.S. News has published the rankings since 1990 to help people find highly
skilled inpatient care. U.S. News determines its rankings by evaluating 16
high-stakes categories at hospitals, such as cardiology and heart surgery,
gastroenterology, neurology and neurosurgery. U.S. News reported that the 140
hospitals ranked were ones that performed well enough in at least one of the 16
specialties.

RMC met the criteria for two specialties, performing at the national level in
gastroenterology along with neurology and neurosurgery.

"And if RMC got two categories and only 140 hospitals were ranked, I think
that's definitely a good thing," Blackmon said.

Gastroenterology includes procedures on the digestive system, including
colonoscopies and removal of esophageal cancer. Neurology and neurosurgery
focuses on a variety of ailments such as strokes, headaches and back, brain and
spinal cord problems.

U.S. News based the rankings of those two specialties on a number of factors,
including the level of nurse staffing and patient volume at the hospital along
with the survival rate for people who have procedures performed there. For
instance, U.S. News stated the survival rate at RMC in the two above specialties
during the past year was better than expected -- with fewer patient deaths
occurring 30 days after admittance compared with the number expected after
adjusting for severity of disease and other risks.

"This is nothing we applied for," Judy Gould, vice president of marketing and
professional services at RMC, said of the ranking. "But we're not surprised at
having it."

Jim Baker, director of surgery at RMC, who oversees several departments
including gastroenterology, or GI, said he only learned about the ranking a
couple of weeks ago but was not surprised by it.

"I've been involved in numerous GI labs over the years and this is an excellent
one," Baker said. "Customer service and patient service are above many other
hospitals."

Last year, RMC performed 8,300 gastroenterological procedures.

"It means a lot to me when equipment representatives come in and are in awe of
how efficient everything runs and the volume we handle," said Donna Burt, charge
nurse for the gastrointestinal lab at RMC. "They deal with hospitals all over
and they'd put us up against the hospitals in Birmingham. The ranking makes me
proud of the gastrointestinal lab."

Dr. Anthony Esposito, neurologist at RMC, said the ranking was encouraging for
all staff at the hospital.

"It gives staff the encouragement that they are doing the right thing," Esposito
said. "Hospitals that can compete with larger ones, I think that's a good
thing."

Esposito said staff in RMC's emergency room as well as its nurses helped the
hospital obtain the ranking through strong patient care. He said a good
emergency room physician must know when to work on a patient and when to send
the patient to a more specialized physician, such as a neurologist.

"Our physicians are very good at that -- at choosing if a patient needs more
aggressive procedures," he said. "And monitoring hydration, blood pressure, just
monitoring the patient ... I think our nurses do a very good job of that."

Diane Hawkins, assistant vice president for patient care services at RMC, said
it's very important to provide quality care for a patient throughout his or her
entire stay at the hospital, not just during his or her medical procedure.

"We have people do hourly rounds to check on patients, to cut down on them
trying to get up and possibly get injured," Hawkins said. "And we assess every
patient for fall risk, particularly stroke patients, and have them wear
bracelets so we can identify them readily."

Staff writer Patrick McCreless: 256-235-3561. On Twitter @PMcCreless_Star

___ (c)2012 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120228-AO-RMC-makes-list-of-top-regional-hospitals-0228-20120228

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2012 The Anniston Star


