                              456 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                           August 11, 2010 Wednesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

NEWS IN BRIEF

BYLINE: A staff report

SECTION: SOUTH TAMPA; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 427 words


Hospital ranked among top 50

Tampa General Hospital has been ranked as one of the country's top 50 hospitals
in six medical specialties in U.S. News & World Report's 2010-11 Best Hospitals.

The specialties include diabetes and endocrinology, geriatrics, heart and heart
surgery, kidney disorders, orthopedics and urology. The rankings are available
at www.usnews.com/best hospitals and are featured in the magazine's August
printed issue.

Ron Hytoff, president and CEO of Tampa General, said the rankings are a
collaborative effort of the hospital's staff, the University of South Florida
College of Medicine and community medical providers.

"Quality patient care is a product of this teamwork," Hytoff said. "When you
have doctors working hand-in-hand with nurses and other clinical specialists,
you provide better outcomes for sick patients."

Holy Names hires director

The Academy of the Holy Names has named Kevin Vargas its new athletic director.

Vargas was athletic director and a physical education teacher at Corpus Christi
Catholic School.

At Corpus Christi, Vargas was instrumental in the creation and implementation of
rules and procedures in the athletic handbook, interviewed and hired coaches,and
maintained the athletic budget. He also was the summer camp director at Mary
Help of Christians summer camp.

Vargas is a graduate of Jesuit High School and the University of Florida.

"We at the Academy are excited to have Kevin join us as athletic director and
look forward to continued high standards of academic and athletic excellence,"
said Principal Camille Jowanna.

Free coupon seminar offers tips on saving

Discover a new way to save money with coupons.

TrueCouponing.com will offer a seminar on cutting your grocery bill by more than
70 percent at 6 p.m. Aug. 20 at the Salvation Army Community Worship Center,
1100 W. Sligh Ave.

For details, call (813) 549-5285.

Real estate investors meet

The Suncoast Real Estate Investors Association hosts its next First Steps to
Success networking meeting at 6 p.m. Aug. 19 at the DoubleTree Hotel, 4500 W.
Cypress St.

Guest speaker Maria Hayden presents "Get Past The Fear - Get to the Deal."

When real estate prices dropped, Hayden said she wanted to start buying but she
had qualms that paralyzed her. She overcame her fear and built confidence with
each small success.

The presentation is free to members; guests are $20, or they can become a member
at the door. For details, call (813) 287-1515.

A staff report

Copyright © 2010, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Times Publishing Company

