                              461 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          South Bend Tribune (Indiana)

                            March 23, 2013 Saturday
                                  Mich Edition

BRIEFcase

BYLINE: TRIBUNE AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 470 words


SOUTH BEND

IUSB holds career, internship fair

The Indiana University South Bend Career and Internship Fair will be from 2 to 5
p.m. Wednesday, in the Student Activities Center, near the corner of Mishawaka
Avenue and 20th Street. More than 80 companies will be in attendance.

Active duty members of armed services and veterans are invited to the job fair
for an early visit from 1 to 2 p.m.

The fair is free and open to the public. Professional dress is required for
entrance.

For more information, visit iusb.edu/career-events/index.php.

SOUTH BEND

ND's Mendoza gains top ranking

The Mendoza College of Business at the University of Notre Dame took the No. 1
spot for the fourth year in a row in the just-released Bloomberg Businessweek
2013 "Best Undergraduate Business Schools" ranking.

Mendoza's undergraduate studies ranked first in student satisfaction and fifth
in employer satisfaction - the two main ranking criteria. The college also
earned scores of "A+" for teaching quality, facilities and services, and job
placement.

According to the article accompanying the ranking, students especially lauded
the college's well-rounded business curriculum, strong liberal arts bent and
focus on ethics.

To see the complete rankings, visit www.businessweek.com.

WEST LAFAYETTE, IND.

Purdue teams find new uses for crops

Two teams of Purdue University students have won top prizes for crop innovation
for creating fiber insulation from soybeans and fireworks casing from corn.

Purdue's student soybean and corn innovation contests challenge students to come
up with creative uses for the crops. Both teams received a $20,000 prize
Wednesday for their work.

One team produced Nature Loft, a soy protein fiber insulation that can be used
in bedding, apparel and other products. Another team created Sky Maize, a
biodegradable fireworks casing that is lighter and less expensive than products
currently on the market.

Second-place teams created water-soluble eyelid glue from soybeans and an
anti-fog glass-cleansing solution from corn.

KNOX

Leadership change at Starke Hospital

Jared Beasley has been named interim president of Indiana University Health
Starke Hospital to take the place of President David Hyatt, who is transferring
to a new position at Jay County Hospital in Portland, Ind.

Beasley has served as vice president of Clinical and Diagnostic Services of IU
Health La Porte Hospital since June 2012. Prior, he worked as the Emergency
Department director at partner IU Health Goshen Hospital for six years.

He received a bachelor's degree in nursing from Goshen College, a bachelor's
degree in economics and business administration from Manchester College and a
master's in business administration from Indiana University-Purdue University
Fort Wayne.

Hyatt was recently named CEO of Jay County Hospital in Portland.

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 South Bend Tribune Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved

