                              455 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Daily Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                              June 1, 2012 Friday
                                  City Edition

Schools wrestle lack of rural doctors

BYLINE: SILAS ALLEN, Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS METRO/STATE; Pg. 12A

LENGTH: 722 words


Officials at Oklahoma's two medical schools are moving forward with a plan they
hope will combat a shortage of doctors in rural Oklahoma.

The Oklahoma Hospital Residency Training Program Act provides just over $3
million to create residency programs at hospitals in rural, underserved areas
across the state.

The bill passed out of the Oklahoma Senate in the final hours of the 2012
legislative session, which ended May 25.

Under the program, the Oklahoma Health Care Authority would contract with the
Oklahoma State University College of Osteopathic Medicine in Tulsa and the
University of Oklahoma College of Medicine in Oklahoma City to establish and run
new residency programs in medically underserved areas.

Oklahoma Health Care Authority spokesman Carter Kimble said the authority is
still working out how the program will be implemented.

Although those details are still being worked out, Howard Barnett, president of
OSU-Tulsa and the OSU Center for Health Sciences said the university is already
in discussions with a few rural hospitals that are interested in participating
in the program.

Barnett said he wouldn't name the hospitals that have expressed interest until
those discussions are finalized, but he said most of them are located in towns
with populations of about 25,000.

The university also has begun to recruit students who are interested in working
in rural Oklahoma. Kayse Shrum, dean of the College of Osteopathic Medicine,
said she's been speaking to high school FFA teachers and CareerTech instructors
about guiding interested students toward a career in medicine.

The college also is establishing early-admittance programs with regional
universities around the state. Under those programs, students could be granted
conditional admission to medical school as college sophomores, provided they
maintain certain standards.

Recruiting students who come from rural areas originally is important, she said,
since they tend to be more inclined to return to rural Oklahoma to practice once
they graduate.

"We can make a significant impact and solve the problem we've had in the past in
Oklahoma," Shrum said.

A serious problem

The rural doctor shortage already appears to be taking its toll. America's
Health Rankings for 2011 place Oklahoma at No. 48, two spots lower than the
previous year's rankings. Only Mississippi and Louisiana fell behind Oklahoma in
the rankings, which are released annually by the United Health Foundation.

The rankings cite a high prevalence of smoking and obesity, limited availability
of primary care doctors and low use of prenatal care for the low ranking.

A New England Journal of Medicine article ranks Oklahoma as the state that faces
the most challenges in meeting medical needs. That ranking is based on the ratio
of Medicaid expansion to primary care capacity.

According to the article, Oklahoma is expected to see a large expansion in the
Medicaid population as the federal health care law takes effect. But Oklahoma
doesn't have the primary care capacity to deal with those newly insured
patients. Without outside efforts, the demand for medical care could outstrip
the supply of providers in the state.

Special challenges

Although those issues are daunting, the new program will go a long way toward
combating them, said Patti Davis, executive vice president of the Oklahoma
Hospital Association.

Davis, a former rural hospital administrator, said hospitals in rural areas face
certain challenges that their urban counterparts don't see. Doctors in rural
hospitals face tougher call schedules, simply because their staffs are smaller.
Doctors' spouses may also face limited employment opportunities in rural areas,
she said.

All those factors make it more difficult for hospitals in rural areas to attract
doctors, she said. As a result, rural Oklahoma sees its physician population
shrinking, even as graduates from its medical schools leave the state for their
residencies.

By exposing students to rural Oklahoma during medical school and bringing them
to rural hospitals for residencies, Davis said, the program will help make them
more aware of the opportunities there. That could mean the difference between
sending doctors to rural Oklahoma or to other states.

"We've already spent a lot of money educating these people. We need to keep them
in Oklahoma," she said.


LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2012 The Daily Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved

