                              466 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Queanbeyan Age

                             March 30, 2012 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Hospital hand hygiene standards fall short

BYLINE: David Butler; HEALTH

SECTION: A; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 264  words


QUEANBEYAN Hospital has introduced a range of new hand hygiene protocols
following recent figures on the MyHospitals website showing it had some of the
worst hand- washing standards in south- eastern NSW.

At its most recent hand- hygiene audit in July-October last year, Queanbeyan
Hospital scored a ranking of 55.2 per cent, well-below the national benchmark of
70 per cent and lower than similar-size Batemans Bay Hospital, which scored 81.1
per cent. Across the border, the Canberra Hospital also trumped Queanbeyan's
ranking with a score of 64.8 per cent. As a result of the score, the hospital
has created a new infection control officer position, tasked with bringing hand
hygiene up to an acceptable standard.

More alcohol hand rub stations will also be introduced.

Hospital Health Service Manager Bill Stone said that Queanbeyan Hospital was
taking the hygiene concerns seriously, and had maintained a very low infection
rate over recent years.

"Queanbeyan Hospital has a very low infection rate, and patient safety is
central to all of our clinical activities," he said.

"Compliance rates of all staff must be increased to a level that exceeds the
national standard." The hospital would also increase training sessions with
staff and audit hygiene more closely, Mr Stone said.

"Queanbeyan Hospital has recently appointed a new Infection Control Officer, who
will work with all staff to bring hand hygiene rates to an acceptable standard.
The hospital will conduct face to face education sessions and all staff will be
asked to complete a Hand Hygiene Australia e-learning package."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QA


             Copyright 2012 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

