                              464 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            January 7, 2016 Thursday

Advocate Lutheran's orthopedic program ranked in top 100

BYLINE: Submitted by Advocate Lutheran General Hospital

SECTION: NEIGHBOR; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 263 words


Advocate Lutheran General Hospital is named on Becker's Hospital Review's 2015
edition of its "100 Hospitals and Health Systems With Great Orthopedic Programs"
list.

Lutheran General Hospital is said to be a national leader when it comes to
several aspects of orthopedic care. According to Becker's Hospital Review,
hospitals on the list received recognition for excellence from various reputable
organizations in areas such as joint replacements, orthopedic surgeries and
general orthopedic care.

"It is definitely an honor to be listed among the best orthopedic programs in
the nation," says Dr. Wayne Goldstein, chairman of Orthopedic Surgery at
Advocate Lutheran General Hospital. "We have great depth in our program, with an
exceptional team of surgeons and supporting health care professionals. They
provide outstanding care for our patients and are worthy of this recognition."

Becker's Hospital Review selected hospitals for inclusion based on national
rankings and awards from several institutions, including U.S. News & World
Report national and regional rankings for orthopedics, U.S. News' Common Care
ratings for hip and knee replacement, CareChex rankings for orthopedic care and
orthopedic surgery, Blue Distinction Centers for Knee and Hip Replacement,
Healthgrades orthopedic awards and Magnet designation for nursing excellence.

Becker's Hospital Review has published a version of this list annually since
2011. Note: This list is not an endorsement of included hospitals, health
systems or associated health care providers, and organizations cannot pay for
inclusion.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Paddock Publications, Inc.

