                              45 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            July 16, 2014 Wednesday

2 hospitals ranked area's best;
U.S. News & World Report rates facilities.Miami Valley, Kettering tie for 17th
in Ohio in annual rankings.;
HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: By Randy Tucker

SECTION: LOCAL & STATE; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 468 words


Miami Valley Hospital and Kettering Medical Center tied as the highest-ranked
hospitals in the Dayton metro area in U.S. News & World Report's 2014-15 "Best
Hospitals'' rankings released Tuesday.

Both hospitals ranked No. 17 in Ohio - the highest ranking in the metro area -
based on such measures as their resources and technologies, patient outcomes
including survival rates, and performance in different specialties, according to
U.S. News.

"This is quite an honor to once again be recognized as a best hospital in the
region," said Roy Chew, president of Kettering Medical Center. "It certainly
speaks to the high level of exceptional care that each patient receives at our
hospital and all Kettering Health Network hospitals."

Mark Shaker, chief executive of Miami Valley Hospital, said his hospital's
ranking was a tribute to the hard work and dedication of its doctors and staff.

"We owe these kinds of accolades to our medical staff and our employees," Shaker
said. "They're the ones that are day-to-day taking care of our patients with
compassion and the highest level of quality."

The annual rankings also rely heavily on hospitals' reputations; this has drawn
criticism from industry insiders who contend that the biggest and best-known
hospitals receive the highest scores based largely on their names.

"A lot of these rating agencies have different formulas and different
approaches, and health systems can't control any of that," Shaker said. "But the
folks who are going to get the most attention are the very large academic
facilities in large cities that we're all very familiar with."

U.S. News responded to the criticism last year by saying its rankings do not
represent hospitals that are the best for every patient but the best medical
centers for the most difficult patients to treat.

In Ohio, for example, the

Cleveland Clinic - perhaps the most recognized hospital in the state

- was ranked No. 1 in the state and the No. 4 hospital overall in the country.
It was also ranked No. 1 nationally for cardiology and heart surgery as well as
urology, according to U.S. News.

The Cleveland Clinic was also the only Ohio hospital to be included on the U.S.
News "Honor Roll" list of hospitals nationally ranked in at least six
specialties.

Although they didn't make the national rankings, Miami Valley and Kettering were
both ranked as "high-performing" hospitals in eight specialties.

Miami Valley's high-performing specialties were cardiology and heart surgery;
diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery;
geriatrics; nephrology; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

Kettering's high-performing specialties were diabetes and endocrinology; ear,
nose and throat; gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery; geriatrics;
gynecology; orthopedics; pulmonology; and urology.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.


