                              465 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Brattleboro Reformer (Vermont)

                             July 26, 2012 Thursday

BMH recognized for safety

BYLINE: By HOWARD WEISS-TISMAN / Reformer Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 484 words


Thursday July 26, 2012

BRATTLEBORO - Brattleboro Memorial Hospital has received high marks from a
survey that ranked hospitals across the country.

BMH was ranked the second safest hospital in Vermont in the August issue of
Consumer Reports.

Consumer Reports looked at six hospitals in Vermont and ranked them on a
numbered scale.

BMH scored a 6-3 on the zero to100 scale, with only Central Vermont Medical
Center in Berlin scoring higher with a 7-1." We are very proud of our ranking.
We are always striving to improve the care that is delivered," said Michele
Rowland, BMH Executive Director of Quality. "We are ever vigilant in terms of
quality."

The magazine looked at 1,159 hospitals in 4-4 states in its first ever rating of
safety.

The rating system used six categories including infections, re-admissions,
communication, CT scanning, complications and mortality.

While celebrating BMH's ranking on the national report, Rowland cautioned that
many factors must be considered when comparing one hospital to another.

She points out that nationally recognized hospitals, such as Massachusetts
General and Cleveland Clinic, scored lowe rthan BMH even though those hospitals
are some of the premier hospitals in the world." We do not want, in any way, to
construe that the low scores at those other hospitals mean they are not safe,"
Rowland said." Medicine is complex, and you can't expect to give a simple grade
to explain the service an institution delivers."

Dr. John Santa, director of the Consumer Reports Health Ratings Center, said in
a press release that the magazine only covered 1-8 percent of the hospitals in
the country because data on patient harm is not reported consistently
nationwide. " Hospitals that volunteer safety information, regardless of their
score, deserve credit, sincethe first step in safety is accountability," Santa
said. "But the fact that consumers can't geta full picture of most hospitals in
the U. S. underscores the need for more public reporting."

BMH routinely reports its safety data as part of its Medicare requirements.

Medicare gives hospitals an extra 2 percent on their funding if they report
safety data, but not every hospital elects to do so.

Dr. David Albright, Chief Medical Officer at BMH, also said the Brattleboro
Hospital is much smaller than large, urban institutions, and if there is a
safety issue it is much easier to address and improve the situation.

And while Albright said the national ranking was welcomed, he said the staff at
BMH put safety as their primary concern long before it became a focal point for
national reports." The medical staff has always been focused on delivering the
best hospital care for our patients," he said. "We have been on top of this long
before people started keeping statistics on a national basis."

Howard WeissTisman can be reached at hwtisman@reformer.com, or 802-254-2-311
ext. 279. Follow on Twitter @HowardReformer.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Emergency Department at the Brattleboro Memorial Hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


   Copyright 2012 MediaNews Group, Inc. and New England Newspaper Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

