                              472 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                 The Sunday Star-Times (Auckland, New Zealand)

                            October 20, 2013 Sunday

Patients get to rank their stay in hospital

BYLINE: By MICHELLE DUFF

SECTION: NEWS; NATIONAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 332 words


PATIENTS WILL be able to write reviews of their public hospital stays when Trip
Advisor-style ratings are adopted in New Zealand next year.

Health Minister Tony Ryall has confirmed a patient ranking system for public
hospitals, similar to those already in use in Britain, will be rolled out
nationwide.

It will allow patients to score hospitals on the quality of their emergency
departments and inpatient wards and comment on what they liked or disliked,
including staff, beds and food.

In Britain, the National Health Service introduced the Friends and Family test
in April this year. Patients are surveyed and can write online reviews, giving
hospitals and clinics star ratings on cleanliness, staff co-operation, dignity
and respect, patient involvement and accommodation.

In New Zealand, the Health Quality & Safety Commission is working on a similar
but more comprehensive version of the tests for our hospitals.

"We will expect that we will be introducing this into hospitals in the middle of
next year," Ryall said.

"We know that this actually improves performance. It will provide tremendous
feedback to DHBs and their wards and their clinicians on their performance,
because it will actually tell them what their patients think and feel about the
level of service."

Individual rankings for doctors and nurses would not be included but, based on
international trends, that may happen later, Ryall said.

"We're not in a position to do that yet but I think over the next three to four
years there's an inevitability about more disclosure of information on both a
hospital and individual level."

However, an increasing number of New Zealand doctors are already being rated
through the US-based website RateMDs.com, with more than 200 rankings on the
site. It allows patients to score doctors out of five, with comments alongside.

New Zealand Medical Association deputy chair Robert Francis said the medical
profession welcomed more scrutiny but were concerned about how a ranking system
would work.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2013 Fairfax New Zealand
                              All Rights Reserved

