                              478 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     November 2, 2013 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

CareChex Names Ochsner Number Two in the Nation in Overall Hospital Care

LENGTH: 597  words


New Delhi, Nov. 2 -- CareChex, a division of COMPARION, has named Ochsner1
number two in the country and number one in Louisiana in Overall Hospital Care
in its 2014 hospital ratings. Ochsner received the highest rating of ++ and a
score of 99.9 out of 100 in the national rankings. Over 4,000 hospitals from
across the country were ranked in the Overall Hospital Care category which
comprises ratings of all2 inpatient medical conditions and surgical procedures
treated and performed by full-service hospitals, such as cancer care, cardiac
surgery and spinal surgery. Ochsner was second only to St Mary's Hospital, which
is part of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, MN.



Additionally, for the second year in a row, Ochsner was named number one in the
country for liver transplants and this year was named number two for kidney
transplants. This prestigious distinction encompasses three quality measures:
patient safety indicators, mortality rates and complication rates.

Utilizing extensive clinical data from the Hospital Quality Alliance and the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, CareChex provides a comprehensive
evaluation of all components of medical quality including:

* Process of care - measures specific processes that should be followed during
heart attack and heart failure, pneumonia, outpatient procedures, surgical care
and preventive care, among others.

* Outcomes of care - measures mortality and complication rates, inpatient
quality indicators and patient safety indicators

* Patient satisfaction - measures overall hospital ratings, doctor and nurse
communication, hospital environment, and staff responsiveness, among others.

CareChex provides these findings to consumers, providers and purchasers of U.S.
medical care, including many Fortune 500 companies.

"CareChex allows the public to make informed decisions regarding the quality of
medical care provided by hospitals," said Dr. Thane Forthman, President and CEO,
CareChex a division of Comparion. "We are pleased to acknowledge that Ochsner
Medical Center has achieved an exceptionally high level of performance across
all components of medical quality. Ochsner's performance is a benchmark that
other hospitals should seek to emulate."

"The CareChex rankings demonstrate Ochsner's commitment to the highest quality
patient care," said Dr. Joseph Bisordi, Chief Medical Officer, Ochsner Health
System. "What matters most to us are positive outcomes for our patients. We want
our patients to get the best possible care so they can go home sooner and get
back to their lives and families."

"We are honored to have our programs named among the best in the country by
CareChex, which is used by some of the largest companies in the nation in order
to make informed healthcare decisions," said Warner Thomas, President and CEO,
Ochsner Health System. "Each and every member of Ochsner's team is relentlessly
focused on quality and understands that it is part of their responsibility to
make sure our patients have the best possible outcomes. I am extremely proud of
the physicians and clinical teams who provide such exceptional care to our
patients every day."

"As our transplant program continues to grow both regionally and nationally, we
remain committed to providing the best service and care for our patients," said
Dr. Nigel Girgrah, PhD, Head of Hepatology, Medical Director of the Multi-Organ
Transplant Institute. "We work with so many patients and families over long
periods of time, so we know what a difference a successful transplant can make
in someone's life. That's why we work so hard to be the best."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

