                              476 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Charleston Gazette-Mail

                            November 4, 2016, Friday

Wal-Mart not top employer;
WVU Medicine leads private-business list

BYLINE: Jake Jarvis Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P1A

LENGTH: 492 words


For the first time since 1998, Wal-Mart is not the largest private employer in
West Virginia.

WVU Medicine, formerly known as West Virginia United Health System, rose to the
top of this year's ranking of the top private employers in the Mountain State,
according to the annual report from WorkForce West Virginia. Wal-Mart fell to
second place.

WVU Medicine, under its prior name, was the second-largest private employer in
the state for a decade.

Albert Wright, the president and CEO of WVU Medicine, said the name change
doesn't have anything to do with WVU Medicine's placement on the list, but its
acquisition of new hospitals and high number of new hires does.

"A lot of people say, How are you growing so fast?' Wright said. "I think we're
just doing better than ever at taking care of our folks and keeping people here
in West Virginia.

Wright said his organization made a commitment a few years ago to increase the
number of specialists the hospital system has on site, so patients wouldn't have
to drive to faraway hospitals to get the care they need.

Wright said WVU Medicine has hired 500 nurses this year, and is still actively
recruiting 150 physician assistants - of which 110 are entirely new positions.

"Over the last couple years, we've added hospitals in Buckhannon, Keyser and, on
Oct. 1, Reynolds Memorial Hospital, in Glen Dale, Wright said. "As we've gone
through these acquisitions - and we're just growing like crazy - our numbers
keep rising.

Last year's ranking listed West Virginia United Health System and West Virginia
University Medical Corporation (University Health Associates) as separate
entities. Wright said the latter organization included mostly physicians and is
now integrated into the general WVU Medicine group.

Joining WVU Medicine and Wal-Mart in the top five rankings are Charleston Area
Medical Center, Kroger and Mylan Pharmaceuticals. Lowe's Home Improvement
Centers rose from eighth to sixth on the list.

Two Huntington hospitals that are planning to merge, St. Mary's Medical Center
and Cabell Huntington Hospital, ranked seventh and eighth, respectively.
Wheeling Hospital ranked ninth, and the home-care company ResCare rounded out
the top 10.

According to WorkForce West Virginia, this year's top 10 employers have 4,395
more people than last year.

Earlier this year, Wal-Mart closed 154 locations across the country, including
one store in McDowell County.

WorkForce West Virginia compiles the rankings each year based on quarterly
contribution reports from the first quarter of the year.

The agency doesn't release employment numbers, to "maintain employer
confidentiality, according to the release.

Chelsea Ruby, director of marketing and communications for the West Virginia
Department of Commerce, said she couldn't say if WVU Medicine had more employees
this year than in years previous, or if Wal-Mart had fewer.

Reach Jake Jarvis at jake.jarvis@wvgazettemail.com, 304-348-7939 or follow
@NewsroomJake on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 Charleston Newspapers

