                              480 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                            August 12, 2006 Saturday
                                 FINAL EDITION

HEALTH ALERTS

BYLINE: A staff report

SECTION: 4YOU; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 503 words


Moffitt Ranks In Most Wired Survey

TAMPA - The H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute has been named by
Hospitals & Health Networks in partnership with the American Hospital
Association, Accenture, McKesson Healthcare and CHIME as one of "100 most wired
hospitals and health systems" in the United States. This is the first year
Moffitt has appeared on the list.

The Most Wired Survey identifies 100 hospitals and health systems that have
adopted information technology to streamline business and clinical practices,
improve patient outcomes, and decrease the occurrence of medical errors. The
survey assesses a hospital's adoption and use of technology in five key areas:
safety and quality, customer service, business processes, work force, and public
health and safety.

A staff report

TGH Doctor Receives National Award

TAMPA - Tampa General Aeromed Medical Director Catherine Carrubba has received
the 2006 Distinguished Physician Award from the Air Medical Physician
Association.

This national award is presented to one physician every year who has
significantly contributed to the air medicine profession. It also recognizes
lifetime achievement and service to the air medical community.

Carrubba has been with Tampa General for nearly 20 years and has been Aeromed's
medical director since its inception in 1989. She also serves as Hillsborough
County's mass casualty director and Tampa Fire Rescue's medical director.

A staff report

Moffitt Moves Up In Rankings

TAMPA - The H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute has made the
"America's Best Hospitals for cancer" list in U.S. News & World Report. The No.
11 ranking is up from No. 13 last year. This is the eighth year in a row Moffitt
has appeared on the news magazine's prestigious "America's Best Hospitals" list
of 50 hospitals.

The hospital guide hit newsstands July 10 and can be viewed online at
www.usnews.com/besthospitals.

Administration attributed Moffitt's high ranking to a number of advances:

oRecruitment of top-notch clinicians and scientists

oThe quality of Moffitt's research initiatives

oPhenomenal growth

A staff report

Drug Study Seeks Participants

TAMPA - David Drobes, member of the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research
Institute's Tobacco Research & Intervention Program, is conducting a new study
on alcohol and nicotine effects. The purpose is to determine how people react to
different combinations of alcohol and nicotine.

About 105 participants will be recruited. To qualify for the study, participants
must smoke cigarettes and drink alcohol at least occasionally. Drobes is
interested in reactions to alcohol and nicotine among people who consume
different amounts of these substances.

The study will last approximately five weeks. Participants will visit Moffitt's
TRIP office about once per week. Sessions will last two to four hours.

For information, call (813) 745-4374.

A staff report

Photo: Catherine Carrubba

Copyright © 2006, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2006 Times Publishing Company All Rights Reserved

