                              477 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Anniston Star (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             April 14, 2017 Friday

Report gives RMC, Stringfellow C grades

BYLINE: Patrick McCreless, The Anniston Star, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 787 words


April 14--A health care safety report from a national nonprofit Wednesday gave
Anniston's two hospitals a "C" grade for problems during some surgeries and poor
communication between staff and patients.

Regional Medical Center and Stringfellow Memorial Hospital officials say their
facilities constantly work to improve quality of care and that recent rankings
and awards from other organizations give them better scores than the Wednesday
report.

Some experts say there has been a greater drive in the health care business in
recent years to improve quality and safety to earn more reimbursements from
insurers and cut costs.

The safety report, released by the Leapfrog Group, a Washington, D.C.-based
nonprofit that grades hospitals on errors, accidents and infections, ranked
2,639 U.S. hospitals. Of those, 823 earned an "A," 706 earned a "B," 933 earned
a "C," 167 earned a "D" and 10 earned an "F."

Deirdre McCaughey, program director for graduate programs in health care quality
and safety at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, said Leapfrog was a
credible organization. (UAB Hospital earned an "A" grade in the report.)

"Is their methodology robust? Yes," McCaughey said. "Are the people involved
trustworthy? Yes."

RMC's ranking was due mainly to problems related to some surgeries. For
instance, the report shows RMC had more patient deaths from serious but
treatable conditions than the average among the other hospitals surveyed. RMC
was also worse than the average for allowing surgical wound stitching to tear,
blood clots and accidental cuts and tears among patients.

The report does note that much of the data it used was collected between 2013
and 2015, the source being the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.

In a Thursday email to The Star, Louis Bass, RMC CEO, wrote that RMC is not an
active participant in the Leapfrog survey and that trending data is a more
accurate reflection of where his hospital is excelling.

"RMC is constantly striving to improve in all aspects of quality and patient
safety and we have made significant progress over the last several years," Bass
wrote.

Bass wrote that RMC has earned awards in recent years for quality care,
including a Top Performer for Key Quality Measures award from the Joint
Commission on Accreditation, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama's Centers for
Maternity Care and Knee and Hip Replacement and multiple Outstanding Achievement
Awards from the Commission on Cancer.

"All of which include overall quality measures for patient safety outcomes,"
Bass wrote.

Meanwhile, Stringfellow earned its ranking more for its physicians and nurses
having insufficient communication with patients. The hospital also had a low
ranking because of having a staff that was less responsive to patient needs than
the national average.

Natalie Fleming, spokeswoman for Stringfellow, wrote in a Thursday email to The
Star that her hospital is committed to providing safe, quality care for every
patient.

"We are disappointed by our "C" grade in the Leapfrog update, as it does not
fully reflect the quality of care we provide," Fleming wrote.

Fleming also listed a string of awards Stringfellow received in recent years,
including accreditation from the Joint Commission and recognition by U.S. News
and World Report Best Hospitals report.

"The Leapfrog Group is one of several organizations reanalyzing data that is
publicly reported, which results in different ratings on different sites,"
Fleming wrote. "Our hospital continues to take every opportunity to further
increase quality and service."

McCaughey said the pressure to improve quality and safety at hospitals has
continually increased in the last decade.

"No time in health care until somewhat recently has there been such an emphasis
on quality," McCaughey said.

The push began around 2007, when the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid started
restructuring some of its treatment reimbursements to health care providers,
offering higher payouts based off quality rankings and outcomes.

"Quality went from being just a moral imperative to more of a value imperative,"
McCaughey said.

Don Williamson, president of the Alabama Hospital Association, said Blue Cross
and other private insurers also started tying payouts to quality, which
encouraged more improvement at hospitals.

"There's been a much more visible effort to improve quality and most
importantly, measuring that, among hospitals," Williamson said. "Payers are
interested in reducing cost and avoiding unnecessary admissions."

Staff writer Patrick McCreless: 256-235-3561. On Twitter @PMcCreless_Star.

___ (c)2017 The Anniston Star (Anniston, Ala.) Visit The Anniston Star
(Anniston, Ala.) at www.annistonstar.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency,
LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170414-AO-Report-gives-RMC-Stringfellow-C-grades-0414-20170414

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AO


                        Copyright 2017 The Anniston Star

