                              46 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 5, 2012 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Earns More #1 Rankings than Any Other
Hospital in the Nation on U.S. News & World Report's Best Children's Hospital
List

LENGTH: 285  words


New Delhi, June 5 -- Ranking number one in six of 10 specialties, The Children's
Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) has more #1 rankings than any other children's
hospital in the nation, according to U.S. News & World Report's Best Children's
Hospital survey. CHOP ranked first in Cancer, Diabetes and Endocrinology,
Gastroenterology, Orthopaedics, Pulmonology, Urology; second in Cardiology and
Heart Surgery, Nephrology and Neurology and Neurosurgery, and fourth in
Neonatology.

The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia has again tied for the number one
ranking overall on U.S. News & World Report's Honor Roll of Best Children's
Hospitals.

"No matter how many times we achieve the top ranking in this survey, it is
always an exhilarating, inspiring and humbling experience - and a reminder of
our responsibility to constantly improve healthcare for children," said Steven
M. Altschuler, M.D., chief executive officer of The Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia. "I could not be prouder of our employees and the extraordinary
care they provide to our patients every day. I am honored to work alongside
them."

The U.S. News survey methodology combines clinical data points from 178
pediatric centers with a separate reputational score derived from a survey in
which 1,500 pediatric specialists - 150 in each specialty - were asked to which
hospital they would send the sickest children.

For more information about CHOP's rankings please visit:
http://www.chop.edu/about/best-in-the-nation/us-news-world-report.html

The full rankings and methodology are available at
www.usnews.com/childrenshospitals. The rankings will also be published in the
U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013 guidebook, which will be available in August.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


