                              475 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                             August 15, 2016 Monday
                                 METRO EDITION

READERS WRITE The crisis needs triage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10A

LENGTH: 1320 words


HEALTH CARE: DOCTOR BURNOUT

As a recently retired physician, I found the Aug. 7 article "Doctors battling
crisis of burnout" provocative. Kudos to the institutions and physicians who are
struggling with this problem (especially Dr. Mark Linzer, who has been at the
forefront of this issue for some time). However, as I read about efforts to
"help doctors cope" with this problem, I was reminded of the well-worn but
valuable public health analogy: Better to climb to the top of the cliff to
prevent people from falling off than to hurry more ambulances to the foot of it
to treat the injured.

One interpretation of this experience is that our health care "system" is
fundamentally flawed by conflicts between expectations and resources. For
example, in clinics, providers are being "measured" for their patients'
satisfaction, including timeliness; nevertheless, they are also expected to
"squeeze in" additional patients who have turned up without appointments. The
electronic medical record and "home access" permits providers to spend a bit of
time with their family, then sit down to the computer to finish "documentation"
of their clinical activities of the day. Cost-conscious managers continue to
reduce the number of support staff for providers but increase the number of
tasks expected of them.

Treating the injured at the bottom of the cliff (the burned-out) is an
unsustainable approach; rather, hospitals and clinics should be trying to fix
the system that causes these problems in the first place. Solving the problem
might be expected both to reduce costs (including those of provider replacement)
and to improve care.

Dr. John D. Tobin Jr., St. Paul

HEALTH CARE: MERGER FAILS

Hospital sale in 1997 wasn't why research declined at U

In the Aug. 9 article on the collapse of the Fairview-University of Minnesota
merger, a former chief of cardiology linked the decline in the ranking of the
university's research programs to the sale of the University of Minnesota
Hospital to Fairview. This is an opinion that shouldn't have been accepted at
face value. Data show that research funding and National Institutes of Health
ranking at the U began declining in 1982, well before Fairview purchased the
hospital in 1997. Rather than undermining research at the U, Fairview's purchase
of the hospital saved it from financial disaster.

The reporter could have consulted publicly available information detailing
factual causes for the U's research declines rather than reporting only one
person's opinion. For example, the Governor's Blue Ribbon Commission on the
University of Minnesota Medical School issued a report in January 2015 showing a
sharp drop in NIH ranking in the early 1990s when the U was put on NIH
"exceptional status" designation after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
shut down the U's production of ALG, an anti-rejection drug not approved by FDA.
As noted in an MPR News article in 2006 (http://tinyurl.com/znhmcfw), "Before
the scandal, the medical school enjoyed an NIH funding rank in the top 15 in the
country. Afterward, the ranking slipped out of the top 20, even as NIH total
funding nationally nearly doubled." This, combined with the departure of almost
90 tenured and tenure-track faculty members (many of whom took their research
grants to their new institutions), are more accurate reasons for declining
research ranking at the university.

Dorothy Jung, Minnetonka

PATIENT ACCESS

More of the poor get to doctor, but what about middle class?

I was encouraged by the Aug. 9 headline "More poor patients getting to doctor
under health care law" - if by the statement you mean that the poor are using
doctors in clinics more than using emergency rooms, that's a good thing. If a
service (Medicaid) is free or low-cost, it will be used more, though complaints
of health care delivery remain. The poor have never, in my 30 years of providing
health care, had a lack of opportunity to access health care. Increased health
insurance premiums, copays and outrageous deductibles contribute to providing
health care to the poor but are pricing the middle class out of visiting
doctors. Many middle-class families have simply foregone health insurance
altogether.

I am curious to know if middle-class insured and uninsured are reducing their
access to health care due to the increased costs, or if it is just me. Recently,
I stepped on a rusty nail while mowing my daughter's lawn. I shut off the mower,
removed the nail, removed my sock and shoe, poured some vodka on it, applied a
bandage, then continued mowing.

Rick Dischinger, Minneapolis

The writer is a nurse.

GMOS

With this debate, you have the left's version of scientific denial

One of the greatest ailments to American society today is the toxic stew of
scientific illiteracy combined with confirmation bias for partisan conspiracy
theories. An Aug. 10 letter ("OK, suppose they're safe. They still have a
detrimental impact") illustrates the regressive left's version of scientific
denial through the form of GMO conspiracies. While the writer admits that GMO
foods are safe, he postulates that their environmental impact still makes them a
hazard to society.

This view is erroneous on several fronts. First, there is nothing inherently
problematic about GMOs with regard to their environmental impact. In fact, some
GMOs are being developed with insect resistance encoded in their genes,
rendering pesticides unnecessary. Second, the writer falsely claims that
glyphosate (Roundup) is harmful to humans. A joint effort by the United Nations
and the World Health Organization in 2016 concluded that "glyphosate is unlikely
to pose a carcinogenic risk to humans from exposure through diet." A 2002 review
by the European Union reached a similar conclusion. In addition, the claim that
Roundup-resistant crops are doused in chemicals is completely false: For corn
and soybeans, 16 ounces of glyphosate are sprayed over an acre. I would hardly
consider that "dousing." Among other mammals, glyphosate has a "low to very low
level of toxicity." If that isn't enough to convince anti-GMO advocates, a
letter signed by 107 Nobel laureates states that GMOs "have been shown
repeatedly to be less damaging to the environment, and a boon to global
biodiversity."

Sam Carlen, St. Paul

U.S. COMMITMENTS

Admit those Afghan translators, for their sake and ours

Fellow Americans, who are we and what will become of us? The Aug. 10 article
"Afghan translators wait for U.S. to fulfill promise" highlights the dangerous
shortsightedness of our stalemate politics. The world recognizes it is morally
corrupt for our lawmakers to renege on our pledge to protect thousands of
translators and their families who aided us in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Given this track record, who do you think will provide intelligence and material
support when the battle against terrorism threatens more Americans at home and
abroad?

Sara Langer, Minneapolis

MEDIA BIAS

Example: The handling of descriptions on Lewis, Craig

I am always amazed at what passes for reporting in the Star Tribune, and the
Aug. 10 article "Lewis tops 3 others in heated GOP District 2 Primary" was no
exception. The article included the following comment on candidate Darlene
Miller's take on Lewis: "She had publicized and criticized some of Lewis'
outrageous radio comments and writings." Note that the sentence states as fact
that his comments and writings were outrageous, not that Miller says they were.

Compare that with the following statement a few paragraphs later: "Meanwhile,
the Minnesota Republican Party accused Craig" - Lewis' DFL opponent in the
upcoming general election - "of having a radical left-wing agenda." Note the
difference: Here the authors are careful to point out that it was the Republican
Party that made the accusation, not that it is a fact. Anyone looking for proof
of blatant liberal bias by the Star Tribune and its writers need look no
further.

Robin Kelleher, Burnsville

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

