                              481 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Augusta Chronicle (Georgia)

                             April 2, 2005 Saturday
                                  ALL EDITION

SITE COMPARES HOSPITAL CARE

BYLINE: By Tom Corwin Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B06

LENGTH: 478 words


Patients can now pull up a Web site to compare how virtually every hospital in
America performed in treating certain key diseases, health officials announced
Friday. But Augusta hospital officials said the numbers don't tell all of the
story or show the advances made since the data collection started more than a
year ago.

Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Mark McClellan
announced the Hospital Compare search option, unveiled Friday on Medicare's Web
site, as a way for consumers to make more informed decisions.

"These important dimensions of quality are a start to providing much more
evidence-based choices when people think about how to get their hospital care,"
Dr. McClellan said.

Hospitals had to turn in data about how often they met 17 standards of care in
treating three conditions - heart attacks, heart failure and pneumonia - which
account for a large percentage of admissions. Within a year, the site also will
include rankings on other categories, such as patient satisfaction and hospital
-acquired infection, he said.

"This is not a final product," Dr. McClellan said. "It is a next step down a
very important road toward Medicare moving from simply paying for medical
services to supporting high-quality care that keeps getting better."

The American Hospital Association has been working on the effort and welcomes
the move toward rewarding better care, said President Dick Davidson.

"I think we're just moving into a new era in pay for performance," he said.

The rankings should be viewed in context, however, Augusta officials said. At
this stage, they probably have more to do with how well hospitals are
documenting care and improving their systems for handling patients, said William
Farr, the chief medical officer for University Health Care System.

"I believe right now it's more helpful to the providers than to the patients,"
he said.

A year after the rankings were introduced, hospitals have had a chance to make
changes so that their current numbers are much higher, said Becky Echols, the
performance improvement/regulatory standards manager at St. Joseph Hospital.

"We've looked at it as opportunities for improvement and how to improve care,"
she said.

And it should be viewed in context with other information and in consultation
with physicians, said Pam Renfro, the director of quality resource management at
Doctors Hospital.

"It shouldn't be a stand-alone thing that they use," she said.

But the rankings and the public Web site now give hospitals yet another
incentive to improve care, said Patricia Sodomka, the senior vice president for
patient and family-centered care.

"We think this is healthy," she said. "This is part of what we believe is
important for everyone to improve. Public accountability helps us all stay
focused on what's important."

Reach Tom Corwin at (706) 823-3213

or tom.corwin@augustachronicle.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2005 Southeastern Newspapers Corporation

