                              484 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                            October 25, 2010 Monday
                                   D1 Edition

'They either fix you or you die'

BYLINE: By Marie Wilson mwilson@dailyherald.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 438 words


The outcome of heart problems can be quite black and white.

"They either fix you or you die," said Tom Siok, a 64-year-old South Barrington
resident who has survived four heart-related surgeries, three of them at
Naperville's Edward Hospital.

Edward Hospital was ranked first in Illinois for cardiology services by the
independent health care ratings organization HealthGrades in a national study
released last week. And for patients, that basically means the hospital has a
strong track record of fixing patients so conditions such as heart attacks and
heart failure do not cause them to die, said Dr. Vincent Bufalino, Edward
Hospital's medical director of cardiovascular services.

"It means that people can be comfortable, that they can get university-level
care in the suburbs," Bufalino said. "What we're trying to do is provide not
only efficient and effective care, but high-quality care."

But for Siok, Edward Hospital wasn't the closest to home.

"We decided on Edward because of their reputation, their expertise and their
convenience to get to and from, even though I live in South Barrington, so it's
29 miles from my house to that hospital," Siok said. "The coaching and the care
that I got helped me through a lot."

Edward Hospital provides focused care in two areas designed specifically for
heart treatments: Edward Cardiovascular Institute, which opened in 1993, and
Edward Heart Hospital, which opened in 2002 and expanded in 2007.

And the hospital's ranking as first in the state for cardiology services is a
shared honor for paramedics, emergency room doctors and surgeons alike, Bufalino
said.

"An important aspect of this is it's clearly a team award. This is really about
the entire cardiology experience," Bufalino said. "It's a validation that
focused care works."

The annual HealthGrades Hospital Quality in America study analyzed patient
outcomes from Medicare

hospitalization records between 2007 and 2009 at nearly 5,000 hospitals in the
nation to determine mortality rates for different conditions and rank hospitals
based on those rates.

Aside from its first-in-Illinois ranking for cardiology services, Edward placed
in the top 5 percent in the nation in three categories: cardiology services,
overall cardiac services and coronary interventional procedures. The national
rankings further recognize the hospital's ability to keep patients' hearts
beating, Bufalino said.

And that's something Siok, who had his most recent surgery at Edward in May to
repair a split in a vein coming out of his heart, said he appreciates.

"It's hard to believe in less than six months, I'm back to living life like I
always have."

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Paddock Publications, Inc.

