                              47 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Tampa Tribune (Florida)

                             April 5, 2011 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Tampa General rated best in area

BYLINE: JEFF SCULLIN, The Tampa Tribune

SECTION: METRO; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 270 words


All Children's is ranked top hospital for kids

BY JEFF SCULLIN

The Tampa Tribune

TAMPA - Tampa General Hospital is the Tampa Bay area's best hospital, according
to new rankings from U.S. News & World Report.

Next among the 40 hospitals in the Tampa-St. Petersburg-Clearwater metro area
were H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, Brandon Regional Hospital and Community
Hospital in New Port Richey. All Children's Hospital in St. Petersburg was rated
the top children's hospital.

Tampa General is nationally ranked in six specialties:diabetes and
endocrinology, geriatrics, heart and heart surgery, kidney disorders,
orthopedics and urology, according to the rankings, released last week. Moffitt,
the region's No. 2 hospital, is nationally ranked for cancer treatment.

This is the 21st year U.S. News & World Report has compared the nation's
hospitals but the first time it has evaluated hospitals in metropolitan markets.
The publication ranked hospitals in 52 markets with populations of 1 million or
more.

To be among the 622 metro-area hospitals ranked, hospitals had to fall within
the Top 25 percent in at least one of the 16 specialty areas U.S. News & World
Report considers in its rankings. Hospitals with a national ranking in even one
specialty area rated better than hospitals with high-performing designations in
multiple areas but without any national ranking.

All Children's formally announced Monday its merger with the nation's top-ranked
hospital, Johns Hopkins Medicine.

jscullin@tampatrib.com

(813) 259-7305

Copyright © 2011, The Tampa Tribune and may not be republished without
permission. E-mail library@tampatrib.com

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Times Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


