                              486 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

FEELIN' GOOD From cancer to psychiatry, superior care's in metro area

BYLINE: BY LEONARD GREENE NEW YORK DAILY NEWS

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 805 words


WHILE DEMOCRATS and Republicans debate the merits of -Obamacare, cost-sharing
subsidies and out-of-pocket expenses, a mother in the Bronx is trying to
determine the best place to get cancer treatment for her kid.

For her, the health care issue isn't a political tennis match where the ball
ends up bouncing in some ideological court. It is a series of critical decisions
about affordability, quality of service and compassionate care.

Luckily, she has a road map - the U.S. News & World Report annual hospital
rankings - a practical guide to the best health care in New York City and
beyond.

Among the hospitals in excellent health are New York-Presbyterian, Mount Sinai
and NYU Langone Medical Center. Each has at least 10 nationally ranked adult
specialties.

New York-Presbyterian scored the No. 1 overall spot in the New York metro area.
In cardiology and heart surgery, New York-Presbyterian was ranked nationally at
No. 3, and it took the No. 4 spot for neurology and neurosurgery.

"Every day, our staff demonstrates a remarkable commitment to providing
world-class care," said Dr. Steven Corwin, president and CEO of New
York-Presbyterian.

"Patients of all backgrounds know that they can come to us and be treated with
compassion, dignity and respect, and they will have access to highly advanced,
life-saving treatments from renowned physicians at Columbia University Medical
Center and Weill Cornell Medicine. We are proud to be recognized as one of the
best hospitals in the country."

Matthew Fink, New York-Presbyterian's neurologist-in-chief, added, "For us, it's
always been asking what's next on the horizon. How do we deliver the highest
quality of care in the most compassionate of manners?

"We thrive on being innovators," he said. "We had a huge opportunity to make new
discoveries that are going to change the lives of people. I can't begin to tell
you how great it feels to treat a patient on death's door and they're fully
recovered. That's why we've gone into this field, to help people. That is one of
the greatest feelings you can possibly get."

The staff at Mount Sinai also has been able to celebrate its success. Along with
a No. 2 Big Apple rating, the hospital ranks No. 3 nationally in geriatrics and
No. 9 in cardiology and heart surgery.

Some of the city's specialty hospitals also fared extremely well.

Memorial Sloan Kettering ranked No. 2 nationally in treatment of cancer and in
gynecology, as well as fifth in urology and 20th for ear, nose and throat.

"We are delighted and honored once again to be one of the nation's top hospitals
for cancer," said Memorial Sloan Kettering President and CEO Craig Thompson.
"But this recognition is really a reflection of an entire community of
exceptional people - our dedicated staff of almost 16,000 and our patients, who
have placed their trust in our care. We may be one of the top hospitals in the
national rankings for this year, but our patients are No. 1 to us every day."

The Hospital for Special Surgery ranked first in the nation for orthopedics and
third for rheumatology.

Although the rankings are a feather in the hospitals' caps, and a powerful
recruitment tool, the good grades play a bigger role in helping patients decide
where to get the best treatment.

"It all depends on what your diagnosis or medical need is," said Ben Harder,
chief of health analysis at U.S. News & World Report.

Hospitals were ranked in 25 fields including rheumatology, urology, diabetes and
endocrinology and gynecology.

Whether it's a mobile stroke unit dispatched from New York-Presbyterian, spine
treatment at the Hospital for Special Surgery or cancer care at Memorial Sloan
Kettering, the best hospitals have the same goals - quality care and peace of
mind for their patients.

"A lot of people get caught up in the competitiveness. Everyone wants to be the
best," Harder said. "But what shouldn't be lost sight of is that New York City
has a plethora of good hospitals. Some are good at one thing - some are good at
many things."

GRAPHIC:

New York Metro Area Hospital Rankings

1. New York-Presbyterian Hospital

2. Mount Sinai Hospital

3. NYU Langone Medical Center

4. Hackensack (N.J.) University Medical Center

5. Morristown (N.J.) Medical Center

6. St. Francis Hospital (L.I.)

7. NYU Winthrop Hospital (L.I.)

8. Montefiore Medical Center

8. Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital (N.J.)

10. Lenox Hill Hospital

National Rankings

(Top 10 finishes by specialty)

Memorial Sloan Kettering

Cancer 2

Gynecology 2

Urology 5

Hospital for

Special Surgery

Orthopedics 1

Rheumatology 3

New York-Presbyterian

Hospital

Diabetes 5

Geriatrics 6

Nephrology 4

Neurology & neurosurgery 4

Urology 8

Psychiatry 4

Rheumatology 3

Cardiology 3

Mount Sinai Hospital

Gastroenterology & GI surgery 8

Geriatrics 3

Nephrology 10

Cardiology 9

NYU Langone Medical Center

Neurology & neurosurgery 10

Orthopedics 8

Rheumatology 9

Rehabilitation 8

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC;INFOGRAPHIC;LIST, New York-Presbyterian Hospital is nationally
ranked in the top 10 in eight different specialities. Right, Memorial Sloan
Kettering, No. 2 in cancer treatment; top, the Hospital for Special Surgery, No.
1 in orthopedics. DEREK REED, MARCUS SANTOS/DAILY NEWS; JEFF BACHNER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2017 Daily News, L.P.

