                              490 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             June 29, 2006 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Star rating system proposed for hospitals;
Academic urges public rankings

BYLINE: CAROL NADER, HEALTH REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 510 words


HOSPITALS should be given star ratings based on factors such as death and
infection rates, to improve performance and help patients make better informed
choices, a leading health academic says.

Giving the best hospitals a five-star rating would be one option. Another would
be a league table ranking the best and worst performing hospitals, according to
La Trobe University dean of health sciences, Hal Swerissen

Hospitals could be rated as above, below or at acceptable standards.

Professor Swerissen, a senior adviser to Carmen Lawrence when she was federal
health minister, said areas that could be rated included surgery mortality
rates, medical errors, readmission rates and negligence when a court had found
the hospital was at fault.

He said public reporting would improve the quality of the health system and
could reduce complications and mishaps.

"I am very keen to see the health system have much stronger reporting on patient
outcomes," he said. "You would expect that it would be a publicly available,
easily accessible set of information which would be regularly reported."

The State Government releases each year a report on "sentinel events", in which
serious errors are reported, but the information does not identify hospitals.
The Australian Institute of Health and Welfare yesterday released a report on
medical indemnity, which also did not identify hospitals.

Professor Swerissen said the proposed system would help hospitals to know their
status in terms of quality and where they needed to improve.

He said hospitals had a different mix of patients, which needed to be factored
in to how they were ranked. But the difficulties of ranking were outweighed by
the potential benefits. Another concern was that incorrect data could lead to a
hospital being misrepresented.

The rating idea was supported by Justin Oakley, director of the Centre for Human
Bioethics at Monash University. But Dr Oakley said it should be taken further,
and individual surgeons should be publicly rated, similar to a system recently
introduced in Britain.

"I think the public are entitled to know where their money is going and how
effectively it's being spent, and I also think it helps patients make more
informed decisions and choices between hospitals," he said.

But others were more cautious about the proposal. Deakin University dean of
health sciences John Catford said league tables could have a demoralising effect
on hospitals and might not be helpful.

He said hospitals might be prompted to choose patients who were more likely to
get well, to improve their rating.

The Australian Medical Association Victorian branch president, Mark Yates, also
believed the proposal could give hospitals a "perverse incentive" to
discriminate against patients at greater risk of dying.

Ben Hart, spokesman for Health Minister Bronwyn Pike, said the Government
preferred a more collaborative approach rather than a "dog eat dog competitive
approach" to improving hospital performance.

"Hospitals are part of a system and need to work together instead of against
each other," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

