                              491 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Salt Lake Tribune

                            October 5, 2010 Tuesday

University Health Care No. 1 in patient care

BYLINE: By Kirsten Stewart The Salt Lake Tribune

SECTION: NEWS; State

LENGTH: 557 words


It's not as flashy as joining the PAC-10 or nabbing the Nobel Prize.

But the University of Utah's latest claim to fame is a significant mark of
excellence, say university officials.

A three-year effort to improve patient care, safety and satisfaction earned
University of Utah Health Care the top spot in the University HealthSystem
Consortium's 2010 Quality and Accountability Study, one of the most rigorous
hospital rankings in the country.

"This is a big deal," said U. Hospital CEO David Entwistle. "It says to the
citizens of Utah that you can get the same care here as you can get at the Mayos
and the Hopkins and the Brigham and Women's of the world."

There are a lot of hospital score cards out there, some of them mere marketing
tools, acknowledges Entwistle.

But the consortium's report judged the university's health system -- its
hospital, clinics and medical school, Moran Eye Center and Huntsman Cancer
Institute -- against 98 of the nation's elite academic medical centers. Unlike
the popular U.S. News & World Report ranking, which is largely a reflection of a
hospital's reputation, the consortium's is based on verifiable, federal data. It
ranks institutions on patient safety and satisfaction, mortality rates and
re-admissions using benchmarks endorsed by the Institute of Medicine.

The data are current, as of July 1. The consortium doesn't release data gathered
from institutions; it instead uses a five-star system to rank health centers.

Just three years ago, the U. was given three stars, ranking 50th out of 88
hospital systems. This year, the university catapulted to five stars and the
coveted No. 1 spot.

For Thomas Miller, the university's chief medical officer, the U.'s meteoric
rise signals a renewed focus on patient-centered, data-driven medicine.

Getting there meant researching and adopting new and improved clinical
practices. It entailed building a computer system to cull data from each patient
record to better understand where the university excelled and where it fell
short.

And it took aligning everyone around the same goals, from vice presidents to
doctors, nurses and medical students, Miller said.

The exercise led to improvements, including new protocols in the maternity ward
limiting the use forceps and suction -- and reducing injury to the mother, said
Matthew Peterson, obstetric and gynecology chairman. "It was a collaborative
effort. We made sure everybody knew what was expected, what we were measuring.
We would report on outcomes every month, noting issues and addressing them with
practitioners. And we trained all our residents on the new protocol."

In other cases, data and case reviews revealed faults in coding and
documentation, not patient care.

In 2007, for example, the U. showed a mortality rate of 1.8 times the national
average, said Carol Hadlock, U. Health Care's director of quality and patient
safety. But upon closer look, it became apparent that physicians and nurses were
neglecting to document the fact that patients were transferring to the U. for
end-of-life care.

The mortality index is meant to show how often reasonably healthy patients die
due to complications in their treatment.

Now, after accurately coding transfers, the U.'s mortality score rests at 0.6
times the national average, Hadlock said.

kstewart@sltrib.com Alt Heads:

University Health Care No. 1 in patient care

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2010 The Salt Lake Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved

