                              483 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Dayton Daily News (Ohio)

                            June 12, 2013 Wednesday

Cincy Children's ranks 3rd;
National rating is for pediatric hospitals.U.S. News list surveyed 179
institutions and 1,500 physicians.;
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM

BYLINE: By Chelsey Levingston and RandyTucker

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 370 words


Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center ranks third best in the nation
among pediatric hospitals on U.S. News & World Report's 2013-2014 list released
Tuesday.

U.S. News & World Report named 10 hospitals, including Cincinnati, to the Honor
Roll of its annual ranking. The national news magazine evaluated hospitals on 10
specialities. The hospitals on the honor roll excel in at least three of the 10
specialty categories, according to the news magazine.

Cincinnati Children's said it has held the third-spot standing on the magazine's
Honor Roll for three consecutive years. The Cincinnati hospital ranks in the
newest annual listing behind Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and Boston
Children's Hospital.

U.S. News surveyed 179 pediatric hospitals and 1,500 physicians to come up with
the list. Eighty-seven hospitals ranked in at least one specialty.

The survey weighed data and patient outcomes. A smaller proportion of the
rankings considered reputation, asking doctors which hospital they would send
the sickest children in their specialty to regardless of location.

Cincinnati Children's ranked first for pediatric cancer; second for nephrology
and pulmonology; and third among pediatric hospitals nationwide for
gastroenterology and gastrointestinal surgery, orthopedics, and urology, U.S.
News & World Report said. Altogether, Cincinnati Children's, including its
Butler County Liberty Campus, ranked nationally in 10 subspecialties.

The Children's Medical Center of Dayton did not participate. Quality, safety
data and patient satisfaction scores can be found on the Dayton pediatric
hospital's website, spokeswoman Kelly Kavanaugh said.

"While we were invited to participate in the survey, this particular survey is
quite labor intensive. The survey was conducted in January and early February at
a time when Day-ton Children's was experiencing a particularly high patient
volume and resources that would normally be available to complete surveys were
focused on priorities related to patient care," Kavanaugh said in an emailed
statement. "We also encourage all families to talk with their pediatrician or
family practitioner about the best options for their child should they need a
pediatric specialist."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Dayton Newspapers, Inc.

