                              489 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            East Anglian Daily Times

                            March 12, 2011 Saturday

Hospital A&E hits rankings top spot in UK

BYLINE: Jim Keenan

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 389 words


BOSSES at a Suffolk hospital are celebrating after their accident and emergency
service was ranked best in the country for waiting times.

The A&E team at West Suffolk Hospital in Bury St Edmunds managed to see, treat
and discharge 99.9% of all patients within four hours for the week ending
February 27.



The score puts the hospital at the top of the UK rankings for the week. The
national A&E target is to see, treat and release 95% of patients.

The news comes as staff at the hospital herald three months of continued
improvement against the four-hour target compared with the same period last
year.

Health chiefs say their success is down to a range of measures introduced
recently.

They include appointing additional consultants in the Emergency Assessment Unit
(EAU) so that short-stay patients remain under the care of the same consultant
throughout their entire admission; creating dedicated short-stay beds for
patients who need hospital care for less than 48 hours; changing shift patterns
so that extra doctors and emergency nurse practitioners are available to work
within A&E; increasing planning to improve handovers between wards; liaising
more closely with health and social care staff working within the community to
manage discharges more effectively.

The rankings come despite the hospital having to deal with an 8% year-to-date
increase in the number of patients coming to A&E.

Stephen Graves, hospital chief executive, said: "This significant improvement is
fantastic news for our patients and shows they are receiving timely access to
good-quality, effective care.

"It is also a testament to the hard work and determination of our staff.

"What makes this achievement even more noteworthy is that it has come at a time
when the number of patients using West Suffolk Hospital has continued to
increase, which in turn places more emphasis on working effectively and
efficiently.

"Although we are delighted with these figures, we will not become complacent and
will continue to look for ways in which we can improve our services still
further.

"Our goal now is to build on this performance over the coming months and years
for the benefit of everyone accessing emergency care at West Suffolk Hospital."

Overall, for the month of February, the hospital managed to see, treat and
discharge 98.6% of its patients within four hours.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EAD


                    Copyright 2011 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

