                              487 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                             May 11, 2016 Wednesday

Online search listings should be regulated by Advertising Law

LENGTH: 317  words


ON MONDAY, investigators looking at the role played by the search engine Baidu
in the death of a college student announced their conclusions. A comment on
ifeng.com said on Tuesday:

Some analysts have tried excusing Baidu for its faults, claiming Wei made the
decision to go to the hospital and Baidu only offered search listings.

They should read the conclusion of the investigators, namely that Baidu's paid
rankings, from which it profited by listing search results according to the
money companies paid, had a decisive influence on Wei's decision.

Such paid rankings could affect anybody. Baidu said they have canceled 126
million pieces of paid information, which come from 2,518 medical institutions.
How many victims were there because of decisions made on this information, which
was never verified?

Merely canceling the paid medical listings is not enough. The key to preventing
more scandals is to change the mode of paid rankings, which is currently a
profit-making model of Baidu. As Baidu remains a monopoly in the domestic search
engine market, paid listings on its webpages might adversely influence many
patients, and help unqualified hospitals prosper.

More importantly, the investigators did not define paid ranking as advertising.
Actually, Baidu takes money from hospitals and mixes their information with
normal search results, with only very small indications to alert viewers to the
fact they are paid rankings. Online search listings should be regulated by the
Advertising Law. Consumers that are misguided by Baidu's paid rankings should
have the right to take the company to court.

Baidu's high executives might never have expected the scandal ignited by Wei's
death could become so influential. Now it has expressed "strong support" for the
authorities' requirements, and we hope it will truly correct its wrongdoings.
Wei's tragedy should not be repeated.

(China Daily 05/11/2016 page8)

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2016 China Daily Information.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

