                              492 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 10, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

U-M Doctor Training Programs Rank Among Best in Nation, New National Survey

LENGTH: 669  words


Sept. 10 -- University of Michigan (U-M) Health System issued the following news
release:

Doctors nationwide rate the University of Michigan Health System as one of the
best places for young doctors to train in their chosen field, across 20 medical
specialties, according to a new ranking released today.

U-M residency programs earned a top spot in the country in all ranked
specialties, from anesthesiology and dermatology to surgery and urology. The
first-ever ranking was compiled by the physician network Doximity and U.S. News
& World Report.

In 12 of those specialties, U-M ranked in the top 10 in the country. And for new
doctors seeking to train at large public hospitals, U-M ranked even higher.

Three specialties - otolaryngology (ear, nose and throat), pathology and surgery
-- ranked at number one in the country among programs at such hospitals. See all
of U-M's specialty rankings below.

The new rankings derive from board-certified physicians' answers to a survey
about the best residency programs in their specialty. Each could name up to
five. Nearly 3,700 residency programs were mentioned in more than 50,000
physician nominations, and U-M's consistently rose to the top.

The release of the rankings comes just as this year's class of graduating
medical students prepares to apply for their residency spots, through a national
system that allows them to rank their preferred training sites, and interview at
those that select them for consideration.

Next spring, most of these students will open an envelope and learn where they
will go, in a simultaneous national event called Match Day.

In addition to the rankings, Doximity is offering medical students and
physicians access to additional data on each residency program in the 20 ranked
specialties, such as the percentage of residency alumni who went on to
sub-specialize, and the rank of past trainees in publication of research
findings.

UMHS has the fourth-largest residency program in the U.S., according to Modern
Healthcare, based on Medicare data. Training opportunities go well beyond the 20
specialties ranked by Doximity: UMHS offers physicians clinical training in 105
accredited specialties, from primary care to highly advanced subspecialties.

Currently, more than 1,199 residents are training in their specialty while
helping to care for patients at U-M's Hospitals and Health Centers, under the
supervision of U-M Medical School faculty physicians.

Additional facts about UMHS residency programs:

Some UMHS residency programs also give trainees the chance to learn and provide
care at partner hospitals, including the VA Ann Arbor Health Care System, St.
Joseph Mercy Ann Arbor Hospital, St. Joseph Mercy Chelsea Hospital and Hurley
Medical Center in Flint.

The reputation of UMHS training programs attracts a large number of medical
residents and fellows (advanced residents) from other states, who move to
Michigan for three to seven years of training. In fact, two-thirds of each
year's incoming class of residents comes from out of state.

UMHS patients benefit from the expertise of residents and fellows, as well as
the faculty physicians who supervise them. About one-third of UMHS residents are
doing second or third residencies in complex specialties available at few other
hospitals.

After residency, doctors tend to practice near where they trained. About 40
percent of UMHS residents stay in Michigan - and most of those staying are not
originally from Michigan.

In recognition of the importance of this training, state and federal governments
provide funds to teaching hospitals such as UMHS, to offset the costs associated
with involving residents in patient care while also training them.

UMHS receives funding for 765 residency slots, but supports additional positions
for residents as part of its educational and patient care mission.

Disclaimer: The full release can be found at:
(http://www.uofmhealth.org/news/archive/201409/u-m-doctor-training-programs-rank
-among-best-nation).

Source: University of Michigan (U-M) Health System

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

