                              498 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Patriot Ledger (Quincy, MA)

                             July 24, 2012 Tuesday
                                  ROP Edition

LOCAL IN BRIEF

SECTION: News; pg. 12

LENGTH: 386 words


South Shore Hospital given high ranking

WEYMOUTH - U.S. News and World Report ranked South Shore Hospital the third-best
hospital in Massachusetts.

The magazine also recognized South Shore Hospital with national rankings in
three specialties - diabetes and endocrinology, ear, nose and throat and
urology.

The hospital was one of 148 hospitals nationwide to achieve national rankings.

The magazine ranked eight other South Shore Hospital specialties as
high-performing - cancer, gastroenterology, geriatrics, gynecology, nephrology,
neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics and pulmonology.

Cancer patients can learn about cosmetic techniques

PLYMOUTH - Jordan Hospital will host the American Cancer Society's "Look Good
... Feel Better" program from 3 to 5 p.m. Monday, Aug. 13, in the Breast Center
Conference Room, 275 Sandwich St.

The free program teaches cancer patients hands-on cosmetic techniques to help
them cope with appearance-related side effects from chemotherapy and radiation
treatments.

All participants will receive a free makeup kit.

Registration is required. To register, call Maureen Kwash at 508-897-4339 or
email Maureen.Kwash@cancer.org

Bicycling event will aid medical research

HINGHAM - The Tour de South Shore, a fundraising bicycling event, will be held
Sept. 22 at Wompatuck State Park in Hingham. The 50-mile ride will begin at 7:30
a.m.; the 25-mile ride will start at 9 a.m.

The routes go through Cohasset, Scituate and Norwell, and both end at the park.
The money raised will benefit Alzheimer's disease and multiple sclerosis
research.

For more information, call 978-930-9734. To register, visit
http://www.firstgiving.com/ mccourtevents/ tourdesouthshore.

Accreditation for South Shore Hospital

WEYMOUTH- South Shore Hospital received Cycle III Chest Pain Center
Accreditation from the Society of Chest Pain Centers.

The hospital is the only accredited center in southeastern Massachusetts.

The accreditation means the hospital will minimize the time from onset of
symptoms to diagnosis and treatment; treat patients more quickly during the
critical window of time when the integrity of the heart muscle can be preserved;
and monitor patients when it is not certain that they are having a heart attack
in order to ensure that they are not sent home too quickly or needlessly
admitted to the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 The Patriot Ledger

