                              48 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                            July 24, 2013 Wednesday

Hospitals in city top U.S. News rankings;
3 are among the top 10 in the state and 6 among the top 20

BYLINE: Charlie Patton

SECTION: Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 421 words


Jacksonville hospitals fared well in the latest rankings by U.S. News & World
Report, issued last week, with three hospitals in the top 10 in the state and
six among the top 20 of Florida's 271 hospitals.

Baptist Medical Center and Mayo Clinic Jacksonville tied for the top ranking
among Jacksonville hospitals and also tied for fourth place among Florida
hospitals. Each had one nationally ranked speciality and 10 high-performing
specialties.

Baptist Medical Center, including Baptist Medical Center South, with which the
downtown campus shares a license, was nationally ranked in endocrine and
diabetes treatment. The Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville was nationally ranked in
cancer treatment. Only 147 hospitals nationally, out of almost 5,000 surveyed,
achieved national ranking in at least one speciality.

UF Health Jacksonville, which U.S. News lists under its former name, Shands
Jacksonville, was ranked third in the city and ninth in the state. It had 11
high-performing specialities. Memorial Hospital and St. Vincent's Medical Center
Riverside tied for fourth in the city and 15th in the state. Each had six
high-performing specialities. St. Vincent's Southside, which U.S. News listed
under its old name, St. Luke's Hospital, was ranked sixth in the city and 18th
in the state with four high performing specialties. No other Jacksonville-area
hospitals were ranked.

The state's best hospital, according to U.S. News, is Florida Hospital in
Orlando, with eight nationally ranked specialities and four high-performing
specialties. Tampa General Hospital was ranked second in the state, with six
nationally ranked specialties and six high-performing specialities. UF Health
Shands in Gainesville, listed under its old name, Shands at the University of
Florida, was ranked third in the state with five nationally ranked specialties
and seven high-performing specialties.

Eighteen hospitals, none in Florida, made the U.S. News national honor roll by
ranking near the top of at least six of 16 specialties surveyed. The list was
headed by Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, Massachusetts General Hospital in
Boston, the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., and the Cleveland Clinic.

In June it was announced that U.S. News ranked Wolfson Children's Hospital among
the 50 best children's hospitals in five of 10 specialties. Only 87 children's
hospitals made the rankings in at least one category.

The rankings for both children's and adult hospitals can be found at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

Charlie Patton: (904) 359-4413

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The Florida Times-Union


