                              497 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                          The Providence Journal, R.I.

                             April 8, 2005, Friday

R.I. hospitals tops for heart treatment

BYLINE: By Felice J. Freyer

LENGTH: 1075 words



Rhode Island hospitals are leading the pack nationwide in measurements of how
well they treat heart attacks, heart failure and pneumonia.

According to new federal data on more than 4,200 hospitals around the country,
Rhode Island's 10 acute-care hospitals -- as a group -- rank number one overall
in how often they take certain steps known to produce the best outcomes for the
three conditions studied.

That doesn't necessarily mean that Rhode Island has the best hospitals. The
measures focused on narrowly defined aspects of care, not everything that a
hospital does. But the state's high ranking does reflect the success of the
hospitals' longstanding efforts, instigated by a 1998 state law, to work on
those measures of quality.

"We certainly are a shining star when you look at the comparison across the
country," said Marcia K. Petrillo, chief executive officer of Quality Partners
of Rhode Island, an agency hired by the federal government to monitor and
improve the care of Medicare beneficiaries. " . . . Overall the Rhode Island
hospitals are providing some of the best care in the country, for these
conditions."

"I think we have some of the better hospitals in the country," agreed Dr. David
R. Gifford, the acting state health director who was previously medical director
at Quality Partners.

The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services last week unveiled Hospital
Compare (www.hospitalcompare.hhs.gov), a new Web tool that compares how often
some 4,200 hospitals around the country followed widely accepted guidelines for
the care of heart attacks, heart failure and pneumonia.

The state has been publishing the same information about Rhode Island hospitals
since 2002, but this is the first time that meaningful national comparisons have
been available.

The federal government did not study how patients fared -- whether they died or
got better -- because the severity of a patient's condition can affect the
outcome as much as what the hospital does. Instead, the government looked at
"the process of care," identifying 17 actions that have been proven to increase
a patient's likelihood of surviving those three conditions.

Those actions include giving heart-attack patients aspirin and beta blockers
upon arrival, treating heart-failure patients with ACE inhibitors (drugs that
reduce the heart's workload), and giving pneumonia patients antibiotics within
four hours of arrival.

The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services offered hospitals a 0.4 percent
increase in reimbursement if they would report how often they met 10 of the
guidelines, and nearly all complied.

Rhode Island hospitals had gotten a head start in this effort thanks to 1998
state law, filed by Lt. Gov. Charles J. Fogarty during his last term in the
state Senate, which required the Health Department to measure and report on the
quality of care in every health-care institution. The department started with
hospitals. Eventually Rhode Island became one of seven states in a pilot project
testing the procedures for collecting and reporting the data.

Hospitals in Rhode Island, as a group, ranked above the national average on each
of the 10 measures and took first place in five of them. Their average rank was
4.5, the highest in the nation. (Massachusetts came in second.) Rhode Island's
hospitals were weakest in meeting the guidelines calling for elderly patients to
be vaccinated against pneumonia and to receive an antibiotic within four hours.

"Rhode Island hospitals worked together collaboratively from the get-go," said
Health Director Gifford. "They should really be applauded for that. [The high
ranking] shows that they responded to this initiative and did a good job."

The federal government has billed Hospital Compare as a tool for consumers to
choose a hospital, but Gifford doesn't agree with that. Such data is more useful
as a prod to get hospitals to improve.

"The report tells us where we need to be targeting our efforts," Gifford said.
"It doesn't answer that global question everyone is interested in, which is,
'Who's the best?' "

The differences among hospitals aren't significant enough to justify traveling
farther for a better one, he said. But, he said, consumers can use Hospital
Compare to become educated about the care they should receive and check with
doctors to make sure that they're getting it.

"I think this is yet another comparison tool that a consumer can use," agreed
Arthur J. Sampson, Newport Hospital president and chairman of the Hospital
Association of Rhode Island. "It shouldn't be the only one. You should talk to
your doctor, talk to your nurse, talk to your neighbor."

Rhode Island also shines in a different computer-based snapshot of health-care
quality, which was released Monday. The federal Agency for Healthcare Research
and Quality ranked the states on 14 criteria, such as the percentage of adults
over 50 who receive colonoscopies and the percentage of home-health patients who
had to be hospitalized. The rankings can be found at
www.qualitytools.ahrq.gov/qualityreport/state.

Rhode Island was number one in the nation in the percentage of women who receive
prenatal care in the first three months of pregnancy. The state also had the
third lowest percentage of nursing home patients who were in moderate to severe
pain. The state's lowest rankings concerned care of respiratory diseases, but
these data were a couple of years old, and performance has since improved.

Gifford said the state's high ranking on controlling pain among nursing home
residents resulted from a concerted effort by several groups, including Brown
University and Quality Partners, to help nursing homes develop ways to diagnose
and alleviate pain.

"What you're seeing in these 14 measures," said Dr. Carolyn M. Clancy, AHRQ
director, "is shared accountability across health professions. . . . The buck
doesn't stop at any precisely defined point. There's a huge opportunity for
leadership in many areas. Your state has demonstrated they can do that."



-----

To see more of the The Providence Journal, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.projo.com. Copyright (c) 2005, The Providence Journal, R.I.

Distributed by Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News.

For information on republishing this content, contact us at (800) 661-2511
(U.S.), (213) 237-4914 (worldwide), fax (213) 237-6515, or e-mail
reprints@krtinfo.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

KR-ACC-NO: PJ-HOSPITAL-RANKINGS-20050408

JOURNAL-CODE: PJ

               Copyright 2005 Knight Ridder/Tribune Business News
                  Copyright 2005 The Providence Journal, R.I.

