                              495 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             July 31, 2003 Thursday

Hospital takes rank as shift of fortune

BYLINE: MELIA BOWIE

SECTION: PASCO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: HUDSON


After ranking 27th last year, Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point is off U.S
News & World Report's 2003 list of best hospitals for heart care and heart
surgery.

The hospital made prominent use of last year's ranking in its marketing
campaign.

"We're obviously disappointed," said Kurt Conover, the hospital's director of
business development. "But we also realize (in) making that list you're up
against some pretty big competitors. I'm just sure when they look at us again,
we'll be right back up there."

That, in fact, has happened before.

Bayonet Point first made the list in 1999, when it ranked ranked 50th in the
cardiac category. It dropped off the list in 2000 and 2001 before gaining the
27th spot in 2002.

Scores are based on reputation, mortality ratios, reputation, technology and
other factors.

The magazine's 14th annual rankings name the top 203 hospitals nationwide in 17
specialties. The list is published in the magazine's July 28 issue.

Conover said Bayonet Point received advance notice from the magazine in mid
July.

The rankings for each year are collected over a three-year period. Conover said
the hospital is not sure where it ultimately placed.

"The challenge for us is, they won't tell us if we're 51 or 151," he said. "It's
kind of hard to tell."

Editors with the magazine said even a slight change can bump a hospital.

"There's a difference of only three and a half points between number 15 and
number 50," said Avery Comarow, editor of America's Best Hospitals for U.S. News
& World Report. "It doesn't take much for a hospital to drop off the list.

Elsewhere in Florida, St. Vincent's Medical Center in Jacksonville ranked 35 and
Florida Hospital in Orlando ranked 36th for heart surgery and heart care. Delray
Medical Center in Delray Beach ranked 40th. No Tampa Bay area hospitals made the
list in the category.

Key elements considered include reputation -  150 board-certified physicians
were randomly selected from the American Medical Association and mailed a survey
form. Surveys were also conducted in 2001 and 2002 to gauge reputation.

Also considered are mortality ratios. Factors such as  nursing care and
technology also affect the scores.

"We're still receiving awards," Conover said.

Last week Solucient, a company that analyzes health care data, ranked Bayonet
Point among 2002's Top 100 hospitals for cardiovascular care.

The recent slide from U.S. New & World Report does not obscure Bayonet Point's
other achievements, Conover said.

"We're not using it as an aggressive marketing campaign," now, he said of the
2002 recognition. "But it is a nice accolade. We're still proud of the fact that
we made their list twice."

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: PASCO TIMES; HERNANDO TIMES

                    Copyright 2003 Times Publishing Company

