                              496 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Fergus Falls Daily Journal, Minn

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              July 16, 2012 Monday

LRH ranked eighth safest Minn. hospital by Consumer Reports

BYLINE: Ryan Howard, Fergus Falls Daily Journal, Minn.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 831 words


July 16--A recent Consumer Reports article ranking Lake Region Healthcare the
eighth-safest hospital in Minnesota was met with both pride and a desire to
improve by LRHC's administration.

"We're always striving to be better at all times," said LRHC CEO Larry Schulz.

The report on hospital safety and the corresponding rankings came out in the
most recent issue of Consumer Reports. In it, LRHC scored a safety rating of 62
out of 100, placing it eighth out of the 36 Minnesota hospitals ranked by the
magazine (even outscoring the Mayo Clinic location in Mankato). By comparison,
the top-ranked hospital in the nation (Billings Clinic in Billings, Mont.)
scored a 72.

Hospitals were ranked based on six different factors: complications, mortality
rates, infections, readmissions, communication upon discharge, and unnecessary
scans. In the report, LRHC's complication and mortality rates are listed as
within the national average. The magazine gave the hospital's infection numbers
the highest possible rank of "excellent," rated readmissions as "fair,"
communication as "good" and scanning as "very good."

How those factors played into the Consumer Reports rankings is unclear, as the
magazine reported that they were culled from various public sources and adjusted
based on patient types and other factors.

Though the majority of Minnesota's almost 150 hospitals went unranked due to
lack of information, other ranked hospitals close to Fergus Falls include St.
Joseph's Medical Center in Brainerd (64), Douglas County Hospital in Alexandria
(61), Sanford Bemidji Medical Center (50) and St. Mary's Hospital in Detroit
Lakes (37).

"Regardless of what the rankings are, I think safety is always a high priority
of ours," Schulz remarked.

Though LRHC strives to uphold safety standards in every possible category, the
organization is very focused right now on its partnership with a campaign known
as RARE: Reducing Avoidable Readmissions Effectively. Since readmissions in
hospitals can often mean that there was a problem during the initial stay,
RARE's goal is to encourage hospital practices that will result in 4,000 fewer
avoidable hospital readmissions from July 2011 to December 2012 -- a 20 percent
drop in the state's readmission numbers.

Communication is a big focus of LRHC's attempts to reduce readmissions.
Readmissions sometimes occur when a person is not clear about how he or she
should be taking medication or treating an injury. As such, LRHC encourages
patients to ask questions about their post-hospital treatment, and it sends out
health care professionals to check on some people who have complicated
medication regimens.

One person pleased with the infection ranking is JoAnn Bowman, LRHC's infection
prevention coordinator. As the hospital's chief "infection preventionist,"
Bowman's job has many facets: she educates staff on the procedures they need to
follow to avoid in-hospital infections, she makes sure those procedures are
being followed, she tracks information on infections in the hospital, and she
investigates the circumstances surrounding any infection that occurs.

"As long as we have even one infection, I won't be satisfied," she said.

The most common source of infection, in-hospital or out, is improperly-washed
hands, Bowman said. Hospital staff have a strict hand-washing regimen beyond
regular times like after using the bathroom or after eating.

"You either use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer or wash your hands in a sink
when you come to work, when you come into a patient room, before you touch a
patient, after (taking) a pair of gloves off, and after touching a patient," she
said, noting that those steps alone go a long way in reducing infections.

Another way the hospital reduces infections is through a series of practices
called "bundles." When conducting a surgical procedure, all involved staff
follow a series of steps to make sure the surgery site remains sterile.

One of the most sensitive procedures involves the placement of a central line IV
-- an IV that is routed to the chest. Since central line infections can
essentially result in blood poisoning, the bundle for central line procedures is
in-depth, involving a draped area, sterilized gloves and gowns, masks, head
coverings and a daily check on the IV entry point.

Since Bowman started her current position in 1998 (before the bundles were even
instituted), the hospital has not had any central line infections.

As safety methods improve, so do the challenges.

"Our patients are older and sicker, and the older you are and the sicker you are
and the more medical problems you have, the higher your risk of infection," said
Bowman.

Her response and LRHC's response is to work even harder to find ways to take the
risk out of hospital stays.

"My responsibility is to the community," she said.

___ (c)2012 the Fergus Falls Daily Journal (Fergus Falls, Minn.) Visit the
Fergus Falls Daily Journal (Fergus Falls, Minn.) at www.fergusfallsjournal.com
Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120716-1FF-LRH-ranked-eighth-safest-Minn-hospital
-by-Consumer-Reports-0716-20120716

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1FF


                Copyright 2012 Fergus Falls Daily Journal, Minn

