                              49 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                             July 16, 2013 Tuesday
                          SPORTS FINAL REPLATE EDITION

747 hosps fly to top

BYLINE: NLVL

SECTION: SPECIAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 759 words


THE U.S. News & World Report's 24th annual Best Hospitals rankings showcase 747
of the nation's nearly 5,000 hospitals.

Of those 747, 147 were nationally ranked in at least one of 16 medical
specialties, from cancer to cardiology to urology.

And just 18 - including two Manhattan Hospitals - qualified for a coveted spot
on the national "Honor Roll" by ranking at or near the top in six or more
specialties.

Hospitals that didn't make that cut but were rated in the top 25% for at least
one specialty were eligible for a regional ranking.

Factors used by U.S. News to compile the rankings include survival rates, safety
measures, nurse-to-patient ratios, other data and the subjective reputation of
specialists around the country. A third - or 32.5% - of a hospital's ranking
score is based on reputation.

"Every year, we find new opportunities to improve our analysis of the data
behind the rankings. Last year, for example, we were able to reduce the role of
hospitals' reputation and rely even more heavily than before on objective data
like patient survival rates and nurse staffing levels," said Ben Harder, general
manager of health rankings, U.S. News & World Report.

"This year, for the first time, we were able to identify and separate out cases
in which patients arrived at the hospital with conditions that put them at risk
for getting certain injuries or illnesses during their hospital stay. When we
then evaluated hospitals' performance in patient safety, which accounts for 5%
of each hospital's score toward the rankings, that analytical improvement
enabled us to make sure hospitals weren't unfairly penalized if they treated
more than their share of patients with these so-called 'present on admission'
conditions. The results helped lift some hospitals' rankings this year, in some
cases leading them to score higher in as many as 12 of the 16 medical
specialties."

All the rankings are available at usnews.com/besthospitals.

1 N.Y.-Presbyterian Univ. Hospital of Columbia and Cornell Manhattan 2 NYU
Langone Medical Center Manhattan** 3 Hackensack University Medical Center
Hackensack, N.J. 4 Mount Sinai Medical Center Manhattan 5 St. Francis Hospital
Roslyn, L.I. 6 Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Manhattan 7 Montefiore
Medical Center Bronx 8 Morristown Medical Center Morristown, N.J. 9 Hospital for
Special Surgery Manhattan 10 Lenox Hill Hospital Manhattan 11 Long Island Jewish
Medical Center New Hyde Park, L.I. 12 St. Barnabas Hospital Bronx 13 New York
Eye and Ear Infirmary Manhattan 14 Kessler Institute for Rehabilitation West
Orange, N.J. 14 JFK Johnson Rehabilitation Institute Edison, N.J. 16 North Shore
University Hospital Manhasset, L.I. 16 Winthrop-University Hospital Mineola,
L.I. 18 Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital New Brunswick, N.J. 19 St.
Joseph?s Regional Medical Center Paterson, N.J. 19 Westchester Medical Center
Valhalla 21 Holy Name Medical Center Teaneck, N.J. 21 Stony Brook University
Hospital Stony Brook, L.I. 23 Jersey Shore University Medical Center Neptune,
N.J. 23 Good Samaritan Hospital Medical Center West Islip, L.I. 25 Overlook
Medical Center Summit, N.J. 25 Huntington Hospital Huntington, L.I. 27 Monmouth
Medical Center Long Branch, N.J. 27 Newark Beth Israel Medical Center Newark 27
Maimonides Medical Center Brooklyn 30 Englewood Hospital and Medical Center
Englewood, N.J. 30 Valley Hospital Ridgewood, N.J. 30 Long Island College
Hospital Brooklyn 30 Northern Westchester Hospital Mount Kisco 30 Beth Israel
Medical Center Manhattan 30 Staten Island University Hospital Staten Island 36
Hunterdon Medical Center Flemington, N.J. 36 Clara Maass Medical Center
Belleville, N.J. 36 St. Michael?s Medical Center Newark 39 UMDNJ University
Hospital Newark 39 Brookdale Hospital Medical Center Brooklyn 39 St.
Luke?s-Roosevelt Hospital Manhattan 42 St. Barnabas Medical Center Livingston,
N.J. 42 St. John?s Riverside Hospital Yonkers 42 Southside Hospital Bay Shore,
L.I. 42 Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center Brooklyn 42 Glen Cove Hospital Glen
Cove, L.I. 42 South Nassau Communities Hospital Oceanside, L.I. 42 John T.
Mather Memorial Hospital Port Jefferson, L.I. 49 Bayshore Community Hospital
Holmdel, N.J. 49 St. Peter?s University Hospital New Brunswick, N.J. 49
University Medical Center of Princeton at Plainsboro Plainsboro, N.J. 49
Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Bronx 49 Jacobi Medical Center Bronx 49 Harlem Hospital
Center Manhattan 49 St. Charles Hospital Port Jefferson, L.I. **NYU Langone
Medical Center Includes data from Hospital for Joint Diseases and Rusk
Rehabilitation

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NLVL

