                              52 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Allegheny General Hospital: Four Allegheny Health Network Hospitals Lauded by
U.S. News for Patient Care Quality, Outcomes

LENGTH: 709  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- AGH Named High Performer in 12 Medical Specialties

* West Penn Hospital Earns Top 50 Designation in Gynaecology, Named High
Performer in 9 Specialties


* Forbes Regional Named High Performer in 6 Specialties

* Saint Vincent Designated High-Performing in 6 Specialties

Pittsburgh, PA Four hospitals affiliated with the Allegheny Health Network have
been lauded in the latest ranking of the country's best hospitals by U.S. News
and World Report. Released online today and slated for publication in August,
the U.S. News 2013-2014 Best Hospitals Guide recognizes Allegheny General
Hospital, Forbes Regional Hospital, Saint Vincent Hospital and West Penn
Hospital as high performing medical centers across multiple clinical
specialties.



"We are excited to once again be acknowledged by U.S. News for the exceptional
level of care that we provide to our patients. As with the many other quality
accolades that our hospitals have earned over the past few years, the U.S. News
distinction reflects an incredibly dedicated and talented team of physicians,
nurses and ancillary staff, the outstanding efforts of whom make the Allegheny
Health Network a premier healthcare provider and an excellent healthcare choice
for the people of this region," said Tony Farah, MD, Allegheny Health Network's
chief medical officer and president of the Allegheny Clinic.

Just 700 of the nation's roughly 5,000 hospitals earn U.S. News' designation as
a high performing medical center in the 2013-14 report, and fewer than 150
hospitals achieve a national top 50 ranking in at least one of the 16 medical
specialties.

West Penn Hospital received U.S. News' highest honor this year for the quality
of its women's health program, earning a top 50 national designation in
gynecology. West Penn was also named a high performer in cancer, diabetes &
endocrinology, geriatrics, nephrology, neurology & neurosurgery, orthopaedic
surgery, pulmonology and urology.

Allegheny General Hospital is recognized by U.S. News as a top performer in 12
clinical specialties, including orthopaedic surgery, gastroenterology & GI
surgery, cancer, diabetes & endocrinology, cardiology & cardiac surgery, ear,
nose and throat care, geriatrics, gynecology, nephrology, neurology and
neurosurgery, pulmonology and urology.

Forbes Regional Hospital in Monroeville is ranked as high-performing in
gastroenterology, geriatrics, neurology & neurosurgery, pulmonology and urology.


Saint Vincent Hospital, Erie PA,is designated as a high performer in cardiology
& heart surgery, gastroenterology & GI surgery, geriatrics, nephrology,
neurology & neurosurgery and pulmonology.

U.S. News 2013-14 hospital rankings evaluate performance in 16 medical
specialties. The rankings are based on a combination of objective clinical
information gleaned from Medicare outcomes data and the annual American Hospital
Association Survey - including patient mortality rates, patient safety scores,
nurse-to-patient ratio, procedure volumes and technological capabilities - and a
hospital's reputation score in each category as determined by a random survey of
physicians across the country.

According to Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor, the core mission
of Best Hospitals is to help guide patients who need an especially high level of
care because of a difficult surgery, a challenging condition, or added risk
because of other health problems or age.

The hospital rankings, Comarow said, are like a GPS-type aid to help steer
patients to hospitals with strong skills in the procedures and medical
conditions that present the biggest challenges.



"All of these hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your
list when you need the best care," said Comarow. "They are where other hospitals
send the toughest cases."

Comarow said the regional hospital rankings complement the national rankings by
including hospitals with solid performance nearly at the level of nationally
ranked institutions.

"These hospitals we call 'high performers' are fully capable of giving most
patients first-rate care, even if they have serious conditions or need demanding
procedures," Comarow said.

The complete U.S News hospital rankings and methodology are available at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


