                              53 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                    December 4, 1993 Saturday Final Edition

Efficiency survey nets area hospitals middle ranking

SOURCE: THE SPECTATOR

BYLINE: By JEFF MAHONEY

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B3

LENGTH: 418 words


IN ONTARIO'S hospital efficiency sweepstakes the Hamilton area is running
somewhere in the middle of the pack -- for what it's worth.

According to a ranking system that some hospital representatives say is
extremely complex and doesn't always truly reflect efficiency or quality of
service, Hamilton's St. Joseph's Hospital placed second in its group of six
Ontario hospitals. That group also includes Chedoke-McMaster Hospitals, which
came in fifth.

The Hamilton Civic Hospitals (the General and the Henderson) came in fifth in
another group, in which 10 hospitals were ranked.

In Halton, Burlington's Joseph Brant Memorial Hospital ranked 16th of 41
hospitals in its group and Oakville-Trafalgar ranked 34th in the same group.

The Ontario hospitals ranked in the report are grouped by number of beds and by
type (teaching hospital, community hospital, trauma centre, etc.).

The efficiency of the hospitals is measured by computing the average cost per
in-patient case, excluding chronic-care patients. The cases are weighted by the
extent of the treatment required, some treatments being far more costly and
time-consuming than others, says Don Scott, chief executive officer of Joseph
Brant Memorial Hospital.

'It's an extremely complex methodological computation,' says Cynthia Janzen,
director of public affairs with Chedoke-McMaster Hospitals.

Mr. Scott says the rankings may be somewhat misleading, because the hospitals
which rank number one in their groups are not necessarily the most efficient.

'Where a hospital would want to be is in the middle of the pack,' says Mr.
Scott.

'If you're at the high end, you're probably not using your resources wisely, but
if you're at the low end (first, second, third in efficiency), you're probably
under-funded. Those hospitals are not necessarily the most efficient -- they're
probably not spending the money because they simply don't have it.'

The ranking system is part of the Ministry of Health's funding reallocation
initiative in which hospital monies could be diverted from less efficient to
more efficient hospitals, says David Jensen, media information officer with the
Ministry of Health in Toronto.

Such reallocations would be based not on the rankings of any one year but on
each hospital's average ranking over the last five years. This year's rankings
are included in a document dealing with 'funding reallocation for fiscal
1994-95.'

No Hamilton-area hospitals are being targeted for funding reallocations, said Ms
Janzen.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1993 Metroland Media Group Ltd


