                              54 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              LNP (Lancaster, PA)

                            July 22, 2015 Wednesday

Mostly High Marks For Lgh Leading The List;
Health Care 5Th-Best In Pa., According To Us News High Performing

BYLINE: Heather Stauffer

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 667  words

DATELINE: Lancaster, PA


HEATHER STAUFFER

HSTAUFFER@LNPNEWS.COM

Lancaster General Hospital held on to its position as the fifth-best hospital in
Pennsylvania in the annual U.S. News & World Report rankings released Tuesday.

But it didn't fare as well on nationally ranked specialties. Last year LGH had
four; this year it dropped out of the national rankings on pulmonology. On the
remaining three, it slipped from 18th in the nation to 44th on diabetes and
endocrinology; from 37th to 39th on orthopedics; and from 33rd to 45th on
gastroenterology and GI surgery.

"Lancaster's overall safety score was typical of its peers this year, but had
been better than average last year," said Ben Harder, chief of health analysis
at the publication.

Harder added that a measure on which Lancaster did quite well last year - rate
of post-operative hip fractures - was removed from the ranking's methodology.

"Patients shouldn't make too much of year-to-year changes," he said. "Any
hospital that's among the best in the nation in a particular specialty is pretty
exceptional."

Thomas E. Beeman, president and CEO of LGH parent organization Lancaster General
Health, called the ranking a validation of the hospital's efforts as well as "a
benchmark for us to measure our continued success."

LGH spokeswoman Rosanne Placey also noted that the hospital plans to examine the
ranking's new methodology "to strengthen our ongoing efforts to improve overall
clinical quality and safety."

The annual ranking, now in its 26th year, recognizes hospitals that "excel" in
treating the most difficult cases. This year just 137 hospitals - less than 3
percent of the approximately 5,000 U.S. facilities evaluated - earned a national
ranking in at least one specialty.

U.S. News also awards "high performing" designations for programs that score in
the top 10 percent nationally.

LGH earned the designation on four specialties and three procedures this year:
Geriatrics, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, pulmonology, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, heart bypass surgery and heart failure.

Also earning a "high performing" designation was the heart failure program at
WellSpan Ephrata Community Hospital. Dr. Mark Jacobson, vice president for
medical affairs there, said partnering with patients on individualized care is
an important factor in that program's success.

Danielle Gilmore, spokeswoman for sister facilities Lancaster Regional Medical
Center and Heart of Lancaster Regional Medical Center, noted that "as smaller
community hospitals," the two "are not large enough to be eligible for regional
or national rankings."

However, she said, the U.S. News ranking indicates that they "continue to meet
expected standards in all surveyed medical services."

Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, just outside Lancaster County, was
ranked seventh in the state, with eight nationally ranked children's specialties
and "high performing" designations for seven adult specialties and two adult
procedures.

"We're pleased with the progress they represent on criteria that include several
patient-safety indicators on which we have seen continued progress since 2013,
which is the most recent year represented by this data," said Dr. Andrew
Resnick, chief quality officer at the center.

U.S. News is just one of many organizations producing reports intended to hold
health care organizations accountable and help consumers make wise choices.
Their source data and methodology differ, and each has strengths and weaknesses.
Industry experts routinely advise consumers to seek out a range of perspectives
when choosing a health care provider instead of relying on any single
assessment.

These are the hospitals U.S. News & World Report ranks the best in Pennsylvania.

 1. Hospitals of the University of Pennsylvania

 2. University of Pittsburgh Medical Center

 3. Lehigh Valley Hospital

 4. Thomas Jefferson University Hospital

 5. Lancaster General Hospital

 6. Lankenau Medical Center

 7. Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center

 8. PinnacleHealth Hospitals

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2015 LNP Media Group, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


