                              55 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                              July 29, 2013 Monday

U.S. News & World Report ranks OHSU Hospital No. 1 in Portland, statewide

LENGTH: 435  words

DATELINE: Portland


Oregon Health & Science University has issued the following news release:

Oregon Health & Science University Hospital ranks No. 1 in the Portland metro
area, as well as statewide, according to U.S. News Best Hospitals 2013-14. The
annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th year, recognize
hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.
Related Content

Complete rankings and methodology
"OHSU's health care is recognized nationally because of the dedication of our
faculty and staff, who work collaboratively to deliver excellence, respect and
results to our patients each and every day," said Peter Rapp, OHSU's executive
vice president and executive director of OHSU Healthcare. "Despite high rankings
, OHSU is always committed to new ways to advance medicine and improve our
patients' quality of life."

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

This year, five OHSU specialties rank among the nation's top 50:

Cancer (#49)
    Diabetes & Endocrinology (#42)
    Geriatrics (#32)
    Gynecology (#44)
    Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery (Ear, Nose & Throat) (#24)

About 15 percent of all hospitals are recognized for their high performance in
their region and just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty, the news magazine reports.

Additionally, seven of OHSU Hospital's adult specialties were ranked
"high-performing":

Cardiology & Heart Surgery
    Gastroenterology
    Nephrology
    Neurology & Neurosurgery
    Orthopedics
    Pulmonology
    Urology

In addition to adult specialty rankings, U.S. News ranks children's hospitals,
and last month they announced OHSU Doernbecher Children's Hospital ranks among
the nation's top 50 children's hospitals in eight of 10 pediatric specialties
for 2013-14.

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

For more information please visit: http://www.ohsu.edu.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2013 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


