                              56 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Ochsner Among 35 Hospitals in America Nationally Ranked in 8 or More Specialties

LENGTH: 670  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- Ochsner Medical Center and Ochsner Medical Center West
Bank Campus  have been ranked among the best hospitals in the country in eight
medical specialties, according to U.S. News & World Report's 2013-14 Best
Hospitals rankings. Only 35 hospitals in the country ranked in eight or more
specialties. The rankings recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most
challenging patients. This is the 13th time since 1996 Ochsner has been
recognized as one of the Best Hospitals in America, and in the past three years,
Ochsner has ranked nationally in seven or more medical specialties.



U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. The rankings
are based on a comprehensive evaluation of hard data, such as patient survival
rates, patient safety data, nurse staffing, patient services and available
technology, in addition to a reputational score based on surveyed physicians.

Fewer than 150 of the country's roughly 5,000 hospitals are nationally ranked in
at least one specialty; Ochsner earned national rankings in eight of the 12
data-driven medical specialties.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just three percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in
any specialty."

Ochsner Medical Center (in conjunction with Ochsner Medical Center -- West Bank
Campus) was ranked #1 in Louisiana and #1 in the New Orleans metro area and
Ochsner Medical Center- Kenner was ranked #2 in the New Orleans metro area and
#6 in Louisiana. They also were recognized among the Best Hospitals in
Southeastern Louisiana.

Ochsner Medical Center and Ochsner Medical Center -- West Bank Campus are:

Nationally ranked #16 in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

Nationally ranked #21 in Diabetes & Endocrinology

Nationally ranked #24 in Pulmonology

Nationally ranked #24 in Cardiology & Heart Surgery

Nationally ranked #31 in Orthopedics

Nationally ranked #35 in Neurology & Neurosurgery

Nationally ranked #42 in Geriatrics

Nationally ranked #45 in Nephrology

In addition, the Ochsner hospitals received High Performing rankings in several
categories, which means each met a standard of performance nearly as demanding
as that of the national rankings.

Ochsner Medical Center and Ochsner Medical Center -- West Bank Campus are:

High performing in Cancer

High performing in Ear, Nose & Throat

High performing in Gynecology

High performing in Urology

Ochsner Medical Center -- Kenner is:

High performing in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery

"Ochsner has been consistently named among the best hospitals in America by U.S.
News & World Report," said Warner Thomas, President and Chief Executive Officer
of Ochsner Health System. "This shows how well our Ochsner physicians and our
independent physicians have worked together to build a nationally recognized,
high-quality healthcare organization focused on serving our patients."

"Our top priority has always been to provide the best possible care for our
patients and the community," said Dr. Joseph Bisordi, Chief Medical Officer of
Ochsner Health System. "We have the right people and processes in place which
contributes to our successes, and we continue to strive for improvement."

"The U.S. News rankings set a benchmark for an exceptionally high level of
performance, expertise and specialty care so that our patients experience the
best possible outcomes," said Robert Wolterman, CEO of Ochsner Medical Center.
"Ochsner's national rankings show that we have world class healthcare right here
in New Orleans."

The rankings have been published at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and
will appear in print in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available
in bookstores and on newsstands August 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


This document could not be formatted for delivery. If your delivery request
included other documents, they completed successfully.

