                              62 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       August 2, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Moffitt Cancer Center is No. 6 Cancer Hospital in Nation, Based on US News &
World Report

LENGTH: 465  words


Aug. 2 -- Moffitt Cancer Center is No. 6 on U.S. News & World Report's Best
Hospitals for Cancer rankings released today. This is up from No. 18 last year
and makes Moffitt the top ranked cancer hospital in the Southeast and in the
state of Florida. The national Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 27th year,
recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients - those
whose illnesses include underlying conditions, difficult procedures and other
medical issues. Moffitt has been nationally ranked by U.S. News since 1999. Of
the 902 hospitals overall evaluated for cancer care in the United States,
Moffitt's ranking places it in the top 1 percent.

"Moffitt is honored to be acknowledged by U.S. News as the No. 6 cancer hospital
in the nation," said Alan F. List, M.D., president and CEO of Moffitt. "It's
especially poignant that this honor comes as we celebrate the hospital's 30th
anniversary this year."

The Best Hospitals rankings include areas such as patient survival, how often
certain procedures are performed, infection rates, and nurse staffing. Factors
that boosted Moffitt's ranking to No. 6 include its achievement of nurse Magnet
recognition and its continued superior outcomes.

In March 2015, Moffitt earned the prestigious nursing Magnet designation
recognizing our nursing excellence. Serving patients from all 50 states and more
than 100 countries, Moffitt boasts patient outcomes that beat the national
average. Moffitt is one of 47 National Cancer Institute-designated Comprehensive
Cancer Centers and the only one based in Florida.

Additional accolades include the 2015 Working Mother 100 Best Companies national
list, No. 6 ranking on DiversityInc's 2016 Top 10 Hospitals and Health Systems
list, and the 2016 Leader in LGBT Healthcare Equality.

U.S. News also ranks Moffitt in the top 4% in Urology in the U.S., and high
performing in Gastroenterology and GI Surgery, Colon Cancer Surgery, and Lung
Cancer Surgery.

U.S. News evaluates nearly 5,000 hospitals nationwide. For 2016, 153 hospitals
were ranked in at least one specialty, while 1,628 received a high performing
rating in one or more specialties, procedures or conditions. In rankings by
state and metro area, U.S. News recognized hospitals that were high-performing
across multiple areas of care.

"It gives me a great sense of pride in the accomplishments of the center all of
these years," said hospital founder H. Lee Moffitt. "That our reputation has
grown to the point that we're now recognized as the No. 6 cancer hospital in the
U.S. is just incredible. I'm really proud of the team that has gotten us to this
point."

Best Hospitals was produced by U.S. News with RTI International, a leading
research organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C.

Source: Moffitt Cancer Center

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2016 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

