                              63 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Beaumont one of U.S. News & World Report's 'Best Hospitals' for 19th year in a
Row

LENGTH: 532  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- Beaumont Hospital, Royal Oak once again ranks among the
nation's  Best Hospitals in the 24th annual rankings by U.S. News & World
Report. It's the 19th consecutive year that Beaumont, Royal Oak has been
nationally ranked by USNWR.



Beaumont, Royal Oak is nationally ranked in seven medical specialties in the
2013-14 lists released today: Cardiology & Heart Surgery - #40

Diabetes & Endocrinology - #44

Gastroenterology & GI Surgery - #48

Geriatrics - #45

Orthopedics - #26

Pulmonology - #44

Urology - #48

Beaumont, Royal Oak earned a "high-performing" ranking in Cancer; Ear, Nose &
Throat; Gynecology; Nephrology (kidney disease); and Neurology & Neurosurgery
and is ranked No. 2 in Michigan and No. 2 in Metro Detroit in the USNWR state
and regional rankings.

Just three percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any of the
medical specialties ranked by U.S News. Only about 15 percent of hospitals are
recognized for their high performance as among their region's best.

Beaumont Hospital, Troy earned a "high-performing" regional ranking in 12
medical specialties (Cancer; Cardiology & Heart Surgery; Diabetes &
Endocrinology; Ear, Nose & Throat; Gastroenterology & GI Surgery; Geriatrics;
Gynecology; Nephrology; Neurology & Neurosurgery; Orthopedics; Pulmonology; and
Urology) and is ranked No. 6 in Michigan and No. 5 in Metro Detroit.

David Wood, M.D., chief

medical officer, Beaumont

Health System

Beaumont Hospital, Grosse Pointe earned a "high-performing" regional ranking in
five medical specialties (Gastroenterology & GI Surgery; Geriatrics; Nephrology;
Neurology & Neurosurgery; and Pulmonology) and is ranked No.15 in Michigan and
No.12 in Metro Detroit.

"Our physicians, nurses, other caregivers, our Board and management team are
strongly focused on providing high quality-high value care to achieve the best
outcomes for patients," says David Wood, M.D., executive vice president and
chief medical officer, Beaumont Health System. "It's gratifying when those
efforts are recognized at the national level by U.S. News and others. But it's
the positive impact we have on the lives of our patients that's most meaningful
to us."

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

The rankings have been published at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and
will appear in print in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available
in bookstores and on newsstands Aug. 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

