                              64 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Chicago Daily Herald

                              July 7, 2006 Friday
                                 DuPage Edition

Edward ranked among best in orthopedics

BYLINE: Jake Griffin, Daily Herald Staff Writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 369 words


Edward Hospital officials are basking in the glow of their No. 42 ranking in
orthopedics in the July 17 issue of U.S. News & World Report.

It's the first time the Naperville hospital has made the pre- eminent listing of
the nation's health-care facilities in any of the magazine's 16 categories.

"Only 3 percent of the nation's hospitals are ranked in one or more of these
lists," said Brian Davis, Edward's vice president of marketing.

Edward was the only hospital in DuPage, Will or Kane counties to make the list
in the orthopedics category. Four other medical centers - three in Chicago, plus
Alexian Brothers in Elk Grove Village - also are on the list.

Orthopedics is a medical specialty involving bones and joints.

John Wallin, administrative director of surgery at Edward, said about 25 percent
of all surgeries at the hospital are orthopedic in nature.

"We average about 600 total joint replacement surgeries per year and another 300
neuro-spine procedures," he said.

That's on top of the 3,500 general orthopedic surgeries performed at the
facility.

The national magazine has been ranking the country's hospitals for years using
varying criteria. Most of the data used in decision-making is based on Medicare
figures submitted by hospitals. Usually, larger urban hospitals rank high on the
lists.

"It's more impressive when you consider we are a community hospital," Wallin
said. "University hospitals have a clear-cut edge in these rankings. We really
think we have hit a home run to make it on the list here."

Baltimore's Johns Hopkins Hospital was ranked the best overall this year and
last.

Hospital officials found out about the ranking Wednesday when a magazine
official called for contact information.

"We are very excited about the ranking," said Marcie Heppermann, administrative
director of quality at Edward. "We see this as continued validation of the good
work we're doing here."

Davis said with the number of orthopedic cases the hospital handles annually,
the honor isn't a surprise. However, the hospital's reputation wasn't built on
orthopedic care.

"It's one of several areas we've built our reputation on," he said. "But I think
you'd first look at heart and then cancer (care)."

jgriffin@dailyherald.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: By the numbers Where Chicago area hospitals rated in U.S. News and
World Report's ranking of the top 50 orthopedic hospitals: 6: Rush University
Medical Center, Chicago 20: Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago 21:
University of Chicago Hospitals 42: Edward Hospital, Naperville 46: Alexian
Brothers Medical Center, Elk Grove Village

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Paddock Publications, Inc.

