                              66 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Lebanon Daily News (Pennsylvania)

                             June 7, 2012 Thursday

Area hospital ranked among nation's best

BYLINE: Lebanon Daily News

SECTION: NEWS; Local

LENGTH: 449 words


The Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital has been ranked in three specialties
in U.S. News & World Report's 2012-13 Best Children's Hospitals rankings.

The Hershey-based hospital ranked 34th in orthopedics, 40th in cancer treatment,
and 46th in diabetes and endocrinology, according to a news release. Children's
Hospital ranked in two specialties last year and first made the Best Children's
Hospitals list in 2008.

The rankings feature 50 hospitals in each of 10 pediatric specialties: cancer;
cardiology and heart surgery; diabetes and endocrinology; gastroenterology;
neonatology; nephrology; neurology and neurosurgery; orthopedics; pulmonology;
and urology, the release continues. Eighty hospitals across the country ranked
in one or more specialties.

"Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital deserves high praise for its
accomplishments," Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow said in the release.
"Penn State Hershey has a reservoir of dedication and expertise that helps the
sickest kids. Our goal at U.S. News is to identify and call attention to
pediatric centers like this one."

For families of sick children, Best Children's Hospitals provides
quality-related information in addition to rankings, including survival rates,
adequacy of nurse staffing and procedure volume, the release states. Since their
2007 debut, the rankings have put an increasing emphasis on data that directly
reflect hospitals' performance over the opinions of physicians.

"We are honored to be recognized for the high quality of care, comprehensive
services, and excellent outcomes that Penn State Hershey Children's Hospital
provides," said Dr. Harold L. Paz, CEO of the Penn State Milton S. Hershey
Medical Center, Penn State's senior vice president for health affairs, and dean
of the Penn State College of Medicine. "Our new freestanding Children's Hospital
, opening later this year, will further enhance our ability to provide
state-of-the-art pediatric care close to home for central Pennsylvania children
and families."

This year, U.S. News surveyed 178 pediatric centers to obtain hard data such as
availability of key resources and ability to prevent complications and
infections, the release states. The hospital survey made up 75 percent of the
rankings. A separate reputational survey in which 1,500 pediatric specialists -
150 in each specialty - were asked where they would send the sickest children in
their specialty made up the remaining 25 percent.

The full rankings and methodology are available at
usnews.com/childrenshospitals. A video of thanks and congratulations to Penn
State Hershey faculty and staff, students, friends and supporters is available
on the Penn State Hershey YouTube channel.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2012 Lebanon Daily News
                              All Rights Reserved

