                              67 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        July 19, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

The Johns Hopkins University: Back on Top: The Johns Hopkins Hospital Ranked #1
by U.S. News & World Report

LENGTH: 587  words


New Delhi, July 19 -- The Johns Hopkins Hospital has regained the top spot in
U.S. News & World Report's annual rankings of American hospitals, placing first
in five medical specialties and in the top six in 10 others.

Johns Hopkins had, until last year, been ranked #1 for 21 years in a row by the
publication, when Massachusetts General Hospital took top honors. This year's
rankings mark the 22nd time in the publication's 24-year history of surveying
hospitals that Johns Hopkins has held the esteemed position.

In acknowledging their delight in again being named #1, the leadership of Johns
Hopkins Medicine gave credit to the researchers, clinicians, nurses and all of
the hospital's staff and caregivers for the remarkable standing.

"The Johns Hopkins Hospital will always be the hospital ranked #1 for 21 years
in a row thanks to you, the people of Johns Hopkins Medicine," said a joint
letter of congratulations from Paul B. Rothman, M.D., dean of the medical
faculty and CEO of Johns Hopkins Medicine, and Ronald R. Peterson, president of
The Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System and executive vice president of
Johns Hopkins Medicine. "Given the competitive, rapidly changing health care
environment and the realization that U.S. News evaluated more than 4,806
hospitals, we hope you share our incredible pride in achieving this top-tier
ranking among the best hospitals in the United States."

"Our hospital's standings in the specialties ranked by U.S. News reflect the
strong performance and historic leadership of our institution," Rothman adds,
noting that of the 16 specialties ranked by the publication, 15 at Johns Hopkins
were ranked among the top six in the nation.

In addition to landing in the #1 spot on U.S. News' Honor Roll of best
hospitals, the hospital ranked #1 in Ear, Nose & Throat, Geriatrics, Neurology &
Neurosurgery, Rheumatology, and Urology; #2 in Psychiatry; #3 in
Gastroenterology & GI Surgery (digestive diseases) and Ophthalmology; #4 in
Cancer, Cardiology & Heart Surgery, Diabetes & Endocrinology, and Nephrology
(kidney disorders); #5 in Gynecology; and #6 in Orthopedics and Pulmonology
(respiratory diseases).

"It is a privilege to be in the company of all the excellent hospitals
recognized in the magazine," says Peterson. "Kudos are owed to all our
colleagues on the honor list for their national rankings."

A detailed list of the rankings and information about how they are put together
are available at www.hopkinsmedicine.org/usnews and at
www.usnews.com/besthospitals.

In May, the magazine also recognized the Johns Hopkins Children's Center as
among the United States' top children's hospitals, ranking it in the top 10
Honor Roll of children's hospitals that excelled in 10 pediatric specialty
rankings. Hopkins Children's earned a spot in the top 10 for five specialties,
including #6 in Neurology & Neurosurgery; #7 in Diabetes & Endocrinology and
Urology; #9 in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery and Pulmonology.

Included in the state and regional analysis from U.S. News' 2013 adult rankings,
The Johns Hopkins Hospital ranked #1 in all specialties in Maryland and #1 in
all specialties in Baltimore. Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center, Howard
County General Hospital, Sibley Memorial Hospital and Suburban Hospital were
also recognized as achieving high performance in their respective regions in a
number of specialties. To be included in the metro-area report, a hospital had
to score in the top 25 percent among its peers in at least one medical
specialty.

Continent only.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

