                              68 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        June 14, 2013 Friday 6:30 AM EST

Mount Sinai Medical Center: The Kravis Children's Hospital at Mount Sinai
Increases Number of Specialties Ranked in U.S. News and World Report 'Best
Children's Hospitals'

LENGTH: 532  words


New Delhi, June 14 -- The Kravis Children's Hospital at Mount Sinai is among the
country's best children's hospitals in 7 of 10 pediatric specialties measured by
U.S. News & World Report for its 2013-14 "Best Children's Hospitals" ranking.



"Mount Sinai is making great strides as one of the nation's leaders in providing
quality health care to pediatric patients across all specialty areas," said
Kenneth L. Davis, MD, President and Chief Executive Officer of The Mount Sinai
Medical Center. "Under the leadership of Dr. Lisa Satlin, Kravis Children's
Hospital is ranked in gastroenterology & GI surgery, diabetes and endocrinology,
nephrology, urology, cancer and was for the first time ranked in cardiology and
heart surgery. Accomplishments such as these are what propel us forward in
improving our patient care and outcomes."

"Our superb multi-disciplinary teams work to tailor treatments to the needs of
the children and adolescents we care for at Kravis Children's Hospital," said
David Reich, MD, Interim President and Chief Operating Officer, The Mount Sinai
Hospital. "We offer the highest quality care in terms of nursing, surgery and
medicine, and our staff works seamlessly to give our patients the future they
deserve."

U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help
families find the best medical care available. The rankings, which will be
published in U.S. News's Best Hospitals 2013-14 guidebook, offer an exclusive
look at quality-related information at the individual hospital level. The
rankings recognize the top 50 children's hospitals in the 10 specialty areas of
cancer, cardiology & heart surgery, diabetes & endocrinology, gastroenterology &
GI surgery, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics,
pulmonology, and urology.

"We continue to recruit world renowned experts to our medical and surgical teams
that only enhance the quality of our care," adds Dennis Charney, MD, the Anne
and Joel Ehrenkranz Dean, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai and Executive
Vice President for Academic Affairs, The Mount Sinai Medical Center.

"The Kravis Children's Hospital will keep building on our long and distinguished
tradition of excellence in innovative patient care, community involvement,
education, and research," said Lisa Satlin, MD, Professor & Chair of the
Department of Pediatrics. "Our mission is to improve the overall health of
children in our community and beyond, and we are proud to be commended by our
peers."

Reputational rankings by peers account for 25 percent of each hospital's
rankings. Three-quarters of each hospital's score was determined through an
analysis of patient outcomes and data on the structural resources each hospital
has for pediatric care. To gather data, U.S. News used two surveys: a clinical
questionnaire sent to 179 pediatric hospitals and, for the reputational
assessment, a survey of 150 pediatric specialists and subspecialists in each
specialty. The 1,500 physicians were asked where they would send the sickest
children in their specialty, setting aside location and expense.

For the full rankings and methodology, visit http://health.usnews.com/best-
hospitals/pediatric-rankings.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

