                              69 of 998 DOCUMENTS


              The Times and Democrat (Orangeburg, South Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                            August 9, 2017 Wednesday

MUSC gets top ranking

BYLINE: The Times and Democrat, Orangeburg, S.C.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 560 words


Aug. 09--CHARLESTON -- MUSC Health was named by U.S. News and World Report for
the third year in a row as the number one hospital in South Carolina, and one of
the country's top 50 hospitals in the treatment of ear, nose and
throatdisorders, gynecology, urology and cancer.

MUSC was also high-performing in gastroenterology & GI surgery, geriatrics,
nephrology, neurology & neurosurgery, orthopedics, pulmonology, and
rheumatology.

"What does it mean to be ranked the number one hospital in South Carolina three
years in a row? I'd say that above all, it's a reflection of our overall
commitment to putting patients and their families first, advancing innovation in
how we deliver care, and striving to make our communities healthier in ways that
go beyond the hospital setting," said Patrick J. Cawley, M.D., MUSC Health CEO
and MUSC Vice President of Health Affairs. "There are lots of ranking systems
out there, but this particular designation means more than reputation; these
rankings reflect strong patient outcomes, excellence in teaching the next
generation of care providers, new innovations that improve health, and strong
health care leadership."

U.S. News & World Report unveiled the 28th edition of the Best Hospitals
rankings at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals. Designed to help patients
with life-threatening or rare conditions identify hospitals that excel in
treating the most difficult cases, Best Hospitals 2017-18 includes
consumer-friendly data and information on 4,500 medical centers nationwide in 25
specialties, procedures and conditions. In the 16 specialty areas, 152 hospitals
were ranked in at least one specialty. In rankings by state and metro area, U.S.
News recognized hospitals as high performing across multiple areas of care.

Texas firm bringing 150 jobs

GREENVILLE -- A Texas real estate services provider plans to add 150 jobs in
South Carolina.

The Greenville News reported that RealPage plans to add the jobs at its
customers-contact center in Greenville next year.

RealPage offers business-to-business and business-to-customer services for the
rental housing market, from senior living centers to student apartments.

Company vice president Randy Johns said the business has 350 employees in
Greenville now. The employees answer phone calls, emails or instant messages 24
hours a day from renters or potential renters about available properties or
maintenance on properties owned by RealPage's customers.

Fiber Industries opening in Darlington

COLUMBIA -- Fiber Industries LLC is preparing to open a new textile production
operation in Darlington County. Expected to be operational in early 2018, this
development is projected to bring more than $30 million of capital investment
and lead to the creation of at least 135 new jobs.

A privately held company, Fiber Industries was established by MHR Fund
Management LLC, a New York-based investment firm, in order to restart the
Palmetto Plant in Darlington.

The management team, Andrew Rosenfeld and Leandro Carboni, has more than 60
years of combined experience in working at senior-level positions in the
chemical, oil and gas industries, along with strong backgrounds in financial,
commercial and plant operations.

___ (c)2017 The Times and Democrat (Orangeburg, S.C.) Visit The Times and
Democrat (Orangeburg, S.C.) at thetandd.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170809-GG-MUSC-gets-top-ranking-0809-20170809

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GG


                     Copyright 2017 The Times and Democrat

