                              72 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Eagle (Bryan, Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           October 27, 2011 Thursday

Online rankings raise profiles of area hospitals

BYLINE: Shauna Lewis, The Eagle, Bryan, Texas

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 712 words


Oct. 27--More and more people are researching their health care options online,
local hospital officials said, and they believe that is bringing a boost to the
local economy by luring patients from out of the area.

HealthGrades, an independent source of hospital quality ratings, recently
released its 2012 rankings, naming St. Joseph Regional Health Center in Bryan as
No. 1 in Texas in overall orthopedic services for the second consecutive year
and the Physicians Centre Hospital, also in Bryan, as No. 8 in the state for
joint replacement.

Local hospitals and HealthGrades evaluators said such rankings are important
because of an increase in the number of people who research health care options
online.

"Consumers have choices and should do their research before checking into a
hospital," St. Joseph spokeswoman Ashlea Sigman said. "Locals should feel good
knowing a hospital rated five-star in many procedures is available in their
neighborhood."

HealthGrades, the leading company for health care information, is finding an
increasing number of people nationwide are searching online for health care,
said Katherine Henschen, HealthGrades's client executive for professional
services.

From January to July, 128,974 people in the Waco designated market area, which
includes Bryan and College Station, evaluated health care on the company's
website, she said. She didn't have statistics for previous years.

Rankings

HealthGrades ranks all hospitals in the United States that report to the Center
for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), basically all non-federal hospitals,
Henschen said.

It did a statistical analysis of patient data from each hospital from the 2008
to 2010 federal fiscal years for the 2012 rankings, she said.

HealthGrades also ranked St. Joseph among America's top 100 best hospitals in
the categories of overall orthopedic services, joint replacement and spine
surgery, and in the top 10 percent in the nation for treatment of stroke. It
awarded The Physicians Centre with a Joint Replacement Excellence Award.

The company does not rank hospitals numerically nationwide, but ranks the Top 10
for specific categories in each state. St. Joseph and Physicians Centre were the
only hospitals in Bryan and College Station to be ranked in any Top 10 lists,
Henschen said.

The company also ranks hospitals with one to five stars in different categories,
with five stars being the highest ranking. St. Joseph, Physicians Centre and
College Station Medical Center each had at least one five-star rating.

Hospitals are ranked for free, but pay for the right to market HealthGrades
rankings, Henschen said. She declined to say what the cost was. She said the
company's mission was to "provide transparency."

Researching online

College Station Medical Center spokesman Joe Brown said he believes more people
are being "choosy" with their health care options, likely because of the
Internet's accessibility, and people want to see what they're getting for the
cost and what the track records are for hospitals and doctors.

"I think that people are smart consumers of health care and nowadays people will
go to greater lengths to investigate," Brown said about researching online.

That's good for business, he said, and why hospital officials pay close
attention to online ratings such as those from Hospital Consumer Assessment of
Healthcare Providers and Systems (HCAHPS). He also encouraged consumers to use
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' site,
www.hospitalcompare.hhs.gov.

Brown and Sigman said their hospitals are getting an increasing number of
patients from Houston, Austin, Dallas and Fort Worth, and they believed people
looking online contribute to that. Besides spending money at the hospitals, that
means friends and family members staying at hotels and eating and shopping
locally, they said.

Sigman said 15 percent of St. Joseph's joint replacement patients, on average
over the past three years, come from out of town each year, bringing $1.6
million to the hospital. Brown said dozens from outside the area come to The Med
each month.

On the Web

www.healthgrades.com/

www.hcahpsonline.org

www.hospitalcompare.hhs.gov/

___ (c)2011 The Eagle (Bryan, Texas) Visit The Eagle (Bryan, Texas) at
www.theeagle.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20111027-EG-Online-rankings-raise-profiles-of-area-hospitals
-1027-20111027

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EG


                            Copyright 2011 The Eagle

