                              73 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             April 2, 2005 Saturday
                    Flagler/palm Coast News-tribune Edition

High-Ranking Hospital Florida Hospital Flagler makes top 100

BYLINE: AARON LONDON - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION B; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 304  words

DATELINE: PALM COAST


PALM COAST Florida Hospital Flagler has ranked as one of the nation's best
hospitals, according to a healthcare business information company. The hospital
was recently named one of the nation's Top 100 hospitals by Solucient in its
latest National Benchmarks for Success study. The study ranks hospitals of
similar size in four performance areas: quality of care, efficiency, financial
performance and growing community service.

Hospital officials were pleased with the study results. "This is the first time
we've made the Solucient Top 100," said Eric Stevens, vice president for
operations at the Flagler County facility. "It's a big deal. Solucient is one of
the largest and most prestigious benchmarking companies looking at hospitals."
Under the category of small community hospitals, Florida Hospital Flagler
outperformed facilities of similar size on several measures. The hospital's
average length of stay was 3.63 days, 11 percent shorter than at other benchmark
hospitals. The hospital's percentage of community served increased over the
study period compared with a slight drop for similar sized facilities. Stevens
said the ranking is a validation of the hospital's effort to provide quality
care for the community. "We put a great deal of emphasis on creating a high-
quality facility," he said. "It compares very favorably with similar hospitals
across the country." Stevens said the high ranking also gives the Flagler
facility a glimpse at how it compares with other hospitals. "The road we've
chosen to take has started to show successful returns," he said. Stevens said
the hospital will have a plaque to hang in the front lobby and will put up a
banner announcing the ranking, but for the most part any celebrating will be
done internally with employees. "This ranking is a product of their work," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caption: Florida Hospital Flagler was recently named one of the nations
top 100 hospitals by Solucient in a recent study. The study ranked hospitals of
similar size in the categories of quality of care, efficiency, financial
performance and growing community service.News-Tribune file/ BRIAN MYRICK

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2005 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2005 News-Journal Corporation

