                              74 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Scott & White Hospital Temple Named a Best Regional Hospital by U.S. News &
World Report

LENGTH: 495  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- CENTRAL TEXAS For the third year in a row, Scott & White
Hospital - Temple has been named among the nation's Best Regional Hospitals
2013-14, according to U.S. News & World Report, publisher of Best Hospitals.
U.S. News publishes the Best Hospitals rankings annually in July. In 2011, U.S.
News began formally recognizing hospitals outside major metropolitan areas,
including Scott & White Hospital -Temple, as Best Regional Hospitals. The latest
rankings identify more than 200 such hospitals outside metropolitan areas of one
million or more.  Scott & White was recognized for the Prairies and Lakes region
in Texas, which encompasses more than 44,000 square miles.*

Scott & White Hospital -- Temple was recognized again for its outstanding
performance in six specialties: Orthopedics, Gastroenterology and
Gastroenterology Surgery, Nephrology, Psychiatry, Pulmonology, and Urology.



"Being recognized again is something all of us take great pride in because it
reflects the tremendous amount of work by all of our staff at Scott & White
Hospital - Temple," said Robert W. Pryor, MD, MBA, President and Chief Executive
Officer of Scott & White Healthcare."  To be listed with some of the country's
premier medical institutions is very humbling."

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just three percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in
any specialty."

U.S. News annually evaluates nearly 5,000 hospitals in 16 medical specialties.
Data stands behind its analysis in most specialties, death rates, patient
safety, and procedure volume. Physicians' responses to a national survey, in
which specialists are asked to name hospitals they consider best in their
specialty for the toughest cases, also are factored in.  The complete rankings
and methodology are available at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

*The following counties comprise the Prairies and Lakes Region in Texas:
Anderson, Austin, Bastrop, Bell, Bosque, Brazos, Burleson, Caldwell, Collin,
Colorado, Comanche, Cooke, Coryell, Dallas, Delta, Denton, DeWitt, Ellis, Erath,
Falls, Fannin, Fayette, Freestone, Gonzales, Grayson, Guadalupe, Hamilton,
Henderson, Hill, Hood, Hopkins, Hunt, Johnson, Kaufman, Lamar, Lavaca, Lee,
Leon, Limestone, Madison, McLennan, Milam, Montague, Navarro, Parker, Rains, Red
River, Robertson, Rockwall, Somervell, Tarrant, Van Zandt, Washington, Wise.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

