                              75 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald-Tribune (Florida)

                              July 11, 2008 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

For Sarasota Memorial, rankings pose challenge

BYLINE: By DAVID GULLIVER david.gulliver@heraldtribune.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 443 words


For the fifth straight year, Sarasota Memorial Hospital made the best-known list
of the country's top hospitals. But it may struggle to make it six in a row.

In U.S. News & World Report magazine's 2008 rankings, the hospital ranks 43rd
for geriatric care.

The magazine uses mortality data, a checklist of hospital services and a
reputation survey to analyze and rank the top 50 hospitals in 16 categories of
care.

U.S. News examined 5,453 hospitals. Of them, only 170 made one or more lists.

Sarasota Memorial officials cheered the news while noting the challenges a small
hospital faces in making the cut.

"Although we don't have the high visibility of some of our peers, our doctors,
nurses, researchers and staff have demonstrated that we provide the same caliber
of care you'd find in the nation's best academic medical centers," Sarasota
Memorial President Gwen MacKenzie said in a prepared statement.

The geriatrics ranking is noteworthy, MacKenzie said, because it involves
several specialties and is among the most complex areas of medicine.

The hospital's geriatrics ranking moved up five positions from 2007, but it
dropped off the list for cancer care, where it placed 45th last year.

This year's results represent a steep drop from 2005, when Sarasota Memorial was
ranked among the top 50 in seven areas of care.

Hospital officials had no comment on the year-to-year changes but suggested that
the hospital suffers from not being a nationally known name like Johns Hopkins
Hospital -- which topped the magazine's honor roll.

In 2007, Sarasota Memorial had one of the best mortality rates of any hospital
in the magazine's cancer care rankings.

But it also was one of only nine hospitals that scored no points for national
reputation, dropping its ranking.

This year, only two hospitals made the list without reputation points. Sarasota
Memorial's latest cancer mortality rate was not immediately available.

The reputation study has drawn fire for most of the study's 18-year run. But for
the first time, the list's critics will be able to test its findings.

Project editor Avery Comarow said the magazine will give out data on all
1,000-plus hospitals that qualified for the study.

In partial results posted briefly on the Web site Thursday, several Florida
hospitals made strong showings.

Shands, the teaching hospital at University of Florida, made the top 50 in 11
categories, including cancer care, neurology and neurosurgery and endocrinology.

Tampa General Hospital placed on seven lists, including orthopedics,
endocrinology and gynecology.

Jackson Memorial Hospital, at University of Miami, placed in four categories
including geriatrics and ophthalmology.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO
 HERALD-TRIBUNE ARCHIVE Sarasota Memorial ranked 43rd in the geriatric care
category of U.S. News & World Report's 2008 list of top hospitals. Officials at
the hospital say lacking a well-known name hurts its success in the rankings.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved

