                              76 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Baltimore Sun

                             August 8, 2017 Tuesday
                                 4Star Edition

Johns Hopkins Hospital is up

BYLINE: Andrea K. McDaniels

SECTION: MAIN NEWS; A; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 369  words


1

Johns Hopkins Hospital moved up to third from fourth in the latest rankings of
American hospitals by U.S. News and World Report, but fell short of reclaiming
the top spot it once held for 22 years.

The Mayo Clinic in Minnesota took the coveted No. 1 ranking in the assessment of
hospitals released today, while the Cleveland Clinic ranked second. The U.S.
News rankings compared more than 4,500 medical centers in 25 specialties,
procedures and conditions.

U.S. News also ranked hospitals by each state, and Hopkins came in first in the
comparison of Maryland hospitals. The University of Maryland Medical Center was
ranked the state's second-best hospital.

Hopkins started slipping in the national rankings in 2012 when the magazine
changed its methodology to put less emphasis on reputation. It has also begun
analyzing more outcomes of common procedures than it once did.

While Hopkins would relish being No. 1 again, Dr. Redonda Miller, the hospital's
president, said, this year's showing left it in good company. "We are thrilled
to be among such an illustrious group of hospitals in the top 10," Miller said.

The report reviewed the performance of hospitals in areas from complex,
high-risk cancer care to common procedures such as knee replacement surgery,
said Ben Harder, chief of health analysis at U.S. News & World Report.

The data is meant to help patients make informed decisions about where they seek
care, he said.

Hopkins also ranked among the top three hospitals nationwide in five
specialties: gastroenterology, neurology and neurosurgery, ophthalmology,
rheumatology, and ear, nose and throat. It also was dubbed an "honor roll"
hospital, or one of 20 institutions that U.S. News said delivered exceptional
treatment across multiple areas.

While some rankings can be important, Miller said that it's what Hopkins'
patients think that matters the most. "No single ranking really perfectly
reflects the excellence of a hospital," she said.

Karen Lancaster, a spokeswoman for the University of Maryland Medical Center,
said, "We recognize how fortunate the people of this region are to have two
strong research-focused academic medical centers to go to for care."

amcdaniels@baltsun.com

twitter.com/anwalker

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2017 The Baltimore Sun Company
                              All Rights Reserved

