                              77 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 17, 2012 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Ochsner Among 25 Hospitals in America Nationally Ranked in 11 Or More
Specialties Accd'ing to U.S. News

LENGTH: 669  words


New Delhi, July 17 -- Ochsner Medical Center and Ochsner Medical Center - West
Bank Campus are among only 25 hospitals in the country to rank in the top 50 in
11 or more medical specialties, according to U.S. News & World Report's 2012-13
Best Hospitals rankings. This puts Ochsner in such esteemed company as Johns
Hopkins Hospital, Massachusetts General, Mayo Clinic and Cleveland Clinic. This
is the 12th time since 1996 Ochsner has been recognized as one of the Best
Hospitals in America.

Fewer than 150 of the country's roughly 5,000 hospitals are nationally ranked;
Ochsner earned national rankings in 11 of the 12 data-driven medical
specialties. The rankings are based on a comprehensive evaluation of hard data,
such as patient survival rates, patient safety data, nurse staffing, patient
services and available technology, in addition to a reputational score based on
surveyed physicians.

The hospital rankings, said U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow, are
like a GPS-type aid to help steer patients to hospitals with strong skills in
the procedures and medical conditions that present the biggest challenges. "All
of these hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your list
when you need the best care," said Comarow. "They are where other hospitals send
the toughest cases."

Ochsner Medical Center (in conjunction with Ochsner Medical Center - West Bank
Campus) was ranked #1 in Louisiana and in the New Orleans metro area and Ochsner
Medical Center- Kenner was ranked #2 in the New Orleans metro area and #4 in
Louisiana. They also were recognized among the Best Hospitals in Southeastern
Louisiana. In addition, Ochsner Medical Center and Ochsner's West Bank Campus
were named 'high performing' in Cancer and Ochsner Medical Center - Kenner in
Gastroenterology, which means each met a standard of performance nearly as
demanding as that of the national rankings.

Ochsner is:

* Nationally Ranked # 10 in Diabetes and Endocrinology

* Nationally Ranked # 10 in Gastroenterology

* Nationally Ranked # 14 in Pulmonology

* Nationally Ranked # 20 in Cardiology & Heart Surgery

* Nationally Ranked # 21 in Ear, Nose & Throat

* Nationally Ranked # 22 in Gynecology

* Nationally Ranked # 22 in Orthopedics

* Nationally Ranked # 28 in Geriatrics

* Nationally Ranked # 32 in Urology

* Nationally Ranked # 37 in Nephrology

* Nationally Ranked # 44 in Neurology & Neurosurgery

"The U.S. News rankings are especially meaningful because they underscore
Ochsner's demonstrated expertise and competence in delivering high-quality
patient care across numerous complex clinical specialties," said Warner Thomas,
President and Chief Operating Officer of Ochsner Health System. "These rankings
are the most comprehensive national evaluation of hospitals and their clinical
programs completed by any third party independent organization."

"Rankings such as these are extremely helpful in enabling patients to find the
best," said Dr. Joseph Bisordi, Chief Medical Officer of Ochsner Health System.
"No matter where you are or what your condition, Ochsner has the capability
within our system to provide you with the most sophisticated specialty care."

"While we are always focused on opportunities to improve, we are very proud that
our relentless focus on quality throughout the system has led to continued and
consistent advancements in our patients' outcomes, which is reflected in the
U.S. News rankings," said Michael Hulefeld, CEO of Ochsner Medical Center. "I am
thankful to our physicians, nurses, technicians and all of our colleagues who
work to bring world-class healthcare to the Gulf South and I look forward to our
continued improvement."

The rankings were published by U.S. News in collaboration with RTI
International, a research organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C.
Highlights of the 2012-13 rankings will appear in the U.S. News Best Hospitals
2013 guidebook, to go on sale in August.

The complete rankings and methodology are available at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

