                              79 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Decatur Daily (Alabama)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              March 6, 2016 Sunday

Tier ranking could double co-pays at Decatur Morgan Hospital

BYLINE: Deangelo McDaniel, The Decatur Daily, Ala.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 409 words


March 06--Decatur Morgan Hospital officials are fighting to hold on to a Blue
Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama ranking that would save patients hundreds of
dollars in co-payments.

BCBS, which is the state's largest health insurance provider, downgraded the
hospital from Tier 1 to Tier 2. This means most co-pays for most services will
double.

Decatur Morgan's status will change April 1, unless leaders can convince the
insurance provider to keep the hospital at Tier 1.

"We're in negotiations," hospital spokeswoman Leigh Hayes said. "Right now, I
just can't say anything beyond that."

Hayes said if Decatur Morgan moves to Tier 2, the hospital will notify the
community of how the change affects it.

KoKo Mackin, vice president of communications and community relations for BCBS,
said she could not comment on the 2016 tier results because they are
communicating them to affected hospitals.

"I will be happy to respond to your questions in mid to late March," she wrote
in an email.

BCBS rolled out the three-tier system in 2009, and in an interview with The
Decatur Daily at the time, Mackin said the objective was better patient care and
a financial safety system that includes reimbursement amounts.

The new grading system required hospitals to agree to lower reimbursement rates
for patient service. It also created new co-pay amounts for inpatient and
outpatient services, depending on the hospital's tier ranking.

The co-pay for outpatient surgery at a Tier 1 hospital, for example, is $200,
while the co-pay is $400 at a Tier 2 or Tier 3 hospital.

BCBS said hospitals in the "tiered network" program are evaluated annually on
fiscal awareness, quality, patient safety and patient experience.

Specific details about why Decatur Morgan's ranking dropped were not available.
The Parkway campus, which is used primarily for OBGYN services, is set to go
under the Tier 2 ranking.

Decatur Morgan became part of the Huntsville Hospital Systems on Sept. 1, 2012.
The facility has 112 acute-care beds available, and the campus on the Beltline
is licensed for 120 beds. Hayes said the facilities have an average combined
census of between 130 and 135 patients per day.

The Huntsville Hospital Health Systems has 18 sites and seven acute-care
hospitals, and Decatur Morgan would be the only site with a Tier 2 ranking.

___ (c)2016 The Decatur Daily (Decatur, Ala.) Visit The Decatur Daily (Decatur,
Ala.) at www.decaturdaily.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160306-DD-Tier-ranking-could-double-co-pays-at-Decatur-Morgan-Hospital
-0306-20160306

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DD


                        Copyright 2016 The Decatur Daily

