                              80 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                      July 24, 2013 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Trinity Mother Frances Hospital: U.S. News & World Report Names Trinity Mother
Frances Hospitals & Clinics Among the Best in Texas

LENGTH: 523  words


New Delhi, July 24 -- rinity Mother Frances Hospitals & Clinics has been ranked
as one of the best hospitals for 2013-14 in Texas by U.S. News & World Report.
The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th year, recognize
hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.



"Texas is home to some of the highest-quality healthcare organizations in the
country. We are proud to be ranked #12 in the state and the best hospital in
East Texas," said Trinity Mother Frances Hospitals & Clinics President Lindsey
Bradley, FACHE. "This type of recognition fuels our motivation to provide our
patients with the best possible care coupled with a great patient experience."

"A strong medical presence is a cornerstone piece to any vibrant community such
as ours. We are proud to be recognized for being among the very best in Texas"
said Ray Thompson, Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President of
Trinity Mother Frances Hospitals and Clinics.

Trinity Mother Frances Hospitals & Clinics is also recognized among the Best
Hospitals in the Piney Woods region (TX). Trinity Mother Frances Hospitals and
Clinics is high-performing in Diabetes & Endocrinology, Gastroenterology & GI
Surgery, Geriatrics, Nephrology, Neurology & Neurosurgery, Orthopedics,
Pulmonology, and Urology.

"Trinity Mother Frances Hospitals & Clinics aims at the highest quality care for
all of our patients and I am proud of every Trinity Mother Frances employee for
their dedication and focus that keeps Mother Frances Hospital an award-winning
medical destination," said President and Chief Medical Officer Steven Keuer, MD.
"The eight areas we received highest performance for are a testament to our
mission for quality healthcare and we hope this number grows in years to come."

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just 3 percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in any
specialty."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

The rankings have been published at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals and
will appear in print in the U.S. News Best Hospitals 2014 guidebook, available
in bookstores and on newsstands August 27.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

