                              81 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                             April 14, 2017 Friday
                                 FINAL EDITION

A dozen St. Louis area hospitals score A's in safety ranking

BYLINE:  From staff and wire reports

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 364 words


Missouri's statewide ranking for hospital safety rose this year to 20th in the
nation from 26th last fall, while neighboring Illinois' dipped to 23rd this year
from 15th last fall, according to a new report by an independent nonprofit group
focused on health care.

The report, released Wednesday by The Leapfrog Group, assigned grades to
hospitals across the country for patient safety and then ranked states based on
the percentage of their hospitals that earned A's.

In Missouri, 22 of the 59 hospitals graded, or 37.3 percent, received A's. In
Illinois, 38 of the 113 hospitals graded, or 33.6 percent, received A's. No
hospital in Missouri or Illinois received an F.

Leapfrog calculates hospitals' grades based on a number of measures, including
the rates of hospital-associated infections, patient falls, accidental punctures
and lacerations, deaths from treatable complications after surgery and physician
staffing in intensive care units, among others. To see individual hospitals'
grades, go to www.hospitalsafetygrade.org.

Danny Chun, a spokesman for the Illinois Health and Hospital Association, said
patients shouldn't put too much stock in any one rating or ranking. He called
Leapfrog's overall ranking a "crude measure" of hospital safety.

"We welcome information that can help consumers make decisions, but as always we
recommend consumers and patients not rely on any one source of data or report,
that they look at multiple sources, multiple reports and obviously talk to your
doctor," Chun said.

He noted that there were many reports and rankings of hospitals done by a number
of different groups, all with different methodologies. One hospital might earn
top marks on one report but not another.

"There is no gold standard or holy grail of measures yet," Chun said.

A dozen hospitals in the St. Louis area received A's: Alton Memorial Hospital,
Barnes-Jewish West County, Des Peres Hospital, Mercy Hospital St. Louis, Mercy
Hospital Washington, Mercy Hospital Jefferson, Progress West (O'Fallon, Ill.),
St. Luke's (Chesterfield), SSM Health St. Joseph (both Lake Saint Louis and St.
Charles locations), SSM Health St. Mary's (Richmond Heights) and SSM Health St.
Clare (Fenton).

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Don Bale, an obstetrician, works at his practice at Mercy Hospital on
his birthday on Monday, Feb. 29, 2016, on  the Leap Year. Bale joked that he is
celebrating his 17th birthday. Photo by Christian Gooden,
cgooden@post-dispatch.com

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2017 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

