                              82 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 6, 2006 Wednesday

Ontario hospital report card proves difficult

BYLINE: ANNE McILROY AND UNNATI GANDHI

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 817 words


The Fraser Institute has released a report card on Ontario hospitals that
includes the death rates from stroke, heart attack and other conditions at
institutions across the province.

"The goal of this new hospital report card is to contribute to the improvement
of hospital care by providing quality of care information directly to patients
and the general public," said Mark Mullins, co-author and executive director of
the Vancouver-based think tank.

It was a difficult and complicated endeavour.

The Globe and Mail was initially part of the report card project, which ranks
hospitals in the province, and planned to publish the results on its website.
But in June senior managers decided the results were too limited.

The think tank bought the initial data from the Canadian Institute for Health
Information, a non-profit organization that gathers and analyzes information
about health care in Canada.

The Fraser Institute had to get permission to publish data collected from each
hospital. Only 43 of 136 acute-care hospitals in the province agreed to have
their institutions identified by name. The top two hospitals in the ranking
can't be named. Neither can the 10 bottom-ranked hospitals over the past three
years.

The report card was based on more than 8.5 million patient records from 1997 to
2005, which were adjusted, Mr. Mullins said, to account for age, sex and medical
condition.

In theory, this means that hospitals that treat more difficult cases - that get
all the trauma cases, for example - aren't penalized. This risk-adjustment
formula has been used to perform rankings in a number of hospitals in the United
States.

The report includes 50 measures of patient safety and quality of care, although
only nine were used to rank the hospitals. Mr. Mullins said the Fraser Institute
wants to empower patients to make informed choices about their care.

The overall ranking of the hospitals was compiled using what the Fraser
Institute calls the hospital mortality index, based on death rates from hip
fractures, heart attacks, congestive heart failure and other conditions.

How meaningful are the overall rankings? How significant are the differences
between hospitals based on their overall score?

"We have not made any claims about the statistical significance of any
differences between rates, scores or ranks . . .," Mr. Mullins said in June,
when The Globe was making its decision on whether to disassociate itself from
the report.

"We have also not made any inferences as to whether the differences in results
are due to random chance or differences of care."

Mr. Mullins said people can use the indicators to compare their local hospital
to the provincial average. Results can be found on the website,
fraserinstitute.ca.

The press release issued by the Fraser Institute noted that the indicators
applied to acute and inpatient care only. "The results cannot be generalized to
assessing the overall performance of any given hospital," it said. It is also
not recommended, the press release said, "to choose a hospital based solely on
statistics and descriptions such as those given in this report."

Colin MacKenzie, managing editor of news at The Globe, said the report card was
a worthwhile idea. "But it's clear that for a variety of reasons the rankings
aren't as meaningful as we had hoped. We wish the Fraser Institute well in
refining the survey in subsequent years."

The rankings didn't take into account success rates on surgeries like hip
replacements, or patient satisfaction. Cancer treatment was not assessed. The
report didn't consider patients' socioeconomic status, an important determinant
of health, nor did it identify whether patients were in palliative care.

Small hospitals can have wildly different numbers from year to year. If three
out of six stroke patients die one year, but none out of 10 the next, the stroke
mortality rate for that hospital would drop from 50 per cent to zero.

All hospitals were given a chance to review the data. Mr. Mullins said their
responses are posted on the institute's website. The methodology used in the
rankings is also explained there.

It is very difficult to rank hospitals, said Jennifer Zelmer, vice-president of
research and analysis at the Canadian Institute for Health Information.

"Hospitals provide a wide range of services to many different types of patients
and different indicators reflect this mix. Overall rankings are challenging.
What indicators you include, how you measure them, and how you combine them can
all make a big difference to results."

The Ontario Hospital Association, which puts out its own hospital report card
annually, said it doesn't know enough about the institute's methodology, but
said it needs to be closely scrutinized by academics.

"No one should draw conclusions about hospitals from the report we have seen
today," said Hilary Short, OHA president and CEO.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2006 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved

