                              83 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       June 27, 2017 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Dana-Farber/Boston Children's Again Named a Top National Pediatric Cancer
Program

LENGTH: 785  words


June 27 -- U.S. News & World Report has ranked Dana-Farber/Boston Children's
Cancer and Blood Disorders Center the nation's #2 pediatric cancer program in
its new 2017-18 Best Children's Hospitals report. This marks the ninth year
since 2008 that Dana-Farber/Boston Children's has been ranked one of the top two
pediatric cancer centers in the country, a record that surpasses other United
States centers. Boston Children's Hospital remained the best pediatric hospital.

"Once again, we are honored by U.S. News' consistent recognition of the
exceptional, multidisciplinary care we offer our young cancer patients and our
ongoing commitment to research into new therapeutic avenues," said David A.
Williams, MD, president of Dana-Farber/Boston Children's and chief scientific
officer of Boston Children's Hospital. "This U.S. News ranking is testament to
the unique strength that comes from marrying a world-class cancer center with a
world-class children's hospital, leading to survival rates that are better than
the national average, despite the fact that we attract some of the most complex
cases."

Dana-Farber/ Boston Children's brings together two internationally known
research and teaching institutions that have provided comprehensive care for
pediatric oncology and hematology patients since 1947. The Harvard Medical
School affiliates share a clinical staff that delivers inpatient care and
surgery at Boston Children's and most outpatient care at Dana-Farber Cancer
Institute.

Overall, U.S. News ranked Boston Children's #1 or #2 in nine of the ten
specialty areas it rates, several of which are involved in the treatment of
pediatric cancer or the side effects of therapy. Among them, are
neurology/neurosurgery, whose patients include children with brain tumors, and
orthopedics/orthopedic surgery, whose patients include children with cancerous
bone tumors. Boston Children's also garnered #1 or #2 rankings in
cardiology/heart surgery, endocrinology, gastroenterology/GI surgery,
neonatology, nephrology, and urology. It ranked #3 in pulmonology.

"In addition to the excellence of our pediatric oncology clinicians, our access
to top pediatric specialists in disciplines from neurology to cardiology to
endocrinology makes us uniquely poised to treat both cancer and the side effects
of treatments that affect children's developing bodies," said Lisa Diller, MD,
chief medical officer of Dana-Farber/Boston Children's. "Our pediatric
pathologists possess the expertise needed to accurately diagnose a patient's
cancer and uncover its genetic abnormalities so we can develop the appropriate
treatment plan. We deliver this care in a child-friendly environment, complete
with psychosocial support to help families through a stressful time in their
lives."

U.S. News introduced the Best Children's Hospitals rankings in 2007 to help
families of children with rare or life-threatening illnesses find the best
medical care available. The rankings are the only comprehensive source of
quality-related information on U.S. pediatric centers.

"The pediatric centers on this year's Best Children's Hospitals Honor Roll show
outstanding dedication to top-quality care for patients and expertise spanning
multiple specialties" said U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow. "U.S.
News wants to highlight these Honor Roll hospitals that deliver state-of-the-art
medical care to children with complex illnesses across a wide range of
conditions."

The 11th annual rankings recognize the top 50 pediatric facilities across the
U.S. in 10 pediatric specialties, including cancer, cardiology and heart
surgery, diabetes and endocrinology, gastroenterology and gastrointestinal
surgery, neonatology, nephrology, neurology and neurosurgery, orthopedics,
pulmonology and urology. Hospitals received points for being ranked in a
specialty, and higher-ranking hospitals receive more points. The Best Children's
Hospitals Honor Roll recognizes the 10 hospitals that received the most points
overall.

The U.S. News Best Children's Hospitals rankings rely on clinical data and on an
annual survey of pediatric specialists. The rankings methodology considers
clinical outcomes, such as mortality and infection rates, efficiency and
coordination of care delivery and compliance with "best practices."

Survival rates after surgery, adequacy of nurse staffing, procedure and patient
volume, availability of programs for particular illnesses and conditions and
much more can be viewed on health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/pediatric-rankings.

This year's rankings will be published in the U.S. News & World Report's "Best
Hospitals 2018" guidebook, which will be available on newsstands September 12.

Source: Dana-Farber Cancer Institute

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2017 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

