                              84 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                    September 29, 2012 Saturday 6:30 AM EST

Inova Health System: U.S. News Ranks Inova Fairfax Hospital # 1 in the
Washington, DC Metro Area

LENGTH: 266  words


New Delhi, Sept. 29 -- U.S. News & World Report today released its annual Best
Hospitals rankings, citing Inova Fairfax Hospital as the top Washington, DC
Metro hospital. All of Inova Health System's five hospitals advanced to the top
20 with 4 in the top ten. This year's Best Hospitals, the 23rd annual edition,
showcases more than 720 of the nation's roughly 5,000 hospitals. Fewer than 150
are nationally ranked in at least one of 16 medical specialties. The rest of the
recognized hospitals met a standard of performance nearly as demanding in one or
more specialties.



"Inova is reinventing healthcare, increasing value for our patients," observed
Knox Singleton, CEO of Inova Health System. "Our care model emphasizes
collaboration between physician, patient and family underscoring wellness,
education, research and care management as part of our commitment to improving
the health of the community we serve."

The hospital rankings, said U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery Comarow, are
like a GPS-type aid to help steer patients to hospitals with strong skills in
the procedures and medical conditions that present the biggest challenges. "All
of these hospitals are the kinds of medical centers that should be on your list
when you need the best care," said Comarow. "They are where other hospitals send
the toughest cases."

The rankings were published by U.S. News in collaboration with RTI
International, a research organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C.
Highlights of the 2012-13 rankings will appear in the U.S. News Best Hospitals
2013 guidebook, to go on sale in August.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

