                              85 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald-Tribune (Florida)

                              July 14, 2006 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                                  ALL EDITION

Magazine taps SMH as a top hospital;
U.S. News and World Report puts it among top 50 in U.S. in 6 specialties.

BYLINE: By DAVID GULLIVER david.gulliver@heraldtribune.com

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D1

LENGTH: 482 words

DATELINE: SARASOTA


Sarasota Memorial Hospital again ranked among the top hospitals in the country
and outperformed all Florida hospitals in the latest U.S. News and World Report
rankings.

The magazine's analysis placed the hospital among the top 50 in six of 16
specialties, ranging from cancer to orthopedics.

Hospital officials are predictably pleased.

"I couldn't be more delighted," Chief Executive Officer Gwen MacKenzie said.

"People in the region can have the confidence they can get the care here that
they can get at the academic centers."

Those university-based hospitals dominate the list, but community hospitals hold
their own.

For example, in heart surgery, Sarasota Memorial placed 25th -- just below
University of Michigan Hospital and just above Yale-New Haven Hospital.

The magazine's staff have noted Sarasota's success. In a July 8 interview on
CNN, the magazine's health editor, Dr. Bernadine Healy, cited Sarasota as an
example of how high-quality care transfers from universities to community
hospitals.

The national publicity is becoming a summer ritual. This year's edition makes
three straight appearances for the hospital.

It placed in seven categories in 2004 and improved in four the next year.

This year the hospital dropped to six categories, in part because of changes in
the study.

The magazine stopped ranking hospitals for geriatric care, saying primary health
care was more relevant to the field.

That cost Sarasota Memorial a specialty. It ranked 37th in geriatrics in 2005.

This year, the hospital appeared in two categories for the first time. It ranked
44th for treatment of respiratory diseases and 50th for gynecology.

But it dropped out of the rankings for ear, nose and throat, and urology.

It tied for 23rd place in heart care and surgery, ranked 30th for orthopedics,
42nd for digestive disorders and 50th for cancer. Orthopedics is the only field
where the ranking improved from last year.

The magazine said its ratings are based equally on health outcome data,
reputation and care-related areas such as technology and nurse-patient ratios.
The health data is from 2002 through 2004.

MacKenzie said community hospitals tend to suffer because they lack the name
recognition of universities' teaching hospitals.

Those university-based hospitals were Sarasota's closest in-state competition.

Jackson Memorial Hospital at University of Miami had five ranked specialties and
Shands at the University of Florida had four rankings.

Other Florida hospitals on the list include H. Lee Moffit Cancer Center, 11th
place for cancer, and Tampa General Hospital, 46th for orthopedics.

Only 176 of 5,189 hospitals examined -- about 3 percent -- received a ranking in
one or more specialties, the magazine said.

The rankings appear in the magazine's July 17 issue and are available on the
magazine's Web site, www.usnews.com.

Want to see the list?

Go to www.usnews.com, and click on the "Best Hospitals" link.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 2006



CORRECTION: A story in Thursday's (Friday's) business section reported that
Sarasota Memorial Hospital was the only hospital in Florida ranked in six
specialties in U.S. News and World Report's "Best Hospitals" issue. The magazine
said Friday its analysis should have combined two hospitals, Bascom Palmer Eye
Institute and Jackson Memorial Hospital, both in Miami. Together, they also rank
in six specialties.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2006 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.

