                              87 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                        July 21, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

NWH Recognized as a Top Hospital for Gynecology, Geriatrics, Urology,
Orthopedics, Neurosurgery

LENGTH: 377  words


July 21 -- Northern Westchester Hospital issued the following press release:

Northern Westchester Hospital announced today that it has been ranked as one of
the best hospitals in New York for 2014 - 2015 by U.S. News & World Report.  The
annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 25th year, recognize
hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.  In addition to
being recognized as a Best Hospital, Northern Westchester Hospital was
recognized regionally for expertise in Gynecology, Urology, Geriatrics,
Orthopedics, and Neurosurgery.



For 2014-15, U.S. News evaluated hospitals in 16 adult specialties and ranked
the top 50 in most of the specialties.  Just 12 percent of the nearly 5,000
hospitals that were analyzed for Best Hospitals 2014-15 earned a regional
ranking in even one specialty.  NWH was ranked within five different
specialties.

"Providing the highest level of quality, patient-centered care is our priority
at Northern Westchester Hospital.  We have designed and implemented numerous
processes that help to ensure that high quality care is consistently delivered
to our patients.  This recognition by U.S. News & World Report is further
testament to the commitment by our physicians and staff to going the extra mile
to care for our patients," commented Joel Seligman, President and CEO of
Northern Westchester Hospital.

"The data tell the story - a hospital that emerged from our analysis as one of
the best has much to be proud of," says U.S. News Health Rankings Editor Avery
Comarow.  "A Best Hospital has demonstrated its expertise in treating the most
challenging patients."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition or extra risk because of age or multiple health problems. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, adequacy of nurse staffing
levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C.  Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

Source: Northern Westchester Hospital

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

