                              88 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 16, 2013 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

U.S. News & World Report Names UnityPoint Health - St. Luke's Hospital Among the
Best in Iowa

LENGTH: 351  words


New Delhi, July 16 -- UnityPoint Health St. Luke's Hospital is among the
nation's Best Regional Hospitals, according to U.S. News and World Report.  St.
Luke's is ranked second in Iowa and is recognized as one of America's
high-performing hospitals in six specialties in the U.S. News & World Report
2013-14 edition. The annual U.S. News Best Hospitals rankings, now in their 24th
year, recognize hospitals that excel in treating the most challenging patients.

"We're very proud to offer advanced specialty care and leading edge technology
to Eastern Iowans and pleased that U.S. News has determined the high value care
we provide is as good as can be found almost anywhere else in the country," said
Ted Townsend, UnityPoint Health - St. Luke's Hospital president and CEO.

St. Luke's ranked  high-performing in six specialty areas:

* Cardiology & Heart Surgery

* Gastroenterology and GI surgery

* Geriatrics

* Orthopedics

* Pulmonology

* Urology

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties. In most specialties, it
ranks the nation's top 50 hospitals and recognizes other high-performing
hospitals that provide care at nearly the level of their nationally ranked
peers.

"A hospital that emerges from our analysis as one of the best has much to be
proud of," said Avery Comarow, U.S. News Health Rankings Editor. "Only about 15
percent of hospitals are recognized for their high performance as among their
region's best. Just three percent of all hospitals earn a national ranking in
any specialty."

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they may face a particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition, or added risk because of other health problems or age. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, the adequacy of nurse
staffing levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most
specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International; a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. Using the same data, U.S. News produced the state and metro rankings.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

