                              89 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         LaGrange Daily News (Georgia)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                           November 24, 2015 Tuesday

WGH earns top rankings in industry report

BYLINE: LaGrange Daily News, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 400 words


Nov. 24--LAGRANGE -- West Georgia Health announced this week it achieved its
best quality rankings as determined by CareChex, a Quality Rating Service of
Comparion, an independent healthcare research company.

West Georgia Health ranked in the top three of all Georgia hospitals in the 2016
rankings and the top 100 U.S. hospitals in seven categories for medical
excellence. For patient safety, West Georgia Health ranked in the top four of
all Georgia hospitals and the top 100 U.S. hospitals in four different
categories.

For patient safety, the 2016 CareChex rankings also placed West Georgia Health
among the top 10 percent of all U.S., Southern region and Georgia hospitals in
the following clinical categories: cardiac care, major bowel procedures and
pulmonary care.

"This year's CareChex report is our best one ever, and our excellent rankings
are a testament to our employees' teamwork and their dedication to delivering
safe, high quality care to every patient they serve," said West Georgia Health
President and CEO Jerry Fulks. "We don't seek out awards or special recognition
-- that's not part of our culture. So when you get recognized by an independent
third party that has conducted research to identify top ranked medical
excellence and patient safety, it's very, very gratifying."

These rankings are based on independent research conducted by CareChex -- a
division of Comparion, which determines these rankings via its National Quality
Rating Database. This database includes virtually all general, acute,
non-federal U.S. hospitals, and incorporates the most recent three years of
federal fiscal year data and runs approximately two years behind the current
calendar year.

The CareChex rating service uses both public and proprietary information to
compare the quality of hospital and physician care to national, state and local
standards. The program analyzes a variety of process, outcome and patient
satisfaction measures to assign a composite score and rating. Readers may visit
www.carechex.com to learn more about the specifics in how these ratings are
determined and to see how West Georgia Health compares with other hospitals
throughout the state and the nation.

From a press release submitted by West Georgia Health.

___ (c)2015 the LaGrange Daily News (LaGrange, Ga.) Visit the LaGrange Daily
News (LaGrange, Ga.) at www.lagrangenews.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20151124-GV-WGH-earns-top-rankings-in-industry-report-1124-20151124

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GV


                       Copyright 2015 LaGrange Daily News

