                              90 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     September 24, 2012 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Fox Chase Cancer Center Listed Among the Best Cancer Hospitals in the Nation by
U.S. News and World Report

LENGTH: 277  words


New Delhi, Sept. 24 -- Fox Chase Cancer Center has been listed among the top 50
cancer hospitals in the nation in U.S. News & World Report's annual Best
Hospitals rankings, with nephrology designated as a high-performing specialty
area. The Center also ranked 6th among all hospitals in the Philadelphia
metropolitan area.



"We are very pleased to see Fox Chase listed, once again, among the top cancer
hospitals in the nation," says Michael V. Seiden, MD, PhD, president and CEO of
Fox Chase. "Rankings, such as these, serve as a point of pride for everyone at
our Center. We expect that our new affiliation with Temple Health will not only
help us become a stronger cancer center, but will also have a positive impact on
rankings such as these in years to come."

The rankings have been published annually by U.S. News & World Report for the
past 23 years - showcasing more than 720 of the nation's roughly 5,000
hospitals. They are based on a number of variables, including a national survey
that asks physicians to rate institutions on reputation. Among the other factors
considered are types of facilities available, specific services offered, patient
safety measures, Magnet nursing status, and selected outcomes metrics. Many of
the data points are averaged over a rolling three-year period.

The U.S. News & World Report rankings were published in collaboration with RTI
International, a research organization based in Research Triangle Park, N.C.
Highlights of the 2012-13 rankings will appear in the U.S. News Best Hospitals
2013 guidebook, to go on sale in August. The complete rankings and methodology
are available at http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2012 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

