                              91 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             August 2, 2016 Tuesday

UK HealthCare is No. 1 in Kentucky in latest U.S. News Best Hospitals Rankings

BYLINE: The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.

SECTION: LIFESTYLE

LENGTH: 698 words


Aug. 02--LEXINGTON -- UK HealthCare's University of Kentucky Albert B. Chandler
Hospital is No. 1 in Kentucky in the U.S. News and World Report's Best Hospitals
Rankings released today. It also is the only hospital in the state rated as High
Performing in cancer. The complete rankings for 2016-17 are now available at
http://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals.

In addition to being named as top hospital in Kentucky, UK HealthCare is
nationally ranked No. 45 in Geriatrics and "High Performing" in six specialty
areas including: Cancer, Diabetes & Endocrinology, Nephrology, Neurology and
Neurosurgery, Orthopedics and Pulmonology.

UK HealthCare also ranked as high performing -- the highest rating -- in eight
out of nine types of Common Adult Procedures and Conditions including: Heart
Bypass Surgery, Heart Failure, Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm, Colon Cancer Surgery,
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), Hip Replacement, Knee Replacement
and Lung Cancer.

"This acknowledges the exemplary work of our health care team in providing the
highest quality patient care in the Commonwealth," said Dr. Michael Karpf, UK
executive vice president for health affairs. "We are committed to being one of
the premier academic medical centers in the country and dedicated in serving
those who need complex medical care without ever having to travel far from their
home."

To be recognized as a Best Hospital this year, a hospital had to have been
categorized in the American Hospital Association annual survey database as a
general medical-surgical hospital and had to earn either at least one national
ranking in the 12 data-driven specialties or at least four ratings of "high
performing" across the 12 specialty rankings and nine rated procedures and
conditions.

"This honor belongs to our physicians, nurses and staff," said Dr. Phillip K.
Chang, UK HealthCare chief medical officer. "Every day and every night, they go
above and beyond to make sure our patients get the best possible care."

The U.S. News Best Hospitals analysis includes multiple clinical specialties,
procedures and conditions. Scores are based on a variety of patient outcome and
care-related factors, such as patient safety and nurse staffing.

In February 2016, UK HealthCare achieved Magnet Status -- the highest
institutional honor awarded for nursing excellence from the American Nurses
Credentialing Center's (ANCC) Magnet Recognition Program. This designation
factors into the U.S. News Rankings and impacted this year's score.

"Our entire interprofessional team is proud of our Magnet designation and its
impact and significance for UK HealthCare and the patients we serve," said
Colleen Swartz, UK HealthCare chief nursing executive. "The team's work has been
exemplified in the production of superb clinical outcomes as well as excellence
in patient and family centered care and are well deserving of this recognition
based on their hard work, commitment and scientific approach to care across the
continuum."

UK HealthCare has seen the number of patients who are 75 or older nearly double
in the past 10 years. This volume and the level of care for these patients
attributed to the national ranking in geriatrics. Additionally, the University
of Kentucky and UK HealthCare are home to the only National Institute on Aging
(NIA) funded Alzheimer's disease center in Kentucky with the prestigious UK
Sanders-Brown Center on Aging, and Markey Cancer Center is the only National
Cancer Institute-designated center in the Commonwealth.

"Our goal is to provide the safest and highest quality patient care to those who
come to us from every county in Kentucky, as well as from many other states, by
providing them the expertise of integrated, multidisciplinary teams working to
solve the most complex health issues," said Bo Cofield, UK HealthCare vice
president and chief clinical operations officer. "I congratulate our entire UK
HealthCare team on this tremendous accomplishment and commend their work and
dedication to patient care in the Commonwealth."

___ (c)2016 The Floyd County Times (Prestonsburg, Ky.) Visit The Floyd County
Times (Prestonsburg, Ky.) at www.floydcountytimes.com Distributed by Tribune
Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160802-QO-UK-HealthCare-is-No-1-in-Kentucky-in-latest-U-S-News-Best-
Hospitals-Rankings-0802-20160802

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: QO


            Copyright 2016 The Floyd County Times, Prestonburg, Ky.

