                              93 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                       July 21, 2015 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Moffitt Cancer Center is Top-Ranked Cancer Hospital in Florida Based on US News,
World Report

LENGTH: 397  words


July 21 -- Moffitt Cancer Center is the top-ranked cancer hospital in Florida
based on the U.S. News & World Report Best Hospitals for Cancer Care rankings
released today. Moffitt is No. 18 overall in cancer. The national Best Hospitals
rankings, now in their 26th year, recognize hospitals that excel in treating the
most challenging patients - those whose illnesses pose unusual challenges due to
underlying conditions, procedure difficulty or other medical issues. Moffitt,
the only National Cancer Institute-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center based
in Florida, has been recognized by U.S. News since 1999.

"Moffitt provides the highest quality of care to its patients and has outcomes
that are among the best in the country. Our talented clinical and research staff
is dedicated to advancing cancer care through personalized medicine and
cutting-edge translational research," said Alan F. List, M.D., president and CEO
of Moffitt. "Moffitt is honored to be acknowledged by U.S. News as one of the
top cancer hospitals in the nation for the 17th year in a row."

U.S. News evaluates hospitals in 16 adult specialties and ranked the top 50 in
most of the specialties. Less than 3 percent of the nearly 5,000 hospitals that
were analyzed for Best Hospitals 2015-16 were nationally ranked in even one
specialty.

"A Best Hospital has demonstrated expertise in treating the most challenging
patients," said Ben Harder, chief of health analysis at U.S. News. "A hospital
that emerged from our analysis as one of the best has much to be proud of.

U.S. News publishes Best Hospitals to help guide patients who need a high level
of care because they face particularly difficult surgery, a challenging
condition or extra risk because of age or multiple health problems. Objective
measures such as patient survival and safety data, adequacy of nurse staffing
levels and other data largely determined the rankings in most specialties.

The specialty rankings and data were produced for U.S. News by RTI
International, a leading research organization based in Research Triangle Park,
N.C. U.S. News used the same data, as well as the new Best Hospitals for Common
Care ratings published in May, to produce the state and metro rankings.

A complete list of rankings is available online and will appear in the U.S. News
"Best Hospitals 2016" guidebook, available in August.

Source: Moffitt Cancer Center

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2015 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved

