                              95 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                            August 3, 2016 Wednesday

MAYO, SHANDS ON TOP;
U.S. News & World Report: Mayo, Gainesville facility tie for state's best

BYLINE: Charlie Patton

SECTION: Pg. A-1

LENGTH: 744 words


The Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville is ranked the top hospital in metro Jacksonville
and is tied for first among Florida hospitals in U.S. News & World Report's
annual evaluation of hospitals, released online Tuesday.

It was also named among the top hospitals nationally in eight specialities: 29th
in cancer; 29th in ear, nose & throat; 10th in gastroenterology; 29th in
geriatrics; 35th in gynecology; 31st in neurology & neurosurgery; 30th in
orthopedics; and 49th in pulmonology.

Three other specialities, nephrology, urology and cardiology & heart surgery,
were designated high performing. Mayo also was named high performing in seven
procedures/conditions.

UF Health Shands Hospital in Gainesville was also ranked first among Florida
hospitals by U.S. News & World Report. Like Mayo, it was nationally ranked in
eight specialties and rated high performing in three specialties. It was rated
high performing in seven procedures/conditions.

Baptist Medical Center Jacksonville did well in the rankings. The hospital
ranked as the No. 2 hospital in the metro Jacksonville area and the No. 4
hospital in the state. It was ranked 50th in the country in gynecology and was
named high performing in four specialties: diabetes & endocrinology,
gastroenterology, nephrology and neurology & neurosurgery. Baptist was rated
high performing in eight procedures/conditions.

Included in Baptist's ranking was Baptist Medical Center South, which shares a
license with Baptist Jacksonville, and Wolfson Children's Hospital, which shares
Baptist Jacksonville's downtown campus. Wolfson was nationally ranked 46th in
pediatric gastroenterology and 48th in pediatric neurology & neurosurgery.

UF Health Jacksonville was named the No. 3 hospital in Jacksonville and 18th in
the state. It was rated high performing in two specialties, urology and
nephrology. It was also rated high performing in two procedures/conditions.

Since only hospitals that are nationally ranked or designated high performing in
a specialty are given a state ranking, no other area hospital was ranked by U.S.
New & World Report.

Area hospitals that received high performing ratings on procedures/conditions
included Baptist Medical Center Beaches (2), Baptist Medical Center Nassau (1),
Flagler Hospital (3), Memorial Hospital (2), Orange Park Medical Center (2), St.
Vincent's Medical Center Southside (2) and St. Vincent's Medical Center
Riverside (2).

A year ago, Mayo in Jacksonville was named the No. 4 hospital in Florida and was
nationally ranked in four specialties: 40th in gastroenterology, 41st in
geriatrics, 46th in neurology and neurosurgery and 48th in cancer. Six
specialties, four of which are now nationally ranked, were designated high
performing. Cardiology & heart surgery is new to the high performing list this
year.

'PEOPLE, SPACE AND TECHNOLOGY'

Gianrico Farrugia, who became CEO of the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville in January
2015, called the rankings "remarkably gratifying news for us."

He said Mayo has been investing heavily in "people, space and technology" as it
continues to establish itself as a destination regional hospital. In March
Farrugia announced that Mayo in Jacksonville would begin $100 million in major
construction projects this year.

That includes a 150,000-square-foot "destination" building that will have four
stories with the potential to add 11 more stories. That building will
significantly increase the space available to the hematology & oncology and to
the neurology & neurosurgery departments.

The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, which has
partnered with Baptist Health to create the Baptist MD Anderson Cancer Center in
Jacksonville, was again ranked the top hospital for cancer treatment. The Mayo
Clinic in Rochester, Minn., was ranked the No. 1 hospital in the country.

This is the 27th year that U.S. News & World Report has compiled the rankings,
which encompass 16 medical specialties. U.S. News analyzes data for 5,000
medical centers to determine rankings.

Charlie Patton: (904) 359-4413

RANKING METRO JACKSONVILLE

According to U.S. News & World Report, the top Jacksonville hospitals are:

1. Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville

2. Baptist Medical Center Jacksonville

3. UF Health Jacksonville

No Florida hospitals made U.S. News & World Report's Honor Roll of the top 20
hospitals in the United States, a list that was led by the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester, Minn.

To see the rankings or find other facilities, go to health.usnews.com/best-
hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo
Mayo Clinic U.S. News & World Report has named the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville
Florida's best hospital in its latest report, released Tuesday. Gianrico
Farrugia, CEO of the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, called the new rankings
"remarkably gratifying news." Mayo Clinic Mayo in Jacksonville was ranked in the
top 50 nationally in eight areas of practiced and designated high performing in
three others. Mug: Farrugia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The Florida Times-Union

