                               3 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                               May 1, 2011 Sunday

Hospital crisis lingers on

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 550  words


KATHMANDU/ CHITWAN: While a team of top notch doctors and hospital management
have been trying to seek government's constructive political intervention,
today's meeting of top leaders of the three political parties failed to take any
decision regarding the resumption of services at BP Koirala Memorial Cancer
Hospital in Chitwan.

Although the top leaders met today to reach a conclusion regarding the row over
the appointment of executive director, they failed to show their concern about
the issue.

Samir Dahal, personal secretary of Pushpa Kamal Dahal, said the three-party
meeting focused on the issues of Constitutional Committee rather than the cancer
hospital crisis. He added the three parties are scheduled to meet on Monday to
resolve the cancer hospital crisis.

Earlier on Saturday, Pushpa Kamal Dahal had assured to solve the hospital row
through the three-party meeting today.

All medical services and departments of the country's largest cancer hospital
have remained shut since April 28, after technicians of radio-diagnosis,
radiotherapy, chemotherapy, pathology and physiotherapy protested against the
politicisation at the hospital.

The hospital has been facing disturbances for the last two months following the
appointment of Dr Laxmi Narayan Singh as the executive director after the
retirement of Dr Bhaktaman Shrestha. Employees union affiliated to Maoists had
locked the administration department at the hospital and refused to accept the
new executive director, stating that he was appointed by the board of directors.

Dr Rameshwor Man Shrestha, newly elected chairperson of the hospital, said the
political leaders had assured to call them for a meeting after the political
parties met district level political leaders. He said they were waiting for the
call from the leaders.

He has demanded an end to the present deadlock and a favourable work
environment.

Dr Anjani Kumar Jha, oncologist at the hospital, has asked the concerned bodies
to adopt legal procedures rather than closing the hospital.

The Civil Society Chitwan has expressed concern as the patients have been
deprived of health facilities. Deputy Chairman of Civil Society Chitwan,
Narayansingh Kunwar, claimed that the situation took nasty turn due to the short
sightedness of political parties, adding, ''I urge the political parties to be
serious as the issue of health is a serious one.''

Shyam Lamichhane, District Deputy Chairman, Cancer Service Society, said the
closure of the hospital has hit the patients hard, adding that the top brass of
the three political parties should solve the problem.

Premraj Rimal, former member of Cancer Hospital Operating Committee, said the
political parties should forge consensus in this regard. ''The hospital cannot
provide the expected services if the parties fail to forge political consensus,"
said Rimal.

A team headed by Dr Rameshworman Shrestha, chairman of hospital development
committee, is in Kathmandu to apprise the stakeholders of the situation in the
hospital. Meanwhile, the executive director Dr Laxmi Narayan Singh and former
executive director Dr Bhaktaman Shrestha have been claiming to be the authorised
executive director of the hospital. There are 36 cancer specialists, 19 medical
officers and 13 Chinese doctors, and over 100 technicians at the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2011 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


