                               5 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 24, 1978, Tuesday, Final Edition

Major Hospitals to Form Political Action Group

BYLINE: By Victor Cohn, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: First Section; A9

LENGTH: 689 words


The nation's 6,400 major hospitals have decided to add financial clout to their
already effective lobbying operation by forming a political action committee to
funnel campaign contributions to friendly members of Congress.

The American Hospital Association's new move will put the typical community
hospital - nonprofit in aim, often charitably and religiously oriented - into
the same kind of big-dollar politics as business and labor.

The decision to form a political action committee comes in a year when American
hospitals have successfully blocked an administration effort to put a lid on
rising hospital costs.

A key hospital aim is to keep resisting what hospital officials expect to be a
continuing federal battle to limit their prices and multi-billion-dollar
revenues.

Hospital association officials plan similar efforts against what they consider
the "wrong" kind of national health insurance against any stricter regulation of
hospitals under any health insurance plans and against federal efforts to put
together controls on hospital building, expansion and equipment.

The AHA goal is to raise $100,000 a year initially and gradually work up to
"several hundred thousand dollars" yearly, AHA President John Alexander McMahon
said.

The sum might then approach the war chest of the giant of medical political
action groups, the American Medical Association's AMPAC - American Medical
Political Action Committee.  So far this year it has raised $1,036,000, of which
$925,000 already has been given to congressional candidates.

The AHA money, like the AMA's, would go to incumbents or challengers "on a
bipartisan basis" in $1,000 to $10,000 chunks, starting in 1980, McMahon said.
The $10,000 gifts would only become possible "when we can afford that kind of
maximum," he said.  Election law forbids contributions larger than $5,000 in an
election, but the primary and general elections are considered separate.

In alliance with the AMA and the Federation of American Hospitals - the smaller
association of hospitals owned by investors - the AHA in recent months has
mounted an intense campaign against a tight national limit on hospital revenues.

The AHA twice summoned hospital officials from across the country to visit their
congressmen to urge suport of voluntary cost controls by the hospitals.

In a Mailgram this week, the AHA again urged all hospital administrators,
trustees and doctors to contact their senators immediately to "demonstrate all
out opposition" to a last-ditch attempt to force a Senate vote on hospital cost
control.

Actually, that Senate effort - sponsored by Sen. Gaylord Nelson (D-Wis.) and
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.) - would merely enact stand-by controls if the
hospitals own efforts fail, and the measure is given only a thin chance.

Nonetheless, McMahon said, "We still have a lot of legislative education to do.
We have had too many 21-20 votes" on cost control in the House Commerce
Committee.

Twelve state hospital associations already have their own state political action
groups to support candidates for state legislatures and other offices.  Twelve
more reportedly are getting ready to start their own "PACs."

"I've been urging for five years that the AHA get into a political hardlobbying
posture," said Ray Hurst, president of the Texas Hospital Association, long a
politically oriented group.  "I think what we're seeing is a delayed realisation
by hospital people who always considered themselves a little above politics.

"Now they see that we've yet to get involved in the political areas because the
politicians are after us.  They want to control us.  Texans still believe in
free enterprise, motherhood and the flag and "leave us alone."

The decision to create the new PAC was announced to AHA members at the group's
mid-year meeting in Ameheim, Calif, this month.  Nonprofit hospitals make up
most of the AHA's membership.  Of the 7,000 U.S. hospitals, the AHA represents
6,400 in effect all but some of the smallest.

Slightly more than 1,000 hospitals, which are neither non profit nor
governmental, are investor-owned and profit-seeking.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1978 The Washington Post


