                               8 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                  September 21, 1988, Wednesday, City Edition

Hospital organizes political committee

BYLINE: COLLINS CONNER

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 857 words

DATELINE: SPRING HILL



SPRING HILL - HCA/Oak Hill Hospital has joined the political arena    by forming
an organization that will endorse election candidates and    contribute to local
campaigns.

     The organization, called "The Good Government Group," will help    hospital
employees stay abreast of local political issues, said Vince    Vanni, Oak
Hill's community relations director. "A variety of things    have shown there is
a need for employees in our hospital to let local    politicians know we are a
force to be respected," Vanni said Tuesday.

     The group also is part of a state political action committee (PAC)    that
lobbies for Oak Hill's parent company, Hospital Corp. of America.

     "Usually, the political action committee is no more than a    mechanism for
contributing dollars," said Bill Jones, executive    director of Common Cause,
an organization that scrutinizes political    activities and the forces that
affect those activities.

     "Most of the time, the PACs generally are for their own political
advancement. It's more typical of the group to engage in just their own
political economic interest."

     Vanni says the local group was formed to "make our employees and
volunteers become more knowledgeable (and) to be a collective voice"    on local
political issues.

     And the first local issue is November's election.

     According to Vanni, the group's steering committee will endorse    local
political candidates whose platforms "are in the better interest    of
employees."

     All Hernando candidates have been invited to a coffee at the    hospital
Thursday. "We're going to allow our employees to take time    (from their
duties) to pop in and ask a few questions" of the    candidates, Vanni said.

     "The (PAC) steering committee is going to be there. It will be    very
informal, no mob scene or anything like that.

     "Then the steering committee will meet. They'll wait until after    the
runoff (election in October) and then make a decision" on which    candidates to
endorse for November's general election.

     Vanni said Oak Hill was the "only (HCA) hospital that had not    belonged"
to the parent company political action committee. "We've    been hemming and
hawing over this for the last couple of years," Vanni    said of forming the
committee. "It's a standard thing all HCA    hospitals have done."

     Local members pay dues of "about 50 cents a week," Vanni said.

 Half that amount goes to the state HCA political action committee..

     Vanni said the local group will become involved in all political    issues,
not just health-related issues.

     That's unusual, according to Carol Gormley, executive director of    the
North Central Florida Health Planning Commission. Hospital PACs    normally
become involved in health-care issues, she said. It would be    difficult for
such PACs to focus on issues other than health issues,    she said.

     "I've seen (hospital political action groups) operate in a way    that
tends to raise the consciousness of public officials about    health," she said.


     "If the group is calling attention of elected officials to those    issues
with a sort of health focus, that can be effective. If their    only interest is
to represent an employee viewpoint on varying    political issues, I'm not sure
how that would end up."

     School superintendent candidates Dan McIntyre and Nick Morana said
Tuesday they are not uncomfortable meeting with Oak Hill PAC members.

 Both men serve on the Lykes Memorial Hospital board of directors.

     Morana said he was surprised Oak Hill had formed a PAC. "That's    unusual
for a (local) hospital to do that," Morana said. "It's    certainly new to
Hernando County."

     But Morana wasn't surprised that Hospital Corp. of America has a    PAC.
"There are pressures that HCA can bring to bear on politicians,    especially
when certificates of need are being requested. So I suppose    this (the
statewide PAC) becomes advantageous" to a large corporation,    he said.

     "HCA has a very good track record. If they have this kind of
organization, they have it because it has been successful."

     McIntyre also expressed surprise at the formation of a local PAC.    "In my
experience, this is new," he said.

     But McIntyre said he had "no problem with that at all."

     "I like to see people get involved politically. I think the more    people
who inform themselves, the better chance we have for better    decisions."

     Steve Wenzel, chief executive officer of Lykes Health Systems, said    it
is not unusual for national health care providers to have political    action
committees.

     Lykes Memorial Hospital has no such committee and no plans to form    one,
he said.



LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES

                            Times Publishing Company


