                               9 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                          November 24, 2010 Wednesday

Pakistan: Public hospitals crippled by political interference

LENGTH: 1133  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Nov. 24 -- Thousands of citizens head to hospitals daily in the hope
that their disease will be treated, but run into a larger malaise: political
interference in the discharge of medical duty.

Doctors argue that they are helpless before the wrath of activists from
different political parties, who not only carry weapons inside hospitals, but
more importantly, have set up their wards inside hospital premises.

National Institute of Child Health (NICH) Director Dr Jamal Raza shook his head
in exasperation as he described how the Out Patients Department (OPD) was
recently forcibly shut down by activists of a political party.

"Because of their nuisance value, I had transferred some paramedical staff to
other departments. As soon as their party unit was informed of the matter, they
created a huge ruckus in the OPD, verbally abused the patients and the staff,
and the ward was shut. These people can stoop to anything to show us who is in
control," Raza said.

Due to the ruckus and the subsequent closure of the OPD, many including toddlers
and their parents were forced out of the premises. But even Raza, who has worked
at the NICH in an administrative capacity for about 20 years now, was powerless
to stop the anarchy in a ward that receives around 100 patients on a daily
basis.

On his part, Raza told media that the transfers were necessary since work in
various wards was being hampered. "Many of these people are here for their
ulterior motives and have the authority to disrupt things within minutes. It is
like handling a bunch of naughty kids at schools," he said, adding that he still
feels "clueless" when it comes to controlling the mushroom growth of political
parties' offices in the hospital's vicinity.

Visitors to the NICH are usually greeted with a mosaic of pictures depicting the
chief of a political party shaking hands with someone, along with various forms
of graffiti and wall chalking. On a wall high above the children's ward, there
is a slogan of a political party promising food and shelter to the people. This
slogan is dwarfed by another party's slogan about being faithful to the party
'till death'.

While hospitals are not a place to display photos of political leaders, Raza
patiently explained that removing pictures of political leaders becomes a major
issue. "Being a public hospital makes it a freeway for anyone. There are offices
of political parties in our premises and we dare not say anything when they
create a ruckus."

Over at the Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK), Senior Medical Officer Dr Asif told
media that every evening at the emergency ward is an "entertaining" one, with
doctors and nurses having stopped reacting to the constant interference in their
work. "We take it all as part of the day's work," he said.

A few months ago, Asif was the only medical officer who took a stand against a
member of a political party who was furious that his "request" was not
entertained properly. "After verbally abusing me, he started showing me his
party's card. I snatched the card away from him, and asked him to do what he
wants," he quietly said. Though the matter was temporarily settled, he said, the
madness lingered for a few days.

Asif narrated that recently, a number of goons entered the emergency ward with a
patient who had sustained a head wound. Rather than letting the doctors do their
work, the armed men held up a gun against a doctor's head and forced him to
stitch the wound immediately.

"The poor doctor stitched the wound incorrectly, and the armed men hurled abuses
at him. The doctor was shaking from head to toe, fearing for his life. But now
we have become immune to such incidents, and we don't feel normal unless there
is a fight in the emergency ward," Asif added.

Asif alleged that the hospital administration is "complacent" and does not
accord much importance to such serious matters. "There have been a number of
times that I have personally filed a complaint against these parties, but to no
avail at all. These people have offices in our hospital, and to live with them
we have to compromise on a lot of things, even our integrity at times," he said.

The medical superintendent of another major public hospital, who requested
anonymity, said that after two years of professional work, he understood that he
has "no powers" to control political activists. When asked about how he manages
in case there is a brawl or a problem initiated by these people, he said that it
is near impossible to make them understand the issues, so he calls the "bigwigs"
to sort the issue out.

"At Civil Hospital, the newly appointed doctors have to meet with workers of the
Pakistan People's Party (PPP) or the Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) - just to be
in their good books," said Dr Samreena Hashmi. "We don't like it at all, but
there is no way around it."

The Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH), one of the biggest public hospitals is also a
den for political workers asserting their authority forcefully. One of the rooms
in the hospital has a huge flag of the MQM, while another room serves as the
party's community welfare (or Zakat) office. People in the hospital walk past
the room pretending not to notice it, and those who do, keep silent.

Meanwhile, the ASH additional medical superintendent is comparatively happy with
his surrounding and refuses to acknowledge the fact that interference of
political workers can be disturbing at all.

A sweeper at the CHK joined a political party, and susequently, his entire
demeanour changed, narrated renowned chest disease specialist Dr Aziz Khan Tank.
Not only did the sweeper stop his routine work, he started asking for a salary
raise and more perks. The administration initially refused to agree, but had to
give in later on.

The private hospitals are exempted from it because they have well defined laws
and have maintained a territory. Hashmi said that it is just a matter of taking
heads of different political parties on board and to maintain an "ethical
boundary."

Raza believes this is the only solution too. "There are many laws but there is
an issue of implementing them at every level. Hospitals, as a rule, should not
have offices of a political party at all, and nor should doctors maintain
political affiliations. If a need is felt, than they can have trade unions
elections every year and let the paramedics elect people on merit, rather than
selecting them on political basis."

With the stories of weapons being transported in ambulances during "political
gang war" circulates, there is an urgent need for the concerned authorities to
take notice of this grave reality and take firm actio Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


