                              106 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             March 3, 1998, Tuesday

THE WAY TO POLITICAL UNION

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1882 words


Sir, - Chris Gray in "Rogues with clear view of Europe" (Post, Feb 24) is right
to say that the Eurosceptic right, who follow in Enoch Powell's footsteps, are
ridiculed.

They are ridiculed by the mainstream political community of Britain because
their ideas on Europe are flawed to the extreme. Chris Gray is also right to say
that these Eurosceptics, "tend to look at the theory of politics rather than the
practicalities."

The practicalities of EMU, for example, do not lead to political union. The
European Central Bank (ECB) is independent of political authority and the
members of the European System of Central Banks (the Euro zone member states
national central banks), who will consult with the ECB, are also independent of
political interference from their national governments.

Eurosceptics often use the phrase Political Union. Like the phrase, Federal
Europe, they believe that if people are told something is bad without it being
explained, people will come to fear it. They are probably right and Eurosceptics
will never explainwhat they mean by political union.

The European Single Currency will not lead to political union. But political
union, when it does eventually come during the 21st century, I believe, will
change the European Union into a truly democratic institution.

ROBERT COPPINGER

European Movement,

Regional Organiser,

West Midlands.

Public unease over

hospital plans

Sir, - As Chairman of South Birmingham Community Health Council, I write to
comment on the letter signed by fourteen hospital consultants from the
University Hospital Birmingham NHS Trust, and to take strong exception to the
inaccurate remarks of your medical correspondent (Post, Feb 20).

In November, the CHC issued a consultation leaflet asking the public to compare
the Trust's plans for a new hospital with an alternative plan that would involve
gradual development on the existing two hospital sites.

The leaflet was welalanced and presented the advantages and disadvantages of
each option clearly and without prejudice.

Even so, some members of the public said that the leaflet was biased - in favour
of the Trust!

Our consultation has met with a remarkable response. We cannot say how many
leaflets were circulated but a total of 3,373 people responded, providing their
own stamps and envelopes.

Our analysis shows that the overwhelming rejection of the Trust's plans for a
new hospital highlights genuine public concerns.

These should be understood and respected and not dismissed out of hand.

South Birmingham CHC is not dominated by any particular group or political
party. We currently have about 24 members, all unpaid volunteers drawn from all
walks of life. Half of the members are appointed by the local authority to
represent a balance of political interests.

One third of the members are elected by voluntary groups and the rest by the NHS
Regional Office.

We are there to represent the interests of the public in the NHS. We hold
monthly meetings in public that are interesting, informed and well attended. It
is a matter for regret that your reporter is never there.

The CHC notes and understands the consultants' wish for a new, purpose-built
hospital to replace the Queen Elizabeth and Selly Oak Hospitals. However, in
deciding on a new hospital, the Trust has left important issues unaddressed.

For example, in just over three years, the Trust has spent more than pounds 60
million on its capital stock. This includes expenditure on new equipment, up
-grading of wards and on new facilities such as the Accident and Emergency
department, the Neurosciences block and the Oncology unit.

When, in July 1994, the Health Authority chairman, Mr Bryan Stoten, announced
the huge capital programme, he said it was "designed to create modern centres of
excellence to rival advanced acute hospitals anywhere in the world."

The public clearly took his words at face value.

Our survey shows overwhelming concern that a new hospital would waste much of
this capital investment.

A second example is affordability. The Trust is presently struggling to meet the
6 per cent legal rate of return on its capital base of pounds 100 million.

According to the Trust, a new publicly built hospital would be worth twice as
much - around pounds 200 million and capital charges would be expected to
double.

In fact, a new hospital would cost much more than the Trust's estimate because
it would have to be built under the Private Finance Initiative. Costs for rent
and running costs would soar.

The consultants express anxiety that if the PFI proposal is unsuccessful the
money will go elsewhere.

However, it is not at all clear how the Trust could afford such a new hospital.

Hospital budgets are set to plummet. The annual PFI costs would have to be found
at the expense of the budgets for all the other hospitals in Birmingham.

Have the consultants no concern for the likely impact on services elsewhere? Do
they understand that the Trust would not own the new hospital and that all but
the clinical staff would cease to be NHS employees?

Have they no concern over proposed bed cuts and the future quality of patient
care?

We would welcome the opportunity for an exchange of views.

Finally, attempts to smear the CHC as ideological or politically driven may be
designed to weaken our ability to be an effective watchdog but will not remove
the underlying sense of public unease.

URSULA PEARCE

Chair,

South Birmingham CHC.

What a legacy to

leave our children

Sir, - "We want a new hospital, why can't we have a new hospital, other people
have a new hospital, it isn't fair!"

This style is acceptable from a toddler demanding a Teletubbie, but from the
Board of Birmingham University Hospital Trust, and from consultants employed by
the Board, it shows a lack of respect for their responsibility to provide health
care for nearly half the population of the City, including some of the most
deprived people in England.

I was present, as a member of the public, at last Wednesday's meeting of South
Birmingham Community Health Council, and was impressed by the breadth of
representation among over 20 members.

I could tell that the members took very seriously their duty to represent the
patients' point of view, especially the less advantaged.

Surely they did so as conscientiously when Professor Cox was a member?

Some months ago I was a member of a school Governing Body which had to consider
the offer of a Private Finance Initiative for the school, and rejected it.

The long delays before PFI becomes bricks and mortar (at least five years), and
the length of time the contractors' consortium has ownership of the buildings
(60 years), forced a forward looking body to find the proposals unacceptable.

In five years' time, after the next General Election, school and hospital
borrowing may well be no longer part of the Public Sector Borrowing Requirement,
following the example of the other members of the European Union.

A public body can borrow at a lower rate of interest than a private consortium,
and the higher interest payments on a loan to build a hospital can only be taken
from the money for patient care, not just in 2003, but every year until 2063.

As Keynes put it "In the long run we are all dead", but what a legacy to leave
our children and grandchildren.

The Health Authority proposals are wide ranging and largely uncosted, and
included an assumption that Birmingham University Hospital Trust would build a
new hospital on a waste tip containing cadmium, phosphorus, mercury and who
knows what else, with methane escaping from another part of the site.

I found the CHC's response an excellent critique and recommend it to you and all
your readers.

V M MIDDLETON,

Weoley Castle,

Birmingham.

Arranging

the truth

Sir, - Professional historians discussing the media in war time on BBC Radio 4
(Feb 21) agreed that newspapers, radio, and television, are depressingly
inadequate for historical documentation.

A reason given was their belief that there are no longer any really independent
specialist foreign and defence correspondents at their disposal.

Consequently the media simply follows the Government line in international
disputes.

An example the historians gave was the present demonisation of Saddam Hussain.
They pointed out that his name is scarcely mentioned unaccompanied by the
insertion of chemical weapons, torture, etc. All of this is the psychological
preparation of our people for war, to justify our planned air attacks on the
Iraqi people.

It follows, of course, that there are facts which the press will not print in
order to satisfy Government interests. For example, the historians revealed that
in the last Gulf war, in our attacks on Iraq, 200,000 were slaughtered at our
hands. They also reported that so far 350,000 children have died of hunger and
medical shortages from our seven years of sanctions.

These are just two details strangely absent from our press columns.

The Second World War was just another example of the media's arrangements of the
truth to satisfy our Government.

My question is, where does the press's priority lie: with the truth as it can be
established or with nationalism's political expediency?

There should be nothing higher than the integrity of the written word, I feel.
Anything less is, surely, a betrayal of the people. And am I not right in
thinking that people die for these Government-sponsored arrangements of the
"truth"?

HAROLD NASH

Wythall,

Birmingham.

Cruel alternatives

to fox hunting

Sir, - If Mr Leighton Smith (Post, Feb 21) had read my letter carefully he would
have noticed that I have never condoned fox hunting.

Meanwhile Mr Michael Foster's Bill does not in any way protect the fox and is of
course both political and socially motivated, and is only designated to stop fox
hunting but has no mention for the protection of the fox. At least the fox when
hunted, however long the chase, does have a sporting chance which is not the
case with either shooting or gassing, which is even worse.

Perhaps Leighton Smith should ask the 90 odd deer that have already been shot on
the Quantocks which option they would have preferred.

If it had not been for the meddling of the National Trust and the Forestry
Commission under pressure from so-called animal welfare groups and politicians
most of these noble beasts would have still been alive today.

In the circumstances, especially if the digging out of foxes when gone to earth
was totally banned, which certainly is not fair play, then fox hunting is
probably the most efficient and humane method of controlling foxes, at least
they have a chance.

Leighton Smith also mentions, it should be a job, not a sport - it is already
the case with thousands of people associated with the hunt.

In a real caring society we should be giving some thought to these people, and
we have not heard of any consideration or thought of the future of the hounds.

Fox hunting could well be cruel the alternatives for the fox shooting and
gassing could hardly be called an improvement.

KEN UNWIN

Kings Heath,

Birmingham.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


