                              102 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           February 27, 2003 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

Coalition prescription: three new country hospitals;
Election 03

BYLINE: Nick O'Malley

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 327 words


A Coalition government would spend $199 million replacing three hospitals in
Bathurst and Orange, the National Party leader, George Souris, said yesterday.

New Bathurst and Orange Base hospitals would be built within four years, as
would a replacement for Orange's Bloomfield psychiatric hospital.

"They are totally out of date," Mr Souris said.

"They were built with a 20 or 30-year life span in mind and they have been
around more than double that."

He said that the new hospitals would be incorporated into doctor training
programs to attract more doctors into rural and regional NSW.

The hospitals appeared on a document prepared by the NSW Government last year
that listed state infrastructure to be built within the next 10 years. But so
far, the funding had not been approved.

A spokesman for the Health Minister, Craig Knowles, said the Government has
already spent $500,000 on a study and community consultation to select sites for
the hospitals and would soon be announcing details of costings and locations.

On the campaign trail in Maitland and on the Central Coast yesterday, the
Opposition Leader, John Brogden, announced a plan to transfer 100 jobs from the
National Parks and Wildlife Service head office to Maitland.

"There is absolutely no reason why NSW government departments and agencies have
to be headquartered in Sydney, particularly with modern communications systems
such as teleconferencing, email and fax," he said.

He said the strategy was part of a wider Coalition plan to distribute government
jobs across the whole of the state that would be unveiled later in the campaign.

Mr Brogden also announced a scheme to produce photo identification similar to
the RTA Proof of Age Card used by young people, for older people who no longer
have drivers' licences.

He outlined a scheme to extend the annual Premier's Seniors Concert, held during
Seniors Week, to a series of 10 concerts to be held around the state each year,
at a total cost of $1 million.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLUS: Promises ... Chris Hartcher, left, with Mr Brogden in Terrigal
at Senior Citizens Centre. Photo: Ryan Osland

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2003 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


