                              107 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Mandurah Mail

                                 April 17, 2013

BYLINE: Charli Newton

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 354  words


THE STATE Government inquiry into Peel Health Campus has found no evidence of
fraud or corruption.

The report was released today by inquirer Professor Bryant Stokes after
allegations of fraud were made by hospital ex-executive and whistleblower Ashton
Foley.

It refuted Ms Foley's claim that doctors at the hospital were admitting patients
in order to receive incentive payments.

Professor Stokes wrote the incentive payments only presented 'a conflict of
interest'.

'Many cases of inappropriate admissions were detected ['] but not necessarily
clinically inappropriate,' the report stated.

Professor Stokes named eight areas of mismanagement but stated the hospital's
private operator, Health Solutions WA had fulfilled its contract with the State
Government 'satisfactorily'.

Fierce political debate that has surrounded the takeover of the hospital by
Ramsay Health Care announced last week and Professor Stokes warned that
'competitive or antagonistic rivalry' was not conducive to quality patient care.

He also called for an urgent assessment of the hospital's asset maintenance
register and contractual rules 'to ensure compliance in all aspects of the
management of public patients'.

Shadow Health Minister Roger Cook has already criticised the report for being
predictable and has used the hospital as an example 'of what can go wrong'.

'The report looked at the issues of hospital governance, management, and
staffing issues,' he said.

'However, it did not look at the allegations of political interference, big
political donations to the Liberal Party, and whether Health Solutions behaved
appropriately as a supplier to the WA Government.

'The report supported the Parliamentary committee's concerns about the asset
investment and maintenance processes.

'The report provides an insight into a hospital that was slowly being reined in
by whistleblowers, Parliamentary committees and courageous public servants.'

He said staff had gone relatively ignored in the report proceedings.

'The inquiry found staff were constantly working under stress and that their pay
levels were below that of staff salaries in public hospitals,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2013 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


