                              103 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                              March 7, 2008 Friday

Dr AQ Khan be made President: Qazi

BYLINE: Our staff reporter

LENGTH: 686 words


ISLAMABAD - Jamaat-i-Islami Chief Qazi Hussain Ahmad here on Friday urged the
winning political parties to make Dr AQ Khan as the President of Pakistan.

He said this while talking to media persons after an abortive attempt to meet
father of country's nuclear programme Dr  AQ Khan who is admitted in KRL
hospital. Qazi said that the detention of ailing national hero was illegal
adding, "Our national hero is seriously ill and to keep him detained in this
precarious condition of health and disallowing him to meet others is a bid to
please the US".

Qazi Hussain Ahmad's attempt to enter into KRL hospital to meet Dr A Q Khan was
thwarted by the hospital administration that locked the central gate of the
hospital. The hospital administration said that Qazi could not meet the sick
Doctor as the visiting hours had passed.

"Dr A Q Khan is the heart-throb of the nation. His ailment has sent a wave of
shock and dismay among the people. He should be allowed to meet his relatives
and friends to allay his mental shock, Qazi demanded. JI President said that Dr
Khan was his old friend and it was a heinous act on the part of government to
disallow him (Qazi) to meet atomic scientist. He said that the whole nation was
waiting that some responsible person should meet Dr A Q Khan to make the public
aware of the fact.

Qazi Hussain Ahmed said the hospital authorities had told them that A.Q.Khan was
not in the hospital but later told that the Admin officer was not present in
hospital to give permission. "We were also told that Dr Khan is taking rest and
does not want to meet anyone", he said. He said that the government had
disconnected Dr Khan's phone that was a shameful act of the government and
alleged that the hospital administration had kept Abdul Qadeer in detention at
4th floor of the hospital.

Responding to a question he said Abdul Qadeer Khan was the benefactor of the
country and a hero of Muslim youths. "He should be given due respect and be
restored to his respective office. It is incumbent on the winning democratic
forces to immediately announce to install Dr Qadeer Khan as the President of the
country", JI Chief demanded. He urged the leadership of PPP, PML-N and other
political parties to visit the hospital to enquire after Dr A Q Khan's health.

Earlier, while addressing a protest demonstration at Faisal Mosque after Jumma
prayers Qazi said that the entire nation would reject the upcoming Government if
it failed in the reinstatement of pre-November 3 judiciary and the constitution.
He urged the winning political parties to stop their meetings with the US
officials. The demonstration was held against Israeli aggression against
innocent Palestinian people and the publication of blasphemous sketches in
Danish newspapers.

Qazi Hussain Ahmed noted that February 18 verdict reflected the hatred of
Pakistani people against the United States. He observed that the real test of
political parties would start after coming into power and time would be given to
new Government to revert all the unconstitutional steps of the previous
Government.

He urged the nation to forge unity in its ranks saying, "It is the only way to
make Pakistan independent, sovereign and an Islamic state". Condemning the
Israeli aggression against Palestinian people Qazi expressed concern over the
efforts of rulers in recognizing the Jewish State but categorically said that
Pakistanis would foil such efforts.

Qazi said that accepting the Israeli occupation on Palestine was a cruel apathy
of the Muslim rulers.

"The Palestinian lives have been made miserable by unleashing horrendous
oppressions on them and innocent children are being massacred. One-fourth of the
world is constituted of the Muslim countries rich in natural resources but they
could not do anything", he observed. He said that the Muslims were not even
conscious of the oppressions perpetrated in Palestine and Gaza.

Former parliamentarian Mian Aslam also addressed the protestors and said that
democracy was the future of Pakistan and not the dictatorship and added, "Any
nefarious designs against the country would be foiled".

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

