                              10 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday
                                 FINAL EDITION

Scott slams hospitals but takes $100,000;
Scott slams hospitals but accepts $100,000;
Health care commission created on day his PAC gets chain's donation. Health care
commission created on day political panel gets chain's gift.

BYLINE:  By John Kennedy   Palm Beach Post Capital Bureau

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 903 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE


The same day Gov. Rick Scott created a health care commission to probe the
bottom line at Florida hospitals, his political committee collected $100,000 in
contributions from one of the state's biggest hospital chains.

The commission, whose members were appointed Monday, is slated to begin work
this month and is tasked with a broad agenda, including reviewing whether health
outcomes for patients on Medicaid are better or worse than for other patients.

It also is supposed to investigate how much taxpayer-funded hospitals spend on
lobbyists and political donations.

But for this agenda item, Scott, a former hospital industry executive, shouldn't
have to look far to find answers.

Scott's Let's Get to Work spending committee last week reported collecting
$100,000 from HCA Florida West's Good Government Political Action Committee. Its
parent, HCA Healthcare, is the world's largest for-profit hospital chain.

Leading to his re-election last fall, Scott also collected $50,000 in
contributions from Tenet Hospitals, which run five health care facilities in
Palm Beach County.

While Scott is targeting hospital lobbying ranks and contributions, Florida
Republicans have been overwhelmingly the preferred recipients of donations from
the industry.

"There's no intellectual consistency here," said Max Steele, a Florida
Democratic Party spokesman. "The commission and Scott's focus on spending is
clearly designed to put hospitals on the defensive. But Republicans are the ones
getting the contributions, certainly more so than us."

The Florida Hospital Association, the industry's leading lobbying arm, has
steered at least $147,000 to the Florida Republican Party, and $112,600 to the
state's Democratic Party over the past two years.

Tens of thousands of dollars more went to political committees led by state
lawmakers. Again, FHA has favored the Republican side, which controls state
government and the Legislature.

Sen. Joe Negron, R-Stuart, has a political committee called the Treasure Coast
Alliance that has raised more than $2 million over the past two years, including
$35,000 from the Florida Hospital Association.

Negron said he supports the idea of Scott's health care commission, saying more
information will help lawmakers. But he doesn't dispute hospitals donating to
political campaigns.

"The health care sector ... is a major part of our economy," Negron said. "It's
not surprising that they get involved in the political process. They have a
right to participate."

The Committee of Safety Net Hospitals, which represents many of the state's
urban hospitals with a heavy Medicaid caseload, gave $31,000 to the state GOP
for last year's elections, and $3,000 to Scott.

Another $100,000 was scattered across political committees, mostly helping
Republicans.

The Committee of Teaching Hospitals spent only $26,684 in contributions last
year -- but $12,000 went to the Florida Republican Party, $3,000 to Scott, and
the rest mostly to GOP legislators and committees.

Scott, though, is now at war with these same hospital associations.

They support a privatized form of Medicaid expansion proposed by the Florida
Senate and Senate President Andy Gardiner, R-Orlando, who earned $189,329 last
year as vice president of external affairs at Orlando Health, a not-for-profit
hospital, financial disclosure records show.

Scott and the House, led by Speaker Steve Crisafulli, R-Merritt Island, oppose
the measure.

Scott named nine Floridians to the health care commission Monday -- but only
one, Gainesville microsurgeon Dr. Jason Rosenburg -- appears to have any direct
experience in health care.

The panel will be chaired by Carlos Beruff, a builder and a member of the South
Florida Water Management District.

Beruff has contributed $121,000 to Scott, his Let's Get to Work political
committee and the Florida Republican Party, records show.

The commission is scheduled to hold its first meeting May 20 in Tallahassee.

In naming commissioners Monday, Scott bypassed recommendations from the Florida
Hospital Association and Safety Net Hospital Alliance on who to appoint, while
also ignoring two state senators who asked to be on the panel.

The clash between the state's Republican leaders led to the two-month
legislative session ending this month with no resolution on health care -- and
no state budget for the year beginning July 1. Lawmakers will return for a
special session June 1.

Asked last week if the $100,000 contribution by HCA Florida West's Good
Government Political Action Committee is the kind of spending he wants tamped
down, Scott demurred.

"We've got to look at how we spend your tax dollars," Scott told reporters. "I
want to look at how the dollars are spent, are we getting a good return on those
dollars, are patients getting good outcomes. Can we spend those dollars more
efficiently?"

The governor also declined to expand on whether hospitals should be using
dollars for politicking -- even those that flow to him.

"I'm going to focus on how the dollars work," Scott said.

The PAC giving to Scott represents Columbia/HCA Health Care Group, a descendant
corporation of the hospital chain he once led.

Scott's role in that company is well known. He helped lead its rapid expansion
in the 1990s before being ousted by its board in 1997. Three years later
Columbia/HCA paid a record $1.7 billion fine for defrauding the federal
government in Medicare and Medicaid billing.

jkennedy@pbpost.com Twitter: @jkennedyreport

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 The Palm Beach Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


