                              99 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     May 16, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

A nasty streak of McCarthyism

BYLINE: THE GAZETTE

SECTION: EDITORIAL / OP-ED; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 525 words


David Levine is wrong. He is not simply a hospital administrator who has been
hired to run the new Ottawa Hospital, the medical facility created April 1 with
the merger of Ottawa's two largest hospitals.

He is now also a litmus test - one that far too many people are failing.

Mr. Levine, 50, is a Montreal anglophone who in 1979 ran as a candidate for the
Parti Quebecois, losing against Liberal Herbert Marx. He is currently serving as
the Quebec delegate-general in New York, installed by the Parti Quebecois.

The outrage his hospital appointment has caused in Ottawa and beyond is a little
frightening. People by the hundreds are canceling charitable donations to the
new hospital, charging that Mr. Levine will turn the institution into a
beachhead for separatists.

The whole affair calls to mind U.S. Senator Joe McCarthy and the communist
witchhunts of the 1950s. Will we now demand to know the political affiliation of
every person appointed to the civil service? Are you now or have you ever been a
sympathizer of the Parti Quebecois?

There are a few jobs - Canadian ambassadorships, for example - which by their
nature require a federalist leaning. Aside from those few positions, however,
there is no excuse for delving into someone's political beliefs as a prelude to
hiring them. Every Canadian citizen - a civic category that includes Quebec
separatists - is guaranteed under the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms
the right to freedom of conscience and opinion.

Canadians of all political persuasions should be alarmed at what little respect
even politicians at the highest level give our legal guarantee to freedom of
opinion. Consider these positions:

- Ontario Health Minister Elizabeth Witmer said the Ottawa Hospital board should
reconsider Mr. Levine's appointment, given the impact its decision has had on
the community.

- Ontario MPP Garry Guzzo suggested there is a danger that Mr. Levine would fill
the hospital administration with separatists.

- Federal Intergovernmental Affairs Minister Stephane Dion said the displays of
intolerance that met Mr. Levine's appointment were inevitable as long as there
was a threat of separation.

Thankfully, the Ottawa Civic Hospital's board of directors and doctors have
rejected the idea that Mr. Levine's politics should disqualify him from running
the hospital.

Nick Mulder, board chairman, said yesterday, "The political, religious and
personal beliefs of the chief executive officer or of any other member of the
hospital staff at any level are not relevant in the performance of his or her
duties."

That is an eloquent defence of every Canadian's right to their political
beliefs. It is too bad that Canada's elected representatives couldn't see their
way to making that same argument.

Diversity of political opinion and tolerance for other points of view are things
that make Canada great. After all, this country tolerated the separatist Bloc
Quebecois as the official opposition for four years - a measure of our respect
for democracy.

Mr. Levine was hired because he was the best available candidate for the job.
Enough said.


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


