                              105 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Nuneaton News

                            November 5, 2012 Monday

War of words over the future of the George Eliot Hospital

BYLINE: MORT BIRCH

LENGTH: 570  words


A WAR of words has erupted between councillor Brian Hawkes, Chairman of the
North Warwickshire and Bedworth Labour Party, and Dan Byles, the constituency's
Conservative MP, over the George Eliot Hospital.

Cllr Hawkes has accused Dan Byles of using his weekly column in the Nuneaton
News to 'preach NHS privatisation.'

He said: "He misled people about the facts and then had the brass neck to accuse
'others' of making the issue 'political.'

"Firstly, the Conservative proposal to sell the running of the Eliot to a
private company is a political issue.

"Claiming that his support for it is 'non political' whilst labelling his
opponents as 'political' is trite.

"You are either for NHS public service values or you want privatisation and I
believe privatisation would devalue the public service values of NHS hospitals
by making profit rather than patients a motivation.

"Secondly, the last Labour government encouraged the Eliot to become a
Foundation Trust (FT), but the Board announced in July 2011 that it could not
meet an arbitrary deadline of April 2014 imposed by the Health Secretary Andrew
Lansley.

"This happened under the Conservative government and not under Labour as Mr
Byles suggested in his column.

"Thirdly, the Conservative MP should argue his case for privatisation at the
Eliot openly. He should not pretend that advancing an argument for privatisation
is 'non political' because the hospital board is involved."

Cllr Hawkes added: "The board is being driven down a road paved by its political
masters.

Ministers obstructed FT status last year, then insisted the hospital must merge
or be taken over, and then said the private sector should be able to bid to run
the hospital, So Mr Byles cannot hide behind the board.

"Let's be honest with people about the political values at stake and have an
open debate about this crucial issue concerning the future of the hospital."

Dan Byles dismissed the accusations as 'predictable, desperate rubbish from a
local Labour Party that has offered no positive ideas to secure the future of
the George Eliot Hospital.'

The MP said: "Nobody is advocating privatising the Eliot - the Trust Board are
looking for a partner organisation and instead of being ideological about it are
considering a range of potential partners.

"I have made no case for them, I am leaving it to the Trust Board to make the
best decision for the Eliot.

"Labour, apparently, do not trust them to do that.

Instead, they prefer to create political dividing lines rather than seek the
best solution."

He claimed Cllr Hawkes does not know the history of the hospital's quest for FT
status, otherwise he would have known that it was refused in 2009 under the last
Labour government.

"His incorrect statement comes just a few weeks after another Labour councillor
embarrassingly put out a press release claiming there were no financial problems
the day after it was revealed the hospital is facing a £5m deficit," he said.

"One has to wonder if these Labour councillors are more interested in a cheap
headline than in being accurate."

He added: "I want to financially secure the Eliot in the NHS, continuing as a
District General Hospital proving a full range of safe, clinical service to
local people, free at the point of use and funded out of general taxation.

"If the Labour Party want the same thing, they should stop scaremongering and
spreading untruths and start to contribute positive ideas to the debate."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NN


                    Copyright 2012 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


