                              114 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                            September 9, 2013 Monday

Public health in crisis: Doctors reduced to pawns in a game of power politics

LENGTH: 808  words


Doctors of the Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) are working under constant stress
after having been repeatedly harassed at the hands of attendants visiting the
hospital's emergency wing with injured political workers. The law-enforcement
personnel and private security guards also seem ineffectual in their duty to
curtail such untoward incidents.

The Civil hospital is the one of the biggest public sector hospitals in the
city, where thousands of patients from parts of the city and rural areas of
Sindh and Balochistan visit regularly. The medical staff, however, faces
constant threats when dealing with patients related to any Karachi-based
political party.

The hospital has two entry and two exit routes - the main gate to emergency from
MA Jinnah Road and the other from Mission Road.

Police pickets and the private security system fail to provide protection to the
patients and the hospital's employees as doctors and medical staff are
intimidated time and again by attendants.

"Police can't interfere when doctors are being threatened or tortured," said a
medical officer on the condition of anonymity. "The hospital's security staff is
not fully trained to counter such a situation."

The staff and female doctors are afraid of dealing with emergency cases and
avoid entering operation theatres. In a recent episode, some gunmen entered the
operation theatre where a bullet-riddled person affiliated with a religious
party was being operated on. "Two lady doctors sought cover under the operation
table," a doctor told The Express Tribune.

The staff is also afraid of reporting such incidents as different employees are
affiliated with different parties. "If we resist or register a complaint against
them, they could harm us easily because the employees know each other well,"
said another senior doctor.

Interestingly, a visitor can easily see union offices of employees affiliated
with political parties, while the wards and corridors of different departments
also speak a lot about the political connection of unions' leaders.

"The staff members having political links work openly. What is worse is that
doctors and even patients are asked to pay extortion money within the hospital's
premises," senior doctors told to The Express Tribune. "Mafias rule here, and
doctors have to obey their orders."

According to the hospital's records, the ratio of junior female doctors in the
CHK is higher than their male counterparts. "It's almost 85 per cent," said a
doctor. A junior lady doctor said that her colleagues didn't want to perform any
duty after the morning shift because the attitude of attendants was very harsh,
adding that neither the doctors nor the other staff could work in such a
situation. "It affects the overall performance because it is a sensitive job and
a doctor can't work under threats."

Most of the doctors enter emergencies and operation theatres without the white
coat and medical tools, she said.

According to the hospital's record, the number of out-door patients is around
2,000 daily, while 5,000 to 7,000 patients visit the CHK's different departments
regularly. The patients without political affiliation, however, suffer the most.

In August 2012, the Sindh government had ensured of providing the administration
with foolproof security within three months after a senior doctor, Associate
Prof. Umairul Islam, was beaten up within the hospital premises. Ironically,
nothing has been done so far and senior police officials were unable to comment
on the security arrangements.

Another doctor said that his female counterpart was threatened in the OPD by a
female attendant last week. "The attendant had demanded that the doctor see her
patient before anyone else or she would blow up the place," he added. "I know
just one thing that Tange wala khair mangda - I have to survive here."

The other side

Sources from provincial health department informed The Express Tribune that four
letters for security arrangements had been sent to home departments, adding that
no measures have been taken so far.

On the other hand, Health Deputy Secretary Imdad Shah said that the CHK was
being provided funds for its private security arrangements, adding that the
provincial health minister, Owais Muzaffar, had also asked the home department
to address the security lapse. "He has also directed authorities to remove
encroachments around the hospital."

The CHK Medical Superintendent Prof. M Saeed Quraishy shared that he was not
satisfied with the security arrangements. He said that due to the inefficiency
of the current security company, they were looking for a new one.

Prof. Quraishy informed that despite direction of the health minister and other
top officials, proper security measures weren't taken. "I think it is under
process and may take some time," he justified.

DIG South Dr Ameer Shaikh was unavailable for comment when contacted.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2013 XPRESS - Al Nisr Media FZ LLC
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


