                              11 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            June 28, 1989 Wednesday

Hospital payments opposed by premier

BYLINE: GAM

LENGTH: 480 words


The Globe and Mail
   Ontario Premier David Peterson says he is opposed to agencies such as
hospitals or school boards contributing to political parties although his
Liberal Party is on record as accepting such donations.

His comments came after he was confronted in the Legislature yesterday
with New Democratic Party research that showed 14 hospitals contributed
$9,100 to the party.

They included the Wellesley Hospital, which contributed $2,000 in 1985,
and the Hospital for Sick Children, which contributed $1,500 in 1988.

New Democrat David Reville raised the question of the hospitals'
contributions and suggested the money should be returned from the Liberal
Party to the hospitals.

Mr. Peterson said the law now permits these donations "but we want to
review that law and perhaps change that."

Outside the Legislature, he told reporters: "My own opinion is that
transfer agencies (such as schools and hospitals) should not be involved
in political donations."

Health Minister Elinor Caplan said outside the Legislature that she
thinks it is inappropriate for hospitals to make political contributions.
She said the Liberal Party had reviewed the question late in 1987 and
decided to return contributions from hospitals where they are identified.

Her own riding of Oriole has returned some of these contributions, she
said.

However, as they are not illegal, and sometimes are made in the names
of individuals buying tickets to fund-raising events, the contributions
are not always easy to identify, she said.

A spokesman for the Wellesley Hospital confirmed it had donated $2,000
to the Liberals in 1985 in the form of buying tickets to a fund-raising
dinner.

She said the hospital had been invited by the party to buy the tickets
and decided to do so. It had bought similar tickets to a fund-raiser for
the provincial Conservative Party earlier, she said, adding that it has
stopped contributing since then.

A spokesman at the Hospital for Sick Children said its contribution of
$1,500 in 1988 was in the form of buying a table at the party's major
fund-raising dinner, the Heritage Dinner. It was invited to buy an other
table this year but decided not to, the spokesman said.

She added that the money for the contribution did not come from
payments from the provincial government or from public donations to the
hospital. Instead, it came from a fund the hospital raises from its
parking fees and canteen sales.

The other hospitals that made contributions, all in 1987, an election
year, included:
   Providence Villa Hospital and St. Joseph's Hospital in London, both for
$200;
   York-Finch General Hospital for $300;
   Chedoke-McMaster Hospital, Durham Memorial Hospital, Humber Memorial
Hospital, St. Peter's Hospital in Hamilton, St. Joseph's Health Centre in
London, University Hospital in London and York Central Hospital, all for
$400;
   Ottawa Civic Hospital for $500 and Victoria Hospital Corp. for $1,600.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1989 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


