                              115 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                            August 25, 2007 Saturday
                           All-round Country Edition

Rudd targets PM's hospital 'excuse' - ELECTION COUNTDOWN

BYLINE: Matthew Franklin, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 535  words


KEVIN Rudd has accused John Howard of deliberately relying on political
differences with Labor state governments as an excuse to do nothing to improve
health services.

The Opposition Leader claims the Prime Minister -- who wants voters to re-elect
him as a counter-balance to the existence of Labor governments in all states and
territories -- uses the political colour of state governments as ''a political
excuse'' for failure.

Mr Rudd made the comments in Sydney yesterday, a day after announcing that a
Labor government would spend $2 billion on incentives payments for state
governments in return for improved efficiency in public hospitals.

If they failed to lift standards in accordance with agreed benchmarks by the
middle of 2009, he said he would hold a referendum for a commonwealth takeover
of state public hospitals.

Yesterday, as Health Minister Tony Abbott branded the Labor leader a fake who
relied on smoke and mirrors, Mr Rudd attempted to use the health issue to
neutralise Mr Howard's theme of the need to avoid having Labor in power at all
levels of government.

''It might suit Mr Howard's political agenda to be able to blame the states, but
if a federal Labor government is elected under myself as prime minister, we will
then have no political excuse whatsoever for not rolling up our sleeves and
fixing the system,'' Mr Rudd said.

''Mr Howard prefers to have a political excuse for not fixing the system. Let's
actually deal with the problem.''

Mr Rudd also attacked Mr Howard's decision to commit $45million a year to fund a
community-based takeover of Devonport's Mersey hospital. The hospital is in the
marginal federal electorate of Braddon.

''Mr Howard has a plan for one hospital out of 750 hospitals in the country,''
Mr Rudd said. ''We have a reform plan for all of Australia's 750 public
hospitals.

While Mr Rudd was at Canterbury Hospital, a group from the Sefton Playhouse
strip club turned up with a billboard promoting a ''Kevin look-alike'' contest
last night. The competition -- which capitalises on Mr Rudd's visit four years
ago to a New York strip club -- carries a $500 first prize.

Mr Abbott, also in Sydney, said the Rudd hospital plan included little more than
the creation of a new bureaucracy and promises of what might happen in the
future.

''There's something for everyone and in the end, nothing for anyone,'' he said.
''There is much less to this than really meets the eye, which is why it is
typical of the kinds of smoke and mirrors we get from this man.''

Acting NSW Health Minister John Hatzistergos said the setting of benchmarks
under the Rudd plan should be a two-way street.

He said many families used hospital emergency rooms for non-urgent conditions
because they could not find bulk-billing general practitioners because of a
shortage of doctors caused by the Howard Government.

''I'm now calling for benchmarking of commonwealth-funded services, including
availability of local GPs and bulk-billing rates, dental services for low-income
families and access to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme,'' Mr Hatzistergos
said.

His call came as new figures showed that the level of bulk-billing by GPs
increased by 0.8percentage points to 78.2 per cent in the June quarter.

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


