                              113 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               Kerryman (Ireland)

                                November 3, 2010

FURY AT TD'S HOSPITAL LETTER

SECTION: FRONTPAGE

LENGTH: 571 words


Deputy Browne was responding to a recent Borough Council motion calling on
Wexford Fianna Fáil TDs to resign if they didn't vote against threatened
Government cutbacks at the hospital. The motion was later amended to include all
local TDs.

Deputy Browne sent a letter saying he was sure, 'as usual, this was a Sinn
Féin/Labour Party politically motivated motion, as they have been using the
patients of Wexford Hospital for a number of years now for political motives'.

The letter continued: 'I will work to ensure Wexford hospital is at the
forefront of health services in Wexford for many years to come and I certainly
don't need advice from political groups that play politics with the sick.'

At a council meeting on Monday night, Cllr George Lawlor (Labour) said it was an
' astonishing letter' and the ' greatest insult' to the Borough Council.

'It's horrendous. We are the elected body to represent the people of Wexford. If
we can't pass a motion without ridiculous criticism from an amateurish
politician...' he said.

Cllr Lawlor said he thought Deputy Browne must be suffering from paranoia if he
thought this was a joint Labour-Sinn Féin motion.

There was a burst of laughter when Cllr Anthony Kelly interjected to point out
that this was a 'genuine Sinn Féin' motion.

Cllr Kelly said he resented that his party was being accused of using Wexford
hospital as a political football. When Deputy Browne took part in a hospital
protest himself, was he doing the same then, he wanted to know.

Cllr Philomena Roche (Fine Gael) said she was sure that when the Fianna Fáil TD
re-read the letter, he would be very embarrassed for 'insulting this council'.

Cllr David Hynes found the reference to 'political groups' objectionable as the
Wexford Hospital Community Alliance was non-political and included people such
as Fr Jim Fegan and Dr Paddy McKiernan. 'John is coming out these days with all
sorts of statements. He is only letting himself down,' he said.

Cllr Fergie Kehoe (Fianna Fáil) said he believed the motion was politically
motivated.

'If I was a sitting TD I would have taken offence with anyone asking me to
resign,' he said.

'I feel Deputies Browne and Connick did take a hard goingover that night. I said
that night and I'll say it again, Wexford hospital will not be closed and the
A&E will remain for the length of this Government. It will be the next
Government that will close the hospital. The chickens will come home to roost.'

Cllr Ted Howlin (Labour) said it was a pity that John Browne had sullied the
issue: 'It's him who is being political.'

Cllr Padge Reck (Independent) said he saw the 'funny side' of the letter. 'Look
at The Week In Politics or Day In The Dáil and you'll hear worse. Anyone who
takes that as an insult must have a serious problem.

'You know John Browne, that's the way he behaves and that's the way he carries
on,' he said.

Cllr Paddy Nolan (Fianna Fáil) said he was aware of all the work Deputy Browne
had done for the hospital: ' To me, that letter means nothing.'

Cllr Jim Allen (Fine Gael) took offence to the remark about the next Government
closing the hospital. ' The hospital will not be closed by Fine Gael,' he said.

The mayor, Cllr Joe Ryan (Labour), recalled an occasion when Deputy Browne's
'sense of humour' backfired on him and he believed it was going to backfire on
him again. 'I don't think Deputy Browne's comments are in anyway helpful to this
campaign,' he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2010 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


