                              112 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                           February 4, 2015 Wednesday

BP cancer hospital ailed by political meddling

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: BHARATPUR


BHARATPUR, Feb. 4 -- BP Koirala Memorial Cancer Hospital was established in year
1992 in Bharatpur , Chitwan, to offer effective treatment for the patients
suffering from cancer. The hospital started providing medical services since
1995. The hospital, in its beginning days, was effective with its services.
Patients were receiving hassle-free medical treatment. However, the services
provided by the hospital have deteriorated in the recent years owing to the
increasing political influence. Appointing employees on basis of their political
affiliation and unhealthy rivalry between employees affiliated to different
parties, among others, have affected the hospital services.

Patients from both inside and outside, including India and Bangladesh, visit the
hospital to receive medial treatment. But they are deprived of timely service.
As a result, they are compelled to stay in hotels, waiting for their turn. Only
those who have political affiliations are given prompt treatment. Because of all
these problems, most of the patients who come to the hospital are compelled to
return without receiving treatment. Though there have been efforts to reform the
hospital, there has not been any progress so far.

The hospital was set up with the help of the Chinese government to provide
inexpensive and accessible service to cancer patients.

"The hospital was doing fine in the initial years," says Chairman of Cancer Sewa
Samaj Shyam Lamichhane. "The downfall started when politics entered the
hospital."

There are nearly 600 employees working in the hospital; more than 22 million is
spent on their salaries every year. While more than 100,000 patients visit the
hospital every year, the service it offers is dismal. Most of the times,
patients check out from the hospital without being treated, or are referred to
private hospitals. "The medical equipment have also not been upgraded," says
Prakash Pandey, chief of the bio-medical engineering department at the hospital.
What was once considered as one of the most modern cancer treatment facilities
in the country is turning into a dysfunctional, outdated health institute that
needs saving.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


