                              110 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                                 First Edition

Royal North Shore uses petition to force parliamentary debate on redevelopment

BYLINE: Amy Corderoy HEALTH

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 359 words


STAFF at Royal North Shore Hospital will force the state government to debate
controversial redevelopment plans using a petition of 13,500 signatories. Under
the so-called people's petition pledge made by the Premier, Barry O'Farrell,
petitions signed by 10,000 or more must be debated in Parliament. The medical
staff council at Royal North Shore has collected the petition, which it will
present to the member for Willoughby, Gladys Berejiklian, today.

Under the former Labor government, a $1 billion redevelopment plan for the
hospital was established that provided only 14 additional beds above the number
used when the hospital operates at maximum capacity. The chairman of the staff
council, Tony Joseph, said there was an urgent need for an extra 75 beds to be
added, and to build two further floors on the new hospital building to allow it
to expand. The Minister for Health, Jillian Skinner, promised while in
opposition to develop a campus plan for the hospital that would identify its
needs for now and in the future. But Dr Joseph said the government needed to
change the development plans within a month in order to take advantage of a
crane on top of the new building which is due to be removed in August. "It's
never too late to fix these plans but the earlier they make the decision to put
more medical and surgical beds in, the cheaper it will be," he said. He believed
Mrs Skinner supported the staff council's demands but was not sure whether
Treasury would be willing to commit the additional money. "We understand the
government is under stress and they have been handed a development which is
seriously underfunded," he said. Dr Joseph said the size of the petition showed
the strength of support for the hospital. Signatures were collected by staff
council members and hospital patients. The hospital fundraising group, the Pink
Ladies, which sells toiletries, gifts and newspapers at the hospital, also
supported the petition. The president of the Pink Ladies, Joy Stephen, said the
community was worried the hospital would not have the capacity it needed in
future. "If they don't get the beds, how will they deliver the services?"

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


