                              117 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Cyprus Mail

                          September 29, 2016 Thursday

NHS is for the benefit of the people, not the staff, minister says

LENGTH: 634 words


The overhaul of the public health sector is for the benefit of the people and
not health professionals, and political parties must support this, Health
Minister Giorgos Pamboridis said on Thursday.

In his assessment of his first year in office Pamboridis told the Cyprus News
Agency in an interview that he believes it was mostly positive as his task was
to oversee the reform of the health sector. His first year anniversary as health
minister was July 27.

"I had the opportunity a few days earlier, on July 21, for the political leaders
to approve during their meeting with the president our plans, which we arduously
prepared," Pamboridis said.

Those plans, he said, included "all those elements necessary to structurally
change everything in the health sector".

He added that the bills concerning all that needs to be done for the
implementation of the National Health Scheme (NHS) will be tabled to parliament
soon, but that this could not be done without everyone's help.

By June 2017 a public organisation will be set up which will oversee hospital
autonomy, while by June 2019 outpatient care will be introduced. The ultimate
date for the full implementation of the NHS is June 1, 2020.

"Political parties must honestly decide what exactly they want as regards health
reform and speak to the patients, doctors and nurses in one voice instead of
caressing their ears... telling interested parties what they want to hear,"
Pamboridis said.

He added that he is certain this is what happens when each group meets with
representatives of political leaders. Instead of telling patients and healthcare
professionals "these are the decisions that have been taken", parties tell them
what they want to hear, Pamboridis said.

"It is a vital sector. People do not receive the services they are entitled to
from a European state. This reform cannot be made without everyone's help and no
party is contributing to this when they act in such a way," he said. "The die is
cast. The reform has been formulated," he said.

"If political parties want to caress the ears of the rest, let them come and say
that before the parliament".

As regards the problems health professionals face in state hospitals, Pamboridis
said that there is a gap between now and the date when hospital autonomy will be
in effect.

"It is very important to focus on this period until hospital autonomy to see the
everyday problems healthcare professionals face," he said. His ministry, he
said, in cooperation with state hospital staff and their unions are seeking to
find alternative solutions until autonomy kicks in.

The administrative and financial autonomy of state hospitals aims to change
everything in the health sector "to diminish the roots of problems".

"Therefore, it is foolish for anyone to believe that we shouldn't address the
everyday issues healthcare professionals but mainly patients face. This struggle
is not for the healthcare professionals. The struggle is for patients, but
health professionals will also benefit," Pamboridis said.

He added that the aim was the improvement of the quality of services patients
receive and that through that goal the second one would have to be achieved
which is the improvement of work conditions of state hospital staff.

A new healthcare system will also diminish patient waiting lists, he said.
Despite that the problem of long waiting lists was "alleviated to a great
extent" through the scheme launched earlier in the year to refer state hospital
patients to the private sector, he said, the problem is not resolved and the
reason, "is precisely because the roots that cause problems are embedded into
the outdated system we have today".

The post NHS is for the benefit of the people, not the staff, minister says
appeared first on Cyprus Mail.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/41/70/33/147515797373.jpg



LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 70


               Copyright 2016 Cyprus Mail - Cyprus Mail Co. Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


