                              108 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Watford Observer

                               May 2, 2014 Friday

Hospital bosses accused of 'hypocrisy' over Ed Miliband visit

BYLINE: Mike Wright

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 673 words


Hospital chiefs have been accused of "hypocrisy" for warning staff about being
political ahead of forthcoming elections just a day after allowing a party
broadcast to be filmed at Watford General.

West Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS workers were urged last week "to be sensitive
to the impact of [their] work on the outcome of the elections".

Yet the next day staff received an email from the trust chief executive
detailing the visit of Labour leader, Ed Miliband, footage of which is planned
for a broadcast a week before the European and local elections.

Chief executive Sam Jones

A member of medical staff at Watford General said: "This is completely
hypocritical of the trust management and is also clearly double standards. They
might claim Mr Miliband's visit was outside the so called Purdah but it is going
to be shown right in the middle of it on May 14.

"They are clearly trying to pull the wool over our eyes. Surely the correct
thing to have done would be to have the visit by Mr Miliband and not use
anything involving hospital staff in a party political broadcast weeks later -
especially if you are telling staff that during a set period they must not get
involved In politics as hospital staff.

"I think the trust should remove its agreement for the footage to be shown. That
would be the correct thing to do".

On  Thursday, April 24, staff were sent a round robin email from the trust's
Antony Tiernan, director of corporate affairs and communications, warning about
upcoming Purdah period, which traditionally starts around May 2.

The period relates to statutory advice that local authorities should not publish
anything that "seeks to influence voters" until after the vote.

In his email, Mr Tiernan said: "With this in mind, we will be subject to what is
called 'Purdah'. This is a period of time during which we need to be sensitive
to the impact of our work on the outcome of the elections and the election
campaign.

"'Purdah' applies to our hospitals as well as staff (in their work capacity).
The impact on us is mainly in relation to public announcements, which could be
seen to sway voters, visits by politicians and, generally, not do things which
could bring us into disrepute in relation to political activity."

The next day, the trust's chief executive, Samantha Jones, sent round another
email detailing Ed Miliband's fact-finding visit to two day visit, over Tuesday
April 22 and Wednesday 23, to Watford General.

She added: "We took a number of photos during the event and it was filmed for a
party political broadcast, which is due to aired on May 14."

This week the hospital said Mr Miliband's visit had come before the purdah
period. It also said the purdah advice had been issued to staff to prevent the
getting themselves into a "difficult position".

Antony Tiernan, director of corporate affairs and communications, said: "The NHS
is a non-political organisation and, as such, we must ensure our hospitals -
and, in their professional capacity, our staff - remain impartial.  This is
particularly important during elections and in the period immediately before
voting starts.  This is often called 'purdah' and, for the forthcoming
elections, starts on 2 May (the elections are on 22 May).

"As an organisation we welcome politicians visiting our hospitals so that they
can better understand the work that we do and get to meet, and hear from, our
patients and frontline staff.  We welcome visits from all political parties and
over the last year we have been visited by Jeremy Hunt MP (Conservative -
Secretary of State for Health ) Norman Lamb MP (Liberal Democrat - Minister of
State - Minister of State for Care and Support) and Ed Miliband MP (Labour -
Leader of the Opposition).

"In the run up to elections we issue our staff with advice from the Cabinet
Office which gives guidance on how hospitals and NHS staff should conduct
themselves during the pre-election period ('purdah').  This is to help ensure we
do not impact on the outcome of the elections and to avoid staff being put in a
difficult position."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


