                              126 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                     May 16, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

'Let's get on with the job': New hospital chief refuses to reveal stance on
separation

BYLINE: MARIA BOHUSLAWSKY; WITH FILES FROM DAWN WALTON; THE OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / Front


Calling himself a "bridge-builder" between local francophones and

anglophones, David Levine refused yesterday to say whether he was a separatist,
and begged to be judged on his abilities as a hospital administrator.

"David Levine has no political agenda here," he told a packed news conference.
"I'm a democrat and I support the aspirations of the people of Quebec to
determine their own future in a clear, open and democratic manner. OK? That's a
clear statement on my part."

Mr. Levine, the incoming president of the amalgamated Ottawa Hospital, and
members of the hospital board that hired him had called a press conference
yesterday to address widespread concerns about his appointment.

Mr. Levine, a 49-year-old hospital administrator, was a member of the separatist
Parti Quebecois from 1975 to 1981. He was the party's candidate in a 1979
byelection, which he lost.

"I'm not here as a politician," he said. "I'm a public servant. The people of
Ottawa will never be confronted by me or my actions in a political way. The only
thing I can say is, 'Wait and see.' Look at the performance. If six months down
the road, you're not pleased with the services you're getting, do something
about it.

"I see myself really as a bridge-builder and I want to build bridges between the
anglophone and francophone community in Ottawa," he added. "This is a wonderful
opportunity to show that the two founding nations of Canada can work together.
Let's just get on with the job."

For the past year, he has been serving as the delegate general of Quebec
Government House in New York City, where his job has been to foster trade
between the province and the United States. He was appointed by Quebec for the
position.

He starts his $ 330,000-a-year job at the Ottawa Hospital on July 31.

The Civic Hospital Foundation has logged hundreds of calls from angry donors who
have vowed to withdraw their support if Mr. Levine remains the new hospital's
top administrator. Some area residents have also called the foundation in
support for Mr. Levine. Letters to the editor have called for his resignation
condemning him as a "traitor" and an "enemy."

Mr. Levine said he and his wife were surprised at the negative reaction. "We
didn't really understand the depth of the issues between both the francophone
community and the anglophone community," he said.

Nevertheless, he said he did not consider resigning because he's keen to take
the job, which he regards as the pinnacle of his career.

Although Mr. Levine was asked repeatedly for a clear Yes or No answer about his
political views, he refused to reply.

"I think everyone has the right to have their own particular position on a lot
of political questions," he said. "I believe in the aspiration of the people of
Quebec to determine their own future. That is the key belief."

Mr. Levine insisted his political beliefs are irrelevant, saying he ran
health-care organizations for 20 years under both Liberal and PQ governments in
Quebec without his views affecting his decisions. "The proof is in the pudding,"
he said.

Mr. Levine said he ran for the PQ in a Jewish anglophone riding in order to
build bridges between the French and English. He noted that he only received 800
votes, compared with 22,000 for his Liberal opponent. "I certainly wasn't trying
to enter politics by going to that byelection."

Mr. Levine denied promoting separatism in New York, but said that part of his
job was reassuring American investors that separation would not affect their
ability to do business in Quebec. "No matter how (Quebecers) decided their
future, they and their businesses would in no way be bothered or affected," he
said.

He said he didn't believe that public condemnation would affect his ability to
do the job in Ottawa. "What I have to do is meet the community," he said. "I
have to be able to speak for the hospital and let the community know what the
board believes in. I don't think it's going to be a real problem."

Also present at the press conference were board chairman Nick Mulder,
vice-chairwoman Agnes Jaouich and Dr. Jan Bormanis, president of medical staff
at the Civic site.

Mr. Mulder said the board knew about Mr. Levine's political past, questioned him
about it, and decided he was the best qualified candidate for the job. The
search committee did not ask Mr. Levine about his current political views.

"I don't think we want to go as far as some governments have done, including
those in Quebec, of deciding whether or not people should be appointed to
public-service positions based on their political beliefs," Mr. Mulder said. "We
should rise above that. We should go for competence."

He stressed that the board, not the chief executive officer, establishes the
policies, service levels and budgets of the hospital. He noted that the chief
executive is responsible for implementing the board's decisions and day-to-day
administration.

"The political, religious or personal beliefs of the CEO, or any other member of
the hospital staff, are not relevant in the performance of his or her duties,"
he said.

A few months ago, the Ottawa Hospital board hired Brad Mann Communications
Consulting of Gloucester to handle the "mechanics" of public relations, such
distributing news releases and setting up meetings.

"The substantive views that we expressed by either myself or by the board or
David are ... our own," Mr. Mulder told the Citizen's editorial board yesterday.
"Nobody has scripted us ... to say, 'Does that sound good politically?' or 'Does
that sound good community-wide?' or 'Would the editorial board at the Citizen be
impressed with it?' "

Mr. Mulder presented a letter of endorsement from Scott Rowand, the president of
the association that represents Canadian teaching hospitals, who wrote: "Mr.
Levine is respected across Canada as a competent, committed and highly
professional health-care executive."

Mr. Levine also addressed his comments to hospital staff. He noted that the
hospital steering committee was committed to providing services in both French
and English. However, he said that doesn't mean all employees will have to be
bilingual.

"Unilingual employees in this organization should relax," he said. "It is not
the intention to impose upon the employees of this organization any penalties
for being unilingual."

Dr. Bormanis said that about 200 physicians of the four amalgamating hospitals
endorsed Mr. Levine's appointment at a May 13 meeting.

Mr. Levine served as chief executive officer of Notre Dame Hospital in Montreal
from 1992 to 1997. During his tenure, the hospital amalgamated with two others.
Before that, he served for 10 years as the chief executive officer of the Verdun
General Hospital. He is a past president of the Quebec Association of Hospital
Directors and has taught health administration at Montreal's Concordia
University.

Barbara Lance, of Ottawa, who described herself as an a ordinary citizen,
attended the conference.

"I'm not happy at all," she said. "I'm sorry he didn't feel he was able to come
out and say Yes or No with respect to his political views. There is serious
public sympathy that's being ignored by the board."

As a couple of members of the public heckled Mr. Levine, Mr. Mulder said the
public will have an opportunity to state their view or ask questions at a board
meeting next Tuesday.

The meeting, open to the public, will take place May 19 in the auditorium of the
Parkdale Clinic of the Civic site, 737 Parkdale Ave., from 6 to 9 p.m.

Ottawa-Rideau MPP Garry Guzzo encourages those who are outraged at Mr. Levine's
appointment to voice their concerns at the meeting.



LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1998

LENGTH: 1285 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


