                              12 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                            April 30, 2011 Saturday

Cancer at Cancer Hospital

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, April 30 -- If the late B P Koirala, who championed democracy and the
multiparty system till his dying breath, were alive today, he would perhaps be
ashamed to the core at seeing what the political parties have done to a cancer
hospital in Bharatpur named after him. The B P Koirala Cancer Hospital has
remained shut for the last two days after conflict among doctors and other
hospital staff aligned to the three major parties-UCPN (Maoist), NC and UML-
reached a climax.

So much so that the hospital has closed even basic services such as radiology,
anesthetics, pathology and physiotherapy, and starting today, it has stopped
administering chemotherapy, a crucial treatment for cancer patients. As the
patients at the hospital were denied treatment they came out of their cabins
Thursday and protested. But even this failed to awaken the conscience of the
hospital's medical and other staff. Shame on them all!

But more than any of them, the leaders of the major political parties, who have
stoked this conflict and are largely responsible for the mess the hospital is in
today, should feel ashamed. The conflict in the hospital is mainly about which
party gets to appoint a man close to itself as executive director. Why is it so
important for the parties to appoint their own man as executive director? Well,
the answer is simple: To control the hospital resources so that they can get a
share of it. The hospital has remained in turmoil ever since Dr Bhakta Man
Shrestha's term as executive director ended last September.

Though the Maoists wanted to reappoint him, the hospital management committee,
which was reshuffled by then health minister and NC leader Umakanta Choudhary,
appointed Laxmi Narayan Singh as the executive director. With the change of
government, the Maoists have once again reshuffled the management committee so
that they can remove Singh and reappoint Shrestha in his place. The divisions
and conflict among the medical and other staff at the hospital has now become a
cancer in itself.

This cancer should be removed without further delay so that we can safeguard the
sanctity of the hospital and the patients can be reassured of a continuous
service. The political parties must stop meddling in the educational and health
sectors, both of which remain marred by political interference. Leaders and
staff at hospitals and schools should be chosen strictly on merit basis and not
for their political allegiance or leaning.

And, finally, we also have a piece of advice to the doctors and other staff at
the hospital: Their only responsibility is to their patients and harboring any
political allegiance and letting it influence the service they render is to
compromise their personal and professional integrity. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2011 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


