                              127 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

Hudson gets appointment to board at SMH

BYLINE: MAGGIE CLARK

SECTION: B; ARCHIVES; Pg. BS02

LENGTH: 274 words

DATELINE: SARASOTA


SARASOTA

Noted for his history of community service and political acumen, George Trammell
"Tramm" Hudson was appointed to the Sarasota County Public Hospital Board on
Monday.

Hudson, 62, was appointed in a unanimous vote to replace Richard O. Donegan, 88,
who resigned Monday after serving six years on the board. Donegan was elected in
2010 and 2012 to the public hospital board, but said it was time for him to step
down and enjoy a more leisurely retirement.

Hudson joins the board as the hospital is facing a dramatically changing health
care landscape. The former bank president and three-term chairman of the
Republican Party of Sarasota County brings financial and political experience to
the panel.

"Health care is very political, and if you took at what's gone on in our country
in the last five or six years, health care has been at the apex," Hudson said.
"I think it's appropriate that people who want to serve in public office are
members of a political party."

All elected members of the board are Republican.

Hudson will hold the board seat until the 2016 elections, when the at-large seat
will open up to a countywide race.

Hudson said he does not foresee major changes in the hospital's strategic
direction in the near future, and said he hopes to see the hospital stay public.

"We, the community, own this hospital and it should stay public," Hudson said.

Sarasota Memorial is the only public hospital in Sarasota, Manatee, Charlotte
and Desoto counties.

The nine-member elected board is unpaid and oversees the public hospital's $564
million budget. The board also has authority to levy property taxes on Sarasota
County property owners.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tramm Hudson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


