                              118 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  News Letter

                            February 8, 2016 Monday

Stormont parties must agree pact on hospital reform

LENGTH: 344  words


One of Stormont's biggest failures has been the refusal to get to grips with
health reform.

It is almost 16 years since Bairbre de Brun, the health minister in 2000,
ordered a review of acute hospital services. The following year that review, the
Hayes Report, recommended six hospitals with maternity care and inpatient
maternity services.

Studies since have reached similar conclusions. A range of big names, from the
tycoon Gerry Robinson to the ex chief medical officer of England Sir Liam
Donaldson, have called for reform to be implemented, yet little has been done
about it.

The problem is simple. All political parties privately agree that current
hospital provision is too expensive and inefficient. Yet not one of them is
prepared to break ranks.

Every time a minor hospital is rightly marked for closure (in order to
concentrate funds in a smaller number of world class hospitals), there is public
uproar. The main political parties then attend rallies in support of keeping
open the hospital that they all agree should close.

This is political cowardice on a grand scale. But shrinking from difficult
decisions is not unique to Stormont. In Great Britain, health reform is so
politically toxic that even the Conservatives felt the need to pledge to ring
fence NHS spending.

In Manchester, however, the two main parties - Labour and the Tories - have
signed up to a set of principles that will include reducing the number of
emergency departments in the city (which will take control of its own health
budget in April) from 10 to four. Ian Williamson, the chief officer of Greater
Manchester Health and Social Care Devolution, said Northern Ireland politicians
should agree something similar.

Stormont's current health minister Simon Hamilton has also been calling for
consensus. It is a pity that no political party had the courage to spell out to
the public what needs to be done. But if the parties can agree a united front
between themselves, the Province will at last begin to get more value for its
health spending per pound than is currently the case.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INNL


                       Copyright 2016 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


