                              121 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             July 24, 1997 Thursday

Hospital closings could harm Tories  POLITICAL RISK / Health care ranks behind
only jobs and the economy among voter concerns in Ontario. That is especially
true for women, whom the Conservatives have been trying to woo.

BYLINE: BY RICHARD MACKIE Queen's Park Bureau

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 789 words

DATELINE: Toronto


TWO areas in which Ontario's Progressive Conservative government is most
vulnerable politically intersect with the decision to close hospitals,
especially the decision to close Women's College Hospital despite strong
opposition.

As a result, the decision announced yesterday by the Health Services
Restructuring Commission to close 11 of Metro Toronto's hospitals carries major
political risks for the government.

The Progressive Conservatives find it far harder to win votes among women than
among men. Supporters of Women's College Hospital say closing it would indicate
a lack of sympathy for women's health needs.

And the future of health care in the province ranks behind only jobs and the
economy among voter concerns. Closing hospitals is seen by many as an assault on
health care, even though the government says the money it saves will be spent on
other aspects of health care.

Compounding the problem for the Conservatives is the fact that women tend to be
even more concerned about health care than men, according to recent political
surveys and focus groups. As a consequence, closing hospitals could further
damage the party's attempts to gain women's support.

Premier Mike Harris acknowledged his party's difficulties in appealing to women
voters yesterday in discussing the potential political fallout from the hospital
closings.

So far, 25 hospitals have been ordered to close in six communities across the
province.

Adding to Mr. Harris's woes is the fact that the man speaking for the government
on the subject is Health Minister Jim Wilson. Several of Mr. Harris's advisers
are unhappy with his performance and have urged the Premier to replace him as
soon as a major cabinet shuffle can be arranged, possibly this fall or early in
the new year.

The gender gap is a striking feature of the province's political landscape.

An Environics Research Group survey in April found that 36 per cent of women
said they would vote Liberal while 24 per cent would back the Conservatives.
Among men, 31 per cent would vote Liberal while 36 per cent would opt for the
Conservatives. The rest would support New Democrats or other parties, or were
undecided.

An Angus Reid Group Inc. survey in June found that among decided voters, 43 per
cent of women would vote Liberal, while 27 per cent would back the Tories, 19
per cent supported the New Democrats and 11 per cent would opt for another
party.

Among decided male voters, 50 per cent supported the Conservatives, 29 per cent
picked the Liberals, 13 per cent backed the New Democrats and 8 per cent
favoured another party.

Both groups found support for the two parties quite close.

Mr. Harris said he is hoping to persuade women that his government is working to
help them.

"More women are working, more women are getting jobs, more women are breaking
the cycle of [welfare] dependency," he said at Queen's Park yesterday.

Closing Women's College Hospital is not an assault on women's health care, he
argued.

"There will be a number of specialists who would say that the facilities at
Sunnybrook [Health Science Centre] will be far better, will be able to treat
women far better, that women's health care is not dependent upon a dingy old
building, that is rather old, in downtown Toronto."

He also complained about the lack of action in shutting hospitals by the
Conservative government under former premier William Davis as well as under the
New Democrats and Liberals who governed for the past 10 years.

"I don't think anybody can legitimately say we're not doing what needs to be
done and what they didn't have the courage to do for 15 years or so, while other
provinces did. That made the challenge more difficult."

Similarly, Mr. Wilson tried to argue yesterday that merging Women's College
Hospital into a new institution based around the Sunnybrook centre will benefit,
not curtail, health care for women. Voters will see this by the time of the next
election, he predicted.

"It's early days yet. . . . It'll be over the next two years when . . . you're
going to have unprecedented modern renovations to the hospitals that remain in
the city."

But Isabel Bassett, the Conservative MPP for the downtown Toronto riding of St.
Andrews-St. Patrick, which is served by Women's College Hospital, acknowledged
the political problems created by the closing.

"Is it politically touchy? Of course," said Ms. Bassett, a long-time supporter
of the hospital who has worked closely with the chairwoman of the hospital,
prominent Conservative lawyer Jane Pepino.

Ms. Bassett said the government must stress that they are trying to improve the
system of women's health care. "If we don't sell that message, then naturally
people will remain convinced that we're not trying to help women."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1997 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


