                              125 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                      May 22, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Mega-hospital keeps ex-separatist: Trustees apologize for furore but stick with
chosen leader

BYLINE: THE CANADIAN PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 401 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


A former separatist appointed to head Ottawa's new mega-hospital will keep his
job, despite an explosion of controversy over his political beliefs that has
inflamed the national unity debate.

The hospital board issued a statement Thursday apologizing for not being
prepared for the fallout with its appointment of David Levine. It's decision to
support Levine was unanimous.

"Mr. Levine's hiring has caused a reaction amongst some members of our community
that clearly we did not fully appreciate," said Nick Mulder, chairman of the
hospital's board of trustees.

"We apologize to the community for inadvertently opening wounds on the serious
issue of national unity."

Levine, a bilingual anglophone from Quebec, ran for the Parti Quebecois almost
20 years ago, saying he wanted to build a bridge between the English and the
French communities.

Levine said late last week he has no political agenda. He said he is an
experienced hospital manager who had a long and distinguished career in Quebec
before his appointment last year as the province's envoy to New York.

He noted he worked in Quebec's hospital system under PQ and Liberal governments
and politics has never been an issue in his work.

But the hospital has received hundreds of calls, some from donors threatening to
stop sending money. Others describe the furore as a witch-hunt that smacks of
the McCarthyism of the 1950s in the U.S., where suspected communists were
rounded up and blacklisted.

Mulder said the board continues to believe Levine is the best qualified person
for the job and said the hospital will not discriminate against Levine on the
basis of his political beliefs.

But Mulder also acknowledged that the concerns of the community must be
addressed. Levine's performance will be regularly evaluated and he will not be
able to use his position to advance any political views.

The hospital's volunteer board had to weigh the public opposition to Levine
keeping his $ 300,000-a-year job against their contention that his experience
makes him the best person for the job.

The board has tried to dispel concerns among staff that Levine would eventually
limit jobs to bilinguals.

Prime Minister Jean Chretien has said Levine's political inclinations do not
affect his ability to serve.

But Bloc Quebecois Leader Gilles Duceppe has said the outcry "means Canada is no
longer a tolerant society."


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


