                              122 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                  February 21, 1990, Wednesday, FINAL EDITION

Watch for political fallout form hospital wars

BYLINE: By Jim Maclean

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A29

LENGTH: 800 words


   Hardball, nomination-meeting-style political battles have arrived in
Ontario's hospital system and it's likely that the "wars" have just begun.

The battle of most recent note ended on Jan. 24 with the resignations of the
majority of the board members of Toronto's Women's College Hospital, just hours
before a meeting staged by a well-organized and well-financed lobby group, "The
Friends." The meeting had been called to vote out certain board members: Sixteen
of them quit rather than continue a divisive public conflict which had split the
hospital.

The immediate issue, now resolved in favor of the "Friends," was whether the
smaller Women's College would merge with the much larger Toronto Hospital or
whether it would remain independent. But there are far wider questions raised by
these events that could have an impact:

* On the future of volunteer boards in Ontario hospitals;

* On the climate in which the next provincial election will be fought;

* On the government's promised rewriting of the Public Hospitals Act;

* And, on who manages health care in Ontario.

By resigning, the members of the Women's College board tossed the issue of
hospital management straight into Queen's Park's lap. That's potentially
troublesome politically, because it means that volunteer hospital boards with no
vested interests are not immune to removal by well-organized, single-issue
lobbies who want to take hospital management into their own hands for whatever
reason.

The future role of volunteer boards was thrown into further doubt by the Supreme
Court of Ontario ruling of Jan. 23. Its effect was to prove that a single-issue
pressure group had both the moral authority and the legal ability to oust a duly
constituted hospital board whose members believed they had been acting in the
best interests of the hospital, and in accordance with the wishes of the
provincial government.

People on hospital boards do not get paid for their time as board members. Will
such individuals have the stomach to cover their "political" bases now that
organized outside groups can remove them?

Hospital boards can sometimes be useful buffers between the government and the
many interest groups that interact and jockey for position, power and money in
the health care industry. When those "buffers" are removed or leave, the
government itself can easily become the target.

It's quite possible that the political heat on Queen's Park will soon be cranked
up to rolling-boil levels by the "Friends of Women's College" now on the
re-constituted hospital board. They may try to convince the government that it's
wiser to bail out the financially troubled hospital than face the political
consequences of allowing it to go into inexorable decline.

To understand why the Women's College battle may only be the first of many
similar set-tos around the province, it must be remembered that Ontario's 223
public hospitals are in fact private, non-profit corporations, subject to the
Public Hospitals Act, an act which the current Minister of Health has often said
is outdated and needs redrafting.

The province does not run, i.e., manage, Ontario's hospitals. It merely funds
their operations under a system that allows the independent hospital boards to
decide how to spend the money allocated. But Queen's Park (regardless of the
party in power) is always blamed whenever real or perceived problems in the
hospital system crop up, and a case could be made that he who pays the hospital
pipers should be calling the tune.

The departure of the previous Women's College board may hasten provincial
government thinking in that direction. We will know when the rewritten Public
Hospital Act surfaces.

Methods of making hospital boards directly accountable to Queen's Park might
arguably be seen as a way to reassure the public that things are under control
in the highly charged arena of hospitals and health care.

So instead of 223 hospitals all acting independently, all competing, and all
subject to potentially disruptive local power struggles, we could end up with a
sort of "Hospital Ontario Inc.," a collection of 223 branch plants all reporting
directly to head office at Queen's Park.

So the salvos fired in the Women's College Hospital dispute are just the
beginning of a larger power struggle. It is a struggle that will pit the payer
(the government) against the many players in the hospital system, some of whom
have the best interests of the patient at heart, some of whom don't, and all of
whom can create political trouble for any government.

* Jim Maclean was Communications Adviser to Health Minister Elinor Caplan
between December, 1987 and December, 1989. He is now vice-president of Media
Profile, a Toronto communications consultancy.hospital; merger

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


