                              134 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             October 5, 2012 Friday

Children's hospital site now a 'political decision'

BYLINE: PAUL CULLEN, Health Correspondent

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 341 words


THE LOCATION of the new national children s hospital is becoming a political
decision rather than a medical one, the master of the Rotunda maternity hospital
has warned.

With a long-awaited decision on the project imminent, Dr Sam Coulter-Smith has
expressed his unease at the manner in which the Government appeared to be
approaching the decision.

I sense a growing unhappiness about the process. It now appears to be a
political decision, not a clinician s one,  said Dr Coulter-Smith.

The Rotunda, Temple Street children s hospital and the Mater have jointly
proposed building the new hospital on a site at the Mater in central Dublin.
Under the proposal, the Rotunda would move to a new building on the Mater site.

However, informed speculation in recent months has seen Connolly hospital in
Blanchardstown and a greenfield site in Belcamp installed as favourites to get
approval from Cabinet.

Connolly is in the Dublin West constituency of Ministers Leo Varadkar and Joan
Burton while Belcamp lies inside the recently redrawn constituency boundary of
Minister for Health James Reilly.

Dr Reilly appointed a review group to examine possible locations after a
planning application to build the hospital on the Mater site was rejected by An
Bord Pleanála last February. The group chaired by businessman Frank Dolphin was
given 70 days to prepare a report, which was submitted in June. Some 118 days
later, Dr Reilly has yet to submit the matter to Cabinet for a decision.

Dr Coulter-Smith said it appeared the Mater bid was not  flavour of the month
in political circles. What had started as a race between the Mater and St James
s hospital had now become a political decision in which  peripheral sites  such
as Belcamp and Connolly featured prominently. He said there had been no contact
with the Rotunda since the Mater submission, even though the provision of
maternity services would have to be addressed regardless of which submission was
chosen.  There has been no discussion with us in relation to any maternity
hospital element of a project.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


