                              130 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Mandurah Mail

                           January 19, 2017 Thursday
                                 Print Edition

The future Western Australian...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333 words


The future Western Australian government must address the current shortage of
public hospital beds urgently, the Australian Medical Association (WA) said this
week.

"It is time for all political parties in the coming election to recognise the
facts: there are fewer public hospital beds per person in our state than there
were eight years ago," AMA (WA) President Dr Andrew Miller said.

"This harsh reality is despite the State Government spending substantial amounts
of public money over that period and the opening of a number of new hospitals
and health campuses."

Dr Miller said the average available bed rate had fallen from 2.4 per 1000
people in 2010 to 2.2 in 2015.

This equated to a reduction of 8.3 per cent.

"This reflects a completely inadequate government response to a jump in
population of 13.7 per cent over that period," he said.

"Public hospitals are really struggling under the pressures of soaring demand,
with bed shortages across all areas becoming more common every day, along with
code blacks, ramping and hospitals on bypass.

"We can certainly be proud of our health system in WA, but it is becoming harder
for many people, especially the most vulnerable, to access good healthcare when
they need it most."

Dr Miller said health should be "on the minds of every politician and voter in
this campaign" with one of the most important issues being capacity in the
state's public hospital system.

"A lack of hospital capacity has a dramatic impact on other aspects of
healthcare, particularly in emergency departments," he said.

"All political parties should make a firm promise that health will be number one
on their agenda in government and - no lip service - they must keep that
promise.

"We have already seen an announcement by the Liberal Party about an increase at
Joondalup Hospital.

"While welcome, this decision must be duplicated at other hospitals if we simply
are going to make up for what has been lost.

"In addition, wards that have been closed in recent years must be re-opened."

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2017 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


