                              13 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                            January 18, 2015 Sunday

Political Tehsildar's transfer demand

BYLINE: NASIB SHAH SHINWARI

SECTION: Vol. XXVI No. 17

LENGTH: 312  words


Doctors and paramedical staff of Agency headquarter hospital Landikotal demanded
the authorities during a press conference here on Saturday that Political
Tehsildar of Landikotal should be immediately transferred for his misbehavior.

The doctors said Political Tehsildar was not aware of tribal and Pakhtoon
culture. Dr. Ashiq said and criticized the political tehsildar immoral behavior
during his visit to the Landikotal hospital.

Dr.Ashiq said that Political Tehsildar with his Khasadar force personnel entered
the Gynecological section of the hospital without any prior permission which was
the insult of female staff and female patients in the department. Dr. Ashiq
threaten and demanded the authorities that if the political tehsildar was not
transferred in three days they would boycott all activities in the hospital
during their official duties adding that only emergency department would be
open. "We condemn the visit and raids of a low scale administration official on
the hospital" Dr.Ashiq said adding that a low scale official has no right to
raid hospital.

Paramedics Staff leader, Fazal Rehman said and urged that Political
Administration should reform their administration first because the political
administration of Landikotal has been involved in high level corruption.

Fazal Rehman said that if the political administration was serious to provide
facilities to patients, they should take steps to appoint Gynecologist and other
specialist doctors at the hospital whose posts were vacant from a long period.
The medical superintendent of the hospital Dr.Jahan Mir said that our
administration has already informed the Political Agent of Khyber agency about
the repair of hospital ultrasound machine.

Dr. Jahan Mir said that one available ultra sound machine for female patients
were properly working and our staff providing check up facilities to patients.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


