                              128 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                           February 24, 2007 Saturday

POLITICAL APPOINTMENTS AT LYARI HOSPITAL CAUSE UNREST

LENGTH: 400 words


KARACHI - Recruitment at Lyari General Hospital Karachi done in violation of
merit is causing unrest among paramedical staff as several non-permanent
staffers are not being confirmed, TheNation has learnt. The Chief Minister's
House has sent a letter to the Medical Superintendent giving the names of the
candidates for appointment, a member of the Union Paramedical Staff has said.

He claimed that Dr Mukhtar Ahmed Khawaja, the MS, had received a letter
containing 14 names while Dr Mukhtar had personally typed 14 appointment letters
and issued these letters to the ministry. He said as many as six candidates -
three sweepers, two ward boys and a maid - had already been appointed. The
source said that about two months ago a meeting of all medical superintendents
of the government hospitals was held. Sindh Health Secretary, Senator Ghaffar
Qureshi of the PML and MQM Minister Hussain Khan were also present in the
meeting.

During the meeting, Senator Ghaffar directed the MS of the Lyari General
Hospital to appoint some candidates in his hospital saying that the list of
those candidates will be issued later, he added. "Members of the Union of
Paramedical Staff Lyari General Hospital held a general body meeting and
agitation one week ago to condemn political appointments in the hospital. The
members also chanted slogans against the MS and higher authorities," he said.

The employees of the hospital had deep concern over the CM House's influence
over the recruitment process, he said. He said the employees of the hospital had
resolved that political appointments would not be accepted at any cost.  Despite
repeated calls, Dr Mukhtar could not be contacted. A senior official of the
health department requesting anonymity confirmed that there had been several
political appointments at various hospitals, including the Lyari General
Hospital. He confirmed that around six candidates had been appointed at the
hospital.

He also confirmed that the core committee consisting of Senator Ghaffar,
Provincial Minister Irfanullah Marwat and Hussain Khan had issued similar
directions to Dr Mukhtar.  He said that the ban on jobs in Sindh was still in
place and summary of lifting ban from the jobs was under consideration at the
CM's house. He said such employees could not inducted until the summary to lift
the ban was approved. This issue had created a mess in the Health Department, he
added.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

