                              137 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Calgary Herald (Alberta)

                            February 10, 2008 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Sometimes, it's not what is said but where it is said

BYLINE: Graham Thomson, Calgary Herald

SECTION: THE EDITORIAL PAGE; Graham Thomson; Pg. A12

LENGTH: 740  words


When political scientists dissect the 2008 Alberta election campaign, they'll
likely focus on what promises Conservative Leader Ed Stelmach made, not where he
made them. And yet, sometimes politics is like real estate -- it's all about
location, location, location.

During campaigns, politicians routinely pick relevant venues as backdrops for
election promises to give their words a little more visual oomph. Rarely does it
get them into trouble. Then came this past Tuesday when Conservative Leader Ed
Stelmach unveiled a promise to train more health-care workers. He made the
announcement first in Edmonton at the University of Alberta Hospital and later
at Foothills Hospital in Calgary.

The trouble was Capital Health Region in Edmonton had a policy strictly
forbidding partisan political events on its property. "Just in general, all
public bodies try to avoid partisan political activity on public property during
a campaign," said Capital Health spokesman Steve Buick.

It is a sensible policy, one that helps publicly funded bodies, such as Capital
Health, from being caught up in messy partisan politics. In previous election
campaigns, both the Liberals and the NDP had asked to hold events on Capital
Health property and both had been flatly refused. And yet, here we had Stelmach
on Tuesday not only making a political announcement in a hospital but bringing
along more than two dozen candidates for a mini-rally campaign kickoff.

Campaign workers set up a podium with microphone and amplifiers in front of a
big blue Conservative campaign banner in the lobby of the Walter C. MacKenzie
Centre at the University Hospital.

For journalists, watching a hospital lobby being transformed into a political
setting, was just the start of the surprises. The event, which had been billed
simply as a campaign stop for Stelmach to make an announcement, turned into a
mini-rally when out of the Capital Health board room walked Stelmach trailing
his entire coterie of Edmonton-area candidates. It was like watching the
emptying of a circus clown car.

They just kept coming and coming -- and gathered around Stelmach for a photo-op
to cheer as he announced the Conservatives' plan to train more health-care
professionals (a promise that quickly got him in trouble when he couldn't

explain how the current overtaxed system could graduate an extra 225 doctors a
year).

It was all a bit unseemly having the Conservatives applauding themselves while
members of the public wheeled grandpa through the lobby. It certainly explains
why Capital Health didn't want partisan political events sullying its hallways.

So, why did Capital Health allow Stelmach and company to turn a hospital lobby
into party central? "There wasn't an elaborate rationale," said Buick. "We
simply had a request and said 'yes.' " That request, of course, came from the
Conservatives. In other words, when the Liberals and the NDP have asked to use
the facilities, they've been told "no." When the Tories asked, Capital Health
couldn't open the doors quickly enough. By doing so, Capital Health made itself
look like an extension of the Conservative party and lent credence to the
argument the Tories presumptuously treat the province like their own personal
sandbox where they're able to manipulate supposedly arms-length public bodies
such as Capital Health.

The optics weren't nearly as bad at Foothills Hospital, where the Calgary Health
Region never had a policy against partisan political events on-site and so
didn't look like a Tory toady when it opened the doors. Foothills officials
prevented Stelmach and his coterie of Calgary candidates from using a public
area of the hospital by steering the politicians to a relatively private third
floor where the hospital could at least pretend it was promoting Calgary Health.

Not that reporters were interested in the hospital's innovations. By that time,
the news media was focused on the Conservatives' retreat from the promise to
graduate 225 doctors a year. The issue of the inappropriateness of a political
party using a publicly funded building to house a partisan event never popped up
in Calgary as it did in Edmonton. Which is too bad. No public institution should
be used, or allow itself to be used, by a political party for partisan ends.
This might not be a major issue in the life of one election campaign. However,
the erosion of the independence of publicly funded bodies is a big deal in the
life of the province.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

