                              143 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                    February 26, 2014 Wednesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Qintang Court "Micro-Class" Classes

LENGTH: 434  words


Beijing, Feb. 26 -- "Down to concentrate on school work, lend a hand with an
open mind to learn, learn to lay down thoughts at ease." February 25, 2014
afternoon, qintang district party secretary Guigang City People's Court, the
President  special training in the hospital's "micro-class" the opening ceremony
of the hospital and police officers made three requests.



Organizing "micro classroom" special training is general secretary of the
hospital combined Xi Jinping's speech at the Central Political Work Conference
and the Party's mass line conference on educational practice, according to the
hospital development requirements qintang area and fully consider the hospital
and police officers The current team judicial capacity, after the hospital made
a deliberate decision Party, aimed at addressing hospital and police officers
political theory of knowledge, lack of judgment the level of implementation
problems. Able to the next level by organizing "micro-class" special training to
enhance learning exchanges among police officers, which together to improve the
quality of training of all police officers in the political, judicial execution
of business level, so that all aspects of the hospital police officers
knowledge, ability.

"Micro-class" training for one year, every month, a period of about two hours.
Today is the first phase lasted until the end of the initial approach to
training is to determine the end use of half-time in a month, the hospital
called police officers uniform training, centralized learning. Is the speaker of
teaching hospital leadership, the department heads. Speakers said that with the
use of teaching, face to face manner, political theory or interpretation of
legal knowledge as police officers. Qualified lecturers but also through
multimedia, in the form of slides, lectures make clearer, more direct, allowing
police officers more easily accepted. Heads of departments mainly pay attention
to collect, collate materials or concerns current events and legal updates in
the usual work to program to determine training priorities, and the Party's mass
line educational practice combine to collect the latest current affairs hot,
policies, Find the latest laws and regulations, judicial interpretation, grasp
the key, pragmatic. Each phase of training will be the last, as the case review
by the House leadership, and the lack of bright spots exist in teaching targeted
advice to ensure that the next issue of more targeted, more effective, and
indeed make good use of "micro- classroom "and really improve the overall
quality of the hospital police officers.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


