                              139 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                   November 5, 1998, Thursday, METRO EDITION

Harris accepts hospital heat Premier airs old TV clip, denies closings his idea

BYLINE: By Caroline Mallan TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 467 words


   Premier Mike Harris attempted to beat his critics to the punch yesterday by
showing a television clip from the 1995 election in which he said he had no
plans to close Ontario hospitals.

The clip, part of a debate during the election that brought the Tories to power,
has been raised repeatedly by the opposition ever since the government-appointed
Health Services Restructuring Commission began announcing hospital closings.
More than four dozen are to shut their doors.

In it, Harris states: "No, certainly I can guarantee you . . . that it is not my
plan to close hospitals."

"That's me, that's what I said," the Premier said after showing the five-second
clip to the Ontario Hospital Association convention. "I understand that this
sort of clip is virtually irresistible to opposition politicians . . . I could
have taken the easy way out and left half-empty hospitals open."

Harris said he listened instead to experts in the field and relied on their
opinions to reform Ontario's health-care system. He added he is willing to pay
the political price for following recommendations of the commission his
government appointed.

"We had to do the right thing even though it meant taking the political heat."

The Premier told reporters later he did not break his promise to the people of
Ontario and that the clip, which no doubt will feature heavily in the next
election campaign, was taken out of context.

"It's an acknowledgment that it's a tough, tough political decision to close
hospitals, to know that there is a clip there that could be pulled out of
context and used against you."

Harris said his pre-election promise on health care was to find savings and
reinvest them in the system.

David MacKinnon, president of the OHA, said most in the field agree change was
needed in how hospitals are run but he added the image of too much wasted space
in Ontario's hospitals is not accurate.

"Over-all, the notion that the system is half-empty is not at all realistic. In
fact, the system, right now is 90 per cent full," MacKinnon said.

Harris' speech to the OHA was a last-minute change of plans for the premier.
Traditionally, the health minister addresses the closing day of the convention.

"I think it's important the people of Ontario understand: We took a difficult
decision . . . but we're well aware that it had not been taken for 10 years
because there is political heat associated with the change."

Liberal Leader Dalton McGuinty said the people of Ontario have every right to
doubt Harris' word and judge his government based on the short TV clip.

"At the end of the day, people trust their own instincts and rely on their own
good judgment. Mike Harris said he wouldn't close hospitals, period. He's closed
45, period. He lied. End of story."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


