                              138 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Fergus News Express

                           November 30, 2010 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Only Liberals deserve health care?

BYLINE: Fergus-Elora News Express

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 523  words


It's time to take health care out of the "political arena." It's just too
important to be subject to the fingerpointing, posturing, and mindless
partisanship that seems to rule the upper levels of government.

The recent back and forth over the Groves Hospital project is a good case in
point.

For years, local MPP Ted Arnott has been lobbying for a new local hospital.

There's no doubt it's needed. Anyone who's ever been in Groves knows it. That's
not a criticism of the level of care, but a recognition that the building is
decades old and predates modern health care standards - especially regarding
things like infection control and how departments are laid out inside the
building.

But despite the obvious need, Groves (and many other health care projects across
the province) has become a political toy in the gamesmanship of modern party
politics.

Ted Arnott is getting much political mileage out of continuing to push the new
hospital in the Liberals' faces, repeatedly asking for meetings, for grant
approvals, and for approvals of the project itself. Liberal refusals will make
great ammunition for PC campaigning next fall during the provincial election.

Just to strike the point home, Arnott used one of his assigned private member's
bills to call on the Liberals to approve and support two hospital projects in
his riding.

The Liberals, of course, turned him down.

And just to make sure he knows how things are, a few days ago, a Liberal MPP
introduced a similar bill asking the government to approve a health care project
in his riding. And golly gee, guess what, all the Liberals voted for it. (Arnott
did too, to his credit.)

What all this political theatre means, is that as long as the Liberals are in
power, we can forget about getting a new hospital until we elect a Liberal MPP -
at least, that's the message the McGuinty Liberals seem to be sending.

In other words, they're gambling with our health to play political games.

Now we all know this kind of thing goes on. Ridings represented by a favoured
MPP or MP on the government side get approval for all kinds of projects - just
look at all the improvements to MP Tony Clement's riding so he could host the
G-8 summit in June.

But when it goes beyond arts centres and sports complexes to something as
important as health care, hospitals, and emergency rooms, playing these
political games is bordering on the criminal.

Health care projects must be evaluated, prioritized, and approved based solely
on community need - not what political stripe the majority of voters in the area
are - and certainly shouldn't be subject to political gamesmanship.

We'd almost like to tell Ted Arnott to stop lobbying for the hospital, because
the more he makes a new Groves a political issue, the less likely it is the
project will be approved. After all, how can the Liberals possibly "give in" to
the demands of a Progressive Conservative MPP. It would be like doing what the
opposition wants, or something equally terrible.

No, it seems the Liberals would rather stay true to their principles of never
doing anything any PC member wants, than provide modern health care for citizens
of this area.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

