                              140 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                           December 1, 2016 Thursday

Bajaur hospital opens five years after its construction

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 331

LENGTH: 356  words


The political administration on Wednesday inaugurated a hospital in Mamond
tehsil here, five years after it was built.

The D category civil hospital was completed in 2011.

Bajaur Agency Political Agent Abdul Amir Khattak inaugurated the hospital at a
ceremony in Larkholozo area.

On the occasion, the political agent said the hospital would provide better
healthcare to thousands of people of the area.

He deplored that local health department had failed to make the hospital
functional immediately after its completion.

Mr Khattak claimed that the political administration had been making efforts to
provide basic health facilities to people of remote areas. He asked the health
officials to launch a survey to find out which areas of the agency lacked health
facilities.

On the occasion, former KP governor Engr Shaukatullah Khan welcomed the opening
of the hospital and said it would efficiently cater to the health needs of
people.

On the occasion, tribal elders expressed pleasure over the opening of hospital,
saying the health centre had been longstanding demand of the local people.

Health officials told Dawn that the hospital was built with the financial
support of the federal government, saying, dozens of class-IV employees and
other non-technical staff had already been appointed to the hospital, but
appointment of doctors was yet to be made.

TRADERS END STRIKE: Ending their shutdown strike against illegal construction of
shops in Inayat Kalley Bazaar, the local traders on Wednesday set a three-day
deadline for the administration to stop the construction, or they would again
take to the streets.

Talking to reporters, Inayat Kalley traders' association president Haji Shah
Mohammad said the shopkeepers ended their shutdown strike following assurance of
local administration that construction of new shops in the market would not be
allowed.

He said though he was confident that the local administration officials would
resolve the issue, he warned that the traders would resume their strike if their
demand was not accepted.

He said the shops were being constructed in front of the existing shops, which
was not acceptable to them.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


