                              142 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Capital Times (Madison, Wisconsin)

                              July 6, 2007 Friday
                                  ALL EDITION

UW HOSPITAL GETS BREAK ON DAMAGES;
HIGH COURT: IT'S A 'POLITICAL CORPORATION'

BYLINE: Anita Weier The Capital Times

SECTION: FRONT; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 914 words


The state Supreme Court decided today that the University of Wisconsin Hospital
and Clinics Authority is a "political corporation" with a cap on malpractice
damages far smaller than the one for other hospitals and with a much smaller
window of time in which to file suit against it.

The medical malpractice case arose from a motor vehicle accident in 2001
involving Aaron Rouse, who was treated at Theda Clark Medical Center in Neenah
and then at University Hospital in Madison.

In 2004, Rouse filed medical malpractice claims against Theda Clark, University
Hospital, several doctors and Physicians Insurance Company of Wisconsin.

University Hospital filed motions to dismiss, claiming Rouse failed to file
proper notice of his claim within the 180 days of the injury required for cases
involving a political corporation. The Calumet County Circuit Court agreed, and
dismissed the case.

The state Court of Appeals affirmed that decision in October 2006, concluding
that based on the language of two statutes and a previous Supreme Court opinion,
University Hospital is a political corporation.

The appeals court also noted, however, that the University Hospital authority
was created to put it on an equal footing with private hospitals that did not
have to comply with certain restrictions imposed by state law. "Regarding the
UWHCA as a political corporation actually gives it a competitive advantage over
its private counterparts in that its exposure to patient medical malpractice
actions is limited," the court stated.

Rouse then took the case to the Supreme Court, contending that University
Hospital is actually a private entity.

The Supreme Court ruled 4-1 for the University Hospital authority, with two
justices not participating.

"The Wisconsin Supreme Court today confirmed that an important legal protection
applies to UW Hospital and Clinics as a public authority. The court found that
UW Hospital, like other public entities, is entitled to have notices of claim
(the first step in filing a lawsuit) made within 180 days," said University
Hospital spokeswoman Lisa Brunette.

In contrast, someone filing suit against a private hospital would have three
years in which to file a claim. The court's ruling also means that damages
against University Hospital would be capped at $50,000. Other health care
organizations are liable for up to $750,000 under state law for noneconomic
damages and have no cap for economic damages, although the state Patients
Compensation Fund steps in for awards that exceed $1 million.

Brunette contended that the $50,000 cap was not an issue in the case until it
was raised by the Wisconsin Academy of Trial Lawyers in the Supreme Court.

Milwaukee attorney Michael End, whose firm represented Rouse, predicted that
although University Hospital ends up with a $50,000 malpractice limit, the
hospital actually could lose business because of the decision.

"Why would a patient go to University Hospital knowing that the patient will
never ever be able to recover compensation if something goes wrong? Why not go
to Meriter or St. Mary's, where there is full coverage of injuries?" he asked.

End said the real beneficiary of the decision will be Physicians Insurance Co.

"The hospital has been paying full boat to its insurance company for full
protection on medical malpractice claims and this limits payments to $50,000,"
End said.

Rouse lost the use of his right arm, said his attorney, who was unsure whether a
lawsuit would continue against Theda Clark.

Meriter Hospital did not respond to a request for comment by deadline.

"The Supreme Court's actions will not have any impact on how St. Mary's
addresses patient concerns," said Steve Van Dinter, a spokesman for St. Mary's
Hospital Medical Center. "Our focus has been and will continue to be around
maintaining high standards for quality care."

* * *

COURT REASONSINGS: The lower courts relied on the language of a state statute
that says: "There is created a public body corporate and politic to be known as
the University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics Authority."

But the Supreme Court's decision, written by Justice Jon Wilcox, went beyond
that.

"The Legislature created the UWHCA. It has a statutory purpose, which includes
providing high-quality care to the medically indigent, maintaining an
environment for instructing future health care providers, leading efforts to
reduce human suffering and promoting of health, and assisting with the delivery
of health care around the state," Wilcox wrote.

He added that the hospital's board members are either public officials or
appointed by public officials and that the hospital must engage in collective
bargaining, enter into agreements and leases with the state, and report to the
state.

Justices Ann Walsh Bradley and Patience Drake Roggensack did not participate in
the decision, and Chief Justice Shirley Abrahamson dissented.

The hospital authority is not a political corporation and not an exempt
"governmental agency" under Wisconsin statutes, Abrahamson wrote. Instead, it is
a "hybrid organization."

"The employees of the University of Wisconsin are state employees, and tort
claims against them are governed by (statutes). ... The employees of the UWHCA,
on the other hand, are not state employees," she wrote.

Abrahamson added that the hospital does business ordinarily carried on by
private enterprise. Because it is not a political corporation, she argued, a
requirement for filing a claim at a set time would not apply.

E-mail: aweier@madison.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Madison Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


