                              14 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                            January 18, 2015 Sunday

Landikotal doctors demand transfer of tehsildar

SECTION: Vol. XXX No. 17

LENGTH: 324  words


Agency Headquarter Hospital Landikotal doctors and paramedical staff demanded
the forthwith transfer of political Tehsildar of Landikotal within three days
otherwise; they would close the hospital in protest. They alleged him for his
misbehavior in a press conference held in Landikotal press club here on
Saturday. The doctors said that Political Tehsildar Landikotal Daftar Khan was
not aware of tribal and Pakhtoon culture and the rules and regulations as well.
Dr. Ashiq criticized the political tehsildar for his misbehavior during his
visit to the Landikotal hospital. Dr. Ashiq said that Political Tehsildar
without any prior permission entered the Gynecological section of the hospital
which was the insult of the female staff and patients in the labor department.

He threatened and demanded the authorities that if the political tehsildar was
not transferred in three days, they would boycott all activities during their
official duties and would close the hospital except the emergency unit.

"We condemn the visit and raids of a low scale administration official on the
hospital" Dr.Ashiq said, adding that a low scale officer has no right to raid
hospital.

Paramedics Staff leader, Fazal Rehman said that Political Administration should
reform their administration first because the political administration of
Landikotal is involved in high level corruption. Fazal Rehman said that if the
political administration was serious to provide facilities to patients ,they
should take steps to appoint Gynecologist and other specialist doctors at the
hospital whose posts have been vacant for a long period.

The medical superintendent of the hospital Dr.Jahan Mir said that our
administration has already informed the Political Agent of Khyber agency about
the repair of hospital ultrasound machine. Dr. Jahan Mir said that one available
ultra sound machine for female patients were property working and providing
check up facilities to patients

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


