                              141 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Ashland Daily Tidings, Ore.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                          September 22, 2012 Saturday

EDITORIAL: Dignity/ACH deal gets political

BYLINE: Ashland Daily Tidings, Ore.

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 533 words


Sept. 22--Two forums held last week to answer questions about a proposed
"partnership" between Ashland Community Hospital and Dignity Health seemed to
instead raise more questions about the future of the deal.

To no one's surprise, numerous questions were directed toward Dignity's stand on
abortion and physician-assisted suicide. The answers did not satisfy many of
those in attendance and raised yet another question: Is this a good fit for
Ashland?

Credit to the Dignity Health representative's answers to questions about the two
issues; she made it clear that Dignity Health's Catholic connections would place
those two options largely off the table, at least as far as any direct hospital
involvement is concerned.

The representative, Carol Bayley, was more forthcoming than hospital CEO Mark
Marchetti was a day prior to the first forum, when he told the Daily Tidings
that end-of-life care would not change if a partnership is formed with Dignity.
Bayley, however, made it clear that physicians at Dignity-managed hospitals are
not allowed to prescribe medication that induces death.

The hospital and its staff also would not participate in abortions, unless the
mother's life were in danger.

Neither of those restrictions would greatly affect how the hospital is run, but
it would foreclose future options to increase services in either area.

Dignity Health, formerly Catholic Healthcare West, is the nation's fifth-largest
hospital system that now includes 40 hospitals, 150 care centers and about
65,000 employees. It won out over several other bidders, including the two
Medford hospitals, when ACH started looking for suitors to help it shore up its
financial position. The Ashland hospital recorded a $2.5 million loss in the
last fiscal year.

The issue has taken on more political overtones as questions are raised --
albeit by a fairly small number of people -- about abortion and assisted
suicide. It likely will get even more political: While the ACH board made the
selection of Dignity Health, the final decision must also be approved by the
Ashland City Council because the city holds the lease to the hospital property.
The hospital was formerly a city department, but became a not-for-profit
corporation in an 1996 agreement that established the lease.

So the big question facing the ACH board and the council is whether Dignity is a
good fit for the community. There is no question that the relatively small
hospital needs a financial partner, but the question remains whether Dignity is
the right choice.

The ACH board selected Dignity from among five proposals by outside health
organizations, including the parent companies of Providence Medford Medical
Center (which also is Catholic-affiliated) and Rogue Regional Medical Center.

We don't know the particulars of the proposals, but if there's a close runner-up
that wouldn't come with the same limitations, it may be wise for the hospital
board to keep that option on the table. At some point, the political heat can
make even the best of choices seem less palatable.

___ (c)2012 The Ashland Daily Tidings (Ashland, Ore.) Visit The Ashland Daily
Tidings (Ashland, Ore.) at www.dailytidings.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20120922-1AS-EDITORIAL-Dignity-ACH-deal-gets-political-0922-20120922

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AS


                      Copyright 2012 Ashland Daily Tidings


