                              15 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                            December 18, 2015 Friday

Interference in govt hospitals must be stopped: Doctors

SECTION: Vol. XXX No. 346

LENGTH: 338  words


Office bearers of Insaf Doctors Forum (IDF) have asked central and provincial
leadership of all political and religious parties to stop their councilors and
workers from interfering into administrative matters of all tertiary care
hospitals.

Every institution functions within the limits and jurisdiction of law but
however the recently elected members in local government polls and some members
of provincial assembly were constantly interfering into the administrative
matters of hospitals, affecting the patients, said a press release issued by
Insaf Doctors Forum. IDF has received several complains, citing political
interference in patient care and hospital administration from many health care
providers, it informed.

As several representatives who elected in LB polls and non-elected members of
various political parties are coming to hospitals and using references of their
high officials, press release said and adding they seek protocol and special
attention during their visits. IDF office bearers alleged workers of entering
into hospitals along with gunmen for showing power which creates fear among
hospital staffers. The workers were also threatening and abusing doctors
including other staff during their visits, they added.

Most of the recently elected Local Government members (including all political
parties) are unaware of their responsibilities and jurisdiction, they stated.
They also asked Minister for Local Government and Rural Development, Mr
Inayatullah Khan to arrange awareness workshops for the Local Government members
in this regard.

They strongly urged political parties leaders to guide their workers and elected
members to avoid interfering into administrative matters of hospitals and also
not to threaten doctors because these actions are greatly suffering the healthy
environment of hospitals. Political parties leaders and elected members in LB
elections were interfering in Lady Reading Hospital (LRH) and Khyber Teaching
Hospital (KTH) and that they have no concern with affairs of hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2015 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


