                              152 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                      January 22, 2016 Friday 5:50 PM GMT

"How's about we just stop booting the Vale Hospital about like a political
football? The baw's burst.";
Opinion piece on politicians playing the blame game over services being cut at
our hospital

BYLINE: By Marc McLean

SECTION: NEW ARTICLES

LENGTH: 621 words


The Lennox Herald was accused of "scaremongering" about the future of the Vale
Hospital this week - and it got my blood boiling. To the point where I was
considering a check-up at the hospital's blood pressure clinic.

Then I remembered that was shut by the health board at the end of last year.

Ward six was the next casualty of NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde (NHSGGC).
Another cut to our heavily bleeding hospital.

The Vale's in a critical condition and these two latest attacks prompted the
Lennox Herald to launch the Save Our Services campaign. This is being done in
conjunction with apolitical group Hospitalwatch, which has been fighting a
losing battle with successive health boards for more than a decade.

The message we're sending out is: "Enough is enough." We need to stop the rot to
make sure we're not left with a sad shell of a building in the shadow of
Alexandria's modern medical centre.

"Scaremongering"? Am I missing something?

The following week, by complete coincidence, we were told that the maternity
unit was also under threat, along with what is left of emergency services. The
latter could be switched to the Royal Alexandra Hospital (RAH) in Paisley. Fancy
that?

This was revealed in a secret document drawn up by NHS GGC chiefs that was
leaked to Dumbarton MSP Jackie Baillie by a member of NHS staff.

It didn't matter that this was made public by a Labour MSP. It could have been
leaked by an axe murderer for all I care.

But the next thing we know a few people (with clear political leanings) are
springing on to their high horses about who is to blame for the state the Vale
hospital is in today.

Let's get one thing straight. The Save Our Services campaign is non-political
and we're not interested in it becoming a slanging match about who is to blame
for the erosion of services and which political party was in control last year,
or five, 10, 20 years ago.

"It wisnae us, it wis them" is the usual cry from politicians. As far as the
Vale hospital is concerned, I don't trust any of them. I know most of my family
and friends across the Vale and Dumbarton feel the same.

How about we just stop booting the Vale hospital around like a political
football? The baw's burst.

This secret document showed that the ruthless health board had more Vale
hospital services in its sights. It seems like we're an easy target, although
these were in a lengthy list of potential cost-cutting measures at other
hospitals such as the RAH.

These are only money-saving suggestions for the skint health board drawn up by
NHS managers on six-figure wages no doubt. No decisions have been taken and so
no more services are to go at the Vale hospital. At the moment.

I reported on the full paediatric services at the Vale hospital's maternity unit
being lost 12 or 13 years ago.

Then the community was devastated when we lost our A&E services to Paisley.

There were rumours for a while that the Vale hospital's Christie Ward could go
next. Surely another lifeline service wouldn't be lost? No, we were told that
was just another money-saving option being looked at - no decisions were made.

Sadly, but not surprisingly, at the end of 2011, it was announced that the
mental health unit was indeed being closed and services were being transferred
to Gartnavel.

It feels like I've become the "Vale cuts correspondent" for the Lennox Herald.
Instead of reporting on yet another service being robbed from our local
hospital, I'd much rather be writing about how the community is coming together
to fight to save it.

If you want to accuse the newspaper of "scaremongering", then that's up to you.
A better option would be signing our Save Our Services online petition and
showing support for the Vale hospital.

Marc McLean, Lennox Herald reporter.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


