                              153 of 998 DOCUMENTS


               The Guardian (Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island)

                             June 1, 2005 Wednesday

Prince County politicians say health minister given way too much power

BYLINE: Thibodeau, Wayne

SECTION: THE PROVINCE; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 612  words


The unfettered and arbitrary authority being handed Health Minister Chester
Gillan is unconscionable and must be stopped, says a group of political leaders
in western P.E.I.

In a sharply worded letter to Premier Pat Binns, the political leaders called on
the P.E.I. premier to change the legislation now before the house to ensure more
power is left in the hands of the hospital boards. They say it should be the
elected officials on the board - not the minister of health in Charlottetown -
deciding the future of P.E.I.'s five rural hospitals.

The letter is signed by the community leaders in Alberton, O'Leary, Tignish,
Tyne Valley and Lennox Island as well as the co-chairs of the Friends of Stewart
Memorial Hospital - the group that convinced the province to return emergency
room services to the tiny Tyne Valley hospital after it was cut.

Lynden Ellis, chairman of the Friends of Stewart Memorial Hospital, described
the legislation as vicious. He said it was not well thought out.

"After working so hard to secure the future of our hospital, we don't want this
to happen," Ellis said in an interview with The Guardian from his home in
Northam, near Tyne Valley.

"We were relatively pleased when we heard they were going to give us our boards
back. But when we saw the legislation, the boards have no power. The boards have
no power and the minister has all the power."

Ellis said the boards would be nothing more than puppets for the minister of
health.

"If they want this to work, they are going to have to change some things."

The political leaders have presented the province with a position paper
outlining the changes they want to see to the Community Hospital Authorities
Act.

They want less power in the hands of the minister, an appeal mechanism in place
in case the minister rejects a decision of one of the local boards, and elected
health boards.

The province is planning to appoint the first set of health boards until
elections can be held.

The position paper also asks that the five health boards start with a clean
financial slate and not have to carry debts now owing to the hospitals or
regional health authorities.

Gillan made no promises but he said he'd look at their concerns.

But timing is not on the side of the political leaders in western P.E.I. as the
legislation passed second reading in the legislature Tuesday night.

"It's good that the community leaders out there are listening and are watching
and we want the very best in legislation to go in to guide us in the future,"
said Gillan.

"We certainly are very familiar with the fact that the communities want to play
a leading role in this - that has always been the intent of our government and
the department."

But the minister said he's not prepared to change the legislation to give more
power to the local boards.

"Everybody would like power but then nobody wants to take responsibility," he
said.

"The ultimate responsibility in this act comes back to the minister. That is
where people come unglued. They say the minister has too much power. The
minister has the responsibility - that's what this act is really stating."

Ellis said the provincial government will face stiff opposition from political
leaders in western P.E.I. if the province doesn't back down and change the
legislation.

The political leaders met in West Prince Monday night.

Ellis said they fear the provincial government may be deliberately trying to
undermine rural hospitals in the province.

"I don't like to say that but it can be done. The minister can, any day pretty
well, pass legislation to dissolve a hospital, add a hospital, change the name
of a hospital - they can do whatever they want to do without any consultation."

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2005 The Guardian, a division of Hollinger Canadian Newspapers, L.P.
                              All Rights Reserved


