                              148 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                          Berkhamsted & Tring Gazette

                              May 16, 2014 Friday

We're wrecking the NHS? No Ed: your government destroyed our hospitals!' says
Hemel MP

BYLINE: David O'neill

LENGTH: 436  words


Hemel Hempstead's MP has branded Ed Miliband a hypocrite after the Labour leader
accused the Tories of wrecking the NHS during a party political broadcast from
Watford General Hospital.

Mike Penning campaigned vociferously to save Hemel Hempstead Hospital's A&E unit
before it was closed by the last Labour government - which Mr Miliband was a
part of.

Mr Penning said: "Someone must have briefed him very badly. It was an insult to
my constituents. Most of my constituents would treat him with the contempt he
deserves, I reckon."

Hemel Hempstead Hospital lost its A&E unit, children's and maternity services,
stroke unit and a host of other services after the 2009 shake-up while Labour
was in power.

Mr Penning said: "Either the leader of the Labour party has got selective memory
loss, or he's a complete hypocrite. It was the Labour party that created this
muddle, when they closed Hemel.

"All of the issues that are being highlighted at Watford were predicted when
they did this.

"I find it unbelievable that he thinks people will forget this just five years
after they did it. When Labour were in government, they allowed Hemel to be
destroyed."

Mr Penning said lead thieves and people stealing copper piping and wiring
stripped the site after it was closed, because not enough security was hired to
guard it.

The Tory MP said that on top of vandalism would make it very hard to ever
restore Hemel Hempstead Hospital to its former glory.

Mr Miliband said there was deep anxiety' among staff at Watford General during
his party political broadcast.

But Mr Penning said: "That anxiety has been there since the day they announced
after a sham consultation that they were going to close Hemel and move it into
the Watford site."

He also accused Mr Miliband of tricking the managers of Watford General into
allowing him to use their hospital for party political purposes, sparking
complaints from its staff.

Mr Penning said: "I visit West Herts regularly, but have never taken a camera
crew and film crew. You go there to learn from the staff and for them to have a
feeling of security."

He said the Labour government was warned years ago that Watford General would
face all of the problems it is now if the Hemel Hempstead Hospital closures went
ahead.

He said the closures was implemented for a political reason'.

He said: "The only two acute hospitals that were left in Herts before the last
election were in Watford and Stevenage.

"The only two Labour MPs left in Herts before the last election were in Watford
and Stevenage.

"I will leave your readers to make their own minds up about whether or not
that's just a coincidence."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCG2


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


