                              147 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 10, 2009 Monday

Top South Korean politicians visit former president in hospital

LENGTH: 425 words


Text of report in English by South Korean news agency Yonhap

Seoul, Aug. 10 (Yonhap) - South Korean political heavyweights rushed to visit a
Seoul hospital Monday to wish for the good health of ailing former President Kim
Tae-chung [Kim Dae-jung], who has been hospitalized with pneumonia for nearly a
month.

Kim Yo'ng-sam [Kim Young-sam], who served as president between 1993 and 1998,
paid a rare visit to his successor in an intensive care unit at Severance
Hospital and met with the ailing politician's wife and former first lady Lee
Hee-ho to give words of encouragement.

Leaving the hospital, Kim Yo'ng-sam [Kim Young-sam], who had a troubled
historical relationship as a political rival with Kim Tae-chung [Kim Dae-jung],
looked back on their political relations.

"He and I have been close comrades since long ago. We had held each other's
hands. We have also cooperated in establishing democracy in South Korea," said
Kim.

The two fought against the military regime in the 1970s and 1980s but chose
different political paths after South Korea ended the decades-long dictatorship.

The former first lady appreciated Kim's visit, saying his visit may encourage
her husband, who still requires a respirator and tranquilizers for comfort.

Chairman of the ruling Grand National Party (GNP), Pak Hu'i-t'ae [Park Hee-tae],
also came to visit the former president at the western Seoul hospital along with
a number of ranking GNP lawmakers and gave words of encouragement to Lee and
members of Kim's family and inner circles.

"All people wish him a quick recovery, no matter what political group they are
in," Park said.

Lawmakers of the main opposition Democratic Party (DP), including Chairman Chung
Sye-kyun [Cho'ng Se-kyun], also visited the hospital to wish for Kim's good
health.

Early Sunday morning, the 85-year-old Kim's health condition became critical as
some of his medical indicators displayed abnormalcy, though he later regained
stability.

He has recuperated to some extent but needs to be closely monitored due to his
old age and complications of pneumonia, hospital officials said.

Kim's aides, family and medical personnel are on standby in case of emergencies,
they added.

Kim, 85, was admitted to the hospital on July 13 after showing symptoms of
pneumonia and was put on a respirator three days after.

His 1998-2003 presidency known for an engagement policy towards North Korea
culminated in the first inter-Korean summit in 2000 and Kim winning the Nobel
Peace Price in the same year.

Source: Yonhap news agency, Seoul, in English 0733 gmt 10 Aug 09

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


