                              145 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                         July 15, 1997, Tuesday Edition

A CHAIN OF DECISIONS LEADING TO TRAGEDY;
CRISPIN HULL CHARTS THE BACKGROUND TO THE HOSPITAL IMPLOSION THAT WENT SO
GRIEVOUSLY WRONG AND POSES A FEW QUESTIONS THAT NEED TO BE ANSWERED.

SECTION: Part A; Page 9

LENGTH: 1156 words


A PROFOUND feeling of guilt pervades Canberra this week. It arises from a
wondering of how and why we could have been led to take part in the events of
Sunday.  And take part we did, just by being there to watch.

We now have a knowledge that, for a long time to come, every time we cross
Commonwealth Avenue the beauty of the scene will be tainted.

The guilt is compounded. Every parent who took a child to the lake of Sunday
feels they could have been endangering their child.

As we went to the lake on Sunday we carried with us emotional memories of days
when the hospital was a hospital: of birth and death and fear and hope. When
emotion is high, memory is more highly tuned. Indeed, there is bio-medical
research on this suggesting that high emotion causes chemical changes in the
brain that help weld in memory.

We had a juxtaposition of high emotion and the lure of the carnival created by
the centres of power in the community  especially government and media. When it
went wrong, in the hearts and minds of ordinary people (at least those I have
spoken to) there was bound to be a compelling reaction to this cocktail that
demands to see it resolved. The promise of a carnival had yielded tragedy and
guilt.

The guilt is greater because tragedy resulted from a string of causation which
was almost entirely human action and much of which was political action. People
feel guilty enough after act-of-God deaths they are associated with. When they
participate in an almost entirely human- created event, they feel that much more
guilty. And because Sunday's events occurred at a time of moderately high
emotion created by our recalling of events associated with the hospital, the
imprint will remain long in our memory and the demand for a resolution of the
conflict between carnival and tragedy will be that much more powerful.

One of the easiest forms of resolution is to cast blame. But blame without
explanation is only satisfactory in the short term. To place blame
satisfactorily we need to know the full details of the chain of causation.

As it is, the chain is incomplete. And how far do we go back? Say we go back to
the time when Canberra Hospital was an ordinary functioning hospital in Canberra
and go through to Sunday at 1.45pm.

The decisions in the chain are as follows: The political and bureaucratic
decision to build Woden Valley Hospital which ultimately undermined Canberra
Hospital's viability. There is some suggestion that, though started earlier, it
was pushed by the Whitlam Government in the hope of achieving a guinea-pig
hospital full of salaried doctors. But this goes back too far. None the less it
starts the chain.

The political and medical conclusion that Canberra should have only one public
hospital because that was the only way in the 1990s to maintain the critical
mass to support the full range of medical services and a clinical school.

The political and financial decision to close Canberra Hospital. This was
greeted with outrage and high emotion. The process, combined with the upgrade at
Woden, was drawn out. It became a running sore - and remained a running sore for
more than half a decade as the building sat empty, unused and in a publicly
prominent position.

Now we come closer to the events of Sunday.

The political decision to swap Acton Peninsula with the Federal Government for
Kingston lakeshore and the concomitant decision to clear the Acton site.

The decision to use an implosion technique to demolish the hospital tower block
and Sylvia Curley House. This one is critical. At present we have to assume that
it was purely a technical, cost and convenience decision. If, however, political
considerations are shown to have influenced the decision in any way, Kate
Carnell and the minority Liberal Government will be in desperate trouble.

The political decision to make a public spectacle of the implosion. Mrs Carnell
is somewhat vulnerable here, but there are some defences.  The failure of the
safety precautions of the implosion, whether by human fault or unforeseeable
circumstance.  Let's go back to the last three points.

Mrs Carnell has engaged in a lot of spectacle politics since coming to office.
The corollary is that if a spectacle goes wrong she can expect to be associated
with it going wrong, however irrational the association might be. For many that
has been enough to condemn her.

But in the context of heavy cutbacks from the Federal Government, even before
John Howard came to power, Canberra has needed a fillip. It has needed someone
to go out and energetically sell the place rather than to hope for some
public-sector salvation which will never come. To that extent others will not be
so condemnatory out of hand, but be more willing to concentrate on the failure
of the implosion itself, whether a human engineering fault or some unforeseen
element.

They might feel that if you have to level the site and implosion is the cheapest
and most convenient way, then why not involve the whole Canberra community.

This group, judging by letters and talk-back, has probably expanded considerably
in the past 36 hours with the entry into the debate of George Wason of the
Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union. He accused Mrs Carnell of
pushing for an implosion as political grandstanding against safer, cheaper
methods.

His timing was appalling. Many have seen it as political point-scoring on the
back of an appalling tragedy. Indeed, Wason appears to have done exactly the
opposite of his intention.  He has taken some pressure from Mrs Carnell.

The point of this background is to show that the chain of events leading to
Sunday's tragedy is almost entirely of human making.

Bizarrely, an inexplicable "act of God" would not trouble us as much, at least
those outside the immediately family.  The background shows also that the
tragedy has a political context in the broadest sense. It means that, as
participants and voters, we are all involved. Thus the demand for resolution is
so high.

A lot of response is bound to be irrational; it is that sort of event. For
example, imagine if Mrs Carnell herself had pressed the plunger.

It would have made exactly no difference to the result, but the difference in
response would have been decisive.

And a lot of reaction is going to be anti-Carnell anyway, for example, by the
save-the-hospital group.

But the resolution for the middle ground will come after the inquiries. Unless
they find some precise explanation or definite human failing on the engineering
side, the resolution is bound to be political because there will be nowhere else
for it to go. And in this context it demands resolution.

People do not want to carry the guilt; they would prefer to pass it on.

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

             Copyright 1997 The Federal Capital Press of Australia
                                  Pty Limited


