                              151 of 998 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                 April 12, 2002

Health campaigner accuses Labour candidate of ignoring Harefield Hospital .

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 505 words



A KEY policy of Labour mayoral candidate m Vince Muspratt has been attacked by
health campaigners as a betrayal of Watford residents.

Mrs Jean Brett, who heads the fight to save Harefield Hospital, said the Labour
politician had abandoned local interests for the sake of political ambition.

Criticising his decision not to continue the campaign on behalf of the
threatened heart hospital, she said: "He's so busy climbing the greasy pole,
he's forgotten the people of Watford.

"The mayor is someone being paid GBP 50,000 to fight for local residents, a
people's champion.

"People's champion? What's the next joke?"

The comments are potentially damaging to the Labour campaign and were dismissed
as unfair by a spokesman, who pointed out Councillor Muspratt had backed the
hospital before closure was announced.

He said, with a decision made by the Government to move the hospital, it would
be "irresponsible" of a mayor not to deal with the reality.

No other mention of the hospital is made in the Labour manifesto, or in that of
any other political party.

Mrs Brett's comments were made on Tuesday, in response to one of the Labour
politician's manifesto pledges.

A central promise is to lobby for Watford's elderly to be included in London's
concessionary travel scheme.

This would give them free daytime use of buses, trains and the Underground when
going into the capital.

Although it is a policy none of his rivals would contradict, in a press release
he writes: "Increasingly, Watford residents need to travel to London for their
health needs. For example, to Moorfields Eye Hospital.

"In the future, with heart services moving from Harefield to Paddington, our
residents will need to travel on London's public transport to get treatment or
to visit friends and relatives."

Mrs Brett backed the policy, but was highly critical of Harefield being used as
a reason for it, particularly as campaigners are still opposed to the hospital
moving.

She said: "Vince Muspratt should be fighting to save Harefield for our elderly
people."

The health campaigner, who was critical of Watford's Labour MP Claire Ward
during the General Election for not backing Harefield, said party members seemed
afraid to fight for residents if it bucked Government policy.

The Conservatives have promised in their campaigning leaflets to fight for the
hospital, a move which has been criticised as political opportunism by a
opposition party with no real power to change policy.

Councillor Muspratt is the only candidate to offer the concessionary fares
pledge.

He said it would be a "major improvement" in the quality of life for elderly and
disabled.

He is also the keenest advocate of the mayoral power, and said the position
would enable him to have influence on organisations, such as health and police
authorities, he does not actually control.

It is this which makes him think negotiations with the Mayor of London Ken
Livingstone over travel schemes will not simply be ignored.

April 11, 2002 18:00

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2002 NewsQuest Media Group Limited


