                              146 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                               May 9, 2011 Monday

focus on quality health

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 915 words


15 minutes with doctors would help diagnosis: Ammar, experts

Pongphon Sarnsamak

The Nation

Top economist Ammar Siamwala and senior health experts have called on political
parties to issue ambitious public policies for the election that allow patients
to see doctors for at least 15 minutes - to improve diagnosis of their problems
at state hospitals.

"I want to see all political parties promise people that whenever they go to
hospital they will have at least 15 minutes to see doctors each time. Today,
patients have only 5 minutes to see doctors," Ammar said. He spoke at a
roundtable discussion titled "Political Party Policy on Public Health and
Well-being for Thai people" held by The Nation and its sister paper Krungthep
Turakij.

Academics and key leaders from political parties including the Democrats, Pheu
Thai and Bhum Jai Thai attended.

Participants were asked to present ideas on how to boost the public health
system.

Ammar said parties had to create a public health policy to improve not only
accessible healthcare but also the quality of medical services.

Bringing people for medical services for mild symptoms at a primary-care unit
instead of allowing them to get treatment at hospitals was another test for
parties - to come up with a way to reduce crowding at hospitals.

"Patients should have about an hour to see a doctor and undergo treatment at
hospital."

Over the past few years, parties' health policies focused on extending medical
services without concerning about budget limitations.

"We know that the 30-baht healthcare scheme, introduced as a former health
policy by Thaksin Shinawatra, is seen as the best public health policy and that
it helped people to access medical services without worrying about the cost of
treatment. But governments didn't think if there would be enough in the budget
to support the scheme or not.

"This is why we have seen an overflow of patients in many state hospitals over
past few years," he said.

The administration of Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva had also invested a lot
of money to upgrade primary care units nationwide to health promoting hospitals.
Instead of improving primary care services, government just changed the name
plate of the hospital.

"It would be better if government promised to people that it would boost the
number of doctors to provide medical services for people in rural areas," a top
academic at the Thailand Development Research Institute (TDRI) said.

Meanwhile, National Health Commission secretary general Dr Amphon Jindawattana
said political parties' health policies did not go beyond putting a lot of money
into medical treatment instead of healthcare promotion and prevention.

"If all political parties don't change the direction of their public health
policy from medical treatment to disease prevention, the country will be
bankrupt in the near future," a senior health official said.

Amphon said parties should have a strong commitment to a policy that protects
peoples' health.

To create long-term public health policy, Health Insurance System Research
Office director Dr Samrit Srithamrongsawas said all parties should eliminate
gaps in the three national health schemes.

Democrat Party spokesman Dr Buranat Samutrak said they had issued seven public
health policies for the election including reducing the gap between three health
funds, allowing family members of Social Security Scheme subscribers to receive
medical benefits under the scheme, making a five-year blueprint for the National
Health Security Fund financial management.

The party's health policies also included improving civil servant medical
benefits and controlling the budget for the scheme, improving medical services
at state health units, allowing state hospitals to run administration and
operate as private hospitals but under government control, developing emergency
medical services, and enhancing local authorities to develop health services to
support local people.

Meanwhile, Bhum Jai Thai party member Manit Nopamornbodi said his party would
improve the quality of medical services especially in health promoting
hospitals.

To help people in rural areas access medical treatment, he said the party would
issue a health policy that produced a large number of medical personnel to work
at health promoting hospital within 10 years.

He believed that this would reduce the overflow of patients and workload faced
by doctors at general hospitals.

Moreover, local authorities would be allowed to help the Health Ministry to
develop healthcare services for people.

Pheu Thai Party deputy leader Vichan Meenchaiyanant said his party would bring
back the 30-baht co-payment after former prime minister General Surayud
Chulanont's administration abolished co-payment and made universal care free.

Paying 30-baht for medical services at state hospitals would ensure people get
good quality health care services.

His party would also extend medical services after office hours but patient
would need to pay Bt300 to get this at state hospitals.

"This money will be collected to buy medical devices and other products to treat
patients," he said.

As Thailand becomes an ageing society in coming years, Vichan said Pheu Thai
Party would introduce second homes for elderly people. They could stay and enjoy
creative activities. Health volunteers at local areas would take care them.

To prevent Thai women from cervical cancer, he said the party was considering
allowing girls aged under 15 to receive the vaccine that prevents this type of
cancer.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2011 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


