                              150 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Kildare Nationalist

                                 August 5, 2010

Save our hospital

SECTION: FRONT: TOP STORY

LENGTH: 398 words


THE campaign to save St Vincent's Hospital in Athy is being stepped up with
several new actions planned.

A packed meeting last Thursday was told that a march will be held in early
September to celebrate the work of the hospital and to hear calls for the
services to be retained and further extended.

A website is being set up at www.saveathyhospital.com and a Facebook page set up
in support of the campaign is attracting quite a large fan base. A petition for
people to sign and gather signatures was also circulated at the meeting. The
meeting was addressed by Athy Town Cathaoirleach Cllr James Mahon, Cllr Richard
Daly, Don Watchorn and John Hubbard who is a representative of SIPTU.

A committee was formed to progress the aims of all those in support of St
Vincent's and the PRO is Cllr Richard Daly. He told the Kildare Nationalist that
political leaderships across the political spectrum in Leinster House will be
lobbied and asked to come out and publicly state where they stand in relation to
St Vincent's Hospital.

"We will be calling on the leaders of all the political parties to either attend
or send their health spokesperson to our next meeting in September to state
their party's stance on the issue. At the meeting there was unity across all
shades of political opinion that St Vincent's needs to be maintained and
strengthened."

Cllr Daly said that the fear among people in Athy is that while there is no
explicit intention to close the hospital it is believed that the hospital is
purposely being run down so that it will not be viable to keep it open.

"The services are being scaled down. Staff have told us that over the past three
years the hospital has lost 50 beds. St Camilus's Ward has been shut down and
the HSE are striving to bring down the ward capacity to 25. This in itself is
not a bad aim but if a reduced number of wards have a reduced number of beds
then the hospital will become unviable. So we need to keep all the wards open
and try to reopen some that have been closed."

He also said that the exclusion of St Vincent's from a list of step down
facilities from Naas Hospital needs to be reversed.

"St Vincent's is not on the list and this limits the options for someone whose
relative is being released from the hospital in Naas and needs to go to a step
down facility. Private nursing homes are on the list, why is St Vincent's, a
public facility not on it."



LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2010 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


