                              158 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                   September 3, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Hospital statement fails to answer Levine-Parti Quebecois question

BYLINE: TOM SPEARS; THE OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: CITY; Pg. D3


A day after Quebec deputy premier Bernard Landry labelled him a supporter of the
Parti Quebecois, David Levine, chief administrator of the Ottawa Hospital,
refused to talk about his political beliefs.

The hospital took all day to put out a statement four sentences long saying Mr.
Levine won't take part in politics. But Mr. Levine wouldn't talk to the media
yesterday.

Instead, the hospital channelled questions to Agnes Jauvich, a member of the
hospital board that hired Mr. Levine. She, however, wouldn't answer repeated
calls, either.

The curt statement, its release delayed by its translation into French, quotes a
clause in Mr. Levine's contract dictating that he abstain from politics.

The unusual clause says Mr. Levine will not run for election and "will not
engage in any activities for, on behalf of or against any political party or
candidate for election" at any political level.

"This clause has and will continue to be respected. My job is to manage the
hospital full time," Mr. Levine said in the statement.

It doesn't address the question that has followed Mr. Levine since his
appointment in June: Is he or isn't he a PQ supporter?

And the hospital didn't answer other questions: How did Mr. Levine learn of Mr.
Landry's words? And how did he -- and the hospital board -- react to them?

On Tuesday, Mr. Landry said he was "proud" to count Mr. Levine as a PQ
supporter. He raised the issue in the context of saying that the PQ has been
able to appeal to different "cultural communities" and not just white
francophones.

For instance, he said, the party counts as its friends a Haitian community
leader, a Bloc Quebecois MP born in Chile and "my friend, Mr. Levine."

Mr. Levine once ran unsuccessfully as a PQ candidate in Montreal. He served as
Quebec's official representative in New York until being hired by the hospital
board.

He was widely described as the chief envoy of the PQ government in the United
States, and has answered questions about his political support ambiguously since
arriving in Ottawa.

The latest comments from Mr. Landry "certainly won't help him. It's absolutely
amazing that Landry said this," said Geoffrey Wasteneys, who originally
protested Mr. Levine's hiring. "It was not the wisest thing for Bernard Landry
to say.

"It's like the American president Warren Harding said: 'I can deal with my
enemies, but God help me from my friends.'

"And I think that David Levine must curse Bernard Landry."

Some of Mr. Levine's work at the hospital so far has been good for the
community, he said.

"We haven't heard any denials" from Mr. Levine, said Earl McKeen, who also
protested the hiring in June. "He should have come out and denied it if it's not
so.

"He hasn't got any common sense, Levine, for having mixed himself up with the
separatists in the first place."


LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1998

LENGTH: 475 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Black & White Photo: David Levine, chief administrator of the Ottawa
Hospital, refused to talk about his political beliefs.

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


