                              161 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                           October 20, 2016 Thursday

Team Sunderbani holds meet

LENGTH: 446 words

DATELINE: Sunderbani


Sunderbani, Oct. 20 -- Team Sunderbani, a body comprising prominent figures
including Doctors, Engineers, Teachers and Social activists of Tehsil Sunderbani
today convened its meeting under the supervision of its coordinator Arun Kumar
Sharma at Dak Bunglow here. On the occasion, all the participants held
deliberations on various issues affecting adversely to the common masses in
general and public exchequer in particular. Arun Kumar Sharma while speaking on
the occasion lamented the role of political representatives of various political
parties for their failure in providing basic facilities to the common masses
even after the 68 years of Independence of India.

Sharma expressed serious concern over deteriorating condition of the health and
life care facilities in the sub-district hospital Sunderbani. He alleged that
the health staff in the hospital in connivance with the medical representatives
(MRs) of the medicine companies are looting the patients and minting money at
the cost of human lives.

There are number of prescribed drugs that are available in the hospital but
owing to the strong nexus between the doctors and medical practitioners the
innocent patients are being forced to purchase medicines from outside the
hospitals, Sharma said adding that without any mention of 'Salt' in the
medicinal drug, doctors in the sub-district hospital are openly endorsing and
prescribing the patients to purchase medicines of the particular companies and
brands which are much costlier to those available in the hospital.

While lamenting the role of political leadership of Sunderbani-Nowshera Assembly
segment, Sharma said that Tehsil Sunderbani has been an example of gross
discrimination, as the Tehsil have been suppressed by outsiders for years on.
"Our political representation in the Legislative Assembly never belonged to
Sunderbani, which is the root cause of the miseries of the people of Tehsil
Sunderbani.

While demanding immediate crackdown on the prevailing nexus in the health
department he warned the political representatives of the Sunderbai-Nowshera
assembly segment should not take the people of Sunderbani for granted anymore
.He also took a dig at the officials of the Revenue Department for illegal
allotments of the land. He alleged that Patwaris in association with land mafia
were busy in allotting land through illegal means and there was no check on it
from the higher ups, which indicates that all are involved in this nexus and
minting money.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


