                              159 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                              May 27, 2014 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

MP has a ball with alleged Mafia boss;
Ken Smith - 'I had a thoroughly enjoyable evening'

BYLINE: Josh Gordon, Nick McKenzie, Richard Baker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 489 words


Prominent Liberal MP Ken Smith attended a charity fund-raiser last month hosted
by a suspected Mafia boss and Liberal donor, despite allegations of links to
organised crime and a political donation bribery scandal.

Fairfax Media can reveal the former Liberal Speaker attended the Fruits of Life
gala ball at Docklands on April 17, just over 12 months after several state and
federal MPs attended a Docklands Liberal Party fund-raiser hosted by the same
alleged Mafia boss.

The event - costing up to $1000 for individuals or $10,000 for a table - was
organised by the alleged crime figure with involvement from My Room, a cancer
charity that raises money for the Royal Children's Hospital.

Fairfax Media last week revealed the suspected Mafia figure, whose name has been
suppressed by a criminal court order, helped bankroll the Liberal Party's
campaign for the marginal federal seat of Bruce. That event, in March 2013, was
attended by federal Liberal MP Russell Broadbent, who was embroiled in a 2009
donations scandal involving the alleged Mafia boss, with a keynote speech
delivered by Victorian Planning Minister Matthew Guy.

Mr Smith confirmed he had attended a fund-raiser for the Royal Children's
Hospital. "I had a thoroughly enjoyable evening knowing my expenditure was going
to a good cause," he said.

Meanwhile, the Royal Children's Hospital revealed the charity fund-raiser
breached its policy because permission from the hospital to use its name was not
sought.

"I can confirm that the RCH Foundation hasn't received funds from the My Room
Fruits of Life gala ball and did not give an authority to fund-raise for the
Royal Children's Hospital," a spokesperson said.

In a statement, My Room said it was "unaware of any proven allegation" against
the alleged crime figure, who had approached the charity following a family
involvement with the hospital.

The charity acknowledged it did not seek the hospital's specific approval for
use of its logo and said it would ensure that its "lines of communication are
efficient in the future".

It said it intended to direct the funds raised on the night to the "various
clinical and research endeavours that My Room supports".

"The guests were generally connected to or had businesses at the Melbourne
Wholesale Fruit and Vegetable Market," the statement said.

The event was attended by more than 740 people, raising about $226,000 for the
charity. The alleged Mafia boss and his family contributed $15,000, having paid
for two 10-person tables, one costing $10,000 and the other $5000.

Mr Smith and his former electorate staffer and ex-Bass Coast mayor Neville
Goodwin are understood to have been involved in fund-raising and charity events
with the alleged Mafia boss dating back to the mid-1990s.

The alleged crime figure has helped raise thousands of dollars for the Liberal
Party, particularly in the outer south-east, where he is perceived to hold
influence over voters of Calabrian heritage.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


