                              160 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Mercury

                                December 6, 2009
                                 1 Star Edition

We don't want any of your money;
HOSPITAL SNUBS BNP DONATION FOR OUR HEROES: EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: GEORGE MAKIN;BEN GOLDBY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 515 words


A MIDLAND hospital which treats hero soldiers wounded in Afghanistan has refused
a donation from the British National Party.

Bosses at Selly Oak hospital in Birmingham turned down money from the far right
party after its members made the collection, claiming it would be donated to
build a burns unit for injured squaddies.

The BNP, whose leader Nick Griffin is MEP for the North West, say they were
selling stickers calling for troops to withdraw from Afghanistan in a bid "to
help our brave and wounded soldiers".

But a spokesman for Selly Oak Hospital, which houses the army's Royal Centre for
Defence Medicine, said: "The British National Party is selling merchandise with
the promise of donating the proceeds to the Selly Oak Hospital burns unit.

"Neither the University Hospitals of Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust nor its
official charity, UHB Charities, have been contacted by the BNP about this
venture, and the Trust does not accept money from any political party," said the
spokesman.

Labour MP for the area Dr Lynne Jones said: "I think the BNP is using the good
name of the hospital to further its distasteful views."

In October the hospital was at the centre of a political storm when Mr Griffin
claimed injured soldiers on Selly Oak's wards had to pay to watch television.

Griffin was attempting to justify his wearing of a poppy on a televised debate
against the wishes of the Royal British Legion.

He said he would remove the poppy if the Legion would put pressure on the
Government to stop "charging young British soldiers with no legs in Selly Oak
Hospital" to watch TV.

His claims were described as "absolute rubbish" by an Army spokesman who
stressed military patients had free access to internet, television and phones.

Last night, John Walker, the BNP's spokesman, said the party was disappointed by
the hospital's decision not to accept their donation.

"I am sure that it's because it's the BNP that they are doing this," he claimed.

"We have as much right to campaign on soldiers and these issues as any other
party.

"If Selly Oak won't take the money, we will find a soldiers' charity that will."

Earlier this year, a group of senior military commanders attacked the BNP for
hijacking the sacrifices of soldiers in order to gain votes. After the BNP used
images of Winston Churchill to fight their European election campaign, former
heads of the British Army General Sir Mike Jackson and General Sir Richard
Dannatt wrote an open letter saying the party was "fundamentally at odds" with
the values of the British military. "We call on all those who seek to hijack the
good name of Britain's military for their own advantage to cease and desist,"
the generals said.

"The values of these extremists - many of whom are essentially racist - are
fundamentally at odds with the values of the modern British military, such as
tolerance and fairness."

Griffin, who was convicted of inciting racial hatred in 1998 for publishing
material appearing to deny the holocaust, responded by comparing the generals to
Nazi war criminals.

ben.goldby@sundaymercury.net

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  The Prince of Wales chats to an injured soldier at Selly Oak Hospital
last year. Top: BNP leader Nick Griffin.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: my


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


