                              156 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                October 7, 2005

City 'lost interest' in patient

SECTION: News; People; Issues; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 430 words


A Professor has claimed City Hospital staff lost interest in an 93-year-old
patient who ended up with gangrene. Prof Jim Thornton, who works at the hospital
and was the unsuccessful Tory parliamentary candidate for Nottingham East,
talked about Margaret Hume in a speech at the Conservative party conference in
Blackpool yesterday.

He said: "I am becoming increasingly distressed and disappointed with the
problems in the National Health Service, and this incident illustrates that
worryingly.

"It seemed like doctors and nurses in Margaret Hume's ward simply lost interest
in her, which is when her problems started mounting up and she eventually
contracted gangrene.

"She is one of thousands upon thousands of people who came to hospital to get
better, and actually became far more seriously ill.

"We need to get back to basics in the NHS - we need to ensure people get the
care and attention they deserve and desperately need in hospital." Ms Hume
worked all her life as a nurse and lived in Woodborough Road.

Her family says the NHS let her down during the final years of her life, when
she spent much time in hospitals.

They say the final blow came after her health deteriorated and she was admitted
to City Hospital this January.

Ms Hume suffered from diabetes, which can affect circulation.

The hospital discharged her in April and she thought she would spend the rest of
her life in a nursing home she particularly liked.

But when the nursing home inspected her, they discovered gangrene. Ms Coetzee
said: "What angers us it was not noticed. If they had been able to treat it in
the hospital she may have been able to spend her last few months in the nursing
home.

"It was another blow because of a lack of care." Ms Hume, who never married and
had no children, was readmitted to hospital, where she died shortly after.

Explaining the family's decision to allow Ms Hume's experience to be used in a
speech at a political conference, Ms Coetzee said: "I do not belong to any
political party.

"We just wanted my aunt's voice to be heard." Nottingham City Hospital medical
director Dr Stephen Fowlie said: "The team knew that Miss Hume had diabetes and
problems with the circulation to her feet and this was monitored throughout her
stay.

"A slight change in her foot was recorded on the evening before her discharge.

"The hospital received a complaint about Miss Hume's care in April 2005.

"The matter was thoroughly investigated and appropriate action has been taken.

"We are sorry that this incident occurred."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                    © Copyright 2005 Nottingham Evening Post


