                              154 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            April 14, 1994, Thursday

Fayette Voices Readers' Letters TELL US WHAT YOU THINK MY TURN Delayers of
hospital selling out county

BYLINE: By Roger Marietta

SECTION: EXTRA; Section M; Page 8

LENGTH: 518 words


I was disappointed to read that Georgia MedCorp (a.k.a. Fayette Regional
Hospital currently operating as Southern Regional Medical Center and previously
operating as Clayton General Hospital) and Georgia Baptist have chosen to
contest the award of a certificate of Need (CON) to Piedmont Hospital to build a
much needed hospital in Fayette County.

Peachtree Regional declined to further delay the construction for Fayette
Community Hospital as it will be called, and I commend them for that. When
Georgia MedCorp received a preliminary CON against the preference of the
community, I put my negative feelings behind me and looked forward to any
hospital. Georgia MedCorp and its small Fayette contingent apparently do not
feel this way.

This is not a surprise; however, because I can remember Fayette County's first
attempt at a CON back in 1989 and how Clayton General fought that CON tooth and
nail. In the proceedings, it was revealed that Clayton General's long-range plan
was to stop or delay construction of a hospital in Fayette County and included
estimates of millions of dollars of profit for Clayton General.

Later, when Georgia Baptist put in an application for a CON in 1992, Clayton
General changed its name and contested by submitting a competing application.

We were told that SRMC, or Georgia MedCorp, was under new management and the
stop or delay tactics of the past were no more. Today it is clear that not much
has changed.

What has changed is the selling out of Fayette County by those Georgia MedCorp
supporters who condone the further legal delays to a Fayette County hospital.
Many of those responsible on the Board of the Fayette Regional Hospital (Georgia
MedCorp) are also affiliated with the Fayette County Republican Party.

Bob Disharoon, who chaired Lynn Westmoreland's 1992 campaign; Annie McMenamin,
Peachtree City councilwoman, who is chairing Steve Wallace's 1994 campaign; and
Paul Powers, former chairman of the Republican Party, are just a few of the
Republican notables on the Georgia MedCorp affiliate's board.

The Fayette Regional Advisory Board is composed of more than 100 Fayette County
residents and is chaired by Fayetteville City Councilman Robert Sprayberry,
Republican candidate for county commissioner. Its membership reads like a who's
who in the Fayette Republican Party.

I've noticed that Sprayberry's press releases announcing his candidacy fail to
mention his prominent position as Chairman of the Fayette Regional Hospital
Advisory Board.

Just what is the position of the Advisory Board and the Board of Directors of
Fayette Regional? Do you support further delays in the construction of a
hospital by attacking Piedmont's CON?

If members of those boards want to see a hospital built as soon as possible,
they should resign in protest of Georgia MedCorp's decision to contest Piedmont
Hospital's CON. If they want to fight Piedmont's CON, then list their names and
phone numbers in the paper so the rest of the county can tell them how they
feel.

Marietta is a former mayor of Fayetteville and an unsuccessful congressional
candidate.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH941110240

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mug shot of Roger Marietta.

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


