                              16 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                             March 10, 2015 Tuesday

Govt mulls making Bir's approval must for leaders seeking treatment abroad

LENGTH: 476 words

DATELINE: Kathmandu


Kathmandu, March 10 -- Ailing political leaders would now require approval of
the Bir Hospital for financial aid from government for their treatment abroad,
if the proposal floated by the Ministry of Health and Population (MoHP) gets
endorsed by the cabinet.

Leaders would have to produce approval of the Bir Hospital's medical board to
receive grant, if the cabinet endorses the MoHP proposal, said officials.

The MoHP has taken the move as political leaders started seeking financial aid
from the government for their treatment in foreign hospitals. Some leaders seek
treatment in foreign countries even for minor health complications, which can be
treated within the country. Every year, the government spends millions of rupees
for the treatment of political leaders in foreign hospitals.

"We are preparing to table the proposal in the cabinet," said Minister for
Health and Population Khaga Raj Adhikari, adding, "If the proposal gets
endorsed, leaders of political parties would have to produce recommendation of
the Bir Hospital for financial aid from the government."

At present, the cabinet takes decision on providing financial aid for treatment
of political leaders in foreign hospitals without seeking any recommendation
from the doctors.

He informed that the Bir Hospital has separate cells for the treatment of VIPs
and VVIPs, but no one goes there for treatment. Similar treatment facility is
available in the Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital (TUTH).

"No political leader goes to Bir Hospital, which is the national referral
center, for treatment," complained Adhikari.

According to Adhikari, hospitals in the country provide treatment for most of
the diseases. However, leaders do not trust Nepali doctors. The government has
been spending huge amount of money for the treatment of leaders in foreign
hospitals.

Party leaders, including the chiefs of Nepali Congress and UML, have taken huge
amounts of money for treatment in foreign hospital.

Last year, the government provided Rs 500,000 each to ailing Nepali Congress
leaders Govinda Raj Joshi and Siddha Raj Ojha for medical treatment.

The government had also borne the expenses for air ambulance and medical
treatment of UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli, who underwent kidney-related treatment
in Bangkok. The government had provided Rs 1.28 million to Oli then. Similarly,
former lawmaker of the CPN-UML Shanta Chaudhary had received approximately Rs
500,000 for medical treatment.

Minister Adhikari said this has sent a wrong message to the public. As a result,
even the common people prefer to visit foreign countries for treatment of minor
illness.

"We have to check this trend," said minister Adhikari.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


