                              155 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                           December 5, 2012 Wednesday

Political' hirings to be annulled

BYLINE:  Our Staff Reporter

SECTION: Vol. XXVI No. 284

LENGTH: 515  words


All politically-motivated appointments against various posts in Mirpur DHQ
Hospital and subordinate sections, without prior advertisement in the newspapers
will be declared null and void.

This was categorically declared by Mirpur DHQ Hospital MS Dr Haji Muhammad
Mushtaq Chy while talking to newsmen in his office here the other day.

About 17 persons, blessed with political backing, were inducted against various
posts in the DHQ hospital in the recent past. "The posts on which hiring has
been made were not advertised in national dailies under the undue influence of a
particular political group including certain trade unions", he pointed out.

Dr Mushtaq said that the cancellation of such appointments made sans adoption of
proper procedure would be made public through the media. And later on all the
vacant positions will be filled entirely in line with the rules and regulations,
he declared.

Lambasting the trade union organisation of the subordinate employees comprising
paramedics and other non-gazetted public servants of various sections of the AJK
Health Department, the Mirpur DHQ Hospital CEO categorically refuted the
allegations levelled against. Dr Mushtaq Ch asserted that he did not know about
the transfer of Raja Muhammad Rasheed, a non-gazetted employee of the local
nursing school. "Rasheed is not the employee of my hospital and resultantly I
have nothing to with his transfer nor it came into my notice", he declared. Dr
Mushtaq, however, pointed out that he only perform as the ex-officio
constitutional head of the Nursing School for being the MS of the DHQ Hospital.

He alleged that some vested interest under the fold of trade unions were engaged
in his character assassination merely for the accomplishment of their ulterior
designs by framing baseless allegations. He declared that he always offer
himself for accountability and ready to go to justice if he was involved in any
irregularity or malpractice being head of the Mirpur DHQ Hospital.

Dr Mushtaq pointed out that he was holding the office of MS since last three and
half years. "The period of his sitting position is much prior to the emergence
of the incumbent government of Prime Minister Ch Abdul Majeed, which have so far
completed 16 months", he pointed out, adding that he did not came to the
incumbent office with the blessing of any political influence but on the grounds
of seniority and outstanding performance during his service in the AJK Health
Services Department.

The DHQ Hospital MS said that his hospital was providing all possible medicines
to in and out door patients with the annual budget of Rs9.5 million. About 900
patients visit the hospital on a daily basis besides 55 to 60 indoor patients.
He said that the hospital enjoyed the status of a teaching hospital affiliated
with Mohiuddin Islamic Medical College under an agreement reached up to 2016.

Dr Mushtaq invited the media to get confirmed the blames from the concerned
authority or the institution leveled by the rivals including vested interest
instead of indulging in the unilateral character assassination of the
individuals.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


