                              169 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               February 16, 2005

All parties united in bid to save hospital

SECTION: Features; General; Letters; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 417 words


Sir - When I addressed the people's rally in support of keeping health services
at Cossham Hospital, I thanked our local councillors and politicians for putting
aside their political differences to support their constituents' common cause.
It was a joy to witness this type of community unity for the greater good that
surpassed political persuasions.

However, as I am receiving many letters from people concerned with the
highlighting of various forms of political support, I wish to be open regarding
my own stance.

At this time I am totally nonpartisan; my allegiance is not to any one party. If
any of our political representatives wished to put on a demonstration or rally
on behalf of the hospital, if invited I will be there to lend support.

I suppose why Owen Inskip (prospective Tory candidate for Kingswood) is being
pilloried is because he was first to state his total support for Cossham
Hospital and the people of Kingswood.

Roger Berry (Labour MP for Kingswood) adopted a quieter and more tentative
approach. This does not mean that he is not in support of keeping the hospital
open.

We are a free people and show our differences in the ways we react to
situations. This is what democracy and free speech is about.

At the end of a meeting last week to discuss the plans for Cossham's future, it
was put to David Tappin of the North Bristol NHS Trust that should their
suggestions for the future of the Orchard Medical Centre and the Kingswood
Health Centre prove to be inadequate and unsuitable for Kingswood's health
needs, did they have a "Plan B" alternative?  His answer was shocking. We were
told that the Trust would look for another site - but that it would not be
Cossham!  He reinforced this by stating twice: "We would NOT refurbish Cossham".

What he had said had nullified at a stroke the consultation process meaning that
thousands of pounds of public money had been wasted on glossy literature and
consultation group meetings, and the time of councillors and members of the
public spent in energy and commitment had been pre-empted. The Trust had set its
mind against investing in Cossham.

We should not be angry with politicians' support, but rather direct our anger
towards the NHS trust which wishes to rob us of our inheritance.

On Tuesday, February 22, Cossham supporters will rally at College Green, Bristol
between 12.30 and 3pm and any support from members of the public would be much
appreciated.

Mrs D Powell Oldland Common

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2005 1602WESTDP314allpa

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press


