                              168 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                                 March 15, 2003

St Andrews Woman Standing For Election To Save Hospitals

SECTION: News; Politics; ScottishParl'ment; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 351 words


A Former senior officer with a Perth-based charity is standing for election to
the Scottish Parliament, in a campaign to save three hospitals. Helen McDade, of
St Andrews, is a freelance consultant at the Scottish Parliament, working on
issues relating to supplements contained in food and the chronic fatigue illness
ME. She was previously executive officer with the ME charity Merge. Ms McDade
became involved with ME issues after one of her three children developed the
illness.

Ms McDade will be seeking election as a list candidate in Mid Scotland and Fife,
on a 'Save Local Hospitals - Dunfermline, Perth, Stirling' ticket.

There have been long-standing concerns about services at the Royal Infirmaries
in Perth and Stirling, as well as at Queen Margaret's Hospital in Dunfermline,
prompting Ms McDade to seek support in the May 1 poll for the fight to save the
hospitals. Ms McDade said the three hospitals were all facing changes which
would "remove services from their locality".

"In every case, the decision-making process is treated as a local choice between
one location and another, setting neighbouring communities against each other,"
she said. "However, these decisions should be considered as part of a national
strategy, with the Scottish Executive setting out a clear vision of hospital
service provision for the future.

"The Scottish Executive has completely failed in its responsibility to consider
strategic issues, leaving decision-making within the narrow interests of Health
Boards. For example, hospital sites are being identified without considering the
extra transport costs, both to the nation, for upgraded links and public
transport, but also to individual patients and families who are forced to travel
further and further afield.

"None of the political parties is facing up to a radical re-think of the NHS. We
are told that smaller hospitals are not sustainable but this has not been
debated nationally. It is clear to those of us campaigning from the patients'
viewpoint, that the politicians do not understand enough to ask probing
questions." Caption:

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Press and Journal


