                              167 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             April 20, 2009 Monday

Amata suffers from riots

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 449 words


Four clients have put on hold their planned land purchases, while a big deal
from a Chinese agricultural investor is expected to be postponed as well, Viboon
Kromadit, chief operating officer of Amata, said yesterday.

"As a businessman, I admit I'm afraid that the political situation could get
worse. Industrial estates perform in line with foreigninvestor confidence. I'm
worried that foreign investors will shift to Vietnam, where the political
situation is more stable.

"However, it's good news for us as they [foreign investors] have only deferred
their plans, not cancelled. So we still have a chance to convince them if the
political situation improves," he said.

He thinks Thailand now is tantamount to an uninhabitable house, not as
attractive to foreign investors as it was.

Amata's land sales this year will certainly fall below last year's 900 rai, he
said, as the developer has failed to secure its targeted land sales for the
year.

It sold just 40 rai in the first quarter, far below its average of 200 rai per
quarter.

Viboon called on the government to organise more roadshows overseas to rebuild
confidence among foreign investors.

Bangkok Hospital Medical Centre, a unit of Bangkok Dusit Medical Services
(BDMS), sees no impact on its 13 Bangkok Hospitals nationwide from the political
uprising, as foreign patients have not rescheduled their appointments.

CEO Chatree Duangnet said the hospital felt no need to adjust its business plan
or revenue target, even though onethird of its patients are foreigners.

"I was concerned that Bangkok Hospitals would be affected as the protest wore
on, with foreign patients avoiding the country and opting for other medical
destinations such as Singapore. Fortunately the government quickly brought the
situation under control, so medical services will not be hit," he said.

No cancellations were received during the brief political violence or its wake
from foreign patients planning to fly here for treatment at Bangkok Hospitals.
Only 5 per cent of all foreign patients are tourists.

BDMS, which also operates the three Samitivej Hospitals, BNH Hospital and the
two Royal International Hospitals, has targeted revenue growth this year of 10
per cent from Bt21.54 billion last year.

Operating results for the first three months of this year were flat from a year
ago, in line with BDMS's projection.

"Economic problems remain the key factor to have hit our business this year. I
believe that the economic situation will recover in the second half, so we stand
by our revenuegrowth target of 10 per cent," he said.

Bangkok Hospitals is one of the three largest generalmedical institutions in the
country. It focuses equally on foreign and local patients.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2009 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


