                              166 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                           February 22, 2011 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Hospital funding promises are healthy for conservative hopefuls

BYLINE: Sean Nicholls STATE POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 417 words


AT least three-quarters of the hospital funding announced by the Opposition
Leader, Barry O'Farrell, is destined for Coalition seats or those it is
targeting at next month's election. Coalition documents show it has included a
$75 million upgrade of Port Macquarie Hospital, despite the expectation it will
come from the federal government's $1.8 billion health and hospitals fund. An
analysis by the Herald shows that of the $885 million of new spending announced
by Mr O'Farrell at the Liberals' campaign launch on Sunday, $652.5 million has
been promised for hospital and health infrastructure in key Coalition seats.

The Coalition has promised to pour $117.5 million into projects in the seat of
Dubbo, which the Nationals are trying to win from the independent Dawn Fardell.
It has promised $50 million for a staged redevelopment of Dubbo Hospital, $25
million for Forbes Hospital and $42.5 million towards a new hospital at Parkes.
The Nationals have high hopes in the seat for their candidate Troy Grant, a
local police inspector, and have chosen Dubbo as the location for their campaign
launch this weekend. In Tamworth - another independent-held seat being targeted
by the Nationals - $100 million has been promised for a new hospital, while $125
million is promised for a new hospital at Wagga Wagga, held by the Liberal Daryl
Maguire. In northern NSW, the Nationals MPs Don Page and Thomas George will
benefit from a promise to provide $10 million in funding for the expansion of
Lismore and Byron hospitals. It has promised $20 million towards a new hospital
in Maitland, where its former upper house MP Robyn Parker is trying to unseat
Labor's Frank Terenzini. Apart from Maitland, two Labor-held seats would receive
funding under the Coalition's announcement. In Blacktown, where the Transport
Minister, John Robertson, is trying to move from the upper house, the hospital
would receive $125 million for a staged redevelopment. In Shellharbour, where
Labor's Lylea McMahon is retiring, there would be $10 million for an Illawarra
regional plan and expansion of Shellharbour Hospital. The opposition spokeswoman
for health, Jillian Skinner, rejected the analysis. "Doctors, nurses, allied
health professionals or patients in any one of the projects we've identified
will tell you an upgrade is desperately needed," she said. The Health Minister
and Deputy Premier, Carmel Tebbutt, yesterday committed Labor to a $245 million
redevelopment of Blacktown and Mount Druitt hospitals if re-elected.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barry O'Farrell ... $885 million to spend. Photo: Mike Sea

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2011 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


