                              170 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           September 5, 2005, Monday

CHIRAC 'NOW EAGER TO LEAVE' AFTER HOSPITAL STAY

SECTION: Post Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 319 words


President Jacques Chirac was said to be in a 'good condition' in hospital
yesterday where he is being treated for a blood vessel problem.

Chirac (pictured) was taken to a Paris military hospital late on Friday after
suffering blood vessel trouble that was hindering his eyesight, but he was
already eager to leave, officials said.

'His general state and his medical report are very satisfactory,' said
Val-de-Grace military hospital in a statement, adding he would stay under
medical supervision for several days.

Chirac's wife, Bernadette, was seen leaving the hospital yesterday afternoon,
but only waved to reporters.

Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin said Chirac was in 'good form' when the two
men met at the hospital on Saturday.

Officials said Chirac had cancelled or delayed several appointments this week.

With Chirac sidelined, the popular leader of his conservative political party,
Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, told party members that no one would stop his
quest for the presidency in 2007 and sought to draw a line between their visions
for France.

The two men have long had a tense relationship. Many political observers cite
Sarkozy's decision to back then-Prime Minister Edouard Balladur in the 1995
presidential race, which Chirac won, as one cause.

Although Sarkozy has never hidden his presidential ambitions, choosing a
candidate for an election is up to the party. Questions remain about whether
Chirac will seek a third term.

In a boisterous speech to cheering members of the Union for a Popular Movement
in the Atlantic coastal resort of La Baule, Sarkozy promised a 'healthy, loyal
and quality' competition in the 2007 race.

Sarkozy is often depicted in polls and French media as the front-runner for the
2007 contest. But polls show the popularity of Villepin - viewed as Chirac's top
protege - has been rising since he took office in June.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


