                              172 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                            February 21, 2014 Friday

Landikotal hospital closed, patients back to homes

BYLINE:  Farid Shinwari

SECTION: Vol. XXVII No. 850

LENGTH: 439  words


A large number of patients on Thursday returned homes without being treated and
examined in Agency Headquarter Hospital Landikotal after Khyber Agency
Paramedical Association and Doctors Association closed OPD in protest against
the rude behaviour of political Administration of Landikotal.

The demonstration was led by president (KPA) Abdul Haleem Afridi told media that
few days back, officials of hospital had raised voice regarding the problems
being faced by them. He alleged and saying the officials of political
administration conducted raid of the hospital and also broke the lock of account
section.

APA Landikotal when contacted for his comments saying that they had conducted
raid few days back and found 29 doctors absent out of 35 doctors in hospital.
About the administration, APA said it had right to conduct raids over other
departments.

Another official of hospital administration said the Medical Superintendent,
Rauf Wazir left the office in a protest after Political Tehsildar Landikotal
Daftar Khan and MNA, Alhaj Shahje Gul Afridi had raided the hospital on 15
February, and broke the lock of account section.

After some days, political tehsildar again visited the MS, Rauf Wazir office and
exchanged harsh words with him, he explained. MS Rauf Wazir, who left the office
in protest against the rude attitude of political tehsildar also did not conduct
round visits of patient wards in last two days, official informed.

Officials of paramedical and doctors association jointly observed the protest
and closed OPD all the day long. The protest was carried out in protest against
behaviour of administration official and in favour of their demands.

One of the patients, Rehmatullah Afridi of Zakhakhel while talking to local
journalists said he had come to Landikotal hospital from way off area in order
make his kid treated here, who is suffering from typhoid. He expressed
displeasure over the closure of hospital saying that they had no concern with
clashes among administration and hospital officials. He demanded the ending of
inhuman attitude of hospital and administration officials with patients.

Hospital demonstrators threatened if the matter was not solved till the coming
Saturday, they will boycott joining upcoming an anti-polio drive.

During the demonstration, the emergency and labour room had remained opened for
patients.

Later, on the interruption of Jirga members, the protest was suspended
temporarily after being ensured to bring back the MS to rejoin his position in
hospital. Malik Nadeem Afridi, Malik Abdullah Khan and Wali Mohammad Afridi were
among the Jirga members of MNA Alhaj Shahje Gul Afridi.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


