                              171 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                            November 21, 2014 Friday

Minister orders removal of banners of political parties from hospitals

LENGTH: 339  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, Nov. 21 -- Sindh Minister for Health Jam Mehtab Hussain Dahar sought
immediate removal of banners and posters of different political parties and
groups from all government hospitals in the province.Chairing a departmental
meeting he directed medical superintendents and administrators of public sector
health facilities in the province to also ensure immediate wiping away of
graffiti by activists in support of their respective political affiliations.

This is high time to ensure hospitals and healthcare facilities are meant for
public service and are not used as political battlefields, said Hussain.

He reiterated a healthy and apolitical environment should be urgently created in
healthcare centres so as to facilitate patients in seeking uninterrupted
assistance, otherwise noticed to be hindered under pretext of protest by
elements claiming to have their varied political affiliations. This is not
acceptable and would not be tolerated, said Sindh minister.

Mehtab also took exception to vacant post of gynecologist at Civil Hosptal,
Umerkot. He directed Special Secretary for Health Dr Khalid Shaikh to ensure
immediate appointment of a qualified gynecologist at the Hospital.

He urged the concerned authorities to ensure all public sector hospitals,
including those functional in less developed areas, remain well equipped, with
ready availability of all relevant medicines, drugs and disposable and also
manned by qualified and trained personnel.

During the meeting the provincial health minister took stock of reported
mishandling of polio workers during the recently concluded special polio
immunisation campaign in 11 high-risk districts.

Instances of vaccine dropping and reported carelessness of these workers cannot
be tolerated and the matter would be duly investigated so as to bring to task
the miscreants, he said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


