                              178 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Polls to temper hospitals debate;
Federal Labor on tenterhooks as Tasmania and SA vote

BYLINE: MICHELLE GRATTAN POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 458 words


THE political atmospherics for Tuesday's health and hospitals debate between
Prime Minister Kevin Rudd and Opposition Leader Tony Abbott will be influenced
by the outcomes of today's South Australian and Tasmanian elections.

Strong swings against Labor are expected in both states, but a Liberal win in
either would be a blow for Mr Rudd's hospital negotiations with the states.

There will be sighs of relief in Canberra if Labor hangs on even as minority
governments.

Mr Rudd said yesterday health and hospital reform should go beyond party
politics. "This is just crying out for change," he said.

He said these would be tough elections for both state governments, which had
been in power for some time.

Tuesday's debate will be moderated by the ABC's Chris Uhlmann, with a 10-member
panel of senior press gallery journalists asking questions.

It will be held at lunchtime, and fed to television stations that want it.

Mr Rudd proposed the debate on Thursday as one of three election debates. The
opposition made an unsuccessful bid for it to be held at night, and is calling
for three debates in the campaign itself.

Mr Abbott is under political pressure to outline more details of what he would
do on health and hospitals, but is not being drawn on whether he will put
anything new on Tuesday.

"What's his plan to fix up health for the future?" Mr Rudd said. "Our plan's
clear . . . We don't have the alternative plan yet."

Mr Abbott said: "My job is to scrutinise. Mr Rudd's job is to explain. My job is
to ask the questions on behalf of the Australian people. Mr Rudd's job is to
give clear, comprehensible, simple answers."

Asked whether his job wasn't to have an alternative policy, Mr Abbott said that
"well before the next election people will know exactly what we propose for
public hospitals".

Mr Abbott said Labor should stop telling lies about the Howard government's
health record.

"I was proud to be the best friend that Medicare ever had when I was health
minister," he said.

On their regular Friday morning TV encounter, Mr Abbott accused Deputy Prime
Minister Julia Gillard of telling lies about his health record. But on another
program, he said Ms Gillard was probably a more effective and "more authentic"
politician than Mr Rudd.

Mr Rudd again accused state health bureaucrats of "running fear campaigns
because they are frightened of fundamental changes".

The Prime Minister will continue his talks with premiers to sell his scheme with
a trip to Perth next week to see Liberal Premier Colin Barnett.

While Mr Abbott is preparing for the debate, he is in another sort of training.
He has entered for the iron man triathlon at Port Macquarie tomorrow week. The
events are a 3.8-kilometre swim, a 180-kilometre bike ride and a 42-kilometre
run.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


