                              18 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            October 14, 2005, Friday

I WILL HELP HOSPITAL PROTEST UNSEAT MP

BYLINE: BY JONATHAN WALKER POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 500 words

HIGHLIGHT: Jacqui Smith; Richard Taylor


A Government Minister faces a fight for her political survival over plans to
downgrade her local hospital.

The independent MP who won an upset victory in the 2001 election last night said
he was ready to advise campaigners in Redditch, Worcestershire, how to unseat
sitting MP Jacqui Smith.

Ms Smith, the Schools Minister, is a rising star in the Labour Party who has
enjoyed rapid promotion since becoming an MP in 1997.

Independent MP Richard Taylor, who represents nearby Wyre Forest, said: "I would
be happy to advise health campaigners on how to stand and win in Redditch, if
needed."

Dr Taylor won the seat in 2001 on a "health concern" platform, following
protests against the downgrading of Kidderminster Hospital, in the
Worcestershire constituency.

His victory, and the defeat of sitting Labour MP David Lock, also a Minister,
was a major shock for the Government, which responded by ordering health trusts
to stop centralising services.

But now Mrs Smith finds herself in a similar position, and has admitted there
could "be political consequences" if the cuts go ahead. Worcestershire Acute
Hospitals NHS Trust has unveiled plans to downgrade the Alexandra Hospital, in
Redditch. The Trust, which is also responsible for Kidderminster Hospital, has
been ordered to make savings of £20 million a year.

Critics say both hospitals are paying the price for serious financial problems
at the third hospital run by the trust, the Worcestershire Royal Hospital in
Worcester.

This cost £95 million and was built under the controversial Private Finance
Initiative Scheme.

Earlier this month, the Trust unveiled proposals to save money, which could
include centralising all of its obstetrics, gynaecology and paediatric services
in Worcester - and closing the Alexandra accident and emergency department.

Dr Taylor said: "These plans are crazy, and I think the Trust may be forced to
back down. But if not, I would happily help campaigners in Redditch who stand
for election.

"The only way to put pressure on the Government to sort these problems out is at
the ballot box."

Ms Smith is to meet Trust managers today to stress her opposition to reduction
of services at the Alexandra.

She said the Government had put billions of pounds of extra money into the NHS -
and budget difficulties were caused by inefficiencies at the trust.

She said: "I do not accept that the A&E will close but, if it does, local people
will be very angry - so will I.

"I live in Redditch myself, I had my children at the Alex and my family have
used the A&E on several occasions.

"I am sure that there will be political consequences if we can't keep accident
and emergency services in the town, but my future as MP for Redditch is hardly
important when we are looking at such a disaster for our local health services."

Redditch is a Conservative target seat, where Labour has a majority of just
2,716, and anger over hospital cuts could also help the Tories

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


