                              179 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 19, 2010 Monday

Afghans criticize release of three Italian medics

LENGTH: 561 words


Text of report by Afghan independent Tolo TV on 19 April

[Presenter] Some legal experts have said there is a political motive behind the
release of the Italian nationals [arrested in connection with an alleged plot to
kill the governor of |Helmand Province]. The experts say if the government of
Afghanistan has once again released the Italian nationals for political motives,
then the rule of law in Afghanistan will be questioned. The National Directorate
of Security (NDS) has said it has not found the Italian nationals to be guilty.
Meanwhile, some residents of Helmand Province have criticized the release of the
Italian nationals.

[Correspondent] The release of Italian nationals by the government of
Afghanistan has drawn huge criticism. Independent reporters of Herat Province
and residents of Helmand Province accused the government of irresponsibility
over the release of the Italian nationals.

[Unidentified young man, apparently resident of Helmand Province, in Pashto]
They have released the detained three Italian nationals in return for dollars.
What happened to the mines and other explosives [said to have been kept at the
hospital]?

[Unidentified man, apparently a resident of Helmand Province, in Pashto] The
Italians have been released. I believe it would have been good if they had not
been released but executed.

[Correspondent] The NDS has said the incident [alleged placing of explosives
inside Emergency Hospital] was orchestrated from the other side of the border
and that the results of investigations have found the three Italian nationals
and five Afghans innocent.

[Sayed Ansari, the spokesman for NDS] One of the local employees of the
hospital, who was an authorized person, has pleaded guilty, while five locals
and three Italian nationals, who were also workers at the hospital, were
released by security forces yesterday after pleading not guilty.

[Mohammad Golab Mangal, the governor of Helmand Province, speaking in archive
footage] We have ample evidence and documents for the step we have taken which
show they were involved in terrorist incidents.

[Correspondent] Some legal experts have described the release of the Italian
nationals as a political game.

[Nasrollah Stanakzai, a Kabul University lecturer, captioned] They have, in one
way or another, committed a crime, because explosives were found inside a
hospital that has its own directors. They are guilty of dereliction of duty and
an investigation should be launched into it. And if it is a lie, why was the
liar not prosecuted?

[Correspondent] The experts said the hospital was being used for suspicious
activities and the authorities of the hospital used to operate outside their
authority.

[Stanakzai] The hospital had intervened in political issues since the killing of
late Ajmal Naqshbandi [an Afghan journalist beheaded by Taleban]. It is not the
task of a hospital to strike deal with the Taleban for the release of
journalists. It is unprincipled. The task of a hospital is very clear.

[Correspondent] Three Italians and their six Afghan colleagues, who used to work
at the Emergency Hospital of Helmand, were detained on charges of orchestrating
terrorist acts and supporting the Taleban, but after eight days, eight of them,
including three Italians, were released, and one Afghan national is still in the
NDS captivity.

Source: Tolo TV, Kabul, in Dari 1330 gmt 19 Apr 10

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


