                              174 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            October 14, 1996 Monday
                                  Late Edition

Stumbling over our state of health

BYLINE: MIKE RICHARDS

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 913 words


AH, POLITICS! Leaving aside for a moment that government is a serious business
and government services are vitally important and can affect the quality of all
our lives, one still marvels at how easy it is for government to do all the hard
things in a policy sense, but then stumble badly politically.

But, of course, politics is not a science but a game of skill and chance where
arcane rules apply. (Poker and snakes and ladders come to mind.) I have been
reminded of this again in the past couple of weeks while observing the political
roadshow called the "hospitals crisis" in this state. Four years after it came
to office, Jeff Kennett's Government has taken its first serious political hit
over the state of Victoria's public hospitals.

One of the political rules of thumb affecting government is that - in terms of
rating performance - achievement and reality count for less than the perception
of the voters; once a political perception firmly takes hold in the community it
is very difficult to shift. The perception has now virtually set that Victoria's
hospitals have been so badly affected by the Kennett Government's Budget cuts
that the standards of service for seriously ill patients have been put in
jeopardy. Put more crudely, prompted by images of patients on trolleys in
corridors, this question has crystallised in the minds of Victorians: if I get
sick, will I get a hospital bed? This is a very damaging perception for the
Government.

For a Government that was handsomely returned to office only in March, how did
this political vulnerability eventuate? Part of the answer, I believe, was given
by Professor Stephen Duckett, a former senior Victorian Health Department
administrator, last week when he said that the Kennett Government had cut too
far, too fast into the health budget in the second year of its first term. In
the first two years, some $220 million was taken out of public hospital budgets.

Bear in mind that with the state Budget in a parlous state, the Kennett
Government did not have too many options when it was first elected. To quickly
rein in the Budget deficit, the Government had to reduce spending in the two
largest spending departments: education and health.

Both of these portfolios present complex administrative, budgetary and political
problems: community expectations are high, and delivering quality services
equitably and well is difficult and expensive. For many people in the community,
government could never spend too much on school and hospital services.

Financial prudence and political realism make that an untenable approach, but
the community none the less expects (and has a right to expect) that services in
these vital areas will be excellent and that they will represent good value for
money.

In the health portfolio, the Kennett Government reduced spending, primarily in
response to the overspending that had occurred for 10 years under Labor. When Mr
Kennett's party came to office in October 1992, Victoria was - according to the
Commonwealth Grants Commission - spending some $80 a head of population more
than they needed, to provide a level of service comparable with other states and
territories. The point is that paying more than necessary for essential services
does not mean that such services are automatically provided at a higher level or
that they produce better outcomes.

The overspending occurred for several reasons. First, it was a matter of Labor
philosophy and policy to spend more on health. This was because, at the start of
the 1980s, Victoria was spending less per head than the amount the Grants
Commission assessed was necessary to provide the same level of service as the
other states and territories.

Importantly, too, the health sector unions, in some cases having affiliations
with the Labor Party, had - in an industrial relations sense - captured the
health system. This led to the entrenchment of excessive staffing and
inefficient work practices. As well, productivity in key areas of public
hospitals was declining and cost management performance was generally not good.
So this, combined with Victoria's generally perilous Budget position, meant that
the Kennett Government was right to embark on a program of cost reduction in the
health system when it came to office.

While the best political outcome may not follow a good policy, government often
knows about a problem well in advance. A second political rule of thumb is
relevant here: it takes 18 months to two years for a Government's political
vulnerability in a certain area to show up to the media and the public.

By my reckoning, the realisation that the cuts to the hospitals budget were too
severe and that there was a prospect of a hospitals crisis, was apparent to
Government insiders almost two years ago. Interestingly, in the summer of
1994-95, Jeff Kennett took the unusual, and highly publicised, step of
sidelining his Health Minister, Mrs Tehan. He said he was going to spend the
summer holidays touring the state, personally assessing the state of our
hospitals.

A final difficulty the Government has is that even if more money were to be
found tomorrow for hospitals, it would have to be taken out of some other area
of Government spending. Is it possible that the Education Minister, Mr Phil
Gude, and his sudden discovery last week of 1500 teachers in excess has
something to do with it?

* Mike Richards is associate editor of The Age. From 1982 to 1985, he was a
senior adviser to the then Premier, John Cain.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1996 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


