                              182 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    September 23, 1988, Friday, City Edition

Candidates finish second in this race

BYLINE: COLLINS CONNER

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 610 words

DATELINE: SPRING HILL



SPRING HILL - The candidates were lined up at HCA/Oak Hill Hospital    Thursday
when the public address system cackled to life and a voice    invited hospital
employees to meet the political leaders.

     Almost instantly, hospital workers from every department swarmed    into
the cafeteria and threaded through a line of political candidates.

     "This is more people than we've seen in one place during the    entire
campaign " several office seekers said.

     But the folks at Oak Hill weren't flocking to the cafeteria out of
political curiosity. And they weren't drawn there by the free punch and
cookies.

     They whipped past the food; they "how do you do-ed" their way    through
the candidates and headed for a long metal table at the far end    of the
cafeteria.

     That table held their paychecks.

     Vince Vanni, Oak Hill's public relations director, said the    coupling of
cashier and candidates was his idea.

     "All of the candidates we invited agreed to be here," Vanni said.    "The
least we could do is make sure people are here for them."

     The people were there.

     They dropped by the cafeteria on their way to work their 3-to-11    shifts.

 They dropped by the cafeteria when they finished their 7-to-3    shifts. If
they worked the 11-to-7 shift, they dropped in during their    free time. They
left the cafeteria with a fistful of campaign    literature in one hand and a
Manila envelope in the other.

     Rena Abblett, nursing administration secretary, handed out nearly    200 of
those envelopes, with yellow payroll checks inside. She had    stacks of the
envelopes on the metal table, sorted by shifts and    duties.

     Another hospital supervisor distributed paychecks to about 275    other
workers.

     But, the political candidates weren't short-changed.

     "Most are in too big a hurry to get their money to do much    talking" with
office seekers, said School Board candidate Leland    McKeown. "But I've given
out more brochures here than anyplace else    during the campaign."

     County Commission candidate Greg Copeland also considered the event    a
success. There wasn't much conversation with voters, he said. "It    seems the
employees are mainly interested in getting to the end of the    line" where the
payroll table stood, Copeland said. But Copeland    provided the speeding
greeters a folksy letter, which he hoped they    would read later.

     Bill Short, a candidate for supervisor of elections, didn't try to
engage the hospital workers in long conversations. As they passed his    spot in
the candidate lineup, he whooped, "Please help the needy "    and handed out his
brochures.

     Near the payroll table sat the steering committee of the Good    Government
Group, the hospital's political action committee which    sponsored Thursday's
coffee.

     Even steering committee members didn't spend much time with the
candidates. "I stopped to talk to one candidate, but the (hospital    employees)
behind me were in a hurry, so I cut short the    conversation," said steering
committee member Sandra Martin.

     The steering committee ultimately will issue recommendations on    which
candidates voters should select in the November election. "We'll    read the
literature and sit down and talk about what we liked or didn't    like" about
the candidates, Mrs. Martin said.



LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES

                            Times Publishing Company


