                              177 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

PM's global worming - 50 more debates

BYLINE: Phillip Coorey Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 656 words


FEDERAL Labor MPs and candidates in marginal seats have been instructed to
challenge their Coalition rivals to town hall-style debates on health policy to
capitalise on what the government believes was a strong victory by Kevin Rudd
over Tony Abbott in yesterday's debate.

Challenges were issued within hours of the completion of the leaders' debate in
which the viewing public on two commercial networks - whose reactions were
tracked by the "worm" - awarded the points to the Prime Minister.

In one letter obtained by the Herald, the Labor candidate for the south-western
Sydney seat of Macarthur, Nick Bleasdale, challenges his Liberal rival, Russell
Matheson, to a debate in the next four to six weeks to explain the Coalition's
plan for local health and hospitals.

He says the debate showed Mr Rudd "has a plan to deliver better hospitals for
working families" whereas "the only plan Tony Abbott has is to criticise,
complain and be negative, he has no plan to improve hospitals".

Labor's candidate for Macquarie, Sue Templeman, also challenged her Liberal
rival, the MP Louise Markus.

Sources said similar challenges were expected in up to 50 marginal seats, both
Coalition and Labor-held, a clear sign Labor believes its policy is a vote
winner.

During yesterday's 75-minute debate, Mr Rudd conceded that small regional and
rural hospitals might have to be given block funding grants to keep them afloat
should they not be be able to survive on his new activity-based funding formula.

"Of course, we would look at a form of national block funding which was able to
underpin the continuation of smaller rural hospitals in the future," Mr Rudd
said.

Mr Abbott has not released his health policy other than to promise that
hospitals in Queensland and NSW would be run by local boards. But yesterday he
signalled an extra 3500 hospital beds nationwide and did not rule out using
unspent stimulus money to pay for them.

His main thrust was to attack Mr Rudd and his policy in which the Commonwealth
would fund 60 per cent of public hospitals and 100 per cent of primary and aged
care services. Public hospitals would be run by local health networks funded
from Canberra but administered by the states.

Mr Abbott criticised the policy as overly bureaucratic and, in a theme to be
repeated throughout this election year, said the Rudd government did not have
the wherewithal to deliver it.

"Anyone can make promises," he said. "The hard part is delivering on them and
this is where Mr Rudd has so consistently failed."

Mr Abbott said the government had a poor record on service delivery, citing the
insulation program and school halls, so should not be trusted "to run the most
important institutions of all, namely public hospitals".

The debate was often acrimonious. Mr Rudd attacked Mr Abbott's "rolling tidal
wave of negativity". "The time has come. Let's work together on this Tony," he
said.

He accused Mr Abbott, when health minister, of ripping $1 billion from public
hospitals. "I'll tell you what, Kevin," Mr Abbott said. "You stop telling lies
about me and I will work constructively with you, that's a fair deal."

TV viewers marked down Mr Abbott, and spin doctors on both sides agreed he erred
by entering a policy debate without a policy. "He turned up to a gun fight with
a pocket knife," said one official.

After the debate, the premiers held a telephone hook-up. Showing no sign of the
supposed bad blood between them, the NSW Premier, Kristina Keneally, declared Mr
Rudd the "clear winner" who "clearly understands the challenges we face in the
future with a growing and ageing population".

The plan needs all state and territory leaders to agree if it is to succeed.
Yesterday, he left open the possibility of a full funding takeover, saying a
referendum would give him this power. Today he will be in Perth to lobby the
West Australian Premier, Colin Barnett. On Friday, Wayne Swan will lobby
treasurers in Canberra.

Editorial â[#x20ac]" Page 14

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: By John Shakespeare

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2010 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


