                              173 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 20, 2005, Tuesday

DOCS WARD OFF DRACULA;
 HEALTH BOSSES BAN HOWARD'S HOSPITAL VISIT

BYLINE: BY MAGGIE BARRY

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 392 words

HIGHLIGHT: MOANER: Tory leader on tour


HEALTH chiefs yesterday barred Tory leader Michael Howard from visiting a
hospital on his whistle-stop tour of Scotland.

Howard, who came north to campaign in two by-elections, had planned to look in
on Glasgow's Victoria Infirmary as part of the battle in Cathcart.

The seat is vacant following the resignation of sitting Labour MSP Mike Watson,
who had pleaded guilty to wilful fire-raising charges.

And the Conservatives are trying to make the closure of the Victoria a central
plank of their by-election bid.

But NHS Greater Glasgow had other ideas and told Howard he was not wanted.

Health chiefs said no politicians were getting into the hospital during the heat
of the campaign.

After the snub the Tory leader moaned: "I went into hospitals during the General
Election campaign and Tony Blair went into hospitals during the General Election
campaign.

"It is an outrage that Glasgow NHS has said that I am not to be allowed to go
into that hospital."

He was forced to move on to the Livingston by- election where Gordon Brown was
campaigning for Labour candidate Jim Devine. But Howard didn't have much luck
there either.

He was thrown out of the Almondvale Shopping Centre by a security guard after
the Tories failed to ask permission to canvass. With the fuss going on across
town, the Chancellor lost no time laying into Devine's main opponents the SNP.

He savaged Nat claims that North Sea oil riches could fund independence, saying:
"You can't build the future of your economy around one raw material."

And he pointed to the instability in the industry, where the price of oil has
veered over the years from 10$ to 70$ per barrel.

Brown had arrived early in Livingston for the by-election campaign triggered by
the death of MP Robin Cook.

Devine, the ex-Foreign Secretary's agent and long-time friend, has since been
given the backing of Cook's family.

And now he has the public endorsement of Labour's Prime Minister-in-waiting.

Brown himself used the opportunity to scotch weekend claims that the pension age
is to be raised to 67, insisting: "There's going to be no decision on these
things until we have had a national debate."

Labour is defending a 13,000 majority in Livingston, while Charlie Gordon is
standing for the party in Cathcart, where it has a majority of around 5,000.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.


