                              175 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      May 26, 1986, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Work to rule by doctors irresponsible Peterson says

BYLINE: By Denise Harrington and Jonathan Ferguson Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 789 words


   Doctors would be "making a political point at the expense of patients" if
they go ahead with a plan to delay discharging patients from hospital as part of
their campaign against the proposed ban on extra billing, Premier David Peterson
said today.

He called the work-to-rule strategy devised by the Ontario Medical Association
"rather irresponsible" and said he was disappointed that doctors have taken this
approach.

Doctors "have control over entry and exit from hospitals. It appears now they
want to abuse those powers that they have. I think it's rather worrisome."

Asked if the doctors were playing with patients' health, Peterson
replied:"That's the impression you get."

He said that "presumably, they're going to force people to stay in hospital to
make their political point. That's what they're saying. That not only incurs a
lot of costs but it's hard on the patients as well. Frankly, I don't think it's
a responsible bargaining tactic."

'Medically ideal'

Peterson said he expects the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, the
governing body of the medical profession, "will be very, very interested in
watching the whole exercise."

Dr. Earl Myers, president of the OMA, said yesterday the association is urging
the province's 17,000 doctors to delay discharging patients until their
condition is "medically ideal."

This would be a departure from the past practice of sending patients home early
and continuing their treatment on an outpatient basis to free up hospital beds
for other patients on waiting lists.

Myers acknowledged this tactic could "seriously inconvenience" patients waiting
for non-emergency treatment.

He said this "ideal medicine" tactic is one of a series of private protest
strategies the association's political action committee has developed to
complement the doctors' province-wide strike on Thursday and Friday.

Additional strain

Myers said yesterday that the protest tactic would place additional strain on
what he calls "a chronic shortage of hospital beds," clog up the hospital wards
and ultimately cause lengthy delays for patients requiring non-emergency
treatment.

"The doctors aren't going to continue putting themselves at risk by sending
patients home a little early," Myers said. "It's great to work to free up
precious beds when you're co-operating with the government. Well, we're not
going out on a limb any more.

"If the government wants this kind of war, all is has to do is continue
proceeding with Bill 94," which would impose a total ban on extra-billing.

Health Minister Murray Elston was unavailable for comment yesterday.

Attorney-General Ian Scott, however, said he is "surprised" that the doctors'
claim to have been releasing patients a few days early to free up hospital beds.

"And it's strange that they now intend to keep patients in hospitals," Scott
said. He added that the government would "wait and see" whether the doctors
carry out their threat while relying on the College of Physicians and the
Ontario Hospital Association to monitor the province's hospitals for any abuses.

Non-partisan

"Both these bodies are non-partisan and work closely together," he said. "If
they see patients being unnecessarily detained in hospitals, I'm sure they'll
report it."

At least one doctors' group, the 150-member Ontario Medical Reform Group, is
attacking the association for threatening to put patient care at risk.

"This strategy is insulting to the entire profession," group spokesman Dr.
Philip Berger said. "The vast majority of physicians have always practised ideal
or excellent medicine."

Berger described the strategy as "terribly unethical." The association's leaders
are playing a reckless political game using "patients as pawns," he said.

Any patient can leave hopital at any time but is asked to complete a release
form if leaving against the physician's advice.

"The association is eroding the trust contained in the patient/doctor
relationship," Berger said. "I know of no instance where a patient who was
medically unstable was released early. That just doesn't happen here."

Further sanctions

Myers refused to reveal any other unannounced protest strategies, but said the
association's leaders are continuing to meet with the troops to discuss further
sanctions.

Asked if the association wasn't in effect using patients as pawns in its war
with the Liberal government, Myers replied: "It's certainly going to mean more
patients will be seriously inconvenienced, but we're not going to continue
working with government during a war."

New Democratic Party leader Bob Rae described the doctors' tactic as "an
incredible abuse of power.

"It's a totally irresponsible strategy."

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1986 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


