                              176 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                          February 27, 1999, Saturday

Hospital group fined over 1998 campaign ads

BYLINE: BRYAN GILMER

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 377 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



The Tarpon Springs Hospital Foundation must pay $ 5,500 for failing to file
campaign expenditure reports required by law.

As the March 16 city election draws near, an issue left over from last year's
election has been settled: The Tarpon Springs Hospital Foundation failed to
report campaign expenditures as required by state law.

The foundation placed political advertisements in local newspapers, including
the Times, and distributed a flier to oppose a referendum question on the March
17, 1998, ballot.

But the foundation did not file public reports of those "independent
expenditures" as required by Florida law, according to a Florida Elections
Commission consent order issued this week.

Some of the ads failed to include the required designation "paid political
advertisement." Some failed to state that the ads were placed "independently of
any candidate or committee."

The foundation agreed in the order to pay a $ 5,500 fine to the Elections
Commission, settling the complaint. The Elections Commission could have imposed
a maximum fine of $ 11,000.

Then-city manager Costa Vatikiotis filed the complaint, writing in a file
memorandum that he felt he should do so to fulfill his duty to uphold the law.
Vatikiotis wrote the charter amendment that the foundation was campaigning
against, and the city ran its own ads supporting the amendment.

The referendum question, which the voters passed, amended the city's charter to
add some conditions to future leases of the city-owned hospital property. It was
one battle in the three-year war between the city, the foundation and a public
financing authority.

Because the amendment passed, new hospital leases must require that the
non-profit hospital foundation get voters' approval before changing its mission.

The foundation's leaders believed they were not required to file campaign
spending reports because they made telephone calls to the Elections Commission,
they have said.

As to the absence of the required disclaimers, "though the foundation
technically failed to meet the statutory political disclaimer requirements in
its political advertising advocating opposition to the issue referendum, the
foundation did not intend to violate the statue," according to the order.


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


