                              191 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                         Drogheda Independent (Ireland)

                                February 1, 2012

Campaign to save Cottage goes on

SECTION:

LENGTH: 618 words


I would like to request a right to reply to the damaging, inaccurate and in
particular your front page banner headline regarding the Drogheda Cottage
Hospital on Wednesday 25th. January 2012.

May I be so bold to put it to you, that as a working member of the Save the
Cottage Hospital committee, your front-page banner headline was 'outrageous'.

I contacted your office on Wednesday morning to complain about such a negative
banner headline and the inaccuracies contained in your reporting on the march
and rally.

I, as a member of the Save the Cottage Hospital committee was shocked that any
print media would be so callous in going to print with such a one-sided version
of events and may I also say with an obvious political influence and undertone.

I stand behind our decision to only allow Louth TDS who would sign our pledge
the opportunity to address the assembled crowd.

This pledge was a decision taken by a large majority of our committee and how to
administer the pledge a protocol was agreed.

It was quite a basic protocol, any TD who would not sign our pledge would not be
afforded the opportunity to address those assembled, to give a twisted version
of what the Government intend to do.

Save the Drogheda Hospital Group is made up of a group of people who are
concerned about the welfare and continuing care of the current and future
residents of the hospital.

As it happens there are people on the committee who are members of political
parties, such as Fianna Fail, Fine Gael, Labour, Sinn Fein, Socialist party and
Independents and more who only have a passing interest in politics.

Up to 2000 people marched in support of continuing the public services at the
Cottage Hospital.

I thank them for their participation and say to them 'please continue your
support to the Save the Cottage Hospital during this difficult time.

'We must and will redouble our efforts and personally I feel it's about time all
of us stood up for those most vulnerable in our community and say STOP'.

As regards the three Louth TDS who are now enjoying their moment of glory and
putting a political spin on the events at the rally held on Saturday 21st.
January 2012, I say shame on you, you are letting the people down.

Up to 2000 locals marched to save the Drogheda Cottage Hospital and as paid
national politicians you should listen to those who voted for you.

Minister of State, Fergus O'dowd T.D., Deputy Peter Fitzpatrick T.D. and Deputy
Gerald Nash T.D. who in my view, attempted to hijack our rally by ignoring our
protocol and commandeering our microphone in an attempt to use it to their own
political point scoring advantage. They presented themselves one after another
on our platform when they had no intention of signing our pledge!

We will not be deflected by anyone who puts out a political spin in an effort to
tarnish, by innuendo, the good name of many of the march and rally organising
committee.

The committee is quite a large one and we will redouble our efforts to highlight
the plight of the Cottage Hospital's current and future residents.

It is incumbent on all concerned people to stand firm as without local
solidarity the cause to Save the Drogheda Cottage Hospital could be further
damaged.

I say to our supporters, do not believe all you hear on the airwaves or read in
the newspapers, as it may not be a balanced and fair record.

In conclusion, I ask those concerned citizens to please continue your support
for the retention and expansion of public health services for our older citizens
at the Drogheda Cottage Hospital as they deserve and need our full support. The
Campaign to Save The Cottage Hospital goes on.

Is mise le meas John Healy

Carntown Ballymakenny Drogheda Co. Louth.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


