                              183 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                              June 10, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Shortage of beds in NHS a problem, but political parties do not have answer;
Yousay IN YOUR OPINION...

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 523 words


IHAVE to say that none of the political with the percentage of the GDP level to
be apportioned to the NHS, leaving the experts to determine the "how, what and
when".

By experts I mean the medical profession, nurses and some other allied
professionals.

Obviously district general hospitals do require a CEO, financial and personnel
expertise but this should be divorced from the political whims of the day.

Generally speaking I have no confidence in any political party where the NHS is
concerned!

Most of the problems the NHS is experiencing today can be linked back to a white
paper called "Patients First" implemented in the early 1980s, where the concept
of "procurers and providers" (commonly called by staff at that time "pimps and
prostitutes") was first established.

This means healthcare revenue was given to health authorities, who then
purchased healthcare on behalf of the sick in their catchment area from
providers (NHS trusts and GPs).

Today the Government, not the Welsh Assembly, are intending to give the funding
to GP practices who are to purchase healthcare for their patients from hospitals
when they are required. How daft is that? GP practices have no experience of
contracts, contract procedure or that type of financial management and control.

Obviously buying in that kind of contract control will result in a cost
explosion for each GP practice and less money for patient care.

Also at that time there was a major emphasis put on improving hospital
efficiency. There were two ways Government tried to tackle "efficiency". One was
"quality of care" and the other was "bed occupancy". I won't attempt to get
involved in the debate on what is quality of care other than to say that this
was in the main about outcomes following patient treatment in terms of "years of
life" or "life in those years".

With bed occupancy, improving efficiency was seen as improving from 60% to 70%
as it was in the 1980s to 85% to 95%, as it appears to be now.

A great idea if you are talking about hotels but not so good for hospitals when
there are large demand increases attributable to winter health problems which
require extra beds.

In the 1980s South Glamorgan Health Authority produced a plan predicting
healthcare demand that would be required for the 21st century for this area. The
plan, which identified a population increase in the area and proposed three
district general hospitals and five neighbourhood hospitals, would be required.

The costing for this plan with all the additional staff which would be required,
meant that this plan was set aside and I presume that the Welsh Office at that
time would not fund the proposals in this plan.

Although I must admit that some of the neighbourhood hospitals have been built -
Barry, St David's and currently the new CRI.

However St David's Hospital is a PFI hospital owned and run by a private
consortium. I would suggest that the failure to build the third DGH and the
reduction of bed numbers in the area due to the many hospital closures over the
last 25 years are the major cause of long waiting lists while also acknowledging
bed blocking is a problem.

¦ Doug Bragg Cathays, Cardiff

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Measuring bed occupancy is more relevant to hotels than hospitals...

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


