                              189 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Illawarra Mercury

                            August 5, 2017 Saturday
                           Print & Internet Editions

Rorris queries big political donations by private health corporations

BYLINE: Lisa Wachsmuth

SECTION: REAL ESTATE

LENGTH: 443 words


South Coast Labour Council secretary Arthur Rorris is questioning why some of
the nation's private health corporations are channelling millions of dollars to
a ''political party with a privatisation agenda''.

Mr Rorris said Australian Electoral Commission data revealed that health and
pharmaceutical companies had forked out more than $8 million in political
donations in the past decade.

He said the vast majority of the donations went to the Liberal Party with Ramsay
Health Care - which operates Wollongong, Figtree, Lawrence Hargrave and Nowra
private hospitals - one of the biggest donors.

Read more: 'It's time to abandon plans to privatise Shellharbour Hospital'

He said from 2006 to 2016 Ramsay Health Care had donated around $750,000 to the
Liberals at a federal and state level, while $1.7 million had been donated by
Paul Ramsay Holdings.

Sonic Healthcare, BUPA Australia, Swisse Vitamins and Novartis Pharmaceuticals
were among the other major political donors.

''No reasonable person could come to the conclusion that big health corporations
donate to politicians for our health, they're doing it for their own
interests,'' Mr Rorris said.

''Corporations see political donations as their way to get access to politicians
and promote their agenda - and their agenda is clearly to increase their market
share.''

Mr Rorris said this raised ''serious questions'' about privatisation of public
health assets and services.

"So here we have the biggest health corporations in the country donating
millions of dollars to politicians and by some remarkable coincidence the NSW
Liberal Government decides it might be a good time to sell off our public
hospitals,'' he said.

''In this region the owners of Shellharbour Hospital - the community - haven't
even been permitted to view all the tendering and contractual material around a
proposed public-private partnership (PPP).

''How cosy is it that we see political donations by health companies and also
see a privatisation process which the community does not have access to?''

However a Ramsay Health Care spokeswoman said the company donated money to many
organisations and causes across Australia.

Its founder, the late Paul Ramsay, was well known for his philanthropy.

She said this year the company would return over $80 million to the Paul Ramsay
Foundation, a charity which funded health and education projects across
Australia.

''In the last 10 years Ramsay Health Care donated funds to both Liberal
($750,000) and other parties including the Labor Party (over $300,000),'' she
said.

She said Ramsay had ''limited interest'' in the NSW Government's PPP hospital
proposals and ''at this stage'' was not participating.

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2017 Illawarra Newspapers Holding Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


