                              19 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                             June 12, 2004 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

When politics harms hospitals

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Leaders; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 513 words


Another day, another crisis for our hospital system. Or so it can seem with
every new report of another public hospital put on code red - that is, closed to
additional emergency cases as the weather gets colder and the rate of admissions
rises.

In the wake of the controversy over the 21 unnecessary deaths at Campbelltown
and Camden hospitals over the past 12 months, it is easy to think our hospital
system is indeed in crisis. Like all government services, the pressure of too
many people chasing limited resources can quickly feed dissatisfaction. The
medical system can soak up increasing amounts of public funds with little to
show. Even so, for the most part, the hospital system operates well in what,
from time to time, can be a trying conditions.

Those conditions can be made worse by the political environment. This is clear
from the Herald investigation this week into what went wrong at Camden and
Campbelltown public hospitals. It showed the real operational problems of those
two hospitals too few experienced staff and insufficient resources was made
worse by political interference of the worst kind.

As documents obtained by the Herald disclose, intervention by the Government to
open facilities at Camden hospital in order to bolster Labor's electoral
fortunes cannot be justified. The cost was too high and Campbelltown, with its
larger population base and greater needs, was already facing budget
difficulties.

With its smaller population, it was inevitable that some services at Camden be
sacrificed for the greater needs at nearby Campbelltown. Yet this simple reality
in managing scarce health system resources was held hostage to the political
reality of a Labor State Government seeking to wrest control of the Liberal seat
at Camden successfully, as it turned out.

This political aside should not, however, lead us to lose sight of the fact that
there were unnecessary deaths at Campbelltown and Camden hospitals well before
the elections were in sight. The management of the hospital, on the ground and
within the Health Department, had been amiss for some time. There have now been
some management changes, but it is not clear that they are sufficient to get on
top of the issues involved, let alone restore public confidence fully.

The unnecessary deaths of 21 patients between mid-1999 and February last year is
clearly unacceptable. Equally unacceptable is the intervention of political
parties playing with the health and welfare of large parts of the city's
population for their political gain.

The final report of the special commission of inquiry is due on July 31. It
should point the way to resolving problems in the hospital system and restoring
public confidence. If so, the Government should promptly implement its
recommendations if not for the sake of the hospital system, then for its own.
The Government's blatant exploitation of part of the hospital system for
short-term political goals has been scandalous. No matter what the Walker
inquiry will recommend as a remedy, many voters will want to punish the
Government in a future election.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


