                              185 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            March 14, 2009 Saturday
                              Tampabay.com Edition

THE BUZZ: FLORIDA POLITICS

SECTION: THE BUZZ: FLORIDA POLITICS

LENGTH: 375 words


Cashing In: Lawmakers rake in CCE money

In the latest election cycle, dozens of Florida legislators raked in $6 million
in special-interest campaign money and spent a good deal of it on themselves for
meals, rental cars, plane trips and hotels.

Some lawmakers are feeding at the trough of contributors, enjoying expensive
dinners at upscale restaurants with donors' money at a time when one of every 10
Floridians is on food stamps. Others are churning cash from one political
committee to another, using it to finance direct contributions and attack ads
for other candidates, thereby strengthening their own clout in a virtually
untraceable shell game.

Some findings of a Times/Herald report:

-The Hospital Corporation of America, a major hospital chain seeking to change
the way more than $1 billion in hospital money is awarded each year, donated the
most money to the committees: $269,500 in the past two years. HCA also donated
an additional $865,000 to other committees and to individual lawmaker campaigns
in the same two-year period.

-U.S. Sugar Corp. of Clewiston, which has hired 41 lobbyists in seeking to sell
much of its land to the state, is next with $226,260. It donated an additional
$365,000 to lawmakers and other political groups this election cycle.

-AT&T, which is seeking favorable phone legislation this year, was the No. 3
contributor with $151,500.

Story here.
(http://www.tampabay.com/news/politics/legislature/article984087.ece)

Posted by Alex Leary at 9:18:39 PM

* * *

Cretul finds first test in Robaina. Did he pass?

Rep. Larry Cretul has heard the jokes about his accidental status as speaker of
the Florida House, but with a single act this week, he left no doubt who is in
charge.

On Wednesday, Cretul stripped Miami Republican Julio Robaina as a committee
chairman for undermining a bill that was a priority of the attorney general.

Cretul's power play struck some as heavy-handed, while others said it was the
right medicine.

"When you get tested, you must take action," said Rep. Rich Glorioso, a Plant
City Republican and retired Air Force colonel. "That's the basic rule of
leadership. Otherwise you lose control." (story here)
(http://www.tampabay.com/news/politics/legislature/article983853.ece)

Posted by Alex Leary at 3:51:43 PM

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

