                              187 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            South Wales Evening Post

                            April 4, 2007 Wednesday

Renewed neuro call as hospital saved

BYLINE:  liz perkins

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 344 words


Calls have been made for Labour to safeguard the future of Morriston Hospital's
neurosurgery unit ahead of May's Assembly election.

Ian Titherington, Plaid's Assembly candidate for Swansea West, has made the call
following Labour's surprise decision to keep the doors of Llandudno Hospital in
North Wales, open.

He said a similar pledge should also be made over the future of the Swansea site
ahead of  May 3.

He added: "As far as I am concerned, what is good enough for Llandudno is good
enough for Morriston and unless Labour are prepared to make a similar
commitment, then we all know what will happen to the unit after the election, if
Labour regain power."

Bosses at Assembly body Health Commission Wales are not expected to make a final
decision until July on whether Swansea will remain home to the neurosurgery
service.

It was put back following a last-minute call by Assembly Health Minister Brian
Gibbons for Health Commission Wales to look again at the plan to centralise the
service in Cardiff.

Mr Titherington said he feared Labour's failure to promise to safeguard the unit
would lead to its closure when a decision was finally made.

He said : "Yesterday's announcement on Llandudno Hospital is a purely political
move by Labour, in order to try to hold onto their Aberconwy Assembly seat from
the challenge of Plaid's Gareth Jones.

"It shows that behind the scenes, Labour are pulling all the strings with
hospital reorganisation.

"This makes a mockery of Labour's claim that all these decisions are non-
political."

But a Labour Party spokeswoman said the decision over the Morriston Hospital
site was non-political.

She added: "It's an independent joint board decision and they are going to
report when they are ready.

"We are not saying we are reprieving Llandudno Hospital - it was never in any
danger of closing.

"It's going through consultation at the moment. Politically, we have no input."

Former nuero patient Ian Alexander, of Treboeth, said: "I think a lot of people
feel a decision should be made this side of May 3. Then they can see where we
stand.''

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 South Wales Evening Post
                              All Rights Reserved


