                              184 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                             August 3, 2012 Friday

Elahi condemns political victimization of Shaukat Khanum Hospital

SECTION: Vol. XXXVI No. 215

LENGTH: 322  words


Deputy Prime Minister and Pakistan Muslim League senior central leader Ch Parvez
Elahi has said that N-League should not make Imran Khan's established welfare
institution like Shaukat Khanum Cancer Hospital target of its traditional
political victimization.

In a statement issued here Thursday, Ch Parvez Elahi said that targeting a
hospital for political vengeance is highly deplorable and the greatest moral
degradation on the part of N-League. He said politicking against most modern
hospital rendering great services to the cancer patients is highly condemnable
and worst example of resorting to such low level tactics and grave violation of
moral and social values.

Ch Parvez Elahi said that Shaukat Khanum Cancer Hospital is a non-political
welfare institution rendering healthcare services to the people where millions
of cancer patients are provided most modern treatment and highest standard of
facilities and deserving patients are even treated free.

He said that N-League campaign of allegations against Shaukat Khanum Cancer
Hospital perhaps may not harmful to Pakistan Tehrik-e-Insaaf chief Imran Khan
but would certainly cause irreparable loss to the cancer patients from all over
the country in particular the deserving poor patients who are treated free of
charges.

He asked the N-League leadership to discard such low and negative tactics. He
said the mishandling of the hospitals and the patients in the Punjab ,
deteriorated situation in the Govt. hospital due to their faulty policies and
the bad treatment being meted out to the patients and the doctors are very sad
reflection on their tall claims of "rendering of services to the people".

He further said that if a welfare institution is rendering such invaluable
services to the cancer patients, it should not be stopped from working and
vengeance of political opposition of its founder should not be taken from the
most modern and the greatest cancer hospital.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2012 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


