                              194 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                          February 19, 2014 Wednesday

4 dead, 64 hurt as sites takencasualties on both sides, nearly 700 injured so
far over the past 11 weeks

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 500 words


The Nation

four people were killed and 64 others injured in clashes between anti-government
protesters and police yesterday.

The casualties occurred on both sides as the authorities were trying to reclaim
public areas from the demonstrators. The Erawan Emergency Medical Service Centre
confirmed these figures at about 4.40pm yesterday.

With the latest casualties, the number of victims in the ongoing political
violence has risen to 697, of whom 15 have died so far. These statistics have
been compiled since the first clash erupted near Ramkhamhaeng University on
November 30.

Three victims identified

Of the four killed yesterday, three were identified as Pol Snr Sgt-Major
Phienchai Pharawat, 45; plus Supoj Boonrung, 52; and Thanusak Rattanakhot, 29,
who were both believed to be protesters.

Of the 64 injured, 10 were police, who were admitted for treatment at the Police
General Hospital. One of the officers had to undergo surgery to remove a bullet
from his head.

Most of the injured police officers hailed from non-commissioned ranks with many
apparently suffering from wounds caused by shrapnel.

Only one commissioned officer appeared on the list of casualties â[#x20ac]" Pol
Colonel Yongyuth Ruangdej, a superintendent at the Royal Police Cadet Academy,
who sustained a gunshot wound to his leg.

Other victims from yesterday's clashes were mostly being treated at nearby
hospitals such as the Klang Hospital, Hua Chiew Hospital, Ramathibodi Hospital,
Faculty of Medicine Vajira Hospital, and Priest Hospital.

Meanwhile, Public Health Minister Pradit Sinthawanarong said yesterday that
hospitals in neighbouring provinces were put on alert, in case extra medical
help was required to treat victims of political violence.

"If there are more than 100 victims, there is a possibility that they will be
sent to nearby provinces," he said.

Anti-government protesters have been rallying on the streets for several months
in a bid to pressure caretaker Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra to resign.
They believe her resignation will pave the way for a People's Council that will
help implement reforms for public interest.

Standing strong

The Yingluck administration, however, has refused to step down, saying it needs
to protect democracy.

It has imposed a state of emergency and went ahead with an election on February
2, but this #124was marred with problems which #124the Election Commission is
attempting to resolve, such as a lack of candidates in many constituencies in
the South.

Ballots also need to be held in many seats in Bangkok where voting could not be
conducted because of protests or blockades that prevented the delivery of ballot
papers.

With the political battle having also spread to the Internet, National Health
Commission secretary-general Amphon Jindawatana expressed concern yesterday
about victims' personal information being used in the political struggle.

He warned that disclosing a patient's personal information constituted a legal
offence.

"Please respect patients' basic rights," he urged.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


