                              192 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                    December 5, 2002 Thursday Final Edition

Briefly

SOURCE: The Hamilton Spectator

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. B02

LENGTH: 727 words


ONTARIO

Hospital religious ties assailed

TORONTO -- Canadian abortion doctor Henry Morgentaler says public hospitals
should end any affiliation with religious interests because their biases --
including the Catholic thinking that abortion is a "serious sin" -- are
interfering with the reproductive rights of Canadian women.

"We live in a multicultural, non-sectarian society," Morgentaler, who operates
eight private abortion clinics across Canada, said during a news conference
yesterday. "It's abnormal that hospitals should remain with religious
denominations.

Some anti-abortion interests reacted to Morgentaler's no-religious-ties idea for
hospitals with anger.

"It's outrageous," Mary Ellen Douglas of the Campaign Life Coalition said from
Kingston, Ont. "If it wasn't for the Catholic Church there would be no hospitals
in Canada because this is how hospitals began.

CANADA

Bid to outlaw donations killed

OTTAWA -- A backlash among Liberal MPs has derailed Prime Minister Jean
Chretien's plans to move quickly to outlaw corporate and union donations to
political parties.

The Liberals had hoped to introduce draft legislation to reform political
fundraising before Parliament's holiday break begins next week. But the
government has put the new proposals on hold after an outpouring of objections
from its own MPs.

Several said the fierce opposition was voiced by MPs in yesterday's closed-door
Liberal caucus meeting.

"It's effectively dead," one Liberal remarked after caucus.

Police arrest 15 in drug raid

MONTREAL -- Police have arrested 15 people after busting an alleged drug ring
they say was involved in plans to import more than $2 billion in cocaine and
hashish.

The accused are linked to a gang in Montreal's west end, police said yesterday.

About 50 officers from Quebec provincial police, the RCMP and Montreal police
staged four raids early yesterday in an investigation that began in July 2001.

Media ban decision tomorrow

PORT COQUITLAM -- A provincial court judge will decide tomorrow whether the
preliminary hearing for accused serial killer Robert Pickton -- charged with
killing 15 women -- will be open to the press and public.

Defence lawyer Peter Ritchie argued that the evidence would be "exceedingly
grim," and urged that the hearing be kept closed to keep evidence from leaking
out that might prejudice a future trial for his client.

But lawyers for the Crown and both the Canadian and U.S. media oppose the idea.

WORLD

Drifting windsurfer found safe

HONOLULU -- A Vancouver woman has been found safe after disappearing while
windsurfing in Hawaii. Jrazyna Pstrong, 46, drifted out to sea Tuesday night off
Sugar Beach at Maui.

U.S. Coast Guard Petty Officer Tyler Johnson said a patrol boat found her early
yesterday, dehydrated but otherwise all right.

Pstrong was found wearing a black wet suit and floating on her surfboard about
13 kilometres from Sugar Beach.

Israeli rockets kill bomb maker

JERUSALEM -- Five Israeli helicopters destroyed a building in Gaza City with a
barrage of rockets yesterday, killing a man whom Palestinians later identified
as the inventor of a powerful bomb used against Israeli tanks.

The bombmaker, Mustafa Sabah, was at his security job at a Palestinian Authority
compound when three to four rockets struck his concrete guardhouse, witnesses
said.

Yukon River salmon quota set

WASHINGTON -- Alaska will be harvesting fewer salmon from the Canadian portion
of the Yukon River, though not as few as Canada had hoped under a new management
plan signed by Canada and the United States.

The agreement takes effect immediately and caps 17 years of diplomatic efforts
by setting harvest quotas and creating management programs for stocks of chinook
and chum salmon from the upper Yukon River.

Curfew imposed in East Timor

DILI, East Timor -- Police in East Timor's capital declared a nighttime curfew
on yesterday after officers fired on student protesters, killing at least two
people and sparking a rampage of looting and arson that left the prime
minister's house burned to the ground.

The rioting, the worst since the poverty-stricken country became independent in
May, started on the second day of protests by about 500 students who gathered at
police headquarters in Dili.

-- Hamilton Spectator wire services

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Brief

                    Copyright 2002 Metroland Media Group Ltd


