                              199 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                           September 3, 2016 Saturday

PG doctors asked to stay away from politics

LENGTH: 660  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, Sept. 3 -- In order to curb the culture of politics in medical
institutions, the Punjab government has imposed a complete ban on political
activities at teaching hospitals and directed the newly inducted postgraduate
trainee doctors not to become part of any such event.

A PG trainee would not be allowed to be a part of any political party or member
of medical or dental wing of any political organisation during the entire period
of training. The principal/head of institution were also empowered to terminate
the contract of such PG trainees without serving any prior notice.

The government officials privy to this development claimed that the Specialised
Healthcare and Medical Education (SH&ME) Department has made strict disciplinary
rules and regulation in the regard. In other words, newly inducted PG trainees
have been warned to stay away from political activities the Young Doctors
Association (YDA) in public hospitals.

Formed some eight years ago, the Punjab YDA was represented by over 20,000 young
doctors at all government hospitals of the province. The main strength of the
association has been the postgraduate trainees and house officers. Young doctors
have been giving tough time to the provincial government over central induction
policy (CIP) for PG trainee programmes, including FCPS, MD, MDS and MS.

Sources further said that SH&ME significantly increased the PG slots in past
while currently, more than 4,500 PG training slots were available in the public
sector teaching hospital in Punjab. Now, ending the medics' monopoly, department
has devised a comprehensive transparent system generated through merit-based PG
induction policy named 'Punjab Post-Graduate Training Programme' after unanimous
consensus from all stakeholders. In order to facilitate the institutions and
aspiring doctors, the SH&ME secretary would devise regulations for its
implementation at all levels.

That SH&ME Department has written a letter to all principals of medical colleges
and medical superintendents (MS) of teaching hospitals, directing them to keep a
close eye on such movements in their institutions.

According to rules, a PG trainee doctor would not be entitled for private
practice or second job at any other hospital/institution during the training
period. The PG training is a full-time residential job and they shall perform
duty in department ward as per duty roster defined by head of department.

No official accommodation would be provided to the PG trainee during the period
of training. However, a non-furnished room on single or share-basis would be
provided to the PG trainees subject to payment of utility charges/room rent and
availability in the hospital/hostel. The provision of hostel accommodation is
purely made to ensure round the clock availability of PG doctors in hospitals/
ward.

The total duration of the course would be as per stipulated period of the
programme chosen out of which the contract for one year would be granted
(extendable on yearly bases subject to satisfactory performance). The PG would
be entitled to draw stipend as fixed by the government as admissible under the
rules and subject to availability of stipendiary seats in the respective
specialty in the respective institute where he/she is placed.

Once a PG trainee dropped or leaves the course incomplete, he/she would not be
eligible to rejoin the course until decided by the hardship committee. The
contract of PG trainee could be terminated at any time during the training
period in case of violation of contract agreement, misconduct, absence or poor
performance as per disciplinary rules.

The PG trainee shall not be allowed to change his/her course at any stage during
the study for which he/she initially recommended by the Joint Admission
Committee.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


