                              200 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Manly Daily (Australia)

                             April 18, 2006 Tuesday

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 439  words


Values close to

hospital will fall

I AGREE with Dave McLean (Opinion, April 12) about real estate agent Mr Hosking
saying prices have increased 10 per cent around the proposed hospital at Frenchs
Forest.

As a valuer for many years I think values close to such a large establishment
will fall, especially during planning and construction. Values around Hornsby
Hospital are often worth less than homes further away in a residential zone.

When the specialists moved out of a medical facility adjoining the hospital
grounds at Hornsby it became a childcare centre for lack of medical interest.
Many specialists have relocated to a purpose-built building at Pymble station
and the San.

Hornsby, like Frenchs Forest, is off a main bus and train route. People might be
taken there by ambulance but public transport is important for follow-up visits.
Specialists will probably relocate to Dee Why or Warringah Mall unless a large
private hospital is attached to the new hospital.

John Randall, Mona Vale

Solution: Ban all

political donations

DEAR Julie Sutton, Peter Moxham and Andrew Humpherson: Do you support a total
ban on all political donations monetary and in kind from property developers and
real estate agents to any and all state and local political parties and
individuals and a ban on real estate agents and/or property developers serving
on local councils and in State Government (MD, April 13)? If you're so outraged
about Dick Persson (reported to have heard about) supposed falling property
developer donations to the Liberal Party since he took over you could bolster
your credibility by leading an effort to end this potential onerous and
corrosive means of government capture by narrow property interests. That would
be the most logical and constructive extension of your outrage. Julie, Peter,
Andrew? Answers please.

Stewart Taggart, Fairlight

Failure to see

bigger picture

THE continuing debate over the Sierra Leone immigrants has failed to highlight
one of the most important issues confronting the world today the plight of
Africa.

We have been inundated with stories about how these people love Australia (and
the northern beaches) and how good we are as a nation to allow these few poor
souls a chance to escape to ''the lucky country''. Very little has been said
about the dire situation in Sierra Leone (and other parts of Africa) and even
less about prospects for improving Africa.

It strikes me as sad when a story such as this, that should encourage greater
understanding and help to the most ignored continent in the world, does little
more than give us a greater sense of self-satisfaction.

Nathaniel Stapleton, Beacon Hill

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: MAN


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


