                              195 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 17, 1996, Thursday, Final Edition

Despite Ring of Truth, Criticism Often Involved Stretching Facts

Michael Weisskopf, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A11

LENGTH: 1069 words


Republican Robert J. Dole's assault on Clinton administration ethics in last
night's presidential debate sounded high-minded, authoritative and no-doubt
reassuring to his supporters.

It also was a stretch. The "30-some" administration officials Dole said had
"left or are being investigated or in jail" was based on a list released by his
campaign that included officials who have been cleared of charges, dragged into
still-inconclusive inquiries launched by Republicans or probed for alleged
wrongdoing that occurred before President Clinton entered office.

Clinton was no more truthful in piling criticism on the Republican plan for
overhauling Medicare, citing an American Hospital Association projection that it
"could have closed 700 hospitals." In fact, the group never predicted closings,
but said that nearly 700 "most vulnerable" hospitals are dependent on Medicare
income and that they would be severely affected by any plan to overhaul the
health insurance program for the elderly, Republican or Democrat.

For all their folksiness at the town hall forum, the president and his
challenger often demonstrated a greater commitment to triumph than the truth.
They parried with selective facts, lunged with misrepresentations, and generally
left viewers farther from objective reality.

Many of last night's statements were part of this campaign's stock of white lies
-- Clinton's repeated references to Republican "cuts" in Medicare when the
program would have grown under the GOP program (although more slowly than
current projections, or under Clinton's own proposal); Dole's portrayal of the
Clinton economy as the "worst" in a century when private sector growth has
boomed; and Clinton's boast of "putting 100,000 police on the street" when fewer
than half that number have been deployed or hired (albeit because the Republican
Congress failed to approve the money for them).

But the candidates broke new ground on issues of trade, foreign policy, tobacco
regulations, health care reform, family leave and ethics.

Dole attempted to raise questions about the administration's ethical conduct by
noting that campaign finance reform "might help contributions coming in from
Indonesia." He was referring to a $ 425,000 contribution to the Democratic
National Committee by an Indonesian couple living in a modest Virginia town
house.

Federal law bars campaign contributions from anyone who is not a U.S. citizen or
legal resident. Although Republicans have suggested the money may have been
raised illegally from overseas sources, because the woman's father is a business
partner of the head of an Indonesian company with ties to Clinton. But the woman
and her husband were legal U.S. residents, and no evidence has emerged thus far
that any law was violated.

Dole also got carried away on the scandal Republicans call "Filegate" when he
accused the administration of gathering 900 confidential FBI background reports.
"People like you," he said to the audience, adding, "Why should they be rifling
through your files?" In fact, more than 700 files improperly acquired by the
White House security office were of former Republican officials in the Bush and
Reagan administrations, not average citizens.

Clinton did not respond to either innuendo, but issued a number of questionable
statements on trade. He bragged of trade agreements with Tokyo that allowed for
U.S. sales to Japan of everything from telephones to cars to rice. Although the
rice market opened in Japan after the 1994 Uruguay Round of trade and tariff
negotiations, the other products already had been sold there for years.

He also attributed the rise in U.S. auto manufacturing production and sales to
his aggressive trade policies. But one of the main reasons that production has
increased is the location of Japanese and other foreign auto factories in this
country.

Clinton seemed to err in response to a question on possible U.S. peacekeeping on
the West Bank. "I do not believe Yasser Arafat wants us to send troops to West
Bank," he said. "We have never been asked to send troops to the West Bank." In
fact, the Palestinian leader said in Jericho on Tuesday that he was ready to
have U.S. troops guard Jewish settlers in the West Bank town of Hebron if that
would calm Israel's security fears.

On tobacco regulations, Dole launched a strong offense as the best defense
against his controversial statement that tobacco is not always addictive. He
blamed the president for delaying implementation of a law restricting tobacco
sales to minors and touted his own record for supporting health warnings on
cigarettes in 1965 and for voting "for everything since that time."

But Clinton, the first president to attempt regulation of the tobacco industry,
had been delayed in imposing the law -- which had been passed in 1992 and was
sent in 1993 to the new Clinton administration for implementation -- by the
large number public comments and complaints of cigarette companies that had to
be heard and considered. In fact, the law originally had been introduced by
Democrats and was watered down by Republicans.

Dole, on the other hand, has been friendly enough to the tobacco industry to
receive large contributions over the years to his campaigns and groups linked to
him.

Dole was critical of Clinton's 1993 plan for universal health care coverage,
calling it a "government takeover of health care" that would have prevented
people from choosing their own doctor. But the ill-fate proposal offered a
fee-for-services option, preserving the right of patients to choose their own
physician, and it was devised as an alternative to the kind of "single-payer"
government-run program typical of nationalized medicine.

Clinton, for his part, overstated the impact of the Family and Medical Leave Act
that he signed over Dole's objection. Although the president said that the law
had been used by 12 million families since 1993, a congressional study reported
in May that only 1.5 million to 3 million Americans, less than 4 percent of
those eligible, had used it in the first 18 months.

He also said that the Republican plan for Medicare would have the "poorest
seniors in the country pay $ 270 more a year," but the proposal actually would
have raised the monthly premiums by half as much per person.

Staff writer Paul Blustein and staff researcher Barbara J. Saffir contributed to
this report.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1996 The Washington Post


