                              204 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            August 15, 2017 Tuesday

Call for unity

SECTION: Vol. 31 No. 160

LENGTH: 503  words


Punjab Chief Minister Shehbaz Sharif has stressed the need for forging unity to
cope with the challenges being faced by the country.

'Celebrating the 70th Independence Day with zeal and fervour, we all must rise
above politics' he said while talking to the media at the flag-hoisting ceremony
at the Lahore Fort Monday.

The chief minister also stressed the need for political stability. 'Pakistan is
a nuclear power with ability to crush the enemy. But we should also take stock
of our past and see why the country is still political and economically weak. We
must work jointly to make Pakistan prosperous,' he observed.

He paid tribute to the Pakistan Movement veterans and called for following in
the footsteps of Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah and Allama Muhammad Iqbal. He
also paid homage to the martyrs of war on terror.

Shehbaz Sharif on this occasion also came down hard on political opponents as he
accused them of committing corruption using political influence.

'There are people who got their loans written-off though political influence.
There are people whose corruption scandals are known to everybody. Such people
have their assets abroad', he said, adding that corruption would be curbed at
all costs. He said Pakistan was established to give equal opportunities to
everyone.

Lord Mayor Col(r) Mubashar Javed presented the welcome address. The diplomats of
China, Turkey, Iran and the US, provincial ministers, chief secretary and senior
civil and military officers were also present.

After the event, Shehbaz paid a surprised visit to Manawan Hospital and had a
round of all the units. The 100-bed hospital is newly-constructed on a 49-kanal
of land.

'Modern medical facilities have been provided. The hospital is a gift for the
people living in the border area,' he said and directed the administration o to
make it a model for other hospitals.

He said Punjab had the credit of setting the trend of international standard
hospitals for the poor. He said Recep Tayyip Hospital in Muzzafargarh, Burns
Unit in Multan and Shehbaz Sharif Hospital in Lahore were a few examples where
best medical facilities were available. He said provision of medical facilities
to the poor was his mission and he will continue with it.

Health Week message

Also, in his Health Week message, the chief minister said that his government
had increased the health budge to bring in betterment.

'The improvement in health sector and provision of best facilities are the
priorities of the government. Billions of rupees have been spent for the
purpose,' he said, adding that considerable improvement in the health sector had
been witnessed due to result-oriented measures of the Punjab government. He said
he was personally monitoring the health programmes across Punjab.

He said blood screening and vaccination camps will be set up at THQs and DHQs
this week and free medical check-up of pregnant women and vaccination will be
provided to the children. He said free tests of hepatitis, aids, malaria and
tuberculosis will be carried out.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


