                              211 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    The Tribune-Star (Terre Haute, Indiana)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           February 18, 2010 Thursday

Regional Hospital CEO steps down: Announcement says resignation is ?for personal
reasons' and effective immediately

BYLINE: Sue Loughlin, The Tribune-Star, Terre Haute, Ind.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 496 words


Feb. 18--Chris Hill has resigned as Terre Haute Regional Hospital's chief
executive officer, the hospital confirmed Wednesday.

Hill had served as CEO since November 2006.

The resignation "for personal reasons" was effective immediately, according to a
Regional news release.

Brian Bauer, currently the hospital's chief financial officer, is serving as
interim CEO.

"We want to thank Chris for his service and wish him well as he pursues other
opportunities," said Bart Colwell, chairman of the hospital's board of trustees,
in a news release. "Regional Hospital has an outstanding team of physicians,
employees and volunteers and our future is bright. Our search for a replacement
CEO will focus on finding a strong leader who will continue the hospital's
approach of providing outstanding, patient-centered care to Wabash Valley
residents."

Hill could not be reached for comment Wednesday.

According to information provided to the Tribune-Star, Hill sent an e-mail to
employees stating in part, "At this time with mixed emotion I am announcing my
resignation ... I am from Arizona and pursuing opportunities now in the
Southwest that will allow me to be close to my family. Thank you for all the
support you have given me and please continue to do all that you do to provide
extraordinary care for our patients and make Regional the great hospital it is."

In a telephone interview, Colwell said he had no comment on the reason for
Hill's resignation. "All I know is he resigned for personal reasons," he said.

Colwell also said, "Brian will do a great job as interim CEO and continue on
with the focus the hospital has had, which is patient care and safety and
providing increased levels of services to patients" and continuing community
involvement.

HCA, Regional's parent company, will conduct a search and hire a new CEO,
Colwell said. The Regional board will serve in an advisory capacity, he said.

Bauer joined Regional Hospital in May 2005. Since that time, he has served as
manager of managed care, hospital controller and interim chief financial
officer. He graduated from Butler University, where he earned a degree in
finance with an emphasis in accounting and political science.

He is a member of Union Christian Church and has traveled to Honduras as a
volunteer with Lifeline Christian Mission. He is active in several community and
political groups, according to Regional's Web site.

Regional officials had no further comment Wednesday. HCA referred comments to
Regional officials.

Sue Loughlin can be reached at (812) 231-4235 or sue.loughlin@tribstar.com

To see more of The Tribune-Star or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.tribstar.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, The Tribune-Star, Terre Haute,
Ind. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100218-TX-Regional-Hospital-CEO-steps-down-0218

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TX


                                 Copyright 2010


