                              210 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                             The Malta Independent

                               December 15, 2013

Mater Dei must become autonomous - Frank Portelli

LENGTH: 1771  words


With Mater Dei Hospital currently being some 200 beds short of what is required
for the hospital's acute needs, and with the health system facing the reality
that it will need to provide an additional 150 beds for elderly patients each
year for the next 10 years, private hospital owner Frank Portelli believes there
is a lot more that could be done to remedy the situation at Mater Dei.

This week, the hospital was forced to put all non-essential surgery on hold due
to overcrowding and bed shortages at the hospital, and in the meantime wards are
once again being reconverted to accommodate patients that do not necessarily
belong there.

But, according to Dr Portelli, there is a lot more that can be done to alleviate
the bed shortages and overcrowding - not least of which are making Mater Dei
Hospital an autonomous institution and for the country's powers that be to cease
and desist from using the health sector as a political football.

Dr Portelli explains, "For many years, health issues have been a political
football: one political party tries to score points against another political
party - often at the patients' expense I must say.

"Whenever there is a change in government, the major political parties change
their position from defence to attack and vice versa. Since the change in
government March this year, the major political parties have switched roles -
where one used to attack the health service it now defends it and vice versa.

"This simply cannot go on as it harms the patient. Fortunately, there now seems
to be a general consensus that health should be removed from the partisan
political arena. I sincerely hope that this attitude will be maintained."   St
Philips Hospital - a First Division political football In the lead-up to the
last general election, Dr Portelli had been on the verge of signing on the
dotted line for a contract that would have seen the private hospital he owns, St
Philip's, being leased to the government in a bid to create the extra beds that
the health system so direly needs. But as the election drew near, the issue
became a heavily politicised one and the government of the day had backed out of
the deal.

"This," Dr Portelli says, "is an example of how health issues are turned into a
political football. An agreement had been reached with the previous
administration to lease the St Philips Hospital for rehabilitation purposes. The
Nationalist government did not honour its commitment, which forced us to file a
Judicial Protest prior to the last election.

"The next step is legal action seeking damages. However, we remain open to
amicable solutions. It would mean that 150 beds would be available at a fraction
of the cost of a bed at Mater Dei." While such a solution, had it been realised,
would have gone some way to alleviating Mater Dei's chronic overcrowding, Dr
Portelli contends there are other avenues to be explored.

He explains, "Currently, around 100 beds at Mater Dei are being blocked by
patients who do not require acute medical treatment at the hospital. These
patients require long-term care, and as such they need to be transferred to
another institution to look after their needs, their place is not at Mater Dei.

Similarly, another group of around 50 patients need to be moved out of Karin
Grech Hospital to another institution." As matters stand, Dr Portelli points out
that Mater Dei Hospital is currently 200 beds short of the health system's acute
needs and that, in actual fact, Mater Dei actually has fewer beds than its
predecessor St Luke's.

But despite the usual blame on the influenza season, which has not even hit in
earnest yet, the problem is not seasonal, it is endemic.

As Dr Portelli explains, "We are also short of beds for elderly patients and our
needs in this sector will continue to grow by around 150 beds every year for the
next 10 years.

"Let us not mince words - treating patients in hospital corridors is not
acceptable. Besides being undignified, there is also real risk that patients die
unnecessarily."   A PPP for the health sector Few realise the sheer numbers of
foreign patients that are admitted to Mater Dei Hospital, according to Dr
Portelli, who points out that in actual fact some 4,000 foreign patients are
admitted for treatment at Mater Dei Hospital every year.

"At an average of five bed nights per patient, this works out at a total of
20,000 bed nights at Mater Dei," Dr Portelli observes. "This translates into 55
beds being occupied every day of the year by foreign patients. Eighty per cent
of these patients are covered by the European Health Insurance Card (EHIC), and
their medical condition allows them to be transferred from Mater Dei to the
private sector." This state of affairs, Dr Portelli contends, should serve as
the first basis of a Public-Private Partnership between the state and private
hospitals where, he says, what is required is to enrol private hospitals and
clinics as 'National Health Service participating hospitals'.

"This," he says, "would enable private hospitals in Malta to receive
reimbursement for treatment given to EU nationals on the EHIC.  "This would
release at least 40 beds daily from Mater Dei. These patients are costing the
taxpayer no less than EUR10 million every year and they are, simultaneously,
blocking precious beds at Mater Dei.

"But I note that the public sector, for whatever reason, has not managed to
collect the fees from the relevant health insurance of these patients."   Mater
Dei autonomy In order for the running of Mater Dei Hospital to be brought on an
even keel, Dr Portelli believes that it must become an autonomous institution,
possibly through establishing a Public Private Partnership, "such as Zammit
Clapp Hospital used to be when it was run by an independent board with no
political interference and with the guiding principle that politicians should
'steer, not row'".

In addition to reducing bureaucracy by making Mater Dei an autonomous
institution, Dr Portelli also argues that another crucial step would be the
appointment of a 'Clinical Tsar' from outside the national health service who
would be answerable only to the minister responsible, with the concept of the
minister setting policy and having the tsar implementing it.

He also reiterates the common statement that more nurses and paramedical staff
needs to be employed so as to ensure a full staff complement. More full-time
doctors must also be employed, according to Dr Portelli, who points out that
"most doctors have private practice on top of their NHS job - a financial
incentive to keep long waiting lists".

Moreover, Dr Portelli advocates the setting up of a 'one-stop shop' concept at
the hospital that have "patients being seen in outpatients, tests being
performed on the same day, and an immediate decision on their future treatment
being made in terms of putting the patient on the waiting list or otherwise".

Patients, he says, should also be 'ranked', based on better-defined
clinical/social criteria, such as progression of disease, disability,
dependence, age, loss of ability to work and so on.

Such a ranking system would also see the establishment of URGS (Urgency Related
Groups) and with each group having a maximum recommended treatment time as well
as a 'priority-score' - a list by which patients receive treatment.

The Dalli report Asked about the controversial recent John Dalli report on the
workings of Mater Dei Hospital, Dr Portelli is of the opinion the "no report
should be read in isolation".

He explains how, for example, "A recent report, the European Consumer Heath
Index ECHI 2013, published about the same time as the Dalli report and which was
based on the assessment of 48 separate criteria, showed that we have slid
backwards another five points in our ranking, mainly because of our long waiting
lists and patients rights.

"We are now behind Greece and behind Cyprus as well, being placed in 26 th
position out of 35 countries - and to think that our health system once stood in
fifth position on the World Health Organisation list.

"No doubt they have taken note of our own Ombudsman's report on patients rights,
where the Ombudsman stated that consultants have a 'stranglehold' and absolute
power over the patient." He also cites a recent EU report that had found that
Malta's health service is only 38 per cent financially efficient. The John
Hopkins report, he notes, "cost us a hefty EUR1.3 million.  "The report spent
many months not seeing the light of day, lying in a drawer. Now, nearly two
years down the line, very few of the recommendations have been adopted as yet.
      "Reports often reveal what you already know, or suspect. We need to change
our attitude and stop shooting the messenger, and instead analyse what is in the
report.  We can then sit down together and see what can be implemented in the
patient's interest."   No insurance payments for traffic accident treatment Dr
Portelli also advises that, with the aim of reducing some of the burden on the
public health system, all medical expenses, including medical insurance premiums
should be made tax allowable.

He also highlights the fact that most road traffic accident victims are treated
in state hospitals - treatment that is complex and costly.  "In one year, it was
estimated that the treatment of road accident victims cost the state EUR20
million. But, by law, every motor vehicle has to have an insurance to cover
victims of traffic accidents.

"It should be the insurance companies that pay for these expenses not the
taxpayer."   A holistic approach Dr Portelli is confident that the right changes
could be made, in the sole interests of the patients, through a truly concerted
effort and by viewing the health system in a holistic fashion.

He contends, that Mater Dei Hospital should not be looked in isolation from
other parts of the wider health sector and for real change to be effected, the
health sector needs to be viewed as a whole.

"To make an analogy, if Mater Dei is the 'head' of the body, primary health care
is the 'backbone' - and the 'head' cannot function well if the 'backbone' is
weak.

"For instance, many patients go to Mater Dei Hospital when they could very well
have been treated in the primary health sector by their own GP or at the Health
Centres. This is increasing the workload on Mater Dei Hospital with the result
that there is increasing overcrowding, and the postponement of operations.

"Therefore," he says, "we have to strengthen the Primary Health service at the
same time as we implement measures at Mater Dei.

"I am convinced that to alleviate patient suffering we can do it if we are
determined, dedicated and disciplined."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1594


                    Copyright 2013 Standard Publications Ltd
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


