                              209 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             Fiji Times (Australia)

                            March 27, 2008 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Voice of the People

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1962 words


+++Purpose of the church

CHRISTIAN churches should uphold the purpose of the church, and that is to
uphold Christ before the people.

The church was not invented by men, but men have used it and misused it.

Christ founded the church and He is the head of the church and its Lord.

For Christ to be Lord, the church should come under the authority of His word
(Bible) and teaching.

The church and the Bible go together. The church exists to proclaim and exalt
the Christ of the Bible and nothing else.

The church that does not enthrone the Bible in the life of its people is false
to its mission. God gives individuals freedom and to make that freedom real, we
have to make choices that make us political being.

Christians should know and understand that they are individual political beings
and are free to align themselves to any political party of their choice.

The Christian church should promote and spread political freedom and Christian
leaders should avoid and refrain from voicing corporate political opinion in the
name of the church that people may not be misled in thinking the Christian
church as a cult among other religion.

!!!Rev. Basilio t. Kalokalodromu ,President Christian Natural Resource Owners!!!

+++Medical care

IS the Ministry of Health serious about privatising the Lautoka Hospital?

What has happened to Mahendra Chaudhry's Apollo Hospital? Is the interim
government now promoting health industry tourism?

Is the State's financial situation so bad that instead of promoting eco-tourism
we are now promoting health tourism?

How often do the interim ministers visit public hospitals when they are sick?

If they visit public hospitals regularly, why have they come up with such a
hilarious issue?

Everyone knows the state of our public hospitals.

If government is serious about cost-cutting, then it should target ministries
which do not directly deal with basic human rights.

If the Lautoka Hospital was privatised, where would all the employees go?

Secondly, where will people from the West go to for major operations and
treatment? And finally, who will take over the operations of Lautoka Hospital?

The Ministry of Health should release all details of their plans to the public
because, after all, we pay for the ministry's expenses.

We already have two private hospitals in this country and government should
negotiate with them to provide specialist services which government cannot
afford or contract out services which are non-vital.

Government must realise that this issue should be thrown out of the window
before more burden is put on the shoulders of the poor.

If Commodore Voreqe Bainimarama is serious about this issue, then he should send
all his 5000 soldiers home and use the arm-y budget to build a new hospital and
give it to his so-called "foreign investors".

!!!Nitin Prasad ,Lautoka!!!

+++Free Tibetans

IT is not surprising that the interim Government has written to China in support
of its stance on Lhasa.

For one thing it is ironic because they pretend to have respect for the
government of the day.

On the other hand it is not surprising for two reasons more loans and the common
factor of dictatorship. The Tibetans should be freed and the world should be rid
of dictators.

!!!Rick Trevor ,Nadi!!!

+++Integrity at stake

THE Fiji Muslim League and the Then India Sanmargya Ikya Sangam (TISI) should be
thanked for not joining the National Council for Building a Better Fiji (NCBBF).

The reasons cited by both organisations are valid and matches with the wishes of
its general membership and more importantly the objectives of the two
organisations.

However, the same cannot be said for the Shree Sanatan Dharam Pratinidhi Sabha
Fiji, especially its president.

The NCBBF was formed by the interim Government which was put in place after an
illegal activity contrary to the ideals of the Sanatan Dharam.

The first objective of the Sanatan Dharam as enshrined in its constitution is to
protect the interest/well-being and to raise awareness amongst the followers of
the Sanatan faith.

Hinduism/Sanatan Dharam is the oldest of the world's faiths.

It is a dharma or way of life evolved by the great sages and seers.

Dharma means "right wa-y of living" and "proper conduct" in a religious sense.

With respect to spirituality, dharma might be considered the way of the higher
truths. And most certainly, the Sanatan Dharam Fiji has erred by breaking away
from its ideals.

By joining the NCBBF, it has sided with the unfaithful, injustice and
unrighteousness thus putting the integrity of the organisation at stake.

At the Sanatan convention in Navua, the members voiced their concern on this
issue. However small it might be, I urge the president and other executives to
reconsider their decision.

!!!Anil Kumar ,Lautoka!!!

+++True son of Fiji

I WOULD like to thank The Fiji Times for its tribute "A fallen son of Fiji" (FT
21/3) and obituary (FT 22/3) on the life of Sir John (Ian) Sutherland Thomson.

The articles had me in tears as I reminisced over my life as a young girl with
barely two years of work experience and chosen to be personal assistant to this
truly great man in his last four years of service in Fiji.

Sir Ian took me under his wing and tutored me.

I look back at those years, not as work experience, but as a learning one where
a foundation was laid which prepared me well for my future in the workforce.

Sir Ian spoke the Fijian language so fluently, that at times, it put me to shame
when I was gently corrected. I was taught how to answer the telephone when the
then Governor General or Cabinet ministers would call, and Sir Ian wasn't in the
office to receive it.

Little things he said but one has to learn to be correct and proper in such
things. Sir Ian, always the humble gentleman, had our office door open to all
who wanted to see him, even those that simply came to kerekere didn't leave
empty handed.

My memories of Sir Ian will live on as one who had an impact on my life.

Indeed, a great man and true son of Fiji.

Ni sa moce, ra turaga.

!!!Temalesi Vakaotia ,Nasinu!!!

+++Home meals

HOME-cooked meals are the best. Recently I walked through a public alley to get
to the other side of town without having to bump into people.

To my astonishment, I saw a kitchen hand in action with his chopper, chopping
meat outside the restaurant kitchen.

There was no consideration to his environment as there were flies, dust, fuel
and sweat involved in this process.

In order to acquire a restaurant permit, doesn't the authority carry out an
inspection of the kitchen and the premises first?

Do they conduct spot checks to ensure that standards are maintained?

I don't think so and this is evident in most canteens, restaurants and cafes in
Fiji. Maybe it's time to get FICAC involved in auditing procedures and not just
accounts, especially when it involves human beings.

!!!Margaret King ,Lautoka!!!

+++China loan

AS reported (FT 24/3), our government is taking a loan from China to the tune of
$170million to upgrade rural roads in our country.

Your article also told the public that this upgrading will mean the sealing of
some rural roads only like the Sigatoka Valley Road.

Are you kidding us with that $170m?

I have written to The Fiji Times before that in rural areas, that is farming
areas like the one mentioned above, residents use mostly tractors which can
handle a gravelled road anytime and therefore rural roads do not need immediate
upgrading, not for $170m anyway.

How about upgrading our "highways" (if you can call it that) first? From Suva to
Nadi, from Nausori to Rakiraki the main arteries for container trucks from the
Suva wharf to the Lautoka wharf, and all who depend on the highways for their
business travelling.

In my opinion, our highways need more urgent upgrading than some rural roads, so
a major priority should be given to that from the China loan to improve the
economy here with on-time business and less road deaths.

Our highways are full of potholes, unmarked humps etc. They are highways to hell
and many people die on it every year.

And now, perhaps the utmost priority that should be given to with the China loan
is to supply water to all people in Fiji at all times, which is not happening at
all.

Will the people in charge of obtaining these huge loans from China please
reconsider the priorities of our needs. And how will you pay back that loan?
With Fiji Water?

!!!Erwin Karl Skiba ,Suva!!!

+++Lowest paid

ECONOMIST Dr Wadan Narsey said garment workers earned $70-$80 a week and were
the lowest paid.

Please add to this list the employees of an American giant fast food chain
outlet which operates under franchise in Fiji via Australia and from all
accounts mints a fortune. The thought is disgusting.

!!!Frank Chand ,Suva!!!

+++Water to boil

WE all should take heed of General Manager Public Health Dr Tharid Ali's advice
on boiling drinking water during a typhoid outbreak. However, all those
responsible for supplying us with drinking water should ensure that there is
always water available to boil.

!!!Tahir Ali ,Nasinu!!!

+++Noisy churches

I WRITE to sympathise with Edward Andrews (FT 8/3) on noisy churches.

I suffer the same disturbance here in Muasara.

I have three private house churches within a half kilometer radius of my house.

These three places of worship are all different sects and noise can disturb from
4am to 9.30pm.

Why these small congregations need amplification at all I cannot see.

The worst offender is so loud, we sometimes cannot hear the TV. The singing on
its own is beautiful but then they add a band with a mindless drummer whose beat
and tempo bears no relation to the hymn music.

All it can be described as is a racket.

To crown it all, the talatala roars "Hallelujah" above the other cacophony.

This man, when preaching, screams and shouts and harangues his congregation. I
would think he must scare the poor souls to death. One of the instructions to
Christians from our Lord Jesus Christ is th-at we live in peace and harmony with
our fellow men.

To my mind disturbing the peace and quiet of a neighbourhood with raucous
services cannot be seen as living in peace and harmony with your fellow men.
These people should read and consider Luke 18:10-14 and Matthew 6:1-6 and think
about the still small voice of God.

!!!D. C. McLEISH ,Sigatoka!!!

+++Labasa librarian

I HAVE been a user of the Labasa Town Library for the past 14 years. I do not
agree with the remarks by Avikant D. Dutt (FT 03/03). The librarian is always
polite and helpful, not only to me but to other users.

!!!Aporosa Nasova ,Labasa!!!

+++Coup formula

CURRENT developments open a new coup formula for future coup makers.

They are as follows:

- Overthrow the elected government;

- Set up an Immune Decree and become PM;

- Militarise the police and State bureaucracy;

- Create NCBBF 11;

- Liaise with any sympathising clergy to co-chair your People's Charter, and

- Have a clause in the NCBBF II that you don't support any future military coups
and that you shall return to the barracks once the Charter is successfully
completed.

The above is a perfect formula that drives curiosity away from treason charges
against you because you merely throw the Charter mentality to the people and
everything will fall into place, after which you will be remembered as the
champion of NCBBF II instead of a treason evader.

!!!Vueti Cakau ,Taveuni!!!

+++Hopelessly defunct

AMONG Fiji's statutory bodies, NLTB ranks as almost hopelessly defunct.

They evicted many Wai-rabetia tenants. When I rang NLTB offering my freehold
land (water/power provided) for resettlement at a little cost, they kept
transferring my call, not knowing my language.

!!!M. S. Khalid ,Nausori!!!

+++Bully Bush

Why is President George W. Bush not jumping up and down over China? Why is he
sleeping while China kills the people of Tibet. He was quick to jump into Iraq.
Why not China?

!!!Mulchand Patel ,Suva!!!

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FIJ


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


