                              206 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 23, 1991, Thursday

Trust hospitals 'to stay in NHS'

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS TIMMINS, Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 5

LENGTH: 335 words


JOHN MAJOR yesterday ruled out the future privatisation of NHS Trust hospitals
as Robin Cook, Labour's spokesman on health, again challenged the Government to
postpone the second wave of trusts.

On a visit to Exeter, the Prime Minister declared: ''The fact is these hospitals
remain in the NHS and will do so in future.''

His pledge, effectively, not to privatise may help to silence some internal NHS
opposition to the trusts, amid the widespread suspicion that Margaret Thatcher
in part approved them - at the time of the NHS review - as a possible first step
to privatisation.

Meanwhile, addressing the Royal College of Nursing's conference at Harrogate
yesterday, Mr Cook gave a warning that it would take at least the lifetime of
one Labour government to rebuild the health service.

The reintegration of ''opted out'' hospital trusts into district health
authorities would begin as soon as possible after a Labour victory at the next
general election, he said.

But Mr Cook also said that this might not be the appropriate solution for some
trust hospitals - such as the Christie Hospital in Manchester. ''They should
perhaps be accountable to regional assemblies or special health authorities.''
He was not able to give any details.

Mr Cook, who received a standing ovation from nurses, also said that a future
Labour government would adequately fund the NHS and take into account
demographic changes, such as increasing numbers of elderly and new medical
technology. He refused to be drawn on figures.

Christine Hancock, general secretary to the RCN, welcomed Mr Cook's speech but
said that she was disappointed he had given no indication of the level of
funding for the health service. The RCN estimates that an additional pounds 6bn
is needed.

Miss Hancock also made it clear that nurses would not be used as pawns in
political manoeuvring in the run-up to a general election. The ''bitter''
arguments between political parties must stop and constructive debate resume,
she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd


