                              203 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                        February 23, 1988, Tuesday, EAS

Reader defends Tories on hospital bed shortage

SECTION: NEIGHBORS; Pg. E4

LENGTH: 286 words


   Political parties are not infallible, nor are we as individuals. Certainly,
the same can be said for our institutions. On the other hand, criticism which
has no basis in fact demands a response.

Regrettably, in his letter published in the Neighbors section on Jan. 26, Ed
Sawdon has chosen to re-write history, a malady that is becoming commonplace
among Liberals and their supporters. (Sawdon said the Ontario Progressive
Conservatives "did zilch in allocating further active care beds" to Whitby
General Hospital between 1969 and 1985.)

Approval and financial assistance for the hospital was obtained from the P.C.
government of John Robarts. From the outset, it was designated a tertiary
facility and thus, growth potential was limited for a number of years.

During the Tory government of William Davis, the second floor of the hospital
was opened as a chronic-care ward.

Apparently, Sawdon is unaware that it is the responsibility of both the hospital
and the district health council to request approval from the government for
additional beds, be they active care or chronic care.

Based on statements contained in his letter, Sawdon is also unaware that this is
the first time Whitby General Hospital has requested additional active care
beds. No other government has been asked to pass judgment on this request.

Whitby General is in dire need of active care beds. The decision to deny this
request rests solely with Premier David Peterson, Health Minister Elinor Caplin
and the Liberal caucus.

Perhaps it's time that Liberals recognized the government will be held
accountable for its decisions. It is the price of leadership, or the lack of the
same.

STEPHANIE BALL

Oshawa

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


