                              202 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   December 28, 1995, Thursday, Final Edition

Columbia Hospital Gave $15,000 To GOP, Breaking Charity Rules; Former
Administrator Blames Simple Mistake; Funds Returned

Charles R. Babcock, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B05

LENGTH: 452 words


When G. Patrick Kane, then head of Columbia Hospital for Women, received an
invitation to attend the Republican National Committee's gala fund-raising event
last February, he thought it would be good public relations to attend, he
recalls. So he wrote a $ 15,000 hospital check to buy a table.

One problem: Charitable organizations are prohibited from making political
donations.

Last week, after a reporter inquired about what the Republicans reported as a $
15,000 "soft money" contribution, a Columbia Hospital spokeswoman said the
hospital's attorney called the committee to request the funds be returned. The
GOP immediately offered to send the money back.

Corporations, charitable or profit-making, are not permitted to donate to
federal candidates. But parties can collect "soft money" from non-charitable
corporations to help pay administrative costs and for generic party-building
activities such as "Vote Republican" ads and get-out-the-vote drives.

The Republican gala at the Washington Convention Center was attended by more
than 4,000 people, raised a record $ 11 million and featured singer Natalie Cole
and a white chocolate replica of the Capitol dome filled with raspberry mousse.

Columbia Hospital spokeswoman Mary Beth Emerson said that the decision to send
in the $ 15,000 was solely Kane's and that the hospital board wasn't aware of
the donation. "We are not in the business, never have been in the business, of
making contributions except to health-related organizations," she said.

The committee's offices were closed for the holidays yesterday.

Kane, who was the hospital's president and chief executive officer, said in an
interview that it never occurred to him that the check would be considered a
political donation, so he didn't check with the hospital's attorney.

"I equated it to buying a table at the mayor's prayer breakfast, or buying an ad
in The Post, as something to promote the medical center," he said.

Kane, who retired in April, said he viewed the dinner to celebrate the
Republican takeover of Congress as good exposure that "hopefully would turn into
more patients for the hospital. . . . The Republicans had nothing to do with it.
I was looking at them as potential patients."

Kane's successor, Susan Hansen, who arrived in September, said the hospital's
corporate parent, the Columbia Hospital for Women Foundation, supports several
community outreach projects. Those include a teen health center it operates in
Southeast Washington and free mammography tests it offers to women who don't
have health insurance or are otherwise unable to pay. She could find no record
in a review of the books of other political donations, she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


