                              21 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            August 4, 2012 Saturday

Traders flay welfare institution's victimization

BYLINE:  Our Staff Reporter

SECTION: Vol. XXVI No. 166

LENGTH: 277  words


While appealing to all political parties, including the Pakistan Muslim
League-Nawaz, the apex body of traders' representatives Friday said that they
should not make a welfare institution like Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer
Hospital target of political victimization.

In a meeting of the All Pakistan Anjuman-e-Tajiran, central chairman Khawaja
Shafiq said that targeting a hospital for political vengeance is highly
deplorable on the part of political parties. He said that politicizing against a
modern hospital, which is rendering great services to cancer patients, is a
condemnable act.

Addressing the meeting, the Central general secretary Naeem Mir said the SKHM is
a non-political welfare institution, where millions of cancer patients are
getting modern treatment and deserving patients are being treated free of cost.
He said the allegations against the hospital perhaps may not as harmful to Imran
Khan as these are to cancer patients particularly the deserving patients, who
are getting free treatment.

He appealed to all political parties' leadership to discard such low and
negative tactics. He said the mishandling of public sector hospitals and
patients has become a routine all over the country, exposing tall claims of all
provincial governments.

He said if a welfare institution is rendering invaluable services to cancer
patients, it should not be stopped from working. He said that a political party
should not target Imran Khan's established welfare institution for political
gain. The Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital and Research Centre is a non-
political welfare institution where the deserving patients are being treated
free of cost.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nawai Waqt Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


