                              207 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                           January 28, 1989 Saturday

POLITICAL GAMES WITH THE DYING

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: CHARLTON P

LENGTH: 573 words


Political games with the dying T HE critical position in which Mount Olivet
Hospital finds itself reflects no credit on either the Federal or the State
Governments. Since July last year, the hospital has received no federal funding,
although the Federal Government has approved spending of $2.4 million once a new
Medicare agreement is signed. According to the hospital's chairman, Mr Justice
Carter, the hospital is the meat in the sandwich and that peoples' lives are
being used as bargaining tools. The judge has a point. The Federal Government
has said the hospital can have the money once the State Government signs the
Medicare agreement. The State Government, however, has not signed the agreement
and this week a spokesman for the new Health Minister, Mr Gibbs, said he did not
know whether the agreement would be signed. In the meantime, a whole floor of
the hospital has been closed and the entire hospital is threatened with closure.
Public response to the hospital's plight has been marvellous, with donations
being made to keep the operations going. But this should not be a matter for
public charity. Mount Olivet has a special and important place in Queensland's
health system; it is unthinkably cruel and harsh that its patients and potential
patients suffer because of a Federal-State wrangle. The history of Federal-State
health political relations has been virtually one long fight. During Mr Austin's
period as Health Minister, clashes with the Federal Government were common. Mrs
Harvey brought a similarly combative approach to her work. It is high time this
approach ended. Queensland's medical financing is special, because of the
State's ""free" public hospitals. Since the introduction of Medicare, this has
been a sticking-point in negotiations with the Federal Government. All State
Health Ministers have claimed that the State was disadvantaged because of this
factor. Surely after nearly six years, this problem is capable of sensible and
satisfactory resolution. At the same time, the Federal Government should ensure
that terminally ill patients, in need of places in Mount Olivet and other,
similar hospitals, should be covered by the Medicare umbrella. What use is
health cover if it does not provide assistance for these cases? The
terminally-ill will always need places like Mount Olivet; we should, as a
community, provide institutions in which they can spend their last days with
dignity. The Mount Olivet case is special. This hospital provides a valuable
service in an area of medicine where few alternatives exist. The hospital does a
wonderful job, working with scarce resources and with huge demands. It gives
comfort to many people with terminal illnesses. It should be given wide public
support, not forced to pare its operations because of a political wrangle _ and
an unedifying political wrangle at that. If Mr Gibbs wants to make his mark as a
new Health Minister, he should make it his personal project to end, for all
time, the wrangling over Queensland's health system. In the process, he should
ensure that Mount Olivet gets the money it needs to survive and fulfil its role.
This is not a time for States rights to be trotted out again, or for the State
Government to take yet another opportunity to score political points off
Canberra. In this case, it is affecting the lives of dying people _ people who
deserve the comfort and serenity which Mount Olivet can provide.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1989 Nationwide News Pty Limited


