                              208 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     November 12, 1998, Thursday, Edition 1

IT'S TIME TO REALLY TALK ABOUT HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: Howard Hampton

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 525 words


Sadly, political debate in Ontario has sunk to a new low this
 week.
 The Harris Conservatives are trying to distract attention from
 the chaos and failure of their health-care policies with millions
 of dollars worth of partisan attack ads on the easiest target
 imaginable: the vagueness of Ontario Liberal policies.
 It may well be true that Dalton McGuinty will keep his views
 hidden as long as possible, then, if elected, continue on the
 same track as the Conservatives. But I fail to see how a
 television and newspaper bombardment of American/Republican-style
 partisan advertising will address the very real concerns that the
 Ontario public has with the massive cuts and changes that the
 Harris government has levelled on Ontario's health-care system.
 As with its education agenda, the Harris government's health-care
 plans are about cuts, not quality. According to the Ontario
 Hospital Association, almost half our hospitals are insolvent.
 The community and home-care reinvestments that are supposed to
 replace services that used to be provided in hospitals are either
 underfunded or non-existent. More and more patients and their
 families are being forced to pay out of pocket for health care or
 do without. In Ontario, the gold card is replacing the health
 card.
 The Ontario NDP has done its homework. Starting last year, we
 issued a discussion paper on health policy, carried out meetings
 and discussions around the province as part of our Dialogue for
 Change, and then approved our party's policy in open debate at
 our convention last May.
 If elected we will introduce and pass Ontario's first Health Care
 Accountability Act and Patients' Bill of Rights to put the focus
 of Ontario's health care system where it belongs: on patients. We
 will provide increased funding for Ontario's hospitals to ensure
 adequate patient care. We will extend the principles of
 accessibility and universality to the long-term care sector
 (nursing homes, home care and community based care). We'll look
 at the services people need and what they've lost under the
 Harris cuts. And we'll provide the money to make sure everyone
 gets the appropriate services they need in their communities.
 We will pay for these commitments by rolling back the Harris
 income tax scheme for individuals who benefit the most, those
 with taxable incomes of $80,000 a year or more. We believe
 investing that $1.5 billion in health care, education and our
 communities is far wiser than giving it away to the people who
 already have the most money.
 Finally, if Mike Harris truly believes it is critical for the
 public to know where the party leaders stand on health care, I
 challenge him to scrap the attack ads and participate in a
 televised public debate with the Liberal Leader and me on the
 future of our health-care system and the future of our province.
 I'm sure the public would find a debate on the issues far more
 informative than his partisan propaganda.
 Howard Hampton is Leader of the Ontario New Democratic Party.




LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


