                              212 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             August 13, 2006 Sunday

Nepal hospitals still treating injured from protest movement

LENGTH: 383 words


Excerpt from report by by Renu Kshetry published by Nepalese newspaper The
Himalayan Times website on 13 August

Kathmandu, 13 August: The Jana Andolan-II [People's Movement] culminated over
three-and-a-half months ago, but the suffering of the people who were injured
during the movement goes unabated. Many injured are still visiting hospitals in
the Valley. Most of the injured are from the districts whom doctors referred to
the Valley hospitals, hoping they will get better treatment here.

The Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital (TUTH), Bir Hospital and the
Kathmandu Model Hospital [KMH] are still treating the people who were injured
during the movement. Every day these hospitals treat anywhere between two and 15
patients. Most of the injured hail from the far west, where the state resorted
to massive suppression, resulting in the emergence of orthopaedic, surgical and
neurological cases. The cases of psychological trauma are also on the rise.

Dr Karbir Nath Yogi, associate professor at the TUTH, said the hospital has been
witnessing a flow of such patients.

Some patients also seek free medical treatment, misusing the political
influence. It may be noted that the government had announced that the people
injured during the movement will be treated free of cost in government
hospitals.

"Sometimes it becomes very difficult to convince the people that treatment is
only for injuries sustained during the movement. They even show up for the
treatment of epilepsy, blood pressure and cancer," said Dr Yogi.

The TUTH alone faces two or three such cases a week. Other hospitals too have
been coping with similar cases.

"We don't cater to the patients, who come with the recommendation from political
parties but were not injured in course of the movement," said Dr Shambu
Upadhyaya, spokesperson for the Kathmandu Model Hospital. [passage omitted]

The TUTH treated 22 patients, who were injured in course of the movement, last
week. Altogether 600 injured people have undergone treatment at the TUTH so far.
The KMH has been witnessing a decrease in the number of injured patients over
the last three weeks - from 20 to 15 patients a day. The KMH hospital has 1,200
single entries of such injured patients. [passage omitted]

Source: The Himalayan Times website, Kathmandu, in English 13 Aug 06

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2006 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


