                              215 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                        May 18, 1999, Tuesday, Edition 1

MERGER MUST STOP, LOBBY GROUP URGES

BYLINE: Rita Daly

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 518 words


Women's College Hospital at risk, supporters say

 HEALTH ISSUES REPORTER

 A grassroots lobby group wants to stop the merger between Women's College and
Sunnybrook hospitals and is calling on all three political parties for support.

The Friends of Women's College, with more than 8,000 supporters, says the
amalgamation is putting women's health care at risk and wants the hospital to
regain its autonomy. The group's call came yesterday as it released a report
card on the merger, detailing a lack of progress since the hospitals were
amalgamated almost a year ago, and gave it a failing grade.

''The amalgamation . . . has been undermined by a combination of factional
governance, incompatible corporate culture and lack of strategic leadership, ''
Gail Regan, founding president of Friends, told a news conference in front of
Women's College Hospital.

''Occasional good faith efforts cannot save this amalgamation.''

A special act in June, 1998, brought together Sunnybrook, Women's College and
Orthopaedic and Arthritic hospitals as one huge institution, with all in-
patient services to be moved to the Sunnybrook site.

After a long struggle, Women's College was allowed to stay open as an ambulatory
care centre.

Both the Liberals and the New Democratic Party yesterday immediately vowed to
undo the merger if elected.

Health Minister Elizabeth Witmer issued a letter reconfirming a promise that
Women's College will be ''the guiding mind and hand'' for women's health
programs when it becomes the ambulatory care centre. Witmer is expected to meet
later this week with medical staff at the hospital to hear their concerns.

Using the format of the Harris government's new student report card, the lobby
group yesterday released its assessment showing the merger has faltered and is
in desperate need of help. They gave an A, B-, C, two Ds and 6 Rs (for
remediation) to the merger efforts so far.

The A was awarded because a majority of voting directors on the hospital's board
are women.

The failing grades include:

Lack of an agreement by April 30 of this year for Women's College Hospital to
manage and operate an ambulatory centre at the Grenville site.

No female leaders from Women's College have been named as medical chiefs for the
merged institution to date. (Seven medical chiefs have been named so far, two of
them women from other institutions.)

A women's health committee, to guarantee that women's health programs remain a
priority, has not been formed.

'Occasional good faith efforts cannot save this amalgamation'

A spokesperson for the Sunnybrook and Women's College Health Sciences Centre
said yesterday that, to the contrary, considerable progress has been made on the
merger.

The joint board was granted an extension to the end of June to get an agreement
on the ambulatory centre, and the women's health committee is finalizing its
terms of agreement, said public affairs director Sandra Cruickshanks.

Jane Pepino, chair of Women's College and a long-time Tory, said she believes
the amalgamation can still work.


LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 1999 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


