                              22 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                            January 23, 2015 Friday

M&CC Hospital Anantnag is back in unsafe building, Locals stage protest

LENGTH: 514 words

DATELINE: Anantnag


Anantnag, Jan. 23 -- Taking common people for a ride, authorities in shifted
back the Maternity and Child Care Hospital to unsafe building in Sherbagh under
mysterious circumstances during the intervening night.

The hospital had been shifted toa safe building in JanglatMandi recently.
Hundreds of people registered protest and blocked the Anantnag-Kishtwar road
against the move. NC activist Iftikar Misger who also participated in protests
told Early Times that a group of chemists bribed few leaders of a political
party who are exerting pressure on administration. "I have reports that four to
five influential chemists have bribed politicians and health department
officials who creating hurdles in shifting the hospital." Iftikar said. He said
that how chemists provide vehicles to health department for shifting the
hospital equipments during the intervening night. "It is very unfortunate that
administration is working under a political party which has not yet assumed
power and is also backing few chemists who want to buy us but we will resist and
not allow them to make our people suffer for their vested interests." He added.
Official sources at M&CC Anantnag told Early Times that medical superintend has
ordered doctors to covert a ward into theater unethically. "Our theater
sustained damage in a fire incident last week and so we were directed to covert
a ward into theater that is totally against the ethics." Doctor, wishing
anonymity said.

He acknowledged that hospital was shifted back under political pressure.
"Government has ordered a year earlier to shift the hospital as according to
Fire and emergency hospital building is unsafe but due to political interference
precious lives are being put at risk." He added. 100 bedded Maternity and Child
Care Hospital Anantnag has highest bed occupancy in South Kashmir according to
official records and is catering rush from not only south Kashmir but from the
farflung areas including Banihal. "If we go through ethics then there should a
proper space from bed to bed in recovery ward but if you will visit the hospital
you will find that neither is no enough space between the two beds for a doctor
to do checkup round." A lady, whishing not to be named said. South Kashmir Civil
society has already threatened to lunch an agitation if the administration not
shifted the hospital to new building at JanglatMandi. "We not allow political
parties to politicize our health care sector." Rao Farman Ali, spokesman SKCS
said. "It is a demand of public that the hospital should be shifted to a new
place which comparatively better than old so why any political party is
interfering and backing few chemists." He added. He said that all the narrow
roads links to old hospital building are creating lot of problems to patients
and is difficult to be reached so the authorities must reconsider its decision
in the interest of public.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


