                              218 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                    September 19, 1997, Friday, ALL EDITIONS

Gubernatorial hopefuls introduced;
First forum for 1998 candidates draws 8 who talk about hospitals.

BYLINE: Kathey Alexander and Peter Mantius; STAFF WRITERS

SECTION: STATE NEWS; Pg. 09C

LENGTH: 459 words


Pine Mountain ---Georgia's candidates for governor honed their campaign pitches
in the first public forum of the 1998 race Thursday, lacing their positions on
crime and education with promises to protect community hospitals and rural
health care.

Most of the eight candidates for governor who showed up ---four Democrats, three
Republicans and a Libertarian ---tailored their speeches to apppeal to members
of the Georgia Alliance of Community Hospitals that sponsored the forum. But
they also laid the groundwork for issues likely to dominate next year's race for
the state's top office.

Of the major candidates, only Atlanta businessman Guy Millner, the Republican
frontrunner, was absent from the three-hour forum at Callaway Gardens that also
featured candidates for lieutenant governor.

Former Attorney General Mike Bowers, a Republican, and state Sen. Steve Langford
and Secretary of State Lewis Massey, both Democrats, used the event to call for
stronger laws requiring prisoners to serve up to 100 percent of their sentences.

Democrat David Poythress urged more funding for vocational-technical education.
Massey said he would back laws ensuring that all the proceeds from Georgia's
lottery are preserved for education.

Large, private hospitals, the new trend in Georgia, were frequently the target
of the political hopefuls, most of whom decried the efforts of some lawmakers to
deregulate the hospital industry.

With the exception of Langford, Bowers and Republican Bruce Hatfield, most of
the candidates said deregulation could threaten community and public hospitals
that provide indigent care for the poor and teaching facilities for medical
students.

Democrat Roy Barnes, a state representatiive from Mableton, said he wanted to
use part of the money Georgia expects to get from a national settlement against
tobacco companies to help rural hospitals cover the costs of patients who can't
pay.

In what may prove a harbinger of future clashes over the issue, Barnes and
Bowers took opposite sides over the recent conversion of Blue Cross-Blue Shield
from a nonprofit to a for-profit insurance company.

In response to a questioner who questioned his lack of intervention, Bowers
bristled, saying his office "had no resources to do anything."

Barnes disagreed, saying he sought legislation to give Bowers' office
responsibility to protect the public interest in the deal. "Never at one time
did the attorney general or any of his staff say, 'To do this we need some extra
money,' " Barnes said.

Also participating in the forum was Republican Nancy Schaefer, a conservative
activist, who called for a property tax freeze.

Libertarian Jack Cashin urged dissatisfied voters to look beyond Democrats and
Republicans.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colleagues: Georgia state Sens. Floyd L. Griffin (D-Milledgeville)
(left)
and Chuck Clay (R-Marietta) talk in the lobby during the Georgia Alliance
 of Community Hospitals meeting Thursday. / ROBIN TRIMARCHI / Associated
 Press

                    Copyright 1997 The Atlanta Constitution


