                              221 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 15, 2003, Tuesday

SCOTTISH ELECTION 2003: THE WAITING IS OVER.. YOUR TIME IS UP JACK;
 NATS ATTACK MCCONNELL OVER HOSPITAL LISTS

BYLINE: MARK SMITH SCOTTISH POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 514 words

HIGHLIGHT: TOUGH: Swinney unveils the new advertising campaign which attacks the
First Minister


JOHN Swinney claimed yesterday that kids are waiting three weeks longer for
hospital treatment than they did three years ago.

The Nats leader highlighted figures from Glasgow's Yorkhill Hospital that showed
the average waiting time has risen to 126 days from 103 days in 1999.

Swinney was speaking as he unveiled the SNP's latest election poster, which
shows a ringing alarm clock with Jack McConnell's face on it.

He said: "Sick kids are waiting more than three weeks longer for treatment at
Yorkhill than when Labour came to power in 1999.

"My message to Jack McConnell and his Labour Party is simple. Time's up."

He added: "They promised to reduce waiting lists by 10,000. Instead they went up
by 10,000.

"They promised to reduce waiting times. Instead, in the case of Yorkhill - a
hospital that treats some of the sickest children in all of Scotland - the
waiting time has risen by three weeks."

Labour hit back at the SNP claims, with health minister Malcolm Chisholm
claiming that waiting times were coming down. He said: "Everyone agrees that
waiting times for some people are too high.

"But the issue is which party is more likely to cut them.

"The SNP seem to be pretending now that there would be no waiting times and no
waiting lists in a separate Scotland.

"The reality is that Scots would wait longer as resources were diverted away
from Scotland's Health Service to pay for a hugely expensive divorce."

The SNP's new poster also re-ignited the bitter row over the SNP's election
tactics.

It came a day before the Nats "dying man" election broadcast.

The emotive film, to be broadcast tonight, shows a pensioner dying as he waits
for hospital treatment.

It has already been attacked as "distasteful" and "crossing a line of basic
decency" by other parties.

And it is the latest in a series of highly-personal poster attacks on McConnell.

Since the start of the year, the First Minister has been portrayed as a
cigarette being stubbed out in an ashtray and as a crook in a police mugshot.

Yesterday Swinney defended the negative campaign tactics as the best way to hold
up Labour's record.

And he backed the controversial broadcast.

He said: "People who wait too long have the risk of their condition
deteriorating and as a result of that they may die.

"Of course people die on waiting lists. That's why we have to reduce waiting
times drastically."

An SNP candidate standing for a Glasgow seat in the Scottish Parliament has been
accused of breaking election rules.

Voters in Pollok have received leaflets from nationalist candidate Kenneth
Gibson on Scottish Parliament notepaper.

But politicians bidding to return to Parliament are no longer members and are
not allowed to use the Parliament's crested paper for electioneering purposes.

Pollok is being contested by three former MSPs - Johann Lamont, Mr Gibson and
the SSP's Tommy Sheridan.

Ms Lamont said: "There are very strict guidelines which the nationalists are
ignoring."

Mr Gibson said: "I think this is a bit sad and petty."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.


