                              220 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                     September 2, 2001 Sunday Final Edition

Hospital summit to be held after ACT election;
Health minister branded event a political forum

BYLINE: Georgia Curry

SECTION: A; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 287 words


A SUMMIT on Canberra Hospital's staffing crisis will now be held after the ACT
Government election.

The summit, due to have been held yesterday, was cancelled after Health Minister
Michael Moore directed senior bureaucrats to take no part in it because he said
it was a political forum.

However, a pre-election debate on the territory's health industry has been set
for October 4 when both parties will outline their approach to health issues.

Australian Medical Association ACT president Dr Ian Pryor has obtained a
commitment from both parties to hold the summit in early November.

'It's not something we can afford to delay,' he said.

A spokesman for Chief Minister Gary Humphries said he had total support for the
summit and wanted it to become an annual event.

The Labor Party had already pledged to hold a summit on Canberra's health system
immediately if it wins the upcoming election.

Others invited to the summit include the hospital board, nursing staff, doctors,
indigenous health representatives and the Consumers Health Forum.

The summit, which will address the Canberra Hospital crisis, will also provide
key information on the hospital's financing, including a report which Dr Pryor
said had been 'held under wraps'.

'It's all about the comparative costings of Canberra Hospital versus NSW and
Victoria hospitals,' he said. 'Figures produced for Canberra Hospital make it
look like an expensive hospital but we now know that we're not over-paying for
our hospital services.'

Canberra Hospital chief executive officer Ted Rayment said the report showed
that the hospital was not counting episodes of care in the same way as other
hospitals, 'in fact we're under-counting them'.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 The Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty
                                    Limited


