                              214 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Trust (Abuja)

                            October 22, 2010 Friday

Yobe - of Politics And Management of Cholera Outbreak [opinion]

BYLINE: Abdullahi Bego

LENGTH: 890  words


During the last few days, there was a lot of furore from a section of the
opposition in Yobe State when the State Government decided not to accept
donations of drugs from Senator Usman Albishir for patients of the recent
cholera outbreak in Gashu'a town of Bade Local Government Area.

Although the reason for this action was explained in clear terms by the
government, those people who want to extract political capital out of the issue
continue to look the other way, making contradictory comments and statements of
suspect authenticity.

For the purpose of clarity, the Yobe State Government did not reject the
donation by Senator Albishir per se. His people were only told to follow the
right channel to make the donation; namely to follow through the Hospitals
Management Board, which is the statutory body responsible for the management of
public hospitals in the State. Through the Hospital Management Board, the
government could ensure that any drugs donated by anyone are of good quality and
appropriate for use by members of the public.

In this age when counterfeit and fake drugs and medicaments of expired value are
known to flood the Nigerian market, the government has a moral and primary
responsibility to protect the public by ensuring proper checks and control of
hospital inventories.

There is no doubt that when the Albishir people donated the drugs in Gashu'a,
they were first 'accepted' by the Chief Nursing Officer on duty. That acceptance
was qualified, however. According to reports, the donors went to Gashua with a
lot of political fanfare. Although the objective ostensibly was to assist the
sick, the associated political gimmickry gave the mission away as one calculated
solely to make political capital.

Had the hospital officials in Gashua refused the donations in the first
instance, a scene might have been created with likely political implications.
So, they went ahead and took the donation but when everything quieted down, they
called the donors and told them to channel it through the appropriate medical
authorities for the purpose of quality control.

In climes where overriding public interest is no hostage to entrenched political
interests, this would not have been an issue at all. If the officials at the
Gashua hospital wanted the donors to take certain course of action which is
legitimate and appropriate, the donors could take such a course of action while
maintaining their gaze firmly on their objective of helping the sick. But rather
than do that, they resorted to holler in the press, making comments that, even
in the gale of partisanship, are uncharitable.

But the Yobe State Government will not be distracted from its focus of providing
succour to the victims of cholera outbreak. For the record, the government
responded within the first three hours of the outbreak of cholera in Gashua town
back in July. Journalists who talked to the Emir of Bade, who played a key role
in offering support for the victims, confirmed this.

In all, 2916 cases were reported across all public hospitals in Yobe State since
the outbreak in July. Of this number, 2741 people were treated and discharged.
133 people unfortunately lost their lives while 42 cases still remained in
hospitals. Throughout this period, the Yobe State Government worked to live up
to its responsibilities - providing the drugs that were needed to treat
patients, undertaking outreach campaigns to sensitise people to complement
government efforts by improving on personal hygiene.

It was within this context that such donor agencies as the United Nations
Children's Fund, UNICEF, Doctors without Borders, PPRINN, etc stepped out to
complement the government's effort as well. Their donations, in line with best
practice, were channelled through the government's watchdog agency, the
Hospitals Management Board. And they were accepted and were since channelled to
the people in need.

It came as no surprise, however, that the Albishir people decided to get
straight to Gashua to make the donations even though they know full well that as
a public health institution, the Gashua hospital is regulated by the Hospital
Management Board, from which it takes its supplies and replenishments as well.

As we move to the future, it is important that the demands of partisanship and
political opposition are placed within the bounds of propriety and common sense
norms. For all that the opposition had said or might say; there is no denying
that Governor Ibrahim Gaidam has turned around Yobe's public health sector. One
needs only visit the State Specialist Hospital, Damaturu and other health
centres in the major towns to see the modest interventions that were made: New
hospital equipment; regularly replenished drug inventories and the women and
children who continue to receive free medical treatment.

The women and children and the aged and accident victims who benefit from these
interventions may not have access to the media of mass communication to make
their voices heard. They do not see anything political in the effort of
government; they only see a government that works for them - a governor that
works rain or shine to make life a little better for everyone.

This is the reality that no opposition attempt at politicizing healthcare
delivery issues in Yobe State can drown out.

Bego is Director of Press Affairs, Government House Damaturu

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


