                              223 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                       April 26, 2015 Sunday 9:38 AM GMT

Moors Murderer Ian Brady's twisted letters from psychiatric hospital bed show
warped mind of child killer;
GLASGOW-born child killer Brady has been held at Ashworth high security
psychiatric hospital in Liverpool since 1985 where he spends most of his time
slumped in front of the TV spouting his bigoted views.

BYLINE: By Tom Hendry

SECTION: NEWS,UK & WORLD

LENGTH: 1117 words


TWISTED Moors Murderer Ian Brady has sent a series of racist and sick letters
from his psychiatric hospital bed which offer a frightening insight into his
warped mind.

The Glasgow-born child killer, now 77, has been held at Ashworth high security
psychiatric hospital in Liverpool since 1985.

Barely able to stand, Brady spends most of his time slumped in front of the TV
spouting his bigoted views.

And the shuffling 77-year-old - who can only get around with a Zimmer frame -
has become obsessed with the General Election and is backing Nigel Farage's Ukip
to "decimate" the main parties' votes.

In one letter, Brady apologises for his "bedridden handwriting" before
­launching into a tirade about what he watches on the telly.

Brady savages both serious and ­satirical political TV programmes, branding
Question Time "for the dumb" with "the same old party hacks" handpicked for
audiences he describes as "liquorice allsorts".

The killer also labels host David Dimbleby "establishment dumpling".

He says Have I Got News For You is now "innocuous light comedy" while Mock the
Week is "going similarly bland" since controversial panellist Frankie Boyle
left.

Brady also says he refuses to watch popular shows such as Coronation Street or
EastEnders stating: "I don't watch soap operas, only the dotty do."

He was jailed for life in 1966 along with girlfriend Myra Hindley for abducting,
abusing, torturing and killing five youngsters in Manchester before burying them
on nearby Saddleworth Moor.

He has been held at Ashworth high security psychiatric hospital in Liverpool
since 1985. Hindley died in 2002.

In his own political "manifesto" the demented killer says he hopes Ukip
"decimates" the Conservative and Labour vote - while he wants the SNP to do the
same in Scotland.

With the General Election ­approaching he offers his warped and racist political
views in outbursts from his hospital bed.

In an outrageous attack on Britain's politicians he claims they are all corrupt
and motivated by personal greed.

He states voters must choose between a coalition of "public school millionaires"
or "a refugee, privileged German Jew" - clearly an offensive and inaccurate
reference to Labour leader Ed Miliband whose Belgian-born dad fled the Nazis.

Brady also writes that the "political vermin of today, aren't worth even
­assassination, all being Tory clerks/lackeys".

Brady lashes out at all the main political parties, branding Margaret Thatcher
and Tony Blair "war criminals".

He also accuses Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg of being willing to form a coalition
with anyone in order to retain his public image of "second hand power and
pathetic grandiosity".

Ahead of next month's polls he also claims that after "half-a-­century's
­imprisonment", he believes most ­professional criminals are Tory voters.

He dismisses David Cameron's "disgust" over the possibility of prisoners getting
the vote stating he "couldn't care less about voting", while describing the
Prime Minister's views as "the usual mob-pleasing PR drivel expected from such
bovines".

Recent reports suggest that Brady, mostly confined to bed ­following a fall, is
now close to death.

The killer is being force-fed to keep him alive after losing a legal challenge
to be moved to a normal jail where he claims he would have the right to take his
own life.

Brady starts his letter by comparing today's politicians to the only "truly
democratic and altruistic people's government ever elected", Labour in 1945.

He claims Mrs Thatcher "heralded the end of the traditional indigenous UK
working classes" and "serial war criminal" Tony Blair hastened the ­decline.

In a racist diatribe he ­continues: "Only ethnic majorities are considered
today, being the sub continental slave labour reservoir that has marginalised
the indigenous UK working class to irrelevance and decadence."

Laying into Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg, crazed Brady claims he epitomises today's
politicians, "crystallising the bankruptcy and mongrelisation prevalent,
throughout which the media sanitize, pervert and dumb down". Brady claims he
stopped reading newspapers in 1998 and now gets his information from Al Jazeera.

In an attack on the media and BBC he rants: "The corporate controlled (including
the BBC) lower middle class, collusive, servile media generate a false
appearance of democracy and free speech, in a now spineless population
constantly asking, 'am I allowed to say (this and that)?'"

And offering his views on his current accommodation he said Ashworth was a
"microcosm of this applied ignorance, institutionalised greed and regressive
suppression, of course, reflecting extent [sic] establishment values and PC
blackmail".

Brady and Hindley were jailed for life for the torture and murders of Lesley Ann
Downey, 10, John Kilbride, 12, and 17-year-old Edward Evans.

Years later while in prison they also confessed to the murders of Keith Bennett,
12, and 16-year-old Pauline Read. After killing their victims the couple buried
their bodies on Saddleworth Moor.

In another letter earlier this year Brady - who has never shown any remorse for
his crimes - claimed he didn't have long to live.

He said he wished he had died "decades ago" while insisting he is not insane and
should be allowed to starve himself to death.

He lost his last appeal to be transferred to a regular jail in June 2013.

During that appeal, Brady's hunger strike was exposed as a farce by a nurse who
revealed he regularly ate toast and soup.

The killer claims he stopped eating in 1999 but charge nurse Mark Sheppard told
the mental health tribunal that staff took him flasks of boiling water so he
could make himself soup.

In the earlier letter, Brady moaned that he was "still bedridden and worsening"
after breaking his hip and arm in a fall.

Continuing to insist he is not insane he complained he was still being force-fed
against his will and should be transferred to jail where he could starve
himself.

He wrote: "The cell block is described as a 'discharge ward'. I've been sitting
here 30 years ... and there's no turnaround of inmates unless in a coffin.

"So it's more accurately a blocked sewer pipe."

He added: "Had I divined the future of spending half a century in prison, and
the final 15 years being force fed by nasal tube in an unmonitored zoological
cesspit of regression, I would've exited decades ago."

In September last year, Alan Bennett, the brother of missing 12-year-old Keith,
made a desperate plea for Brady to reveal where he is buried.

With Brady's health deteriorating Alan, 58, has spent years trying to persuade
the killer to help police find his brother's grave.

He said: "I have corresponded with Brady and requested visits. He has ignored
those requests but I am always willing to meet him."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


