                              230 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                            February 14, 2016 Sunday

Team Sunderbani raises finger over doctor-MR, Patwari-Land mafia nexus

LENGTH: 430 words

DATELINE: Sunderbani


Sunderbani, Feb. 14 -- Team Sunderbani - a body comprising prominent figures
including Doctors, Engineers, Teachers and Social activists of Tehsil Sunderbani
today convened its second meeting under the supervision of its coordinator Arun
Kumar Sharma at Dak Bungalow here.

On the occasion, all the participants held deliberations on various issues
affecting adversely to the common masses in general and public exchequer in
particular. Arun Kumar Sharma while speaking on the occasion lamented the role
of political representatives of various political parties for their failure in
providing basic facilities to the common masses even after the 68 years of
independence of India.

Arun Kumar Sharma expressed serious concerned over deteriorating condition of
the health and life care facilities in the sub-district hospital Sunderbani. He
alleged that the health staff in the hospital in connivance with the medical
representatives (MRs) of the medicine companies are looting the patients and
minting money at the cost of human lives.

There are number of prescribed drugs that are available in the hospital but
owing to the strong nexus between the doctors and medical practitioners the
innocent patients are being forced to purchase medicines from outside the
hospitals, Sharma said adding that without any mention of 'Salt' in the
medicinal drug, doctors in the sub-district hospital are openly endorsing and
prescribing the patients to purchase medicines of the particular companies and
brands which are much costlier to those available in the hospital.

While lamenting the role of political leadership of Sunderbani-Nowshera Assembly
segment, Sharma said that Tehsil Sunderbani has been an example of gross
discrimination, as the Tehsil have been suppressed by outsiders for years on.
"Our political representation in the Legislative Assembly has never belonged to
Sunderbani, which is the root cause of the miseries of the people of Tehsil
Sunderbani. People from outside have always exploited Sunderbani besides they
enjoyed power for many years altogether" he added.

Those present in the meeting were Amit Sharma, Rajinder Sharma, Sarabjit Sharma,
Gian Singh, Sunil Kumar (Panch), Mohd Altaf (Panch), Mohd Hussain, Mir Hussain,
Vivek Sharma (NGO Helping Hand), Pawan Kumar Sharma, Dimpy Raina (Satguru
Keshgir Sewa Samiti), Vinod Raina (Sathi NGO), Ashwani Kumar and Rajesh
Parasher.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2016 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


