                              225 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                 July 10, 2016

The A&E hitlist: Trauma care to be axed from nine hospitals

BYLINE: Susan Mitchell

LENGTH: 665 words



HIGHLIGHT: Doctors say number of A&Es must be reduced; Proposal will trigger
huge political backlash


Nine hospitals around the country face having emergency trauma services
permanently axed, under new plans being drawn up for the health service.

This means that they would no longer treat patients who have been in car crashes
or had serious falls and have head injuries, broken limbs and major wounds.

The hospitals that have been earmarked are Cavan Hospital, Naas Hospital
(Kildare), Portiuncula Hospital (Galway), Mullingar Hospital (Westmeath), St
Luke's Hospital (Kilkenny), Wexford Hospital, South Tipperary Hospital, Mercy
University Hospital (Cork) and Portlaoise Hospital (Laois).

http://www.businesspost.ie/situation-critical-in-irelands-emergency-departments/

The proposal to stop emergency departments at nine hospitals from taking these
'trauma' patients will be made in a report from the Trauma Steering Group that
is charged with developing a policy for a national trauma network.

The move would see patients treated in bigger and better-equipped emergency
departments, but could also entail longer journeys for many injured patients.

There is strong clinical evidence to support the centralisation of trauma care.

Under the new plan, it is intended that the potentially affected hospitals will
instead concentrate on selected medical care and increase the amount of planned
elective surgery they do.

It is likely that minor injuries - cuts and sprains - will still be cared for at
these hospitals.

While ambulance bypass protocols for trauma patients are already in place at a
number of these hospitals, many patients are driven directly to these emergency
departments by friends or relatives.

Some of these hospitals accept trauma patients from ambulances, and often
stabilise them before transferring them to bigger emergency departments.

The proposal to put an end to trauma care at these hospitals will feed into
broader plans to reduce the number of emergency departments throughout the
country.

"Ultimately, I can see some of these becoming minor injuries units," said one
senior health source.

Any attempt to change the designation of 24/7 emergency departments would cause
a major political backlash.

But some of the 'emergency departments' at these hospitals do not treat acute
strokes and cannot provide optimal treatment to patients who have had heart
attacks.

The proposal to axe trauma services is  politically sensitive, as it will be
painted as a 'downgrading' of these local hospitals.

Efforts to remove services from some emergency departments or replace them with
minor injuries clinics, in areas such as Roscommon, elicited huge public and
political protest.

Many clinicians are concerned that patients are presenting at emergency
departments throughout the country that do not have the equipment or staff to
give them the interventions they need.

The Irish Association for Emergency Medicine (IAEM), which represents doctors on
the frontline, has repeatedly said there are too many hospital emergency
departments and that it was not possible to run them all safely and adequately.

The IAEM has criticised the decision to keep 29 emergency departments open,
saying political self-interest was trumping concerns for patient safety.
Healthcare regulator Hiqa has also expressed concern.

The Dublin Midlands Hospitals Group recently submitted a plan to the Department
of Health that proposes replacing the emergency department at Portlaoise
Hospital with a minor injuries unit.

Similar plans are being advanced elsewhere.

Portlaoise Hospital sources said the plan for that hospital also proposes
removing maternity care and paediatric services from Portlaoise Hospital.

Former Minister for Health Leo Varadkar established a steering group on a Trauma
Network for Ireland.

Chaired by Professor Eilis McGovern, it is expected to complete its work in the
third quarter of 2016, the Department of Health said.

Its recommendations will be submitted to Minister for Health Simon Harris for
consideration, in advance of submission to government.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


