                              224 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                             July 12, 2014 Saturday

KP PA Speaker visits Bannu: 'situation not conducive for political
point-scoring'

SECTION: Vol. L No. 192

LENGTH: 307  words


Speaker of KP Assembly Asad Qaiser has said the present situation is not
suitable for political point scoring, but there is dire need of unity and
solidarity. He said this while addressing a grand meeting of the district
presidents and general secretaries of different political parties in Jirga Hall,
Bannu on Friday. Besides, Provincial Minister Mushtaq Ghani and MPA
Fakhar-e-Azam, a large number of important figures and senior government
officials were also present on the occasion.

The Speaker said the problem of IDPs is not specific for any particular party
rather it is the problem of the whole nation. He said an amount of Rs 5 million
have been released for District Headquarters Hospital (DHQ) Bannu and Women and
Children Hospital and another amount of Rs 2.5 million for Khalifa Gul Nawaz
Hospital.

He said the government has stored a huge quantity of medicines for 182,000
patients in Bannu and till now over 90,000 patients have been provided free
medicines. He said all hospitals of the district are required to work
consecutively three shifts and daily report of that would be dispatched to
Secretary Health.

The speaker said a committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of
deputy commissioner Bannu while the members are included medical superintendent
(MS), concerned MPAs, PPHI and Imran Khan Foundation. The committee, he said is
empowered to purchase anything including medicines, beds, quilts for hospitals,
fans and air-conditioners. He said that the provincial government had provided
two buses for Baka Khel IDPs camp with immediate effect.

He urged the parents and volunteers for paying special concentration on
administering polio drops to the children of IDPs. He said that the shifting of
378 tube-wells of Bannu on solar power will be completed within a period of one
week while 37 more would be repaired.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2014 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


