                              227 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                October 9, 2016

Government accused of 'cherry picking' advice on hospitals

BYLINE: Susan Mitchell

LENGTH: 391 words



HIGHLIGHT: Claims of 'gross political interference' in health policy decisions


The most senior medic in the south of the country has accused the government of
"cherry-picking" the clinical advice it uses.

Dr Rob Landers, chief clinical director of the South Southwest Hospital group
that has nine hospitals, said the government was "ignoring clinical advice for
political expediency" in certain parts of the country.

Landers said there appeared to be "gross political interference" that resulted
in the government ignoring advice from health regulator Hiqa about Portlaoise
Hospital.

He said it was instructive to contrast this with the government's position on
University Hospital Waterford (UHW).

Minister for Health Simon Harris and Taoiseach Enda Kenny have said they will
stand by the recommendation of an independent expert, Dr Niall Herity, about
cardiac services at Waterford.

Herity advised against providing a second cath lab - a facility designed to
perform a range of diagnostic and therapeutic invasive cardiac procedures - at
UHW. Clinicians in Waterford have strongly disputed the findings of that report.

Landers said Hiqa had concluded that the 24-7 emergency department in Portlaoise
was unsafe and unsustainable, yet it remains open.

Portlaoise Hospital was also one of ten hospitals chosen by the HSE to have
their 24/7 emergency departments downgraded in 2011.

Health sources said there was significant political interference by the last
government, with the HSE forced to remove the hospital from the list.

The hospital is situated in the constituency of Minister for Foreign Affairs
Charlie Flanagan.

Last May, the Dublin Midlands Hospital Groups submitted a plan to the Department
of Health that proposed replacing the emergency department at Portlaoise
Hospital with a minor injuries unit.

The plan for the hospital also proposed removing maternity care and paediatric
services from Portlaoise Hospital.

Minister for Health Simon Harris did not respond to a question about the status
of that report last week.

Fianna Fáil leader Micheál Martin met with consultants at UHW last Monday.

Consultant cardiologist Dr Patrick Owens said doctors had presented Martin with
the difficulties they face in providing care for their patients.

Owens said Martin had given them a commitment of a second cath lab. He claimed
the Herity Report was "poorly conceived" and heavily influenced by the
Department of Health.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


