                              226 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                     April 15, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

PAKISTAN: Politically motivated bombing kills six at cancer clinic: Feuding
among politicians blamed for explosion

BYLINE: JOHN BURNS; THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. C12

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, India


A bomb exploded in Pakistan's only cancer hospital on Sunday, killing at least
six people and injuring more than 30.

The bomb detonated in the city of Lahore at the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer
Centre, opened 16 months ago and dedicated to the memory of the mother of
Pakistan's former cricket captain, Imran Khan. Khan, 43, has said in recent days
that he is on the verge of starting a political movement to topple Prime
Minister Benazir Bhutto, who was a fellow student with Khan at Oxford University
20 years ago.

The blast occurred shortly after noon on Sunday, a normal working day in
Pakistan, when about 150 patients and relatives were gathered at the sprawling
hospital complex. A correspondent for the BBC who reached the scene said the
explosion left dead and wounded lying in pools of blood, with one wall of the
hospital blown away.

Hospital officials said that the dead included two children who were patients
and that 10 of the injured were in critical condition.

The incident came amid intensifying political violence in Pakistan. Khan, who
gained widespread popularity among Pakistan's 130 million people when his team
won cricket's world championship for the first time in 1992, has been sharply
critical of the country's feuding political class, which he has described as "a
culture of corruption and injustice."

Many of his criticisms have been aimed particularly at Prime Minister Bhutto,
whom Khan has accused of leading a government obsessed with political vendettas
and self-enrichment.

Bhutto has responded by targeting Khan with income tax investigations, a ban on
fund-raising events for the cancer hospital in schools and other government-run
institutions, and a blackout on reports about the hospital on the state-run
broadcasting network.

After the explosion on Sunday, the 42-year-old Bhutto made her first visit to
the hospital, calling the blast "a deplorable attack" and hinting that it might
have been the work of loyalists of Pakistan's main opposition leader, Nawaz
Sharif. Sharif, who has tried and failed to recruit Khan as an ally, denied the
allegation.

Khan, who reached the hospital from his home in Lahore shortly after the attack,
declined to say who he thought might have set the bomb. But he said the blast
would not deter him from his political plans. "I want to tell those who want to
scare me that neither will I be scared, nor will I turn back."

Khan has stirred controversy in Pakistan for what his critics call hypocrisy. He
has described the country's political elite as "brown Sahibs" -- meaning that
their attitudes and lifestyles, in a Muslim country, mimick those of the British
rulers of colonial India. Opponents responded that Khan was one of the most
photographed "playboys" of London's West End.

Last summer, Khan stunned many Pakistanis by marrying Jemima Goldsmith, now 22,
who is the daughter of James Goldsmith, an Anglo-French business tycoon. After
Muslim ceremonies in Paris and a civil wedding in London, Mrs. Khan, who adopted
the Muslim name Haiqa and converted to Islam, made a home with Khan in Lahore.

But criticism of Khan seems to have made little impact. The $ 22 million needed
to build the cancer hospital was raised in part on a tour in which Khan walked
through Pakistan's slums and villages, accepting donations of a few rupees.

When Khan showed a visitor around the hospital two weeks ago, patients and
relatives, some of whom had traveled hundreds of miles to the hospital, greeted
him with cries of "Long Live the Great Khan!" A 28-year-old woman named Farzana,
mother of a five-year-old boy undergoing chemotherapy, said she was illiterate
and had never voted, but would if Khan were a candidate. "He might be our next
prime minister," she said. "We all adore him."


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LENGTH: 632 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colour Photo: -- /Reuter Photo/ Innocent Victims: Explosion left dead
and wounded cancer patients scattered about wreckage in hospital

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


