                              231 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             July 21, 2012 Saturday

All is not well at CMC, allege kin of deceased

LENGTH: 418 words

DATELINE: KOCHI


KOCHI, July 21 -- The death of three persons owing to non-availability of oxygen
at the Cochin Cooperative Medical College(CMC) points fingers at the murderous
negligence of the hospital authorities and the lack of basic facilities at the
hospital, alleged a kin of the deceased.

Aneesh, a native of Nedumbasserry, whose father Varghese had died on July 17
owing to the alleged laxity of the hospital staff, told Express that the
condition of his father had worsened ever since he was admitted to the hospital.

Varghese was admitted to the hospital for tuberculosis six months ago. There was
no water supply in the hospital then, recalled Aneesh.

"One of the major problems that the hospital faces is the shortage of water. On
many occasions, my father had to be taken home to take him a bath.

Owing to the lack of water supply in the operation theatre, the operations have
been cancelled several times. In the summer, we were forced to fetch water from
the house," he said.

He also alleged the hospital was facing a acute staff shortage as well. "Not
more than one nurse was allotted to the TB ward for the night duty. The nurses
on duty keep away from the TB patients out of fear. When my father was in
critical condition, the nurse on duty never attended him," said Aneesh.

He added that the hospital authorities did not bother to dress the body of the
deceased and they had to avail of the services of another doctor. "We suspect
that the hospital authorities have committed some grave mistakes that led to his
death. The body fluids were discharging and it was a private doctor who dressed
the body for the funeral," he said.

Medical adviser of the hospital PGR Pillai said that the critical condition
alone led to the death and termed the the allegations raised by the kin of the
deceased as well as the political parties baseless.

"It is true that we are facing a shortage of nursing staff. Already we have 53
vacant posts for nurses. We have conducted interviews and new nurses would be
appointed soon," he said.

"The water crisis was in the summer season alone and currently we have 24-hour
water connection. The charges raised by the political party can be confirmed
only after the committee conducts an investigation. We have suspended the
persons against whom the allegations were raised," said Pillai. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any query with respect
to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


