                              222 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                       January 9, 2015 Friday 2:58 PM GMT

Rhodri Morgan: 'This early electioneering is like Christmas shopping in
January... and there's 17 more weeks of it';
Columnist Rhodri Morgan on the Welsh NHS

BYLINE: By Rhodri Morgan

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 863 words


The public gets mightily cheesed off by retailers trying their best to get us
into Christmas spending spree mood in late September.

Well now we are in the same weird phase of prematurity over the election on May
7 - that little we know - by the cycle of claim and counter-claim kicking off in
early January.

Do we really want 17 weeks of this? Of course, if an event overtakes the
schedules of the party spin doctors, then there's nothing anybody can do.'It's a
bit rich for David Cameron to complain about the NHS being used as a political
football'

If the A&E departments of hospitals are overflowing and it's getting difficult
to get prompt appointments with the GP, then it puts the 'State of the NHS' on
the front pages of the newspapers right now, not in the last three weeks of
April.

I doubt that the Sun really wanted to print that 'THIRD WORLD A&E' headline on
the front page complete with picture of the emergency A&E tent in the car park.

Newspaper publishing priorities have to take precedence over any political
loyalties.

Given what David Cameron said at the Welsh Tory Party Conference last year about
Offa's Dyke being the line between life and death, I wondered whether he was in
order to complain that Ed Miliband was turning the state of the NHS into a '
political football'. He can't have it both ways.

Once the level of demand on NHS capacity settles down again after the 'two weeks
off over Xmas' time-out, things could look very different by April.

In which case David Cameron will then be all too keen to use the NHS as a
political football.A private firm's failure to run an English hospital is the
week's big story

Perhaps this week's most significant health event long-term, is the handing back
to the NHS of the Circle private contract to run Hinchingbrooke Hospital north
of Cambridge.

Circle say they are making big losses and that entitles them to cancel the
contract.

It reminds me of National Express handing back the contract to run the Great
Eastern Main Line franchise from London to Newcastle and Edinburgh from Kings
Cross.

Since then, that contract has been run very successfully as a nationalised
industry by the Department of Transport.

Of course, the original idea for bringing in a private company to run an NHS
hospital started before the 2010 election.

So there are some New Labour fingerprints on this as well - Conservative
bootprints and New Labour fingerprints.

But Circle's failure to make a go of it shows that private companies should
perhaps be used as a source of ideas on how to improve the efficiency of
hospitals, not running them.Why hospital hairnets were once a political hot
topic

To go back to the 'political football' issue, in the run-up to the 1997
election, all of us Labour Shadow Ministers were asked by the Mirror -
presumably with a nudge from Tony Blair - to find NHS-related stories that
fitted the agenda of 'NHS under threat if the Tories re-elected'.

We were all told that this was the most important thing we could do in that
final week.

Not that it helped me get a job from the said Mr Blair, but I was the most
successful.

I managed to find two. One was a very sad story about a constituent of mine who
had been dropped off for admission at Llandough Hospital.

Somehow he'd not been picked up by the system, had wandered around the hospital
for a week and then sadly died.

The other story was about the brand-new Barry hospital intended to save the seat
of Tory MP Walter Sweeney.

Tiles kept falling off the roof endangering staff and patients.

So the hospital had put a giant sort of hair net over the new roof.

It became known as the Nora Batty among the staff, after the character in the
Last of the Summer Wine.

Strangely, the Mirror changed it from Nora Batty Hospital to Ena Sharples
Hospital after that other wondrous North Country battleaxe played by Violet
Carson in Coronation Street.Rhys Priestland has no shortage of guts

Related: Rhys Priestland confirms he is leaving Scarlets for Bath and admits: 'I
need a new challenge'

It takes guts to sign a contract to go Bath as Rhys Priestland has done, to play
at 10, when the existing first choice 10 is George Ford, not just England's
first choice but the son of Bath's head coach Mike Ford as well!

Rhys' form recently has been superb.

Perhaps a weight has been lifted off his shoulders by the direction the contract
negotiations were taking.

I wouldn't want to bet against Rhys displacing Ford as first choice, as Owen
Williams did with Toby Flood at Leicester.

Come to think of it, if English number one, George Ford was Welsh, I'm not sure
where he would fit in the outside-half rankings.

Certainly behind Dan Biggar and Owen Williams and in the mix after that with
Priestland, Hook and maybe Anscombe.

I hope that doesn't come back to bite me on Friday night, February 5, when the
Six Nations explodes into action at the Millennium Stadium!

I watched a fair bit of Bath in the Aviva Premiership over the holidays from my
sickbed.

Ford's got good acceleration, can make a break but gives away almost as many
tries as he creates with misplaced floated passes.

I'd definitely rather be in Warren Gatland's shoes than Stuart Lancaster's, when
it comes to selecting outside halves.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


