                              229 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            March 25, 1995 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Political pulse throbs to health's heartbeat

BYLINE: Shane Green

SECTION: NEWS; News Extra; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1179 words


The politics of health in Victoria will have a major impact on the next state
election, writes state political editor Shane Green.

The Liberal MP Geoff Leigh has experienced what most of his colleagues in
marginal seats only fear: the threat of a hospital closure in his electorate.

In December, a leaked Government working paper designated two hospitals in his
area for closure. Mordialloc Hospital fell right within his seat; Sandringham
Hospital was neighboring.

Mr Leigh went into overdrive. Denials were secured from Spring Street,
culminating in the Health Minister, Mrs Tehan, visiting staff at Mordialloc
Hospital to assure them it would not be closing. The local MP even went to the
Press Council to complain that this newspaper had reported the document in the
first place.

Mr Leigh's sensitivity was understandable. Apart from the local member's
instinctive defence of his own patch, the closures would have had a dramatic
impact on his chances of retaining Mordialloc, even with the buffer of a 7.1 per
cent margin.

Despite the local member's frenzy, it became clear this week that December
guarantees on hospitals mean nothing in March, as Mrs Tehan confirmed before a
parliamentary committee.

Four weeks after Mr Leigh received the guarantee, the Premier, Mr Kennett,
announced the establishment of a metropolitan hospital review board that would
examine the future of Melbourne's 27 public hospitals, Mordialloc and
Sandringham included.

The buzz word surrounding the review is "rationalisation". It is too soon to say
whether this will mean hospital closures, but it will mean aggregation of
hospital managements, with clusters of hospitals coming under new boards. The
end result could well be rationalisation of services.

Mr Leigh remains philosophical. "I'll wait and look with interest to what the
board does," he says. Predictably, he maintains that he would still hang on to
the seat should cutbacks or closures result, but acknowledges: "Obviously, it
would stir up a great deal of community passion, which you wouldn't be surprised
at."

The Labor Party may have declared the next election a referendum on
privatisation, but the politics of health in Victoria are likely to have just as
big an impact if not greater on the outcome.

The review of the system was part of a New Year circuit-breaker by the
Government, suffering damage because of the sustained public airing of the
crisis emerging in the public hospital system.

The review has also had a remarkable effect on the profile of health as an
issue. The so-called crisis in the system that led to Mr Kennett's intervention
has this year failed to surface in any significant way.

One explanation is that chief executives are too busy working on the review, and
reluctant to speak out because their own futures are on the line. Doctors,
meanwhile, do not want to jeopardise the future of individual hospitals. As a
circuit-breaker, the effect has been dramatic. But what of the review and its
effect on the next election?

The political significance of the review has been largely overshadowed by the
controversy over the alleged conflict of interest of the review board's head, Ms
Elizabeth Proust. But as that issue subsided, the focus has now shifted to the
sharp end of what the review is all about.

After a two-year holiday when they enjoyed simply being there, the huge
Government back bench has now realised the free ride is over, and they will have
to face re-election. The final report of the hospital review board comes down in
December; the election must be held by the following October.

Apart from the timing, there are two key elements that give the review a high
political risk. The Government has committed itself to accepting the
recommendations of the board and implement them. Second, neither the Government
nor the Health Department will be making a submission to the board.

Surprisingly, the possible outcomes do not have most MPs in marginal seats
breaking out in a cold sweat. Both publicly and privately, the back bench
appears calm about the outcome of the review, in comparison to the agitation it
experienced in the second half of last year as the Government was pummelled over
health.

Mr Peter McLellan holds his seat of Frankston East for the Liberals by 0.2 per
cent the state's most marginal coalition seat. His electorate also borders the
Mt Eliza Centre. Mr McLellan, however, remains unperturbed by the review.

"I'm not really concerned about the political aspects of it," Mr McLellan says.
"In the community interest, it has to be done. . ."

Yet a major change to the services of the public hospital abutting Mr McLellan's
electorate would almost certainly mean political death for the sitting member.

In the former ALP seat of Essendon, Liberal Mr Ian Davis has a margin of only
1.3 per cent, and the future of the Essendon Hospital, a campus of the Royal
Melbourne Hospital, is already an issue.

The Labor candidate for the seat, Ms Judy Maddigan, has received local press
coverage warning that the hospital's future was uncertain.

Mr Davis, in turn, denied the allegation, and claimed that he had had an
assurance from Mrs Tehan that there was no plan to close the hospital.

Mr Davis says he would be surprised if anything happened to the Essendon
Hospital, given the resources put into it.

Ms Maddigan believes the hospital's future will be one of the key local issues
that will help take her over the line. "The Essendon Hospital is close to the
hearts of the people of Essendon, because over the years, back as far as 1945,
money was raised by the local community for the setting up of a community
hospital," she says.

Heading east, the picture is similar. If, for example, services at Dandenong
Hospital were cut back, this could have a huge impact on surrounding seats.
Dandenong North is Labor's most marginal seat, at 0.1 per cent, but a
significant change to services could take it back to the safe 8.5 per cent
margin Labor enjoyed before the last state poll.

Importantly, most of the main hospitals are in the inner city, and one of the
primary reasons behind the review is to redress the imbalance between their
location and where people live. In the safe Labor seats of Melbourne and
Richmond, there are eight major hospitals.

What impact would the closure of an inner-city hospital have?

Clearly, it would depend on which hospital. Many of the hospitals offering
specialist services, such as the Royal Women's Hospital, serve a wide area, and
any cutback in the services provided could produce a backlash. Yet we have had
the experience of the closure of an inner-city hospital with the Labor
Government's decision to close Prince Henry's Hospital with negligible electoral
impact.

Government MPs in marginal seats may take some comfort from the fact that the
local government review was expected to fire a revolt in the suburbs. The end
result has been a easy transition, with minimal protest. Health is different.
There is a strong sense of community ownership of suburban public hospitals, and
it is inevitable that reductions in services or closures will mean votes lost.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map Beds and Seats: The Liberal Dilemma

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1995 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


