                              234 of 998 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1991, American Health Lawyers Association
                              Journal of Health Law

                                 February, 1991

                         Vol. 24, No. 2, HOSPLW Pg. 69

LENGTH: 458 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS: Community hospital immune from the
running of statute of limitations

AUTHOR: R.S./M.P.

TEXT:

   The Supreme Court of Mississippi affirmed a trial court's order finding a
community hospital immune from the running of statutes of limitation.  A
chancery court had taken judicial notice in a collection suit that the hospital
was jointly owned by a municipality and a county corporation.  The court held
the hospital was a political subdivision of the state and thus immune from the
running of the applicable statute of limitations.

   The hospital was a judgment lien creditor of debtor husband and wife.  The
hospital had the judgment enrolled in November 1978, and a lien was perfected
upon all property the debtors owned within the county.  The judgment, although
properly recorded, had never been renewed.  In the spring of 1986, the debtors
contracted to sell some real estate within the county.  In the course of
examining title, the buyer discovered the hospital's unsatisfied judgment.  The
debtors closed the real estate transaction and placed funds in escrow.  The
escrow agent interpled in chancery court.

   Under state statute, a judgment lien is ordinarily extinguished after seven
years unless it is renewed.  The debtor claimed the hospital was barred from
collecting on the lien because the lien had not been renewed and the seven-year
statute of limitations had run.  The state constitution provides civil statutes
of limitation do not run against any subdivisions of the state or against
municipal corporations.  The trial court held defendant hospital was a political
subdivision of the state and thus immune to the running of the statute of
limitations.

   The debtors claimed the record did not support the finding that the hospital
was a political subdivision of the state and contended the ownership, operation,
and status of a hospital was not a matter which may be judicially noticed.  The
supreme court ruled the trial court was correct in holding the hospital's status
was generally known within the community, and, alternatively, it was capable of
ready determination from public records.  Therefore, the court approved of the
trial court's taking notice that the hospital was a subdivision of the state.

   State statute provides that any county, political subdivision, or
municipality of the state may acquire and hold real estate for a community
hospital.  The court found the municipality and the county hospital district
created a community hospital under the statute.  Furthermore, defendant hospital
was substantially supported by public funds.  The court held the hospital was a
subdivision of the state, or municipal corporation thereof, within the meaning
of the constitution and the relevant statute.  Accordingly, the statute of
limitations governing judgment liens was inoperative against the hospital.

REFERENCE: Enroth v. Memorial Hosp. at Gulfport, 566 So. 2d 202 (Miss. 1990).


