                              236 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Wiltshire

                           February 26, 2008 Tuesday

Chippenham politicians join forces for hospital campaign

BYLINE: Laura Williams

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 344 words

DATELINE: The Wiltshire Gazette And Herald


Chippenham politicians from opposing parties have joined forces to help save
Chippenham hospital.

Both the Conservative and the Liberal Democrat prospective candidates for the
new Chippenham ward have spoken of their horror at Wiltshire Primary Care
Trust's (PCT) plan to cut beds at the town's hospital.

Conservative Wilfred Emmanuel-Jones and Liberal Democrat Duncan Hames will both
attend the Chippenham Hospital Action Group (CHAG) meeting in Chippenham Town
Hall on March 1.

They will join medical staff, including Chippenham GP Nick Brown, North
Wiltshire MP James Gray and district and town councillors as well as patients
and carers.

Mr Emmanuel-Jones, who is also known as the Black Farmer, has already signed the
online petition against the NHS cuts in Chippenham.

He said: "It is the height of madness with all the plans that there are, for
growth in Chippenham for the next 10-20 years, that they are actually thinking
of reducing the number of beds. It's very important for all of us to try and
convince them that we are going to need a really good, proper, functioning
hospital.

"This is non political, it's about us lending our support to the medical
profession."

Mr Hames has high hopes for the CHAG and said it was a rare occasion for
politicians and supporters from all political parties to help make a difference.

He said: "I'm very glad that we appear to have cross party support for the
Chippenham hospital. We really can achieve a lot more when we work together.

"Concern about our hospital is the most consistently mentioned issue by local
residents who I speak to when I go visiting them. It's important that we help
them find a voice.

"It's time that the government made available to capital funding for investment
in Chippenham hospital. We haven't seen a penny yet.

"It's important that we should all make clear to the government how important it
is that we do invest in our community hospital in Chippenham."

Prospective labour candidate Nick Thomas-Symonds and Green Party candidate
Lorraine Roberts-Rance were unavailable for comment.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wilfred Emmanual Jones and Duncan Hames lend Cross party Support to the
Chippenham Hospital Campaign

PUBLICATION-TYPE: WEB PUBLICATION


                  Copyright 2008 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


