                              240 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 16, 2005, Sunday

4 HOSPITALS TURNED AWAY DYING MAN;
 DEATH OF PENSIONER, 70, SPARKS HEALTH SERVICE POLITICAL BUST-UP

BYLINE: BY KEVIN MCDONNELL

SECTION: Eire Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 463 words

HIGHLIGHT: Joe Costello accuses Mary Harney of reneging on her promise to
improve A&E services


A PENSIONER died from a bleeding ulcer after he was turned away from FOUR
hospitals.

Patrick Walsh's death on Friday sparked a furious political storm last night.

Health and Safety Executive chiefs have promised to investigate the
70-year-old's death and furious hospital campaigners hit out at the running down
of health services in Co Monaghan.

Mr Walsh, of Carrickmacross, went to Monaghan General Hospital on Thursday with
a bleeding ulcer.

But the hospital could not give him the surgery he required because it is not
allowed to carry out emergency services.

He was then transferred to Our Lady of Lourdes Hospital, Drogheda, then Cavan
General Hospital and finally the Beaumont Hospital, Dublin, none of which had
intensive care beds available.

Last night Cavan/Monaghan Independent TD Paudge Connolly demanded an immediate
restoration of full surgical services at Monaghan General Hospital in the wake
of the pensioner's death.

"The tragic death of a 70-year pensioner, despite receiving seven pints of
blood, was eminently avoidable.

"The patient had been admitted to Monaghan General Hospital on Thursday with a
bleeding ulcer but the hospital surgeons were prohibited from performing the
necessary emergency surgery to save his life.

"The seven consultant surgeons in Monaghan and Cavan General hospitals issued
their unanimous needs-driven call three weeks ago for the restoration of 7-day
24-hour acute surgical emergency services, which were removed from Monaghan in
2002, to be immediately restored.

"So far this appeal has fallen on deaf ears, with tragedies like this waiting to
happen."

It is the second tragedy to hit the Walsh family. Two years ago, his younger
brother Francis was killed by a crazed bull in Carrickmacross.

Pat McLaughlin, Director of the National Hospital Office, has now called for a
full report that will be carried out by the Hospital Network manager.

Meanwhile, a heart patient was forced to wait for treatment on a chair in a
storeroom at the Mater Hospital in Dublin, TD Joe Costello claimed as he
continued his weekly protest over the A&E crisis.

The Labour Party's justice spokesman said the man, who had collapsed at home,
was put in the storeroom because there was no room in the emergency ward.

He was told he was 35th in line for treatment and would have to wait on the
chair for three or four days but chose to check himself out.

Deputy Costello said: "This is the sad and sorry state of our emergency
medicine.

"Health Minister Mary Harney promised more than a year ago her 10-point plan
promising major improvements in A&E.

"The situation is continuing to deteriorate rapidly.

"Effectively there is no A&E service for seriously ill and vulnerable people."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.


