                              233 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     May 21, 1998, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Hospital at centre of unity debate: Outrage over the hiring of a former Parti
Quebecois candidate to run an Ottawa hospital is being portrayed as an example
of the gulf between Quebec and the rest of Canada.

BYLINE: JANICE TIBBETTS, ELIZABETH THOMPSON AND CAMPBELL CLARK; SOUTHAM NEWS; CP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 1272 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


A dispute over hiring a former Parti Quebecois candidate to head an Ottawa
hospital exploded into a national-unity battle yesterday, pitting separatists
against federalists as David Levine waited to hear whether he would lose his
job.

Politicians from Prime Minister Jean Chretien in Rome to Quebec Premier Lucien
Bouchard in Chicago jumped into the debate over whether Levine's sovereignist
past makes him the wrong choice to run Ottawa Hospital, the city's newly
amalgamated megahospital.

The political squabbling followed an emotional public meeting Tuesday night,
where crowds bulged into the hallways of a local hospital. Outside, protesters
waved placards that read "Fire Levine" and "Separatists Must Go."

The bilingual anglophone from Quebec ran for the Parti Quebecois almost 20 years
ago, saying he wanted to build a bridge between the English and the French.

"In Canada, political considerations are not a question that we ask for
employment," Chretien said at a news conference in Rome, where he is on a trade
mission.

"We look at the qualities of the person to serve."

That's also the position of the hospital's board of directors, which has
repeatedly defended its choice despite the uproar that has persisted for more
than a week.

The hospital has received hundreds of calls, some from donors threatening to
stop sending money.

Others describe the furor as a witchhunt that smacks of the McCarthyism of the
1950s in the United States, where suspected communists were rounded up and
blacklisted.

Members of the board refused to comment yesterday, saying they wanted to take
the day to reflect before making a decision on Levine's future that is expected
today or tomorrow.

"Everybody wanted to sleep on it and take a day to reflect after the meeting,"
said a communications consultant hired by the hospital to field calls.

"To tell the truth, they did not expect as many people and as much acrimony."

In Chicago, where he is also on a trade mission, Bouchard described the attacks
on Levine as an "outburst of intolerance."

"I count on the good sense and democratic values of our fellow citizens in
Ottawa, in particular, to lower the tone and recognize that what counts is
competence," Bouchard said. "Since it is an administrative function, there is no
reason to get mixed up in the political opinions of people, and it's contrary to
one of the fundamental values of our democracy."

Bloc Quebecois leader Gilles Duceppe was less conciliatory, describing the
outcry as a blow to Quebec that will cast further doubt on whether Quebecers
will want to remain in Canada.

He suggested the kind of uproar that has exploded over Levine's separatist
credentials would not occur in Quebec.

Duceppe said that if Levine is fired for his political beliefs, it would be a
"bad signal" for Canada and Quebec.

"It's in Ottawa, the national capital, a bilingual city; a lot of those people
maybe came to Montreal in October 1995 saying they love us a lot and now it
seems to be quite different."

Despite his criticism, Duceppe said he believes Levine's critics represent a
minority.

"It's not the majority, I'm sure of that," he said, praising the hospital board
for refusing to give way.

Levine picked up an unexpected ally in Reform Party MP Deborah Grey, a
hard-liner against Quebec separatists.

"Nobody should ever be fired for his political beliefs," Grey said.

Although Levine was an unsuccessful PQ candidate in a 1979 byelection, Grey said
there were "all kinds of candidates" in the past who "still do excellent jobs."

Grey said she was not advising the hospital board or the community because the
decision is neither federal nor provincial.

In Toronto, Premier Mike Harris said the hospital would have been better off
hiring a foreigner who believes in Canada than a known separatist.

"Surely there is administrative capability within Ontario, or at least a
Canadian or even a non-Canadian who believes in Canada and keeping Canada
together," he told a talk show on Toronto's CFRB radio.

In Quebec, Deputy Premier Bernard Landry said the protest against Levine's
appointment was "disgraceful" and called on Canadian government leaders to calm
the waters.

"I don't think the rest of Canada as a whole is intolerant. I think it is a
gesture of intolerance that has to be denounced."

Later, after Harris's comments, Landry said if there is a positive side to the
affair, it is the evidence of the fundamental differences between Quebec and the
rest of Canada.

"To say that you prefer a foreigner to a Quebecer because of his political
opinions is not what I would call calming things down. . . . (This) is showing
that there are two nations, ours and the other."

By the end of the day, the incident was being portrayed as proof of the
insurmountable divide that separates Quebec from the rest of Canada.

Television reports featured image after image of angry, red-faced protesters
insulting the Quebec hospital administrator and voices in support of Levine
being shouted down. One report resurrected pictures of a handful of Ontarians
who trampled a Quebec flag in Brockville several years ago.

Quebec Liberal leader Jean Charest, however, told reporters that what was
happening in Ottawa was unacceptable. Like Landry, Charest called on federal
government leaders to intervene. "(These incidents) are unacceptable and when
they happen it is important for the political leadership to speak to them."

The hospital's volunteer board is faced with the task of weighing the public
opposition to Levine's keeping his $ 300,000-a-year job against their contention
that his experience makes him the best person for the job.

The board has also tried to dispel concerns among staff that Levine would
eventually limit jobs to those who are bilingual.

Editorials in the Ottawa Citizen and Ottawa Sun have called for Levine's
resignation, arguing that the debate over his politics will make him an
ineffective administrator.

Among other things, there has been friction over western Quebecers using
Ottawa's hospitals, a practice some say is forcing Ontario residents to wait in
line in their own city.

The appointment has divided area mayors and residents. Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson
said yesterday that Levine should "do the honorable thing and resign" for the
good of the institution.

"I think if I was David Levine, I would resign and put the good of the hospital
at the forefront," Watson said.

"There is such an overwhelmingly negative reaction to his appointment because of
his background that it's going to have a far-reaching and negative impact on the
hospital."

But former Vanier mayor Gisele Lalonde, who led the campaign to save Ottawa's
only francophone hospital, the Montfort, said yesterday she supports Levine's
hiring and believes it will help the federalist cause.

"He said himself he's there to build bridges and I believe him," she said.

"You have 49 per cent of the people in Quebec who have voted for separatism. If
we want those people to change and become federalists, we have to welcome them
in Canada"

Levine, who could not be reached yesterday, told a news conference late last
week that he has no political agenda. He said he is an experienced hospital
manager who had a long and successful career in Quebec before his appointment
last year as the province's envoy to New York.

He worked in Quebec's hospital system under PQ and Liberal governments and
politics was never an issue in his work.

Unity Minister Stephane Dion accused separatist politicians of trying to make
political gains from the affair.


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: ETIENNE MORIN, LE DROIT / Joe Lemaire was among about 500 people
who turned out in Ottawa to protest against David Levine's appointment as
hospital chief executive.

Photo: Levine: Former PQ candidate.

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


