                              232 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily Nation (Kenya)

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday

Ruto warns Raila over hospital row

BYLINE: SAMUEL KARANJA -1

LENGTH: 709  words


Mr Ruto said he stopped the rehabilitation contract because it was
unprocedurally procured.

Deputy President William Ruto on Wednesday asked Cord leader Raila Odinga to
stop dragging his name into corruption scandals, warning that he was ready to
take a political war to the former Prime Minister's doorstep.
He accused Mr Odinga and his former personal assistant, Mr Herbet Ojwang, of
linking him to the scandal surrounding a Sh17 billion project to upgrade the Moi
Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret.


The project is under investigations by the Public Investment Committee (PIC)
over allegations that the cost had been inflated and that Mr Ruto had used his
influence to edge out Mr Ojwang from the deal. According to Mr Ojwang, Mr Ruto
had ordered the upgrading of the hospital stopped and had instead directed that
a new hospital be built next door at a cost of Sh28 billion.
Yesterday, Mr Ruto said he stopped the rehabilitation contract because it was
unprocedurally procured.
He said he had no apologies for ordering the cancellation because the money was
enough to build a new hospital.
HAVE NO APOLOGIES
"Some political saboteur and his personal assistant went to Parliament to tell
us how I stopped their project at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MRTH) in
Eldoret," said Mr Ruto during the commissioning of the Muthurwa power substation
in Nairobi. "I am the one who stopped the project and have no apologies to make
because the project was fraudulent, shady and corrupt from the beginning and it
has no place under the Jubilee administration."
He accused Mr Odinga and Mr Ojwang of attempting to rip off taxpayers and drag
his name in the scandal. "My friend the former Prime Minister and his PA must
keep off from me and if they are interested in a political duel, I am ready," Mr
Ruto said. "I stopped the project and they will not implement it in this
government. How can anybody in their rightful senses want to spend Sh17 billion
to renovate and do some extension in a hospital? How can anybody pretend that
they want to spend the Sh17 billion without a competitive tendering process?"
He was responding to allegations by Mr Ojwang' who had accused unnamed people in
Mr Ruto's office of edging him out of the upgrade tender. Mr Ojwang appeared
before PIC said the DP had trashed the  upgrade and instead ordered that a new
hospital be built on a piece of land allegedly belonging to the Kenya Prisons
Service.
EDGED OUT
He also claimed that Mr Caleb Kositany -- who is allied to Mr Ruto -- and the
Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital's chief executive, Dr John Kibosia, had
attended meetings in the DP's office and at the offices of China Wu Yi company.
According to him, he was edged out of the contract because he was associated
with Mr Odinga, who is Mr Ruto's political rival.

But Mr Ruto said the Sh17 billion would have been enough to build a new hospital
complete with theaters and all other facilities required in a hospital. He said
plans to build the new hospital were unstoppable.
"No amount of intimidation or blackmail will make us change course, I want to
tell political saboteurs and their personal assistants and the con men and
brokers that they have no space or room to keep masquerading and manipulating
their way in our system," he said.
But Mr Odinga while speaking during Citizen TV's Cheche show, said those
associating him with the hospital tender were only interested in dragging his
name in the mud.
HELPED CORD
Asked if he ever received any money from Chinese in the deal, he said: "Not at
all, not at all."
However, he added that he would not decline money from foreigners should they
decide to fund his campaign.
In a tape that Mr Ojwang presented to PIC and which he claimed to have recorded
secretly, he said that he had taken a Mr Lieu of the China Wu Yi company to Mr
Odinga's office where he gave the former PM Sh5 million.
He also claimed that Mr Lieu helped with Cord's 2013 presidential elections
which Mr Odinga lost to Mr Uhuru Kenyatta.
But yesterday, Mr Odinga said: "I have been scandalised and completely
embarrassed with these allegations. I have had no dealings with China Wu Yi at
all."
He said the allegations were part of the Jubilee Coalition's propaganda to
tarnish his image.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1144


                       Copyright 2015 Nation Media Group
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


