                              241 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             Yorkshire Evening Post

                                  May 12, 2007

Inquiry urged over hospital:shelved children's hospital

LENGTH: 411 words


In response to the letter from Peter Bagnall (YEP, May 4), I wholeheartedly
agree that we should be critical of the Leeds Hospitals Trust over the way they
have behaved over the shelving of the plans for the much needed Children's and
Maternity Hospital.

There is certainly a need for an investigation into this decision and I have
asked the Health Minister in Parliament if she will undertake to do this.

However, he is wrong in one respect. He says "The buck stops in the Trust's
hands." It doesn't. In a democratic country the buck stops with the Department
for Health of the elected Government who have put unelected managers in place to
deliver health services for the public. And I am sure that Patricia Hewitt, the
Secretary of State for Health, and indeed the Prime Minister fully accept that.

He also seems to misunderstand the role of MPs. Raising important issues like
this in parliament is not "blaming political parties," it is doing what I was
elected to do as an MP - making sure the Government delivers for your area and
addresses problems as they arise. Indeed, it is for MPs of all parties to do
that and for the Government to respond.

The well-known deficiencies in children's hospital services in Leeds are indeed
a matter for the Department for Health to address and so I am pleased that the
recent coverage, including from my debate and questions in Parliament, has led
to a public commitment from the Government to get the hospital back on track.

As for the silly letter from the Conservative parliamentary candidate in my area
(YEP, May 5), she should get her facts straight before making frankly irrelevant
attacks. She has a lot to learn if she thinks it is an MP's job to cow-tow to
the highly-paid managers running our health services. It also speaks volumes
that instead of joining the campaigns over the Children's Hospital and
Wharfedale Hospital, she is instead defending the Prime Minister's dishonest
attack on me in Parliament, something he is on record as apologising for.

In contrast, her colleagues on the council, as with political representatives of
all parties, know that we need the new hospital in Leeds and have pledged to
campaign until we get it.

I am clear that my job is to stand up for the people of this area, locally and
in Parliament, and I will continue to do so, regardless of petty, irrelevant and
dishonest attacks, especially when hospital services are inadequate or
threatened.

Greg Mulholland, MP for Leeds North West

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


