                              239 of 998 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright © 1990, American Health Lawyers Association
                              Journal of Health Law

                                 November, 1990

                        Vol. 23, No. 11, HOSPLW Pg. 337

LENGTH: 378 words

TITLE: CASENOTES: IMMUNITY: Private hospital's performance of a governmental
function does not make it a governmental agency entitled to immunity

AUTHOR: A.S./M.K.

TEXT:

   The Michigan Court of Appeals affirmed a trial court's denial of defendant
hospital's motion for summary judgment based on the defense of governmental
immunity.  The court held, despite the performance of governmental functions and
substantial interconnections between the city and defendant hospital, the
hospital was a private entity, not a governmental agency as defined and shielded
by the governmental immunity statute.

   Defendant was a nonprofit hospital funded and incorporated by a private party
for the benefit of citizens of the city and county in which it was located.  The
hospital leased its property from the city.  The board of trustees consisted of
the members of the city hospital commission, and the articles of association
provided that members of the nonstock corporation be residents of the city.

   Defendant hospital moved for summary judgment on the ground that it was
immune from liability under a state governmental immunity statute.  This statute
grants tort immunity to public hospitals that are governmental agencies engaged
in nonprofit governmental functions.  Defendant argued it should be immune from
liability because it was performing a governmental function for the people of
the city.

   The court noted that a private entity's performance of a governmental
function did not confer governmental agency status on the entity.  The statute
required a governmental agency be performing a governmental function.  Under the
statute, "governmental agency" included the state, political subdivisions and
municipal corporations.  "Political subdivision" was defined as including any
municipal corporation formed by one or more political subdivisions.  The court
noted defendant hospital was formed and incorporated by individuals rather than
by one or more political subdivisions.  Furthermore, the hospital retained a
separate, nongovernmental corporate identity, and its employees were not
municipal employees.  The court also noted the hospital was not operated by the
city, but by a board of trustees which was quasi-independent from the city, and
was financially independent except for a de minimis annual appropriation of $
2,700 from the city.  Thus, the court concluded defendant was a private entity
not entitled to immunity.

REFERENCE: O'Neill v. Emma Bixby Hosp., 182 Mich. App. 252, 451 N.W.2d 594
(1990).


