                              238 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              May 15, 2000 Monday
                                  Late Edition

Surfing the waiting lists

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Leaders; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 605 words


THE NSW president of the Australian Medical Association, Dr Kerryn Phelps, says
the decision to place the waiting times for all doctors performing elective
surgery in NSW public hospitals on the Internet is a "distraction" by the State
Government to divert blame from itself to the doctors. Dr Phelps insists that
the waiting times are "the worst they have ever been in NSW". There is a duty
owed by the State Government, accordingly, to "fund health properly". This
rationalisation, unfortunately, sounds eerily like the rhetoric that comes from
the NSW Teachers Federation whenever the State Government tries to bring in
processes that will force some accountability on teachers.

The fact is that Dr Phelps is arguing as a representative of a group of
professionals, like the teachers, who will not accept the need for their clients
to be given information that might make their choices more informed. By opposing
the release of the elective surgery waiting lists, Dr Phelps is trying to ensure
that any public scrutiny of the efficiency of doctors is kept from the public.
The logic in her argument (or chopped logic) is that the public can't be trusted
to understand the nuances behind the information being placed on the Internet.

There is no merit in this argument. The public can understand that the Internet
information needs to be put into context. Doctors take holidays. They have
sabbaticals. Some doctors have only a limited access to particular hospitals.
Some hospitals close during holidays. Other hospitals cut their operating
sessions when they run short of money. These are not difficult notions to grasp.
Moreover, if some lay people cannot find out these details, their GPs are
certainly able to get the information to them.

It is the AMA, then, that is providing a self-serving distraction, rather than
the State Government. This is clear from the statement made by the
director-general of NSW Health, Mick Reid, supporting the new move: "This is
designed to help patients and general practictioners make informed decisions
about their surgery ... and to demystify hospital procedures."

This last point is important. Until now the waiting times for elective surgery
have been treated by the political parties as a political rather than as a
health problem. Promises have been made famously during one election campaign by
the Premier, Mr Carr that there will be resignations if the waiting times are
not shortened. The effect of these promises has been to shift the emphasis in
the management of the waiting times problem to arcane matters of what cases
should go on the lists. The extent of the waiting times list, how long or how
short it is, has become the issue of political debate rather than what measures
are needed to make elective surgery processes more efficient.

The main way successive State governments have sought to protect themselves in
this phony debate over the waiting times has been to control, as tightly as
possible, the list information. Although the Minister for Health was getting the
information that has now been placed on the Internet every month, the Opposition
and the media had to rely on Freedom of Information legislation to prise bits
and pieces of information out of the minister's control. Now that the State
Government has abandoned its policy of utmost secrecy on waiting times, it
should move towards openness in other areas of the health portfolio. The safety
records of hospitals, for instance, should also be fully exposed on the
Internet. This will make patients' choices of hospital better informed. It will
also help hospitals improve their performances in such vital areas.

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2000 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


