                              242 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                February 5, 2001

Hospital problems highlighted

BYLINE: Amy Binns (author email abinns@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 325 words

DATELINE: Bolton



AT this stage of the political game -- with a General Election date pending and
the party machines revving up -- dramatic statements are likely from all major
political groups.

However, Cllr Barbara Ronson's statements today about severe problems at the
Royal Bolton Hospital are very worrying in their own right.

She says that a beds' shortage means that the hospital is unable to cope, in
spite of there being no flu epidemic so far this winter.

Operations are being cancelled because of this. She has first-hand knowledge
because her husband Bob's hernia operation has been cancelled three times and he
now has to wait until March.

Local residents have been complaining to her about elderly patients left in
corridors overnight in trolleys. And she also alleges that there is a shortage
of blankets.

Inevitably, Mrs Ronson's party, the Liberal Democrats, are calling for a "long
hard look at how the NHS is run."

Labour MP Ruth Kelly denies some of the allegations, and a hospital spokeswoman
says that they have been "very busy" and apologises for cancelled operations.

Even given the current political climate, complaints from members of the public
to a local councillor mean that the situation at RBH has to be a cause for
concern.

MP Dr Brian Iddon, whose Bolton constituency includes the hospital, blames
underfunding of the Wigan and Bolton health authority.

He says that wards are being refurbished and more bed spaces provided with some
of the extra money recently awarded by the Government. Now, further discussions
will be under way this month on how to spend the extra NHS cash.

No doubt, the Bolton public will be eagerly awaiting the outcome of these talks,
and looking for improvements in the service provided at the hospital.

We trust that these will be visible and effective as quickly as possible, to
give local people the standard of health care they can reasonably expect.



LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited


