                              248 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                            January 6, 2007 Saturday

Hospital campaigners warn TDs as merger plans are unveiled

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 344 words


Plans to further merge services at Cavan and Monaghan hospitals look set to make
the provision of hospital facilities in the border counties a major election
issue.

Campaigners fighting to save Monaghan hospital voiced their fears yesterday that
services would continue to be eroded before any new hospital is built.

This followed the disclosure that the Health Service Executive are currently
working on proposals to merge the Departments of Medicine at the two hospitals.

The Monaghan Community Alliance Group also questioned when the proposed new
regional hospital for the North East will be completed and whether it will be
located closer to Dublin than Monaghan or Cavan.

"It will cost in the region of  250m but when will it be built? Possibly never,"
Alliance chairman Peadar McMahon.

He said that a major concern for local people was that critically ill patients
may not survive a journey of some 80 miles or more from Monaghan to a regional
hospital located in Co Meath.

He said that members of the alliance would be meeting with political parties in
the area in the coming weeks to find out their position on the HSE plans and
this could determine whether an independent local candidate standing on a '
hospital' ticket will be fielded.

He said no decision would be announced until the commitments of the various
political parties to health services for the area were known and a general
election had been called.

He said those campaigning to save Monaghan hospital were "angry but not
surprised" at the announcement on Thursday that the HSE are working on proposals
to merge the Departments of Medicine at Cavan and Monaghan hospitals before the
end of the year following the recent merging of the hospitals' surgical
departments.

In an interview with the Anglo-Celt newspaper, surgeon Elis McGovern, director
of the project team for the new regional hospital, said a consultancy firm would
be chosen shortly to make a decision on the location and would have eight weeks
to come up with their recommendation.

Eugene Moloney and Patrick Tierney

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


