                              246 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 25, 2001 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Contortions of Psychiatry in China

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 513 words


The abuse of psychiatry to intimidate and torture dissidents in the Soviet Union
was well documented and loudly deplored by the West. The practice in China has
received less comment, but Beijing, too, imprisons nonconformists as mentally
ill -- a policy that deserves worldwide attention and forceful condemnation from
foreign governments, including the United States.

During the Cultural Revolution, the genuinely mentally ill were routinely
"treated" with political re-education, and healthy people who did not hew to the
prevailing political line were often imprisoned in psychiatric hospitals. Such
abuses diminished as China became more open and psychiatry became more
professional and scientific.

Today, however, the abuse of psychiatry once again appears to be increasing in
China. The government has forcibly imprisoned members of Falun Gong in
psychiatric hospitals. Falun Gong, a popular movement that advocates channeling
energy through deep breathing and exercises, has been the target of a
heavy-handed government crackdown marked with abuses reminiscent of the Cultural
Revolution, among them the misuse of psychiatry.

Movement leaders claim that some 600 members have been forcibly detained in
mental hospitals. This number is impossible to verify, but journalists and human
rights researchers have documented numerous cases of Falun Gong members being
taken to psychiatric institutions and drugged, physically restrained, isolated
or given electric shocks.

Robin Munro, a senior researcher at the University of London, explores some of
these cases in an article published last month in The Columbia Journal of Asian
Law. Mr. Munro, who has also worked for Amnesty International and Human Rights
Watch investigating abuses in China, estimates that at least 3,000 people have
been sent to mental hospitals for expressing political views in the past two
decades, not including Falun Gong members.

Another alarming development is the network of new police psychiatric hospitals
-- called Ankangs, which means "peace and happiness" -- built since 1987.
Chinese law includes "political harm to society" as legally dangerous mentally
ill behavior. Police are instructed to take into psychiatric custody "political
maniacs," defined as people who make anti-government speeches, write reactionary
letters or "express opinions on important domestic and international affairs."
Erik Eckholm of The Times has reported that at least one labor leader was
detained and given shock therapy in a psychiatric hospital. There are currently
20 Ankangs, and the government plans to build many more.

An international gathering of psychiatrists, which investigated similar abuses
in the Soviet Union, is trying to publicize China's practices and organize an
investigation by members of the World Psychiatric Association. Psychiatric
imprisonment is not a widespread phenomenon compared with the Chinese
government's use of prisons and labor camps for dissidents. But it is a
particularly noxious practice, and one that deserves more attention and
criticism than it has so far received.



URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

