                              247 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                  Toronto Star

                   February 13, 2003 Thursday Ontario Edition

Clement donations from bid groups draw fire

BYLINE: Theresa Boyle, Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 322 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Companies sought hospital deals NDP, unions ask for conflict probe

Health Minister Tony Clement is in a conflict of interest for accepting
political donations from private consortiums bidding to build and operate an
Ottawa hospital, Ontario New Democrats and union activists charge.

They held a news conference yesterday to ask the province's integrity
commissioner to investigate the allegation.

"Corporations with a direct interest in these hospitals ... have made donations
to the minister of health, who is ultimately responsible for giving the green
light to these corporations and these projects," said Michael Hurley, president
of the Ontario Council of Hospital Unions.

"There is a reasonable concern that a conflict may have occurred such as to
warrant an inquiry by the integrity commissioner."

A spokesperson for Clement denied any wrongdoing, saying the tendering process
is at arm's length from the government.

At issue is the Conservative government's decision to allow the private sector
to build and equip hospitals in Brampton and Ottawa and then lease them back to
the public. The arrangement is known as a public-private partnership or P3.

The health ministry confirmed yesterday a third hospital was last month granted
permission to come up with such a proposal. The Markham Stouffville Hospital is
considering such an arrangement, which would incorporate a hospital in Uxbridge.

Hurley said Clement received political donations for his leadership campaign
last year from members of private consortiums short-listed for a deal to build
the Ottawa P3.

The construction company Aecon made a $10,000 donation; Borealis Infrastructure
donated $2,500; construction company Ellis Don gave $1,400; and PCL Construction
Canada gave $1,000.

NDP Leader Howard Hampton yesterday wrote integrity commissioner Coulter Osborne
asking him to look into the case. A spokesperson said the commissioner's office
had yet to receive an official complaint.


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2003 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


