                              244 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Your Ottawa Region

                          September 22, 2011 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

LeBlanc makes fashion, political statement in fight for new hospital

BYLINE: Desmond Devoy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 358  words


CARLETON PLACE - Mayor Wendy LeBlanc is known for making political statements,
but she managed to marry both fashion and political statements in the fight for
a new hospital last week.

Her Worship sported a striking purple scarf at the policy review committee
meeting on Tuesday, Sept. 13, which also fetchingly doubles as an arm-band for
the fellows.

"We need, want, and deserve a new hospital," said LeBlanc emphatically.

She had toyed with the idea of black arm bands in memoriam for the hospital.

"We decided that wouldn't be appropriate," said LeBlanc.

Echoing other campaigns like the SOS Montfort campaign in the 1990s to save
Ottawa's east-end Francophone hospital, campaign buttons are on order and signs
will be posted around town like they were in the run up to Afghanistan Veterans
Appreciation Day this past August.

"Gimmicks work," she said.

While this paper went to press before the Carleton Place and District Chamber of
Commerce's all-candidates debate at the Arklan Community Public School on Sept.
21 (see next week's paper for debate coverage), LeBlanc encouraged the community
to get involved in the election process in the Lanark, Frontenac, Lennox and
Addington riding.

"Tell, don't ask your candidate," about the need for a new hospital, LeBlanc
advised, if a candidate should come knocking on your door between now and Oct.
6.

"Every chance I get, I will plug that," she said.

LeBlanc revealed that she has spoken to the Progressive Conservative incumbent,
Randy Hillier, who has already toured the Carleton Place and District Memorial
Hospital. Liberal candidate Bill MacDonald is scheduled to tour the hospital
during the campaign.

LeBlanc also noted that area politicians, like her council colleagues, were
coordinating their efforts with the hospital, with a list of talking points.

"It is our initiative," said LeBlanc. "But it is also Beckwith Township council
on board with it. We'll keep going until we get our shovel in the ground."

The desire for a new hospital was met with approval around the council table.

"It's not an option," said Coun. Jerry Flynn. "We need this hospital."

"We've been left behind," said Coun. Doug Black.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

