                              25 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                             March 18, 2014 Tuesday

@HD New Head 48 light;Our hospitals are no place for political statements

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 690 words


Pongphon Sarnsamak

swasdeepat@gmail.com

@BT New Screen/briefs Text - no indent;

In a normal situation, it would be a worthy act for the Public Health Ministry
and state hospitals nationwide to erect banners calling for an end to corruption
and violence, but in the current political turmoil, such banners are likely to
create conflict among medical workers and patients.

Banners with statements about "anti-corruption" and "stop violence" have been
erected at the Public Health Ministry and at state hospitals by the Medical
Workers Community Network.

The ministry's permanent secretary Dr Narong Sahametapat is a key network member
and during the past few weeks has come out to oppose the caretaker government
led by Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra.

During recent months, the Medical Workers Community Network has played a
prominent role in the political arena, protesting against the government and
alleged corruption. At the same time, the movement has been heavily criticised
over whether it is appropriate for medical workers to use government offices and
hospitals to display their political feelings.

It seems many medical workers were happy and proud when they saw Public Health
Ministry buildings and hospitals covered by banners expressing their political
stance. Some had taken "selfie" pictures with the banners and posted them on
their social-media sites.

Meanwhile, people in other provinces such as Nakhon Sawan and Ratchaburi have
rallied at the hospitals and asked medical workers to remove the banners, saying
medical centres should be free from politics.

Public Health has insisted that all medical workers must provide treatment and
save people's lives, no matter what political side they were on.

The network's use of government offices to express a political stance is, in
fact, likely to create conflict with medical workers and patients who do not
agree with them.

It may be a basic right for every person to express a political opinion, but
medical workers should not use medical institutes or government offices to tell
other people their personal beliefs.

In normal times, the Public Health Ministry and hospitals produce tens of
thousands of banners to disseminate messages on health promotion and disease
prevention.

However, during the current political turmoil, many ministry and hospital
buildings have been covered by banners made by the non-governmental Medical
Workers Community Network.

Recently some of the banners erected by the network were removed from the
ministry's permanent secretary building.

Once the People's Democratic Reform Committee (PDRC) protesters learned the
banners had been taken down, they invaded the Public Health Ministry to find out
the reason.

PDRC leader Issara Somchai was among the group who demanded to see Kamol
Bandaiphet, secretary of caretaker Public Health Minister Pradit Sinthawanarong,
and deputy permanent secretary Dr Chanvit Tharathep, whom they believed had
instructed police to remove the banners.

Protesters shouted they had been instructed by Issara to seek an explanation
from the duo. Some ministry staff joined in the protest and blew whistles.

As a result, protesters got access to the roof, re-erected the banners and,
after failing to locate Kamol and Chanvit, left the building.

The Public Health Ministry was not the only place to be invaded. The private
Mongkutwattana General Hospital was also attacked by unknown assailants.

It's not known if this incident was connected to the political stance of the
hospital's director, but it reflected that patients could be at risk from
unprecedented incidents during the political turmoil.

Medical workers have the right to express their political stance no matter what
side they're on, but professionally, the expression of their political opinions
should be outside the hospitals or medical institutes. They still have the
responsibility to provide medical treatment to all people, no matter where they
stand politically.

It would be better for the Public Health Ministry, or a group of medical
workers, to erect banners â[#x20ac]" if they must â[#x20ac]" with messages
promoting harmony #124in society, instead of creating more conflict.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


