                              256 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 20, 2005, Tuesday

Howard banned as health hazard

BYLINE: Angus Macleod, Scottish Political Editor

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 23

LENGTH: 326 words


A BY-ELECTION campaign visit to Glasgow yesterday by Michael Howard was
overshadowed when he was barred from a hospital.

The Conservative leader was lending his support to Richard Cook, the party's
candidate for the Scottish Parliament seat of Glasgow Cathcart, in the by
election called after the resignation of Lord Watson of Invergowrie, the Labour
peer who admitted fire-raising.

Mr Howard and Mr Cook met campaigners outside the city's Victoria Infirmary,
which is to lose its accident and emergency capacity in a reorganisation of
local hospital services. The pair had asked to be allowed inside the hospital
but were turned down by NHS Greater Glasgow, leaving Mr Howard outraged.

He said: "I went into hospitals during the general election campaign and Tony
Blair went into hospitals during the general election campaign. There is no such
thing as an election purdah for people visiting hospitals and it is an outrage
that the Glasgow NHS has said that I am not to be allowed to go into that
hospital this morning."

NHS Greater Glasgow said that the health board had decided to exclude all
candidates from the hospital during the by-election campaign to save disruption
to patients and staff.

Lorraine Dick, the board's spokeswoman, said that the board was keeping to its
tradition of "purdah" -the rules governing conduct by the hospital during
parliamentary elections.

"We have declined a number of requests from by-election candidates to make a
visit to the hospital part of their election campaigns," she said. "Visits to
the hospital take up a great deal of time for the clinical staff members
involved."

Ms Dick added that while the hospital understood that the intention of
candidates was not to disrupt patient care, the staff time taken up inevitably
did affect services.

"In accordance with purdah guidance, if we agree to facilitate a visit by one
political party then we must offer this to all."


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited


