                              26 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                       May 20, 1998, Wednesday, Edition 1

ANGRY CROWD DEMANDS FIRING OF SEPARATIST HOSPITAL OFFICIAL

BYLINE: Mark Bourrie

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 571 words


500 jam Ottawa board meeting
 to protest hiring


 SPECIAL TO THE STAR
 OTTAWA - More than 500 people turned up at a meeting yesterday of
 the Ottawa Hospital board to denounce the hiring of former Parti
 Quebecois candidate David Levine to run the city's new
 mega-hospital.
 Levine, who now serves as the Quebec government's agent-general
 in New York, has refused to disavow the Quebec separatist
 movement. In the national capital, where thousands of jobs depend
 on Canada staying intact, Levine's hiring has been greeted with
 outrage.
 The hall chosen by the hospital board for its public meeting had
 seats for about half of the people who arrived to protest against
 Levine's hiring. During the stormy session, chants and songs from
 the crowd outside the hall echoed through the building.
 Levine did not attend the session. The board of the new hospital,
 which was created by the amalgamation of the bilingual Ottawa
 General Hospital and the anglophone Ottawa Civic Hospital, sat in
 silence as speaker after speaker walked up to microphones to
 demand Levine's firing.
 Most of those in the crowd were seniors who applauded Tara
 Barclay when she said, It is my understanding that Mr. Levine
 got his amalgamation expertise by closing English hospitals in
 Quebec and removing English signage in the French hospitals,
 thereby complying with Quebec's Bill 101, a bill that abuses the
 English-speaking citizens of Quebec.
 Is Ontario to become an extension of Quebec, where English
 rights are trampled upon? Because of this, Mr. Levine should
 resign and the board should so likewise.''
 At times the 300 people in the halls of the hospital and crowding
 around the entrances sang O Canada'' or chanted that the
 hospital board should resign.
 Several shoving matches broke out. Security staff and protesters
 argued over whether a sign showing Levine's face crossed out and
 the words No Separatists'' beneath would be allowed into the
 hall.
 During the first hour of the meeting, hospital staff called in
 extra security guards. Police also patrolled discreetly nearby.
 The meeting drew a large contingent of Quebec's francophone
 media, which has been giving the Levine controversy extensive
 coverage. Quebec commentators are comparing the reaction to
 Levine's hiring to a notorious incident in Brockville in the
 1980s when several protesters demonstrating against the Meech
 Lake constitutional accord wiped their feet on a Quebec flag.
 Not all of the people at the meeting opposed Levine's hiring.
 To loud boos and calls of traitor'' from the crowd, former
 Ottawa mayor Marion Dewar said she supports Levine's appointment.
 The controversy has concentrated on his past political
 activities. His experience in hospital administration where he
 worked in a situation where there were governments of different
 political parties. . .''
 Dewar was cut off by the noise of the crowd.
 Shaking visibly, and with moderator Jean Pigott, a former Tory
 cabinet minister who chaired the meeting, pounding on the table
 to try to make the crowd stop its heckling, Dewar chastised
 Levine's opponents.
 What are we afraid of? Our country is still together. We
 haven't had violence. We are not Serbia. But what I hear tonight
 frightens me, it frightens me very much,'' she said.



LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DAVID LEVINE:
 Hospital administrator sparks controversy in Ottawa.

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


