                              257 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             May 23, 2013 Thursday

Political stunt backfires on poor patients

BYLINE: dna correspondent

LENGTH: 552  words


Vashi: Stating that the local unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party has been
levelling 'baseless' allegations against the working in NMMC hospital at Vashi
for its personal gains, standing committee member and corporator Vikram Shinde
said BJP leaders are indulging in unfair practices for 'personal gains'.

"This is a political stunt, which is not only affecting the working at the
hospital, but also sending out wrong messages to patients who come to avail
services," Shinde said.

BJP leaders have accused doctors at the hospital of demanding money from
patients to carry out operations which, according to them, is against the set
rules.

This practice, the party said, has been going on for the years, and civic
authorities have failed to take action against culprits. The issue also cropped
up at NMMC standing committee meeting held last week where Shinde defended the
doctors saying the specialists, not on NMMC panel, are called by the hospital
authorities to treat critical patients. They bring their own apparatus and other
clinical equipment which are not available at the NMMC facility.

The money collected from the patient is paid as charges to the practitioner for
his services. In the wake of these allegations, specialist doctors have
reportedly refused to come to the NMMC hospital, putting authorities in a fix.

"There is absolutely no truth in these allegations... the hospital is providing
best services to poor and at a minimal rates. It is true that some doctors, who
are not on NMMC's panel, have refused to render their services, but we have
requested them to re-consider their decision. If they agree, they are
contributing to the betterment of the needy who come to here for treatment,"
said Shinde, also the former chairman of the health committee.

Commenting on what the patient Sanjay Mandal said about paying Rs13,000 for a
urine stone surgery and getting a 'kachchi' receipt, Shinde said doctors
attending Mandal told him thrice that he will be operated upon by a specialist
and will have to pay money.

"It is only after his consent that the specialist was called to perform the
surgery. Also, Mandal has given in writing to the hospital authorities that he
was okay with the hospital charging him for the operation," Shinde said.

He added that the 'political stunt' of BJP leaders will bear no fruits since by
indulging in such acts, they are only meting out injustice to poor patients.

General secretary of Navi Mumbai BJP unit Santosh Pachlag said, "We came to know
about the incident and highlighted. The hospital authorities agreed in front of
the media that the doctor had taken money. We requested them to conduct a
detailed enquiry and punish the culprits. So, where is the political stunt in
that? It is the duty of a political party to raise any issue concerning the
common people."

A senior NMMC official said BJP leaders had given a letter to them requesting to
stop taking services of specialists. "We stopped this practice temporarily as it
is not compulsory for specialist doctors to give services to the civic facility.
These allegations not only maligned the image of the hospital, but also the
NMMC," he said.

When asked whether specialist doctors 'refusing' to treat patients at the civic
facility has affected the day-to-day working, the official said work is going on
as usual.

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


