                              249 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Llanelli Star

                               December 21, 2011
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Politicians in hospital future row

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 353 words


LLANELLI'S Prince Philip Hospital is at the centre of a political row.

The town's Labour AM Keith Davies has been accused of appearing "unwilling" to
discuss the future of the hospital by Plaid Cymru Mid and West AM Simon Thomas.

Mr Thomas pointed to a leaked email, sent from the Glanymor and Tyisha Safer
Communities Action Group in November.

The email - mainly about the group's planned visit to the Senedd on December 8
where they would be meeting Mr Davies - stated that if people wanted to discuss
Prince Philip Hospital with anyone in the Welsh Assembly, then they would need
to do so on a separate visit.

Mr Thomas said: "It seems that Keith Davies was unwilling to be questioned about
the future of Prince Philip Hospital when constituents were visiting the Senedd.

"He has also pulled out of a debate with me about the future of the health
service in West Wales on S4C's CF99 programme.

"This can do nothing to reassure people that Prince Philip Hospital is safe."

But Mr Davies hit back at the claim, labelling the attack as "baseless and
disappointing".

He added: "Not content with playing party politics with the hospital again, he
is now confusing issues to get into the paper.

"To suggest I will not speak with constituents is ridiculous - I live and work
in Llanelli, I meet local people everyday.

"I was never available to appear on CF99 that evening but if Mr Thomas thinks
the real debate about hospital services is in front of a TV camera, perhaps he's
in the wrong game.

"I want to reassure people that the health service is at the top of my agenda. I
have met on several occasions with the First Minister, the Health Minster, the
Hywel Dda Health Board and the CHC as well as the local health committee."

Mr Davies did not attend the annual general meeting of the Committee for the
Improvement of Hospital Services (CIHS) in November, or its meeting on December
9. But CIHS chairman Bryan Hitchman said the committee was not interested in "
political sniping and back stabbing".

He added: "We would like all political parties to work together for the good of
maintaining and improving services at Prince Philip."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LLS


                          Copyright 2011 Llanelli Star
                              All Rights Reserved


