                              253 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                            October 30, 2015 Friday

Bilawal's guards violate hospital code of conduct

BYLINE: Noor Aftab

SECTION: Vol. 25 No. 244

LENGTH: 492  words


Making the mockery of code of conduct for the visitors, some thirty private
security guards rushed into the wards and other departments of Lady Reading
Hospital (Peshawar) when Pakistan People's Party (PPP) Chairman Bilawal Bhutto
Zardari arrived in the facility to inquire after the quake-hit people, the
sources told 'The News' here on Thursday.

Though Lady Reading Hospital has effective security arrangements within the
premises but the security guards of Bilawal Bhutto Zardari themselves took
control of the wards that were to be visited by the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf
chairman, the sources said.

The sources said the arrival of VIP figures at Lady Reading Hospital after
October 26 earthquake had become a matter of grave concern for the
administration as well as

attendants because they

were not allowed to move into certain areas that were cordoned off by the
security apparatus.

It is pertinent to mention here that those dignitaries who have so far visited
Lady Reading Hospital after October 26 earthquake included Pakistan
Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) Chairman Imran Khan, his wife Reham Khan, KP Chief
Minister Pervaiz Khattak, Speaker KP Assembly Asad Qaiser and others.

A senior official of Lady Reading Hospital confided to this correspondent that
it was really awkward to see that political figures visited wards with large
groups of people and most of whom started taking photographs of patients and
their leaders.

It is quite unethical to come and start taking photographs and selfies without
giving any serious thought to decorum of the hospital. The hospital
administration even gives them briefing in the wards despite the fact that all
details and updates about injured people are provided through media and
websites, he said.

When contacted, KP Health Minister Shahram Khan Tarakai told The News when
private security guards of the PPP chairman entered into the wards, the
administration never stopped them to avoid any unwanted situation.

There were some thirty private security guards who accompanied Bilawal Bhutto
Zardari during his visit to Lady Reading Hospital. It is beyond doubt that there
are security threats to the political figures in the country but it is not
ethical to bring private guards into the wards of the hospitals, he said.

Shahram Khan said there was a code of conduct in the hospital but unfortunately
the political elites never followed it, adding,

If the hospital administration stops the security

guards of the political elites, they can start leveling allegations against the
KP government.

To a question, he said Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf Chairman Imran Khan and his wife
Reham Khan also separately visited the hospital but the hospital administration
itself made arrangements for their security.

To another question, he said the politicians and other people who wanted to
visit Lady Reading Hospital were requested to follow the code of conduct to
ensure no problem was created for the patients and the staff members.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


