                              251 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                  May 13, 2007

All eyes on Monaghan hospital

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 907 words


The Monaghan Hospital alliance is shunning Fianna Fail due to inaction in the
past.

By 8.30pm last Thursday, the huge ballroom of the Hill grove Hotel in Monaghan
was packed to capacity and there was a palpable sense of anticipation.

More than 500 people had travelled to a meeting organised by the Community
Hospital Alliance to witness TDs and general election candidates sign an eight
demand pledge to support the retention of surgical services at Monaghan General
Hospital.

Everyone was represented - young and old. Everyone, that is, except the local
Fianna Fail TD and Ceann Comhairle Dr Rory O'Hanlon and Monaghan-based Fianna
Fail candidate Margaret Conlon. ''We didn't invite them," said Peadar McMahon,
the chairman of the alliance.

''What was the point? Look what they've done for the past five years." The
disgust at the Fianna Fail record on Monaghan hospital over the past five years
was clearly evident. The meeting watched a documentary made by local
schoolteachers about the five-year campaign, which showed the mounting protests
at local and national level against the gradual withdrawal of maternity and
24-hour surgical services from the hospital.

When the crowd watched the barracking that O'Hanlon received at the hands of
hospital protesters at the opening of the Monaghan by-pass last September, there
were roars of delight mixed with boos. That was followed by derision when Conlon
told the programme that Micheal Martin, the former Minister for Health, had
promised to get a CT scanner for Monaghan hospital - they're still waiting for
that.

Hospital activist and local GP Dr Illona Duffy told the meeting that the
alliance was formed before the last election as a non-political group,
representing a wide range of community interests in Monaghan.

But with the election looming, they had formed a separate political wing, called
'Your hospital, your vote'.

This has produced an eight demand charter, calling for the return of full
surgical services, a CT scanner and a full debate on the Teamwork report into
hospital services in the region.

The group asked supporters to vote only for those candidates who would sign the
charter. At the meeting, Fine Gael TD Seymour Crawford signed, and explained
that party leader Enda Kenny had written a letter of support. His Cavan-based
running mate Joe O'Reilly also signed, as did independent TD Paudge Connolly,
Caoimhghin O' Caolain of Sinn Fein, and candidates Des Cullen of the Labour
Party and Vincent PMartin of the Green Party.

To outsiders, it might have seemed obvious that the Hospital Alliance would
support Connolly, who ran on a health platform in 2002 and took Fine Gael Andrew
Boylan's seat in a big surprise. But that is clearly not the case.

The political parties are keen to point out Connolly's outsider status as an
independent. But it's also obvious that having a hospital TD for the past five
years has failed to defend the local hospital against the Health Service
Executive (HSE) decision to remove maternity services, and limit surgery to a
nine-to-five service.

All surgery requiring an overnight stay is done in Cavan, Drogheda or Dublin,
while expectant mothers face the overcrowded and understaffed unit at Our Lady
of Lourdes in Drogheda.

Connolly's record is on the line against the growing strength of Fine Gael,
while Sinn Fein has retained a high profile on the issue, linking the loss of
surgical services with the removal of rural post offices and the poor delivery
of public services in regions far from Dublin.

''Fine Gael in government will deliver 24/7 cover, and five-day surgery, with
overnight care if necessary," said Crawford, Fine Gael TD, adding that ''Fine
Gael in government will take back control of the health services'' - a reference
to the belief in the party that the HSE has too much power and too little
accountability.

Connolly, a former psychiatric nurse, told the meeting that he had consistently
raised the matter in the Dail and at the Oireachtas Health Committee before the
minister and senior HSE management, including Professor Brendan Drumm and John
O'Brien, the head of the National Hospitals Office.

''Look at the track record of people when they were in power," he said, in
reference to the political parties. Duffy described the Taoiseach's high-level
intervention to find a solution.

Bertie Ahern had organised a meeting through the Taoiseach's office between top
officials from the HSE and the Department of Health and the Hospital Alliance,
but the plan that was thrashed out was rejected by the HSE, she said.

For groups such as the Monaghan Hospital Alliance, the failure to convince
Fianna Fail that the approach to the health system recommended by the Hanly
report is wrong has pushed them into the arms of the opposition parties.

In the heat of a tightly-fought election campaign, commitments are signed and
promises are made. But if Fine Gael is to deliver on its promises to Monaghan,
it will have first of all to direct the HSE to move in a new direction, and end
plans to limit surgical services in smaller hospitals.

Dr Liam Twomey, the Fine Gael health spokesman, was elected as an independent in
Wexford on a health ticket, and he's a strong critic of the Hanly philosophy.

It will take strong political will to convince local voters to trust the HSE's
plan for better regional hospitals at the expense of their local services.

It is clear from Monaghan that people do not trust the decision makers based in
Dublin.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


