                              255 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                    The Daily Telegraph (Sydney, Australia)

                           February 13, 2001, Tuesday

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2118 words


One Nation alive and well

Which political party has as part of its health policy the return of public
hospital boards that will restore control to local communities and encourage
community involvement in the provision of auxiliary service?

Which political party urges the reduction of management positions in hospitals
and a return to the emphasis on patient care as the primary function of
hospitals?

Which political party will push for the re-establishment of the training of
registered nurses in teaching hospitals?

Which political party supports the right of Medicare-dependent patients to be
reimbursed for services by State-registered professionals such as chiropractors
and osteopaths?

Which political party? The party that achieved close to 10 per cent statewide
and 20 per cent in the bush of the primary vote at Saturday's West Australian
election, Pauline Hanson's One Nation.

For those shaking their heads at the so-called resurrection of Pauline Hanson
and One Nation, there is no mystery. The party was always there, working hard,
consolidating, growing. It only appeared dead in the water because the media and
corporate interests decided that's how it should appear.

The major parties ceased to serve the people a long time ago. Roll on next
Saturday.

Therese Mackay,

Port Macquarie

Why do they bother? Every political pundit, pollster, prognosticator and
purveyor of political prescience told us the West Australia election was going
to be a close-run affair and too close to call.

The result? A mini-landslide of 16 or 17 seats to Labor, courtesy of One Nation.
Can anyone recall when a poll got anywhere close to predicting the real result?

Paul Ford,

Currumbin Waters,

Queensland

Is it true that the West Australian Labor Party will hold a celebration party
with One Nation voters? People are saying that without One Nation support, the
ALP would not have gained office. Some people in government have a lot to learn
about the expression: "Whatever it takes."

Kathryn Pollard O'Hara,

Lismore

It is high time the electoral system is changed to allow fair and democratic
parliamentary representation. In the previous federal election, One Nation
polled over a million direct votes yet only got one person into Parliament.
Assuming 10 million people have the right to vote, this means One Nation
received about 10 per cent of the vote but only 0.5 per cent representation.

In Saturday's West Australian election, One Nation again polled about 10 per
cent and is expected to gain up to three seats in Parliament, but this does not
reflect the desires of those who voted for the party.

How can this be called democratic? The system is rigged so that preferences
always flow to the two main parties in the end, thus guaranteeing to put one of
them into power.

There is only one solution -- the eradication of preferential voting. Electors
should vote for the person they desire as their representative and nobody else.

Ziggy Malter, Dural

You would never know this from watching the Hanson-obsessed mainstream media,
but those tree-hugging, bleeding-heart hippie socialists, The Greens, got more
votes in Western Australia

at the weekend than One Nation did.

Caroline Toomey, Newtown

With the Liberals' loss in Western Australia and with the coming election in
Queensland, Prime Minister John Howard and Treasurer Peter Costello should
rethink what they are doing to Australia through the GST, BAS and fuel excise.

These intelligent politicians should consider the consequences and be prepared
to make concessions to the public in general. While ever they remain stubborn,
they face the possibility of being dumped at the next election.

Disgruntled voters are watching the State elections; they will weigh up the pros
and cons.

Terry Swan, Mt Druitt

There is a strong message for NSW Transport Minister Carl Scully in Saturday's
election in Western Australia. The message is, focus on what is important to the
people of regional, rural and remote NSW and not what interests you or your
department.

The ordinary Australians who live west of the sandstone curtain have had rail
infrastructure removed for 20 years. We want some of our rural lines --
Greenethorpe to Grenfell and Cowra to Eugowra -- reopened, as well as a public
transport development officer placed in the Central West region to co-ordinate
transport.

Greg Standen, Bathurst

Awash in a sea of plastic

In a 500m walk along the Botany Bay foreshore between Kyeemagh and
Brighton-Le-Sands on Sunday, I picked up 132 plastic bottles.

Regrettably, I didn't have a rubbish bag with me and there wasn't a rubbish bin
in sight, so I threw them into the sand dunes. Better there than on the beach or
in the sea, where they are a hazard to marine life. I might get to pick them up
again when I volunteer for Clean Up Australia in their annual effort in March.
No doubt there will be at least 132 more bottles to pick up.

Plastic drink bottles have been a major environmental hazard worldwide for 20
years. Despite all the lobbying, it would appear we have not learned much. Clean
Up The World and Clean Up Australia are all very well, but sometimes these
clean-ups appear to be like closing the stable door after the horse has made a
run for it. They reveal appalling evidence of our inability to change and clean
the way for the next wave of trash.

However, I will do my best never to buy a drink packaged in plastic again.

Mauve McCormack,

Burwood

Addicts fill the vacuum

We read that drug users in the Cabramatta area risk instant arrest and jail
(Daily Telegraph, February 9). What a joke. The police are always in full force
as soon as a reporter is in Cabramatta, but everyone knows that as soon as the
media leave, so do the police. The area is full of drug addicts every day; no
one is there to stop them so why would they not keep coming back? My mother has
lived there all her life and now cannot even sit on the bus shelter seat because
of drug addicts lying on them. They shoot up anywhere and blatantly in front of
anyone. This has been going on for many a year. One reason for lack of action is
that once offenders are taken to court they are given only small fines.

I do not believe we will see 90 officers in the Cabramatta region arresting drug
users on a regular basis. It is just another promise to keep everyone quiet for
a while.

Tracey Cather, St Clair

The number of police on long-term sick leave illustrates the poor health of the
NSW Police Service in general. It is one of the few alternatives available to
police to combat the unreasonable pressures they face in the execution of their
duties. The bandwagon that culminated in the Wood Royal Commission has a lot to
answer for, and the Government misjudged the will of the people by implementing
its recommendations. The result? The next time you call for police, be safe in
the knowledge that the constables who arrive are more worried about getting a
complaint than they are about investigating a crime. The criminals are laughing,
experienced police are resigning, the rest go off sick and the public gets a
third-rate service.

Jim Anderson, Darwin

Smokers paying a high enough price

Should smokers be denied public medical treatment? Yes and no.

They should not be refused assistance as punishment for their habit. It is
harder for some people to make prudent decisions than others, because of genetic
and environmental factors. Furthermore, many people take up smoking when young
and find it hard to quit.

Smokers are not necessarily -- even on average -- morally worse people than
non-smokers. And even if they are, isn't the combination of poorer health and
shorter lifespan that they tend to experience itself

a high enough price to pay?

The special taxes that smokers pay can be used to cover any exceptional medical
expenses they incur.

When smoking becomes relevant is that "capacity to benefit" is one legitimate
criterion when allocating scarce medical resources. If an individual's smoking
(or other behaviour, or simply his/her medical condition) makes him/her less
likely to benefit from treatment it is, all else being equal, reasonable for
doctors to give a higher priority to other patients.

Brent Howard, Rydalmere

Media reports make it worse

I was privileged to serve as a member of the teaching staff at Trinity Grammar
for 15 years, the last five of which were under the inspiring leadership of Mr
Milton Cujes.

It is an absolutely magnificent school, with an extremely dedicated, highly
professional staff and a great bunch of lads. There is a very strong pastoral
care program in place, with each boy assigned to a benevolent housemaster who
will move heaven and earth to ensure that his charges are given a fair go.

The headmaster has a particular abhorrence of bullying and does all that is
humanly possible to prevent its occurrence, reminding the boys frequently of the
severe penalties lying in wait for perpetrators. The school, however, is not run
as a police state and some crime will, inevitably, go undetected.

Certainly the recent publicised events are of an extremely unsavoury nature and
the victims have been severely wronged. Unfortunately, the distress resulting
from this affair has been multiplied a thousandfold by the sensationalised media
coverage which has effectively converted all students at the school into targets
for ridicule, directed at them by the vast number of non-Trinity bullies out
there in the community.

Gerard Dixon, Ashfield

Excise line runs

back to Labor

The Federal Labor Party is trying to make a virtue out of opposing the
implementaton of legislation it enacted.

In 1983 the Federal Labor Government introduced excise duty indexation linked to
the CPI. While Labor was in government between 1983 and 1996, the petrol excise
was increased from 6.155c a litre to 34.183c/l. Now, in Opposition, Labor is
opposing the February indexation increase.

Is Labor promising to cancel petrol excise indexation? No. Is it promising to
roll back GST on petrol prices? No.

Remember, all GST goes to the States. Remember, on July 1, 2000, the Federal
Government reduced the excise on petrol and diesel by about 6.7c/l to offset the
effect of the GST. Australia has no control over the world crude oil price,
which increased from $US12 a barrel in February 1999 to $US32 a barrel in August
2000.

Martin Wellington,

St Huberts Island

Ignore the noise,

enjoy the view

Complaints about flight paths remind one of all the whingeing before the Olympic
Games, particularly by Bondi residents concerning the volleyball stadium. But
what a stunning show Sydney put on come the day.

Sydney is a world-class city and needs a first-class airport. London has had the
flight-path problem for years -- even the Queen has to put up with the noise at
Windsor Castle and Buckingham Palace.

Londoners take it in their stride and air passengers see fantastic views of the
London scene below them -- as they also see the unforgettable views of Sydney.

Peter Hutson, Potts Point

e-talk

Prime Minister John Howard's response to the defeat of the West Australian
Government was entirely predictable. He blamed it on local State issues. The
Democrats' Meg Lees said that the WA voters did not know what they were doing
and could not read how-to-vote cards. Both are divorced from reality. Excise tax
on top of excise tax, with a GST on top of that, gets up everyone's nose every
time they have a beer, fill up the car or just walk into

a store.

Mike Barnes, Bega

Miranda Devine (Daily Telegraph, February 7) has given us an excellent example
of the discriminatory attitudes that many people with hepatitis C face.
Discrimination against people with hepatitis C is illegal. I take offence at her
implication that discrimination is acceptable and expected. I wonder whether Ms
Devine's piece will be used as evidence in the forthcoming inquiry.

Melanie Costello, Manly

The idea of introducing a T-style plate to identify tourists on our roads has
merit. In Europe, a similar scheme has been operating for about 75 years, where
the driver of a vehicle displays a decal showing the flag of the country from
which the driver originates, together with the first letter of that country. The
extra courtesy afforded drivers so identified is automatic.

Michael Kiff, Carramar

Critics of the MA classification for the upcoming film Hannibal have clearly not
seen the film, which opens tomorrow night for preview screenings and has only
been seen by a few members of the press so far. Films should only be criticised
once the source material has actually been seen.

Mark Beirne, Rose Bay

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM

                   Copyright 2001 Nationwide News Pty Limited


