                              254 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               September 6, 2011
                                 First Edition

Hospital services need radical change, says think-tank;
NHS

BYLINE: Jeremy Laurance

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 285 words


NHS hospital services in England need a radical reorganisation to secure the
safety of patients and the financial viability of NHS trusts, but it is being
blocked for political reasons, a leading health think tank says in a report
released today.

The Kings Fund says there are too many hospitals providing too many of the same
services and chasing too few patients to maintain standards. But a "major
stumbling block" in many hospital re-configurations is public concern and
political opposition. Yesterday i revealed that Imperial College Healthcare NHS
Trust was facing a £100m deficit and was considering closing St Mary's Hospital,
Paddington, and moving its services to Hammersmith Hospital. The trust denied
yesterday that it was closing the hospital, but one of three sources used for
our story told us that the proposal was being "openly canvassed".

The Kings Fund's report comes as the bitterly contested Health and Social Care
Bill returns to the Commons amid a growing rebellion among Liberal Democrats.

The Kings Fund calls for further changes to the NHS bill to "depoliticise" the
closure of hospitals by removing the Health Secretary's responsibility to make
the final decision and passing it to an independent body.

Experts said further hospital closures were essential. Richard Thompson, the
president of the Royal College of Physicians, said there was an "urgent need" to
reconfigure acute services, to drive up quality and contain costs.

Peter Carter, the chief executive of the Royal College of Nursing, called for an
end to the political taboo on hospital closures.

"In our metropolitan areas we have far too many acute hospitals," he said.
"That's a drain on the system and it has got to change."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                      Copyright 2011 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


