                              250 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              June 6, 2010 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Who was this guy Fish?

BYLINE: Mark Lane

SECTION: SECTION B; Footnote; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 528  words


Dead Volusians have been lately weighing in on a surprising range of business
and civic decisions.*The 1919 will of Charles A. Young is making the closure of
S. Cornelia Young Library a complicated matter for the city of Daytona
Beach.*Florida Hospital Ormond Memorial filed suit against the heirs of John
Sterthaus over deed restrictions on a 1962 land donation.*The Bert Fish
Foundation, set up to distribute and oversee the bequests of Bert Fish after he
died in 1943, needs to sign off on a pending merger between Florida Hospital and
Bert Fish Medical Center.

Money from Fish's estate built a hospital in DeLand and a hospital wing in
Sanford. The New Smyrna Beach hospital named for Fish was built in 1954 and
deeded to the Southeast Volusia Hospital District in 1966.

So who was this Fish guy?

Fish had the most remarkable and wide-ranging political career of any Volusian.
He went from being a DeLand-based political machine boss to a master Mideast
diplomat.

He was instrumental in negotiations that kept Saudi Arabian oil flowing to the
U.S. during World War II. He did such a great job as minister to Egypt that
President Franklin Roosevelt was reluctant to let him leave.

After being a judge for the Criminal Court of Record, school system
superintendent, real-estate deal-maker, partisan of east- side/west-side
county-seat wars, and all-around fixer in Volusia County, the intricacies of
Mideast politics probably didn't seem all that difficult.

Fish and his law partner, Cary Landis, are given credit for creating "the Ring,"
a DeLand-based political combine that defined local politics from the 1910s
until the 1940s.

In the Ring's later days, News-Journal political stories often carried the words
"Ring" and "anti-Ring" after politicians' names with no other elaboration. As
though it were a political party. Which in a way it was.

The Ring sometimes was called "the Courthouse Ring." Sometimes "the Whitehair
Ring" for Francis Whitehair, the Ring's central figure. Sometimes "The
Whitehair-Fish Ring" in Fish's honor. And in Daytona Beach as "the
Fish-Whitehair-Armstrong Ring" in honor of Daytona Beach Mayor Ernest Armstrong.

Florida politics has always been chaotic and personality-driven. A working
political machine was a novelty here. "Florida is not only unbossed, it is also
unled," wrote political scientist V.O. Key in the 1940s. But he cited the Ring
as an exception.

But after Fish's early and big contributions to the Roosevelt campaign -- $5,000
back when $5,000 meant something -- Fish was launched to bigger things. After
1932, the operation in Volusia would usually be called "the Whitehair Ring"
because Fish moved on to bigger things.

H e died far from home in Lisbon, Portugal, of a heart attack at age 67. He
never married, and his estate went to his brother and community causes --
hospitals and his beloved Stetson University.

Attorney, fixer and savvy player that he was, he had been careful in arranging
his estate. That there would be strings attached and conditions applied to his
donations is no surprise.

He was not a person whose wishes could be lightly disregarded in Volusia County.
Not even more than a half century after his death.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2010 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2010 News-Journal Corporation


