                              252 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            Sunday Tribune (Ireland)

                                 April 27, 2008

Political row brews over plans for north-east hospital

BYLINE: Kevin Rafter, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. N04

LENGTH: 290 words


A political row in the north-east is likely to intensify following indications
that plans for a super regional hospital will be replaced with a recommendation
for two new mid-sized hospitals.

The HSE has in recent weeks been examining an external consultants' report which
recommended Navan as the location for a a new regional hospital. However, it is
understood that arguments have been made for proposing two new mid-sized
hospitals in the region. The HSE, which has been examining the issue since June
2006, will require the approval of the cabinet for its final decision.

There were strong reactions from politicians in the north-east last month when
it emerged that Meath was the preferred location. Foreign affairs minister
Dermot Ahern, who is a TD for Louth, said there was "not a red cent in the
exchequer" to pay for a new regional hospital in Navan. He also predicted that
the consultants report would remain "for some time on some shelf".

The compromise could see two centres in the north-east granted a hospital
development, which would address political pressures but would also deal with
the cost implications. There are already five hospitals in the north-east -
Navan, Cavan, Monaghan, Dundalk and Drogheda.

While the HSE has been working on its plans for hospital cover in the north-east
there is, as yet, no government commitment on funding. Health minister Mary
Harney has admitted that the planned hospital was not included in the list of
capital projects in the current National Development Plan, which runs to 2013.

Speculation that Dermot Ahern may be moved to the Department of Finance in the
forthcoming cabinet reshuffle would also have implications for the location
decision as his approval on funding would be required.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 The Sunday Tribune plc
                              All Rights Reserved


