                              258 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 March 22, 2005

'Do not scupper flagship hospital'

SECTION: News; Politics; MPs; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 572 words


By Ian Onions Political Editor "mailto:i.onions@bepp.co.uk"
class="lblue">i.onions@bepp.co.uk TWO MPs have been warned that continued
political posturing could scupper Bristol's chances of a brand new flagship
superhospital for the city.

The sideswipe was made by Dr Doug Naysmith at his Labour colleague Kingswood MP
Roger Berry, who has linked up with political opponent Liberal Democrat Steve
Webb to fight plans for the acute hospital at Southmead instead of Frenchay.

Dr Naysmith, Labour MP for Bristol North West, said the new £280 million
hospital could suffer from "supertram syndrome" - a major scheme for Bristol
that was lost because it became embroiled in politics.

Dr Naysmith said: "I don't blame Roger Berry for what he is doing. I'm sure he
believes he is looking after the best interests of the people in his
constituency.

"But on such big issues as this, it is important to see how it affects the whole
of the city, not just one part.

"The Evening Post has often pointed out how the people of Bristol and the
surrounding area have suffered because local politicians do not want to make
decisions.

"The fiasco of the tram was a case in point. While Bristol and South
Gloucestershire argued over the route, our chance for a decent transport system
was lost. It nearly happened again when the Liberal Democrats dithered over the
site for the new school in Redland.

"What worries me now is that the people of Bristol and South Gloucestershire
will have to wait even longer for their new hospitals, while spurious arguments
are put up for political reasons.

"We do not need more inquiries, more arguments, more political flag-waving.

"We need all the new Community Hospitals and we need the new acute hospital at
Southmead." When asked if he would take a different view if the body of opinion
was in favour of building a new acute hospital at Frenchay instead of Southmead,
which is used by many of the people in his constituency, Dr Naysmith said: "I
like to think that I would have the guts to do what is right for the Bristol
area as a whole." Dr Berry and Mr Webb have tabled a parliamentary motion which
notes the "flawed decision-making process" used by executives drawing up the
Bristol Health Services Plan.

Mr Webb has branded the public consultation process carried out by the North
Bristol NHS Trust as "pathetic" after it received 351 written replies while his
own survey received 8,000.

Deborah Evans, chief executive of Bristol South and West Primary Care Trust, who
chaired the consultation process, said it was the largest one they had ever held
about health services in the area.

Four of the six trusts in Bristol and South Gloucestershire have voted in favour
of the plan to build the superhospital at Southmead, while the United Bristol
Healthcare Trust, which runs the Bristol Royal Infirmary, abstained, and South
Gloucestershire Primary Care Trust backed Frenchay.

Mr Berry said: "Many of my constituents use Frenchay, Southmead and the BRI but
at present they do not provide a full range of acute services. Therefore, if you
go to one, you might then be transferred to another.

"Doug, myself and Steve Webb are agreed on this issue that the present
configuration has to be improved.  The difference is that I believe in the
Frenchay location because of the current population distribution and the areas
of population growth."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2005 2203BRISEP272Tdono

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press


