                              261 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             August 28, 2009 Friday

Lib Dems would force hospitals to match lowest operation tariff

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 359 words


All hospitals would be forced to reduce the costs of operations to the lowest
tariff in the country under controversial plans by the Liberal Democrats to cut
waste in the public services.

As Britain prepares for the tightest spending round in a generation, the Lib Dem
leader, Nick Clegg, today outlines plans to rein in hospital trusts that are
using their monopoly position to drive up costs. The plan, announced in a
Guardian interview, will be seen as one of the most radical ideas of any of the
main political parties to save money.

Under the Lib Dem plan, hospital trusts would be forced to charge the same rate
for operations as the cheapest and most efficient hospitals in the country.

Clegg said: "It is a very specific but rather radical idea, of saying that all
hospital tariffs under the 'payment by results' system should match the most
efficient tariffs in the hospital system. We think that would save about £2bn a
year."

Clegg admitted this would be controversial because many hospitals would say they
could not compete with those that reduced costs by performing many more
procedures. He said the policy would be flexible and standards would not suffer.
"There has to be suppleness in it," Clegg said. "We are not going to be stupid
about it."

But it was important that the most "cost-effective tariff", which guaranteed
clinical standards, should be the benchmark. "The hospital trusts are in a very,
very powerful negotiating position because they are basically, not withstanding
a few little treatment centres here and there, operating as a monopoly. The
primary care trusts (which commission treatment) have got very little leverage."

Savings from the new system would be reallocated to other areas of the NHS.
Clegg said: "I hear day in, day out, people say, 'This is frigging ridiculous,
we are wasting ridiculous amounts of money on a strategic health authority that
shouldn't exist.'" Clegg today launches a website - nickclegg.com/intheknow -
where public-sector workers can submit other ideas on how to save money.

£2 bn

The amount that the Liberal Democrat leader believes his plan for centrally-set
charges would save the NHS each year

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


