                              265 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                             August 29, 2016 Monday

Govt focusing on improving health facilities in tribal areas: Amir Khattak

SECTION: Vol. 39 No. 240

LENGTH: 273  words


Political Agent Bajaur Agency Abdul Amir Khattak has said the federal government
is focusing on improving health facilities in the tribal areas and huge funds
are being spent for the purpose.

He was speaking to the patients and their attendants during his supervise visit
to the Agency Headquarters Hospital in Khar.

The Political Agent said that provision of basic health service was the
responsibility of the government and all possible means are being used to ensure
basic and standard health facilities to the people of Bajaur Agency.

He said that the federal government has accelerated its efforts to provide
health facilities to the people who living in remote and hilly areas of the
tribal areas.

On the occasion, the patients and the people informed the political agent about
the problems and needs at the hospital.

The political agent also took serious notice of the doctors for refusing to
treat the victims of the dog bit at the hospital.

He also expressed his dismay over the unavailability of anti-rabies vaccine at
the agency headquarters hospital and others health units.

During the visit, the Political Agent also met with Agency Surgeon

Dr Wazir Khan Safi and others senior officials of the local health department.

The health officials told the Political Agent that there was no

shortage of anti-rabies vaccine and other facilities in the Agency Headquarters
Hospital.

The political agent asked the health officials to speed up their activities to
ensure basic and modern health facilities to the people of agency.

He also advised the officials to take action against the doctors and other
staffs whose efficiency are not satisfactory.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2016 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


