                              260 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                            January 12, 2016 Tuesday

BADIN CIVIL HOSPITAL NEEDS GOVT ATTENTION

BYLINE: Sawan Khaskheli

SECTION: Vol. 27 No. 12

LENGTH: 460  words


The Civil Hospital, Badin, needs attention of the government for improvement in
delivery of services. The poor patients are compelled to purchase the essentials
medicines from private medical stores.

It is an astonishing to hear that mostly government medicines are being sold to
the some private stores. On the other hand, the shortage of special doctors
including general surgeon, orthopaedics, ENT, skin, physician, ultrasound
specialists and others are required and latest equipments according to need of
the modern age are not meet in the hospital.

Talking to doctors and specialists of the hospital, they told that they were
feeling unfriendly and non-academic environment with heavy burden.

Three months earlier, with the huge efforts of Dr. Sikander Ali Mandhro,
provincial minister, Chief Minister Syed Qaim Ali Shah had issued a notification
to handover the Civil Hospital to Indus Hospital Management but like so many
other notifications and announcements of the rulers, this important decision
could not be implemented. Civil society including representatives of social,
political, and religious through the All Parties Conference (APC) held at Badin
passed a resolution to hand over the Civil Hospital, Badin, to management of
Indus Hospital.

Representatives of civil society are still holding protests and sit-in against
the delay to handing over the hospital management to Indus Hospital. Sardar
Kamal Khan Chang, MNA, and senior leader of PPP told Pakistan Observer that he
had no knowledge about the budget issue of hospital and he would ask the Medical
Superintendent (MS) regarding the budget issues.

It is a good decision to hand over the hospital to Indus Hospital which can
provide standard and quality services and the shortage of the doctors would also
made less or end, he added.

He expressed that medicines are available and added that there all essential
medicines at the hospital. Khalifo Tariq Aziz Memon, said that lack of
facilities in Badin civil hospital disappoints the poor people. He said that
health department and Civil Hospital management must improve facilities in its
hospital and should hand over the hospital to Indus Hospital. All government
hospitals should have at least the basic facilities to cater emergency needs of
patients, he added.

The people of Badin and representatives of civil society and political parties
including Tahir Ahmed Shah, Haji Ahmed Ghanchi, Manzoor Arisar, Shafi Mohammad
Dal and others demanded of the Sindh Chief Minister, Syed Qaim Ali Shah,
Governor Dr Ishratul Ibad Khan and the Health Minister Dr Jam Mehtab Daharto
take efforts for improving the health services and ensure to handing over the
Civil hospital Badin to Indus Hospital management on urgent basis in the larger
public interest.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


