                              266 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                           September 18, 2009 Friday
                             o - SA Country Edition

Health ads investigation gets political

BYLINE: Pia Akerman

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 404 words


THE chief of South Australia's Health Department has been forced to defend
taxpayer-funded advertising spruiking the Rann government's controversial new
city hospital plan against claims it is a misuse of public funds.

Called before a parliamentary committee investigating political advertising
yesterday, Tony Sherbon said the ads were designed to be purely informative and
non-partisan, despite the fact the proposed new Royal Adelaide Hospital has been
declared a key issue for the election next March.

Renovating the hospital on its current site is a firm Liberal policy, while the
government would build a $1.7 billion hospital on dilapidated railyards in the
CBD's west.

Committee chairman and Greens MP Mark Parnell asked whether Dr Sherbon had any
concerns about weighing in ``on one side of what was, clearly, a political
debate in the community''.

``The campaign was in no way designed to present a partisan political point of
view,'' Dr Sherbon said. ``It was simply designed to present the thinking behind
a government decision based on advice from government officials.

``We were not seeking behaviour or opinion change in this particular campaign.
We were seeking to provide information.''

The campaign is one of five under investigation by the Auditor-General to
determine whether it was approved according to strict guidelines.

Dr Sherbon said the Health Department had a budget of $2.2 million for an
advertising campaign -- the bulk destined for ads promoting the new hospital --
from June 2006 to July next year. Of that, $680,000 is outlined for 2009-10,
including the crucial months before the election.

The government's own advertising guidelines state that public funds should not
be used for communications where ``a reasonable person could misinterpret the
message as being on behalf of a political party''.

``There was no involvement of party political representatives or personnel in
any of the campaign development, apart from, of course, ministerial staff
interaction, and there was no involvement of party political representatives in
the final advertising delivery,'' Dr Sherbon said.

But Mr Parnell later said Dr Sherbon's evidence had reinforced that the ads were
serving a political purpose.

``Telling us that the government is right and the opposition is wrong --
effectively what those ads were doing -- years out from the first sod even being
turned, is a misuse of public funds,'' Mr Parnell said.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


