                              27 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                              June 16, 2014 Monday

Public hospitals tainted with political banners and graffiti

LENGTH: 370  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


The medical wings of political parties have turned the city's major healthcare
centres into campaign grounds by putting up large banners, party flags and
posters of their leaders in their premises and covering the walls with graffiti.



The administrations of these hospitals appear to be helpless against these
influential activists. A senior doctor at the National Institute of Child Health
(NICH), requesting anonymity, said the breach of medical ethics is visible in
every public hospital in Karachi.

The medical wings of political parties have totally changed the atmosphere of
the NICH. They have put up banners, posters and party flags in different wards
and at the entrances of the hospital.

Graffiti is also visible on the walls outside the hospital and inside its wards
making the medical facility appear as if it is some party's secretariat. The
doctor said no space in the NICH had been spared from these banners and posters.


"This practice can be seen in all other hospitals of Karachi including the
Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre, the Civil Hospital Karachi, the Abbasi
Shaheed Hospital, but the situation in NICH is worse in comparison to others,"
he said.

The doctor said the whenever administration of the NICH took a step to remove
the political banners, the activists raise a hue and cry against it.

Around 700 or 800 patient visits the outpatient department of the NICH every day
and 18,000 children are treated each month.

The doctor demanded that the health minister and the NICH executive director
should take action against the staff members who were damaging the reputation of
the institution.

Dr SM Qaisar Sajjad, the central leader of the Pakistan Medical Association,
said health institutions and dispensaries should be free from politic
interference as they provided treatment to all segments of the society without
any discrimination.

"The PMA has clear stance on the issue that health institutions should be spared
from political interference. Hospitals should be used only for the purpose they
are meant to be," he added.

Dr Sajjad appealed to the medical wings of political parties to voluntarily
remove the party flags, posters, banners and graffiti in better the interest of
the public.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


