                              263 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                              May 8, 2012 Tuesday

Support grows for children's hospital on greenfield site

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 399 words


THERE is growing political momentum backing a national children's hospital on a
greenfield site.

Social Protection Minister Joan Burton has admitted there is an increasing
preference for locating the new hospital outside of the city centre.

Ms Burton was speaking after the Irish Independent yesterday revealed Health
Minister James Reilly was seriously considering a massive new EUR1.2bn medical
hub with the children's hospital and a relocated Beaumont Hospital at its core.

The site, including a possible DART link, business park and education centre,
would be situated near Dublin Airport and the junction of the M50 and M1
motorways.

Limbo

Ms Burton said there was now a strong feeling in favour of having the hospital
away from the city centre. However, she is promoting Connolly Hospital in
Blanchardstown, in her own Dublin West constituency.

Other sources also said the review group examining where to put the hospital had
been encouraged to look away from city centre sites and go "outside the box".

The children's hospital has been in limbo since a high-rise scheme for the Mater
Hospital was shot down by An Bord Pleanala. The Mater has submitted revised
plans, but this site has been described as "not politically popular".

Speaking in her constituency yesterday, Ms Burton said the review group headed
up by Dr Frank Dolphin had yet to examine all options.

But she added: "There has always been a strong body of opinion right across
political parties that a site somewhere on the periphery of Dublin has a lot of
advantages.

"The most important interest in this is the children and the parents of the
children who are ill, that they get in and out to a first-class facility."

She pointed out that her local hospital, Connolly Hospital in Blanchardstown,
had also made a bid. It is one of up to 50 possible sites -- some being offered
for free -- which have been put forward as locations, with offers coming from
hospitals, landowners, NAMA and local authorities.

The Department of Health has refused to release the list of submissions. The
locations of just 25 of these sites are publicly known. While some are already
in public ownership, others are being offered by private land owners free of
charge.

Elsewhere five other adult hospitals, St James's, Beaumont, The Coombe and
Connolly and Tallaght hospitals have submitted plans to build the children's
hospital on adjoining sites.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


