                              259 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                       Dorking and Leatherhead Advertiser

                            March 19, 2015 Thursday

Petition launched to save hospital

BYLINE: Alexander Robertson alexander.robertson@essnmedia.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS:HEALTH; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 427  words


A PETITION aimed at saving Leatherhead Community Hospital from potential closure
or loss of services has been launched by the district's Liberal Democrats.

Surrey Downs Clinical Commissioning Group, which is responsible for healthcare
in Mole Valley, is currently reviewing the Poplar Road facility as part of a
district-wide services assessment.

More than 500 people have already signed the petition - launched online last
week - calling for the hospital's future to be safeguarded amid fears it could
close permanently after health bosses refused to rule anything out at a meeting
earlier this year.

Paul Kennedy, Liberal Democrat parliamentary candidate for Mole Valley, told the
Advertiser the threat to Leatherhead Hospital was "very real".

"It's imperative that residents let the authorities know how important it is for
Leatherhead and its surrounding villages to keep its community hospital," he
said.

"We are overwhelmed by the public response to our petition which demonstrates
how vital it is for the people of Leatherhead, Ashtead, Fetcham, Bookham and
beyond to retain access to high quality and accessible local NHS services."

"The petition wording is non-political, reflecting the concerns of the whole
community. We are getting plenty of support from supporters of all political
parties in Mole Valley."

The petition comes four months after the hospital's Leach Ward was closed and
all of its 15 inpatient beds taken out of use due to a shortage of nurses.

At the time, the move was described as a temporary measure until the end of
March. However, the ward will now remain closed until the completion of the
group's review in July. Funds raised by the League of Friends of Leatherhead
Hospital for a new X-ray department, at a cost of £500,000, are currently being
held back by trustees until the facility's future becomes clear.

The new petition calls for the reopening of Leach Ward and the continuation of
outpatient services at Leatherhead Hospital, to include expanded diagnostic
services.

It further appeals for "proper funding and staffing" of the hospital in order to
prevent future nursing shortages.

Mole Valley district councillor Bridget Lewis-Carr (Lib Dem, Leatherhead North)
said: "Leatherhead Hospital is a vital part of our life, serving the whole
community.

"So many members of the public have been treated here for a wide range of
reasons."

Among the services currently carried out at the facility are physiotherapy,
speech and language, continence and occupational therapy.

To sign the online petition, visit www.molevalleylibdems. org.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIGHT: Parliamentary candidate Paul Kennedy, second from the right, is
among those supporting the petition

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


