                              275 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       The Sun Herald (Sydney, Australia)

                            November 2, 1997 Sunday
                                  Late Edition

Inquiry into Wooldridge electorate donor `error'

BYLINE: FIA CUMMING Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 455 words


A PRIVATE hospital company which donated $10,000 to the Liberal Party was listed
in the party's official electoral returns under the mail address of Federal
Health Minister Michael Wooldridge.

The Australian Electoral Commission is investigating the mistake and a number of
other anomalies in declarations of donations to the Liberals from companies in
Dr Wooldridge's electorate.

Ramsay Health Care, which operates a string of private hospitals, has been a
major beneficiary of the Government's health policies, which subsidise people
with private health insurance and penalise high-income earners without it.

The Liberal Party's federal secretariat in Canberra recorded the donation,
listing its business address as PO Box 31, Box Hill, Melbourne.

However, the address was the mail address for Dr Wooldridge's electorate office,
paid for by the Administrative Services Department.

In answer to a question from Labor MP Kelvin Thomson, Dr Wooldridge said it was
a "clerical error" by the Liberal Party, but did not try to explain how it could
have happened. Mr Thomson said the explanation was unsatisfactory.

"The minister has been asking us to believe that a Liberal Party functionary
somehow mixed up the addresses of a private health firm based in South Melbourne
with a Liberal Party MP's electorate office on the other side of Melbourne," Mr
Thomson told

Parliament.

"Of all the addresses in the world to get mixed up, why would the Liberal Party
have chosen the minister'staxpayer-funded post office box?"

Mr Thomson asked the Electoral Commission to investigate the donation and others
from companies in Dr Wooldridge's electorate of Chisholm which were not properly
declared.

Five donations from the electorate were apparently not declared in individual
returns: * $5,000 to the Federal Liberal Party from a company which also gave an
incomplete post office box address; * $4,000 to the Victorian Liberal Party from
a business association; * $2,000 to the Victorian Liberal Party from a taxi
association; * $5,000 to the Victorian Liberal Party from an individual; and *
$1,500 to the 500 Club, an entity associated with the Liberal Party, from two
brothers.

Another donation of $5,555 to the 500 Club from a car dealer was declared by the
company but not by the Liberal Party.

Electoral Commission funding and disclosure director Brad Edgman said the
inquiry was continuing but was expected to be completed soon.

Dr Wooldridge won Chisholm, a swinging seat, in 1987, and has worked hard to
make it safer.

He used enormous billboards and intense telephone campaigning as well as
traditional methods during the 1996 election campaign.

Insiders in his campaign claim the cost was well over $200,000, an extraordinary
amount for a single MP.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1997 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


