                              273 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                     August 23, 1997 Saturday Final Edition

Health-care cuts: True blue politics or fair play?

SOURCE: The Spectator

BYLINE: Craig Sumi

SECTION: BURLINGTON NEWS; Pg. N4

LENGTH: 939 words

DATELINE: BURLINGTON


Virginia McLaughlin, chair of the group representing the 17 hospitals in the
GTA-905 area, is fuzzy about bed counts, uncertain of population numbers and not
so sure of the formulas the commission is using to calculate hospital
utilization.

But when asked about the number of provincial politicians there are in the
GTA-905 belt her answer comes without hesitation.

"Seventeen," she says, without skipping a beat. "And every one of them is blue."
Blue as in Tory blue. Blue as in Conservative blue. Blue as in Mike Harris blue.

And there are some who believe that because every one of the 17 seats in Halton,
York, Durham and Peel is blue, the hospitals in these regions have a better
chance of surviving when the commission turns its eye to the GTA-905 belt this
fall.

"Closing a small town hospital in a riding held by a government MPP is a very
major political land mine that politicians are not going to want to step on,"
says Dr. Garnet Maley, president of the Halton Medical Society.

"I suspect that in true blue Tory areas, there won't be too many adjustments."

The commission has gone to lengths to ensure its decisions have been based on
the best available medical data and analysis -- and not politics.

And Health Minister Jim Wilson has emphasized repeatedly that the commission
will work free of political influence.

But can any government-appointed body work completely free of politics when
assigned the task of possibly closing hospitals? Critics say no.

They point to the commission's change of heart on the Montfort Hospital as an
example of how the commission's work got political.

The commission's preliminary report on the Ottawa-area hospitals recommended
closure of Montfort, Ontario's lone francophone health centre.

But after intense political lobbying that went as high as Prime Minister Jean
Chretien, the commission reversed its original decision and last week
recommended Montfort be spared, albeit in a smaller version.

Politics? Or was the commission simply listening to sound and rational arguments
from supporters of the hospital? Then there was the government's rural hospitals
policy.

After several rural hospitals, most of which were in ridings held by backbench
Tory MPPs, had been earmarked for closure, Wilson announced the government was
going to consider a new rural hospital policy to better protect the country
hospital.

This prompted opposition critics to cry foul, particularly since the commission
had announced closings in Thunder Bay and Sudbury, primarily Liberal and
NDP-held ridings.

More politics?

University of Toronto health economist Raisa Deber says the process of closing
hospitals can't avoid becoming political at some point. "There isn't a better
way to lose an election than to foul up health care," she says.

To be fair, the government has so far held firm on its decision to close Women's
College Hospital and 10 other Toronto hospitals -- many in ridings held by Tory
MPPs.

McLaughlin said the 17 GTA-905 hospitals -- which have formed a group called the
GTA-905 Health Care Alliance -- have deliberately not lobbied Tory MPPs on the
restructuring issue because of the apolitical mandate of the commission.

But the alliance is certainly capable of exerting political pressure. It was
formed two years ago in response to provincial funding cutbacks to hospitals and
has since successfully lobbied and convinced the government to establish a
special fund for hospitals in fast-growing communities.

"We have always prided ourselves on keeping our MPPs informed about our concerns
about funding," she says.

Dr. Maley says the commission has been "very ethical" and believes "they are
working to make the best possible decisions for Ontarians," but in the end, when
there's a decision to be made to close a hospital, politics can't help but be
part of the equation.

He noted that during the federal election campaign earlier this summer he
participated in a forum on health care in Milton, in which Halton North MPP Ted
Chudleigh was invited to attend.

"The focus was supposed to be on federal issues, but person after person stood
up and said to Ted Chudleigh -- 'If you close our hospitals, you won't be
elected dog catcher in this town!"

WHAT PEOPLE SAY

Question: Based on your experiences with the health care system in Halton, do
our hospitals need more or fewer resources? (Asked at Joseph Brant Memorial
Hospital)

"We need a lot more resources because people are living longer and are coming to
hospitals a lot sicker. Now is not the time to be cutting back. Now is the time
to be investing in more health care. Right now, I think care is suffering. The
doctors and nurses are doing the best they can with the funding they have."

Margaret Cameron Burlington

"Hospitals need more funding. I don't like the level of care we are getting
right now. My mother has been in the hospital for three weeks. I see the nurses
scrambling around to do everything they can but there's not enough staff, so
they can't spend the time with patients that I know they would like to."

Sharon Leitch

Burlington

"There's a hell of a lot of redundancy and waste in hospitals. There's lots of
machines, lots of duplicated services, and I see people chatting away in a
corner and ignoring anybody who really needs help. I think we have to do a
better job with the funding that's given."

John Noell

Burlington

"I think the system is fine just the way it is. I was hit by a car last
September, broke my leg and spent two weeks in the hospital. When I got out, I
had in-home nursing visits and therapy. The system worked."

Steve Irwin

Stoney Creek

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Colour Photo: John Noell Colour Photo: Sharon Leitch Colour Photo:
Steve Irwin Colour Photo: Margaret Cameron

TYPE: Special report

                    Copyright 1997 Metroland Media Group Ltd


