                              269 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Western Mail

                             June 6, 2013 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Wood was welcome at Royal Glam demo;
COMMENT DEBATE & ; YOUR LETTERS TO THE NATIONAL NEWSPAPER OF WALES

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 399 words


¦ SIR - Amanda Jones' letter (June 4) attacking Leanne Wood contained numerous
inaccuracies and misrepresentations.

To clear up any confusion, Leanne supports the retention of services at the
Royal Glamorgan hospital in Llantrisant and is campaigning to achieve this. She
has gone on the record on television, radio and in print as saying this so I'm
surprised by Ms Jones' doubt about this.

Secondly, I want to refute the point made that Leanne enraged the crowd with her
speech - I was there and this was far from what actually happened. If that had
been the case the "enraged crowd" would no doubt have objected to her
subsequently marching through the town and Ynysangharad Park with them and being
photographed with her behind a banner saying "Save the Royal Glamorgan hospital
".

There were no such objections and Leanne was welcomed and greeted warmly.

During her speech in which she gave an impassioned defence of the Royal
Glamorgan hospital and urged the crowd to get behind plans to save it, she was
heckled by one Labour councillor when she suggested that we should all come
together across various communities and political parties to protect all of our
hospitals in South Wales. The heckler's point being that "it's Bridgend's
problem" if their hospital closes.

My point is why should the leader of a political party for all of Wales not
decide to put the Welsh Interest first? There are levels of deprivation in the
catchment area for the Princess of Wales hospital in Bridgend, particularly in
the valleys. People in Maesteg are just as entitled to be within reasonable
distance of an accident and emergency unit as people in Treorci.

It should be the aim of the Welsh Government to ensure the health service is
capable of providing this. It is very regrettable that a Labour Government in
Wales has allowed a situation to arise where communities are being pitted
against each other. Labour once was the party of solidarity and helping poor
communities stand together.

This is just a distant memory judging by the response of the Labour heckler in
question and numerous other Labour figures campaigning for option 4 in the
consultation. However, I suspect the Welsh Government is content with a
situation where communities are divided and, ultimately ruled, as it plays right
into their hands and plans for centralisation.

ESTHER NAGLE Former Plaid Cymru council candidate, Ystrad Rhondda

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WWM


                    Copyright 2013 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


