                              276 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A&E crisis sparks Labour attack;
Miliband hits out over NHS letter telling hospitals to consider political
fallout of decisions

BYLINE: BenHurst

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 573 words


NEW NHS guidelines for hospitals in the West Midlands telling doctors to take
into account potential political damage before declaring a major incident have
sparked a major row in the House of Commons.

Prime Minister David Cameron and Labour leader Ed Miliband clashed over the
decision to issue the advice in the wake of a series of crises at hospitals in
the region. Last month Walsall's Manor Hospital declared a major incident in its
A&E department, saying it was full and advising patients to seek treatment
elsewhere.

Ed > Now the NHS has written to West Midlands hospitals in what has been claimed
is a bid to stop them speaking out.

Mr Miliband said ministers were making it "harder" for hospitals to deal with
demands on them for political reasons.

The NHS was "in crisis", he said, and Mr Cameron had broken a promise at the
last election to save 29 NHS units.

Mr Miliband said the head of operations at an NHS trust warned that NHS England
had introduced "enhanced criteria" to stop trusts calling a major incident.

He said: "The whistleblower says the hospitals' hands are being tied. The Prime
Minister says they are not. Who do you think people will believe?" But the Prime
Minister replied: "The NHS in the West Midlands, without any instruction from
the Department of Health or ministers, issued a statement about major incidents.

"The head of NHS England was asked about it this morning and she said 'I have
not been under any political pressure - this document was issued in the West
Midlands'.

Miliband "What a contrast between the operational managers of the NHS and the
man who wants to weaponise the NHS."

Earlier shadow health secretary Andy Burnham said the new "enhanced criteria"
issued to West Midlands NHS trusts would make it practically impossible for
hospitals to declare a major incident and "muddy the waters" by making doctors
take into account political involvement and media coverage.

But Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt insisted the guidance was a local matter that
was nothing to do with the Government and said Labour had "sunk to new depths"
in trying to politicise the NHS.

Major incidents are declared when patient demand reaches a level that could
disrupt hospital services, triggering an alert to community hospitals and other
health centres in the area to make extra beds available.

Mr Burnham claimed it was not a local matter as the guidance stated that major
incidents must be approved by the on-call director at NHS England, a national
public body.

Asking an urgent question in the Commons, he called for Mr Hunt to make NHS
England withdraw the guidance immediately and issue more "appropriate
instructions".

Drawing attention to a specific section headed "politics", Mr Burnham said the
guidance stated NHS staff took into account "increasing involvement of senior
command and control tiers, political involvement or excessive media coverage",
as well as "a risk of reputational damage".

Responding to the claims NHS England's national director of commissioning
operations, Barbara Hakin, said: "Local hospitals continue to have
responsibility for deciding whether to declare major incidents, but before doing
so best practice dictates that they take account of the wider impacts on other
parts of the NHS so that patient safety in the round is protected.

"That's why NHS England's local area team in the West Midlands decided to issue
these guidelines. This was not a decision of the Department of Health."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ed MilibandLabour say West Midlands hospitals are being stopped from
speaking out <B

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BMP


               Copyright 2015 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


