                              277 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 12, 1991, Thursday

Future of NHS trusts divides party: The health service ; The Liberal Democrats
in Bournemouth

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 6

LENGTH: 646 words


SOME OF the Government's health service changes - including amended versions of
hospital trusts - could survive under a Liberal Democrat-influenced government,
it emerged yesterday.

As the party conference passed a confused resolution opposing NHS trusts, in a
debate that revealed divided views on the changes, Charles Kennedy, the party's
health spokesman, said the second wave of NHS trusts would be cancelled.

But each of the existing 57 trusts would be examined individually to see if
local people wanted them to continue. Where they did, he indicated, they would
remain. The conference also called for directly elected representatives to be
added to trust boards.

The heart of the party's objection to the NHS changes, he said, was their lack
of local democracy, and the membership of health authorities, dominated by
Tories, would have to be revised.

But he warned the conference that the NHS could not afford another wholesale
reorganisation. Government hostility, underfunding and restructuring had already
sapped morale. ''We cannot lurch into further reorganisation,'' he told the
conference. ''That would dismay and depress the staff even more. The necessity
is for a pragmatic way forward.'' A policy document for February was now being
prepared.

His comments came as an amended and complex motion both opposed NHS trusts, and
proposed changes to them, including preventing queue-jumping by the patients of
GP budget-holders.

But the debate revealed significant support for the NHS changes - including the
purchaser/provider split, and GP budget holding - to be allowed to continue so
that they can be properly assessed. Against that, some speakers bitterly
condemned the NHS market.

Sharon Bowles, the prospective candidate for Aylesbury, said ''replacing co-
operation with competition is playing beggar-my-neighbour with the health
service.'' Claims that some hospitals were succeeding was probably true, but
they were doing so at the expense of their neighbours. Andy Myles, a hospital
administrator from Edinburgh, said health lay ''in the field of social policy,
not the jungle of the market place''. The party should abolish trusts.

But Dr Paul Beatty, the prospective candidate for Macclesfield, indicated that
reformed trusts should be given a chance, but there should be no more ''until
they are a proven utility''.

Linda Siegle, the prospective candidate for Dorset North, strongly opposed
trusts in their present form. But she said ''they could be made to answer to
staff, patients and the local community, and the purchaser/provider split could
be maintained''.

Valerie Silbiger, a health personnel manager from north London, told the
conference: ''Whether or not the trusts continue, the purchaser/provider system
of health is likely to remain. District health authorities, family health
service authorities and GP fund holders are all finding benefits from
identifying the health needs of their community and setting the contracts for
the appropriate care to be delivered by the providers.''

Dr David Wrede, prospective candidate for Hampstead and Highgate, said the
trusts needed to be made locally accountable, but warned ''we must not plan
another NHS reorganisation''.

Michael Anderson, a member of Mid- Surrey health authority, said he deeply
disliked the way the trusts had been set up. But the one his authority dealt
with ''has been more responsive to local need. There may well be scope for
continuation of some of the trusts which already exist'' with local
representation on them. The last thing hundreds of dedicated NHS staff wanted
was another major reorganisation.

Mr Kennedy also reassured the conference that despite the party's new commitment
to de-centralised public sector pay, the existing national pay review bodies
would remain. Regionalisation of pay would come as regional government was
brought in.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd


