                              274 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           The Mercury (South Africa)

                              May 26, 2009 Tuesday
                                   e1 Edition

Getting the best out of customer care;
To understand why poor service prevails in certain sectors one needs to look
into how past influences affect present attitudes

BYLINE: Bonke Dumisa

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1117 words


SOUTH Africans tend to criticise the bad service we receive at various public
and private institutions, as will I later in this article. We must, however,
also praise good service where we find it, especially where it involves entities
we previously complained about.

Last Saturday, after four full days at the Quartermaine Hotel in Morningside,
Gauteng, I was impressed by the personalised service I got, especially the
statement from the front-desk woman who said: "Have a good trip, Prof, it was
nice having you."

From the hotel, I went to the brand new Terminal B at OR Tambo International
Airport where I was impressed by the fast, efficient service of the South
African Airways check-in counter assistants. At the SAA Business Lounge I found
the service to be as excellent as usual. Flying business class from Joburg to
Durban, I was treated like royalty, with cabin crew continuously referring to me
as Prof. I do not know how they knew my name and my professorial title, but this
made me feel I was not just a nameless passenger.

These experiences made me feel we are ready to provide the best hospitality and
service to our foreign visitors during the soccer Confederations Cup in three
weeks' time, and the World Cup next year.

I am looking forward to writing about good service at our public hospitals, like
the good service one always experiences at Inkosi Albert Luthuli Hospital and
the over-crowded McCord Hospital.

It was great to hear and read about new KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Health Sibongiseni
Dhlomo's surprise visit to the ever-troubled Mahatma Gandhi Hospital in Phoenix.
That was definitely a good start.

Occupying force

I now urge Dhlomo and the KZN portfolio committee on health to go one further at
Prince Mshiyeni Hospital in Umlazi. They must literally declare themselves an
occupying force at Prince Mshiyeni. Things are so bad at that hospital that it
is much easier for an overseas visitor to find his way around Durban without a
GPS than it is to locate a patient there.

Trying to get help or directions around this hospital is a depressing experience
because many employees there seem not to care how people perceive the hospital.
I must add that the problem at this hospital is not a hospital management
problem. There are many nurses, doctors, and some members of the hospital
management who are trying their best to make things work, despite the very
depressing conditions there.

It pains me that that hospital is as chaotic today as it was when it was
launched by the erstwhile KwaZulu bantustan regime. There is a staff mind-set
and attitude challenge that needs to be thoroughly diagnosed and addressed as a
matter of urgency.

It is worth taking a look at the history of this hospital, because what is
happening there now is somehow influenced by past events.

Umlazi "New" township was established in the early 1960s as a direct product of
apartheid compartmentalising blacks into separate tribal groups. Umlazi was
established as a township for Zulus. When blacks were forcibly removed from
Umkhumbane, and when others were moved out of Glebelands Location, only the
isiZulu speakers were deemed eligible to move to Umlazi. Non-isiZulu speakers
were moved to KwaMashu and other places.

In an effort to showcase Umlazi as a viable township for the Zulus, the
residents of Umlazi were gradually cut off from doing many things in Durban. For
example, whereas Durban residents registered their properties in
Pietermaritzburg, the people of Umlazi had to register their properties in
Ulundi. At one stage, the residents of Umlazi were even forced not to use the
South African Revenue Services offices in Durban because they were expected to
use "their own" income tax offices in Umlazi.

It is against this background that Prince Mshiyeni Hospital was established.
There was an apartheid agenda to reduce use of King Edward VIII Hospital by the
so-called citizens of KwaZulu. This approach played a critical role in the
manner in which things were done at the hospital, including the manner in which
staff appointments were made.

The politicisation of the black masses in the former Natal province, and the
increasing unionisation of trade in these areas, triggered some
counter-revolutionary actions which were designed to suppress such
anti-apartheid sentiments. It is at this stage the trade union federation Uwusa
was formed to undermine the gains of the genuine trade unions in this province.
It was at this stage that the "third force" was unleashed on the people of
Umlazi and other areas in Natal, under the guise of dealing with so-called
"black on black violence".

Prince Mshiyeni Hospital effectively became a launching pad and a quasi-army
base for such forces who were out to suppress the growing anti-apartheid spirit
in the region.

Pledge

It was during this era that all the critical civil servants - including doctors,
nurses, and teachers in Umlazi and other areas falling under the erstwhile
KwaZulu bantustan - were instructed to sign a political pledge wherein they were
expected to undertake not to criticise or vilify the KwaZulu leadership. Many
doctors refused to sign such a pledge, and many were immediately purged from
their jobs in hospitals like Prince Mshiyeni and Edendale.

It is this highly politicised environment that triggered confrontations between
the workers at Prince Mshiyeni and the KwaZulu political powers of that era.

This became a good breeding ground for political activism, and it is this
hospital environment that produced current political and trade union leaders
like Sdumo Dlamini, the president of Cosatu; Weziwe Thusi, the KZN MEC for Arts,
Culture and Sports; and Noluthando Mayende-Sibiya, the national minister
responsible for gender, youth and people with disabilities.

Being defiant became a culture at Mshiyeni. Unfortunately, 15 years after the
demise of apartheid, the mind-set and attitudes of some of the employees at this
hospital have not yet adjusted to post-apartheid political realities.

I challenge our political and trade union leaders to take it upon themselves to
reset the minds of the workers at that hospital. It is not just a question of
lack of resources that makes this hospital dysfunctional. The provincial
government can throw as much money as it possibly can at this hospital, but
things will not change for the better until the attitudes of the workers there
have been completely changed.

It is unfortunate that the Health Department and the hospitals' managements
decided not to allow hospital boards to be effective tools for community inputs
on how to make public hospitals serve the needs of the people.

With the right political will, this can be done.

l Bonke Dumisa is a Durban businessman and economist.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NM


                 Copyright 2009 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


