                              271 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Early Times (India)

                           August 19, 2015 Wednesday

Political workers stall shifting of Anantnag's Maternity hospital

LENGTH: 506 words

DATELINE: Anantnag


Anantnag, Aug. 19 -- Even as the fire and emergency services department has
declared the building housing the south Kashmir's sole maternity and child care
hospital (MCH) Anantnag as totally unsafe,

the government continues to be reluctant in shifting the hospital despite
availability of the alternative.

Locals allege that few politically influential medicates and shopkeepers have
managed to get the shifting stalled for their monetary interests.

The maternity hospital is located in congested Sherbag locality of the town
causing inconvenience to the patients in reaching the hospital. Most often the
expecting mothers needing immediate care get stuck in

traffic jams forcing the attendants to carry them on shoulders up to the
hospital. The space crunch inside the hospital is such that the labor and post
operative wards having the capacity of 8 beds is stuffed 20 beds. The fire and
emergency service officials last after conducting the safety

audit of the hospital building declared it totally unsafe. They had recommended
the immediate shifting of the hospital to some safer place or construction of
the new building block. Though

the chief medical officer, Anantnag, few months ago had started the process of
shifting but sources said, some medicates and shopkeepers managed to halt the
move by using their political influence. "CMO had yet shifted only the operation
theatre but such was the political pressure that he had to shift back the
theatre overnight," they said. An official of the health department said that a
handful of

shopkeepers and medicates running their shops outside the hospital for their
monetary benefits don't want the hospital be shifted. "Since they happen to be
the workers of ruling PDP and that is why the

party new face of the party personally intervened and ensured that the hospital
is shifted back overnight. One wonders how low these politicians can stop for
few votes," the official said adding the then medical superintendent of the
hospital, who is also the favorite of Muftis also supported the selfish
medicates for his worst interests. A local, Mumtaz Ahmad, questioned the wisdom
and arrogance of the

authorities of playing with the lives of both the mothers and their newborns.
"This is the height of political arrogance that despite a spacious building
available for the smooth functioning of the hospital

you don't risk the lives of patients by not allowing the shifting of the
hospital. If the health minister claims to bring revolution in the health sector
why is he silent over this serious issue," Ahmad said.

MoS Health Asiya Naqash admitted that the hospital lacks adequate safe, however
expressed ingournace about the shifting of the hospital. "I am not aware about
the shifting of the hospital when actually it was shifted! All I know is that
the situation in the hospital is grim," she said.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Early Times. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Early Times
                              All Rights Reserved


