                              28 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Philadelphia Inquirer

                         JULY 30, 2000 Sunday D EDITION

CONVENTION BRINGS SPATE OF POLITICAL ADS GROUPS WITH ISSUES TO PRESS, AS WELL AS
THE PARTIES THEMSELVES, WILL TRY TO GET THEIR MESSAGES ACROSS.

BYLINE: Josh Goldstein, INQUIRER STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. AA08

LENGTH: 714 words


The Republican convention TV ad blitz has begun.

Groups ranging from the health insurance industry to the Sierra Club and a
coalition of 6,000 hospitals are launching or continuing their political
advertising campaigns to coincide with the convention in Philadelphia this week.

That's not to mention the political parties' ads promoting George W. Bush and
Vice President Gore.

The ads are designed to target viewers interested enough to tune in to the
convention.

"Advertising on CNN and the other cable news channels makes sense whenever there
is an anticipated news event - and the conventions are major news events," said
Anita Dunn, a Democratic political consultant in Washington.

This week, the American Hospital Association and the Federation of American
Hospitals plan to launch an 18-month, $35 million nationwide TV campaign. These
groups, seeking to reverse what they say are devastating federal cuts in their
Medicare reimbursements, are airing about $2 million worth of ads during the
convention here and the Aug. 14-17 Democratic convention in Los Angeles.

"No hospital is happy about kicking [money] into this campaign, because they are
not doing very well," said Tom Scully, president of the Federation of American
Hospitals, which represents 1,700 for-profit hospitals. "But for better or
worse, if people don't know they are hurting you, they aren't going to stop."

Scully said that the group's goal was to spend at least $10 million this year on
ads.

By starting the campaign during the conventions, Scully hopes to bring the
financial plight of hospitals to the attention of policymakers, journalists, and
the politically aware segment of the public watching on TV.

The American Association of Health Plans, which represents the nation's health
maintenance organizations, is also launching ad drives during the conventions.
The goal: to get across HMOs' concerns about the patients' bill of rights that
has been debated in Congress and about Medicare reimbursement cuts.

"We view the conventions as an opportunity, because people interested in
politics and policy are more likely to be watching during that time," said Mark
Merritt, the HMO group's chief political strategist.

The Sierra Club is airing a local TV ad that criticizes Bush's environmental
record as Texas governor. Daniel J. Weiss, the club's political director, said
it would spend more than $50,000 to air the ad during the convention here, with
two audiences in mind - undecided voters and about 15,000 reporters in
Philadelphia for the convention.

"We are trying to let people know that this isn't just a bunch of tree-hugging
wackos that believe Texas has serious environmental problems because of Governor
Bush," Weiss said.

The antiabortion group Center for Reclaiming America began a $50,000 ad drive on
local TV and cable channels as the Republican National Committee arrived here
for its summer meetings Wednesday. Groups on the other side of the abortion
debate have placed ads in the city's subways.

The Business Roundtable, an organization of about 200 chief executives of the
nation's biggest corporations, and the trade association representing
drug-makers plan convention-related ads on TV or in print.

Citizens for Better Medicare, a group founded and largely funded by drug
companies, is already airing ads critical of President Clinton's proposal to
extend a prescription-drug benefit to Medicare's 39 million beneficiaries. The
group said that these ads, being shown in 12 major markets, including
Philadelphia, would continue through the Republican convention.

The AFL-CIO is not buying ads but is handing out thousands of leaflets in union
halls and union shops, criticizing Bush's record.

Both major parties' state chapters are on the air, too.

State GOP chief Alan Novak of Chester County said of the party's ads touting
Bush's education stance: "The timing has to do with reinforcing his message."

Kathleen Hall Jamieson, dean of the Annenberg School for Communication, said:
"If the issue ads are on topics that are being discussed at the convention, they
can be reinforcing. . . . You are either magnifying a message or countering a
message."

Josh Goldstein's e-mail address is jgoldstein@phillynews.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

NOTES: Republican Convention

GRAPHIC: PHOTO;
PHOTO
In a Republican Party ad, a worker in a hard hat complains that "politicians are
passing new laws that just make health insurance more expensive."

                  Copyright 2000 Philadelphia Newspapers, LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


