                              270 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            October 9 1986, Thursday

Fowler to cut hospital queues / Health Secretary unveils building programme at
Tory Party conference in Bournemouth

BYLINE: RICHARD EVANS, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 62584.

LENGTH: 385 words


A nationwide crackdown on lengthy hospital waiting lists and a pounds 3 billion
hospital building programme were unveiled yesterday by Mr Norman Fowler,
Secretary of State for Social Services, as he attempted to meet the public's
growing concern about the Government's handling of the health service.

He promised improved treatment for the elderly with substantially more hip
replacement, heart by-pass, and eye operations by the end of the decade.


The party conference in Bournemouth was also told there would be more
bone-marrow transplant operations for children, better facilities for mentally
handicapped youngsters and a stepping up of the fight against cervical cancer.

His upbeat message on one of the key political issues in the run-up to the next
general election appeared to satisfy many of the doubters within Conservative
ranks.

What he did not tell conference was that there will be no extra cash for his
package of measures.

The misgivings within the Conservative Party about the Government's National
Health Service record surfaced repeatedly during the debate, with complaints
about hospital waiting lists and lack of cash for day-to-day running of
hospitals.

More than 600,000 are now waiting for hospital treatment.

One Birmingham GP told Mr Fowler that while the Government was producing cash
for new health projects, many existing services were falling apart. 'People
won't vote for you if tell them everything is marvellous and they see waiting
lists stretching halfway across hospital grounds,' Dr Andrew Harvey said.

Mr Fowler attempted to reassure such critics by accepting the problem of waiting
lists was the public's main concern. 'Too many people are still waiting too
long,' he said.

'That is why I have asked every health authority to report to me on their local
position: to set out where and why patients are waiting mot, and to say how that
position can be improved. Those reports will be with me by the end of this
month, and we will act upon them.

'Let there be no mistake. I now intend to achieve a further substantial fall in
waiting lists in this country. '

More cash was being devoted to health than ever before and the health service
had a record number of doctors and nurses. 'We care and we care in action,' he
added.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1986 Times Newspapers Limited


