                              280 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Second Edition

Avoiding the obvious on health

BYLINE: Ken Baxter. Ken Baxter is former Secretary of Premier and Cabinet in
Victoria and NSW and currently chairman of TFG International.

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 715 words


Neither Kevin Rudd nor Tony Abbott admitted taxes must rise to pay for health
care, writes Ken Baxter.

In their televised health policy debate yesterday, Kevin Rudd and Tony Abbott
both recognised there were complex challenges ahead if Australians were to
continue to enjoy a very high standard of health care.

Abbott made the significant point that maintaining high standards of health care
depends upon a continuing strong economy and a national capacity to pay, but no
audience or moderator questions really probed this relationship.

The PM and Abbott agreed that out-of-pocket contributions would continue, but on
the critical issue of would there be any increases in taxation both avoided what
is blindingly obvious. The current levels of expenditure by both the
commonwealth and the states are unsustainable.

Unless demand for and costs of providing health services is reduced either
taxation must rise to increase the funding for Medicare and what will be the
exponential cost increases of public hospitals or there will have to be
significant, continuing reductions of governments' expenditures elsewhere.

Both leaders supported the continuation of a strong private hospital system
alongside a public hospital system. There was no recognition that private health
insurance rates will also have to increase to maintain current standards.

A measure that would materially assist relieving the pressures on public
hospitals would be to get chronic care patients out of public hospitals. Both
political parties agree this is essential. It would probably release 3500 beds
or more in a full year. This needs to be done simultaneously with measures to
reduce presentations to casualty and emergency wards. That involves far greater
reliance on primary care services. Both major political parties agree.

It was a great shame that no one asked why the government had proposed a 60/40
split for commonwealth funding of the states' public hospitals rather than being
more adventurous and exploring one of the National Health and Hospital Review
Commission's recommendations known as "Medicare Select". If Abbott is serious
about developing a whole of sector long-term policy that will have less reliance
on taxation revenues he Abbott may be wise to explore the medium- to long-term
possibility of the Medicare Select funding model.

As with any discussion about the future of Australia's health sector the devil
is in the detail - especially over the delivery of services. Implementation
remains the real sleeper in the government's proposals. The PM indicated that
there would be greater devolution of management to the local hospital health
networks. However, he was unclear about which ministers will be responsible for
what functions.

The LHHNLHHN's will be established under state legislation and the states will
appoint the boards. Although he did not clarify, presumably the state minister
for health will be accountable?

In the case of NSW, as he pointed out in his letter to Premier Keneally on March
16, "we expect this can be achieved through a reallocation within your existing
resources. In addition we will seek a commitment from COAG [Council of
Australian Governments] to implement these reforms without any increase in
bureaucracy". Does that include his own 4400 health bureaucrats?

The states will be accountable for the operational performance of the LHHN's and
the individual hospitals while the federal government will judge the overall
performance of the LHHNs.

There are good political reasons for this approach. The Commonwealth will be
responsible for paying cheques, opening beds and kissing babies while the states
will have the responsibility of deciding "where to build new hospitals or where
to close existing hospitals to reflect changes in population and demand".

In the same letter to Premier Keneally the PM says: "The commonwealth has no
intention of closing any hospitals."

A very wise political decision, but it will only serve to continue the blame
game.

As NSW and Queensland move to activity-based funding, their health systems will
experience considerable dislocation and uncertainty. Combined with serious
concerns about the GST funding arrangements, it means that at least three of the
states are unlikely to agree to the proposals and we are headed for a
referendum.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The picture remains unclear as to how the increase in Medicare's
funding will be paid for. Photo: GLENN HUNT

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2010 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


