                              287 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                            February 3, 2015 Tuesday

Oppn Attacks KCR Govt on Move to Shift Chest Hospital

LENGTH: 294 words

DATELINE: HYDERABAD


HYDERABAD, Feb. 3 -- Cutting across political lines, various political parties
on Monday took on chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for his decision to shift
the chest hospital from Erragadda to Vikarabad and to shift the State
Secretariat there.

While TDP leaders visited the chest hospital, YSR Congress cadre staged a
protest there against the government's decision to shift the hospital.

The city units of Left parties demanded that a general hospital be built on the
chest hospital premises at Erragadda instead of shifting the hospital to
Vikarabad since the existing general hospitals in the city are not able to
handle the ever-increasing number of patients.

Representatives of CPI, CPM, CPI- ML (New Democracy), All India Forward Bloc,
Socialist Unity Centre of India (SUCI) discussed the government's decision at a
meeting held here on Monday.

Speaking to mediapersons later, CPI city president D Sudhakar faulted the
government's decision to shift the Secretariat in the name of Vaastu. "In a
secular country, how can they divert state funds in the name of Vaastu?" he
wondered.

Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu and his Telangana counterpart
K Chandrasekhar Rao have spent Rs 175 crore in the past 10 months to make
changes as per Vaastu, Sudhakar said and announced that a delegation of Left
leaders would visit the hospital premises on Wednesday.

M Srinivas Rao, CPM city secretariat member, said the government was doing real
estate business by selling lands and government offices, and neglecting the
problems people are facing at present.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


