                              281 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            August 5, 2006 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Patients poorly served by political game

SECTION: INSIGHT; Leaders; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 321 words


THE more uncomfortable the wait, the worse it seems. When thousands of sick
people, some in pain, are involved, any wait seems intolerable. That makes
hospital waiting lists a politically potent issue. State Opposition Leader Ted
Baillieu knows it hurt the Kennett government and aims to turn the pain on the
Bracks Government at the November election. The Liberals have erected billboards
putting the question to Steve Bracks: "After 7 years ... Why haven't you fixed
hospital waiting lists?"

Unfortunately for Mr Baillieu, he wrongly claimed that the Kennett government
reduced waiting lists, which offered Labor an easy distraction from the
question. But how meaningful is the question? As an Age investigation reveals
today, the focus on waiting lists as a measure of the health system is misguided
at best. For a start, elective surgery patients account for less than 15 per
cent of hospital activity. The political sensitivity of waiting lists may even
compromise hospital policy based on the best assessments of clinical needs and
cost efficiency. A glaring instance was the treatment of public patients in
private hospitals, at a higher per patient cost, to trim the waiting list.

As the Government concedes, the list has grown slightly since it came to power
from 40,301 to 40,738, but it says the numbers treated have jumped more than
250,000. Behind the figures are calculations - political, administrative,
medical - so complex as to render the lists almost useless as a benchmark of the
Government's performance in health services, an area that soaks up 27 per cent
of the state budget. Given the costs, no party can reasonably promise to do much
more than establish better monitoring to eliminate the excessive waits endured
by a few patients. They do deserve better, but so do voters. Political games are
a poor substitute for proper, cost-effective policies to get the best out of all
areas of the health system.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


