                              288 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                             August 28, 2009 Friday

Lib Dems would make trusts match lowest operation costs

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 417 words


All hospitals would be forced to reduce the costs of operations to the lowest
tariff in the country under controversial plans by the Liberal Democrats to cut
waste in the public services.

As Britain prepares for the tightest spending round in a generation, the Lib Dem
leader, Nick Clegg, today outlines plans to rein in hospital trusts that are
using their monopoly position to drive up costs. The plan will be seen as one of
the most radical ideas of any of the main political parties to save public
money.

Under the Lib Dem plan, hospital trusts would be forced to charge the same rate
for operations as the cheapest and most efficient hospitals in the country.

Clegg said: "It is a very specific, but rather radical idea, of saying that all
hospital tariffs under the 'payment by results' system should match the most
efficient tariffs in the hospital system. We think that would save about £2bn a
year."

He admitted the plan would be controversial because many hospitals would say
they could not compete with those that reduced costs by performing many more
procedures. He said the policy would be flexible and standards would not suffer.
"There has to be suppleness in it," he said. "We are not going to be stupid
about it." But it was important that the most "cost-effective tariff", which
guaranteed clinical standards, should be the benchmark.

"The hospital trusts are in a very, very powerful negotiating position because
they are basically, not withstanding a few little treatment centres here and
there, operating as a monopoly. The primary care trusts (which commission
treatment) have got very little leverage."

Savings from the new system would be reallocated to other areas of the NHS. "You
have got this very lopsided misallocation of priorities in the NHS," he said.
"You have got a huge amount of money. . . and yet you have other parts of the
NHS which are Cinderella services and are crying out for money. "

Clegg will today launch a website (nickclegg.com/intheknow) where public-sector
workers can submit ideas on how to save money by cutting waste. Speaking ahead
of the launch, he said: "I hear day in day out people say this is frigging
ridiculous we are wasting ridiculous amounts of money on a strategic health
authority that shouldn't exist.

"I am inviting people in the public sector . . . to come forward with
suggestions about where money can be cut so that it can either be spent more
sensibly elsewhere or if necessary in the long run, to plug the whole in the
public finances."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2009 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


