                              29 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            August 17, 1996 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Church v. State - chapter II

BYLINE: Shane Green

SECTION: NEWS; News Extra; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 601 words


Relocating hospitals can be politically unhealthy, writes Shane Green.

THE Kennett Government has so far survived its decision to drastically reshape
Melbourne's hospital system with minimal political damage. But it is about to
face its biggest test over the future of St Vincent's Hospital.

In the past fortnight, the fundamental battle lines have been drawn. This is a
conflict between new and old Melbourne; between the state on one side, and the
church and a medical elite on the other.

It is also a battle that is politically charged and carries significant risks
for the coalition. In New South Wales, the Premier, Mr Bob Carr, has just
suffered an embarrassing political backdown over his Government's attempts to
shift Sydney's St Vincent's Hospital.

For many in the Victorian Government, such a defeat is inconceivable.

Yet the experience - with parallels to the debate over the future of Melbourne's
St Vincent's - has provided a reminder of just what can happen when a Government
takes on an institution considered sacred.

While there has been no decision, Mr Kennett has made it clear the Government
favors moving St Vincent's to Knox. The Government is relying on an argument
that it believes is logically irrefutable: major hospitals need to be near their
patients.

The argument is compelling. Melbourne is growing to the east, and the location
of Melbourne's major hospitals are an accident of history. Inner-city hospitals
made sense when most people lived nearby. The same logic holds a century later
as Melbourne's population has expanded east.

In terms of votes, a new hospital in Knox would be a huge plus for the
Government. The people who would benefit are in the seats of the eastern
suburbs, which a political party must secure if it is to win power in Victoria.

THESE are the seats that the Opposition Leader, Mr John Brumby, is aiming for as
he attempts to take the Labor Party on a troubled journey to the political
middle ground. They are also firmly the territory of the Liberal Party after the
30 March state election, and a new hospital would further secure them for the
Government.

In contrast, St Vincent's - along with other inner-city hospitals - is in a
Labor heartland seat, serving an immediate area of seats of the same political
hue. The hospital also traditionally serves the battlers of society. In the
crude analysis of who would get what out of shifting St Vincent's to Knox, there
appears to be a net gain for the Government.

Yet other factors make the relocation of St Vincent's a dangerous political
play. First, is the important social role the hospital has played in Melbourne
since it was established a century ago by the Sisters of Charity. Its mission
has been that of serving society's needy, motivated not by the principles of
case mix but by religious-inspired compassion.

This is arguably the biggest political danger for the Government.

If it is to be seen to be attacking an institution with a century-old mission of
helping the disadvantaged, the compelling logic of demographics may falter. Mr
Kennett's relationship with the churches is at best uneasy, and he may face a
determined and influential opponent in the Catholic Church and its Victorian
flock.

Mr Carr faltered in the space of only 10 days, faced with an outcry from the
community and medical and nursing fraternities.

His Government - with a slender majority - is a different beast from the Kennett
Government, with its big majority, new mandate and record of success in radical
change. But the NSW experience provides fresh and relevant reasons why the
Kennett Government will need to tread carefully.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1996 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


