                              286 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                    October 18, 1988, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Mentally disabled can vote, court rules

BYLINE: (CP)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 316 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


   OTTAWA (CP) - Tens of thousands of mentally disabled citizens will be
eligible to vote in the federal election Nov. 21 as a result of a Federal Court
of Canada ruling yesterday.

Madam Justice Barbara Reed struck down as unconstitutional an Elections Act
provision that has always denied the vote to anyone "who is restrained of his
liberty of movement . . . by reason of mental disease."

The ruling was expected because the federal government did not intend to fight
the application brought by the Canadian Disability Rights Council.

About 20,000 people living in institutions are labelled mentally retarded and
denied a vote, officials say. However, up to 50,000 people could be affected
since those placed in institutions for mental illness are also denied a vote.

Chief Electoral Officer Jean-Marc Hamel said shortly after the ruling was handed
down that instructions are going out to returning officers across the country on
how the vote is to be taken in mental hospitals.

Vote in hospital

If the patients were in the hospital Oct. 4 - that is, 10 days before
enumeration began - and will be there on election day, they would be treated as
residents of the riding in which the hospital is located and could vote at a
polling station in the hospital.

Short-term patients would be able to vote in their home riding, by proxy if
necessary, he said.

Challenges to restrictive laws in Ontario and Manitoba resulted in mental
patients being able to vote in the last provincial elections in those provinces.

All three federal political parties have favored giving mental patients the
right to vote. But an amendment to the Elections Act that would have done so
died on the House of Commons order paper when the election was called.

But federal lawyer Eric Bowie told Reed the government would not contest the
council's application or try to defend the restriction.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


