                              282 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                             August 28, 2016 Sunday

Rabid dogs bite nine people in Khar

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 239

LENGTH: 370  words


Rabid dogs bit nine people in different localities of Khar tehsil on Saturday.

Officials of the health department said that the dog bite incidents took place
in Sadiqabad, Khar, Khoga Chena, and Ali Jan areas where at least nine people,
including children, were bitten by rabid dogs when they were on way to their
homes.

The victims were identified as Aisha Bibi, Jafar Khan, Abdul Shakoor Khan,
Fayyaz Khan, Idrees Khan, Asim Khan, Adil Khan, Tayyab Khan and Ahmed Ali.

All the victims were taken to the Agency Headquarters Hospital, Khar, for
treatment where some of them were later shifted to Timergara due to their
critical condition.

The officials of local health department confirmed the incidents and said that
nine victims were brought to the agency headquarters hospital for treatment.

Medical superintendent of the hospital, Dr Ikramullah Safi, told mediapersons
that some of victims had been referred to Timergara hospital owing to their
critical condition.

PA takes notice of referral of some patients to Timergara

Meanwhile, the residents complained that the agency headquarters hospital was
not providing treatment to the dog bite victims because there was no anti-rabies
vaccine in the hospital.

Bajaur Agency political agent Abdul Amir Khattak has taken serious notice of the
doctors refusing to treat the emergency patients. During a visit to the hospital
on Saturday he expressed his dismay over the unavailability of anti-rabies
vaccine at the agency headquarters hospital and other health units.

The political agent also met with agency surgeon Dr Wazir Khan and others senior
officials of the local health department. The health officials told the
political agent that there was no shortage of anti-rabies vaccine and others
facilities in the agency headquarters hospital. They said that the doctors at
emergency department were responsible for the matter because they had referred
the victims to Timergara hospital without bringing the matter to their notice.

The political agent asked the health officials to take action against the
doctors responsible for not providing treatment to the dog bite victims at the
hospital.

Later, the officials agreed to form a joint investigation committee to probe the
matter.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


