                              293 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            Staffordshire Newsletter

                           October 21, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 373  words


FED-UP members of campaign group Support Stafford Hospital, which was launched
to fight services being downgraded, have quit. They may now set up a new
separate organisation, the Newsletterunderstands.

Five committee members, including chairman Jane Cannell and borough councillors
Ann Edgeller and Chris Baron, have resigned amid concerns the group has become
"too political".

But the claim has been strenuously denied by group founder Cheryl Porter, who
says they will never give up fighting for Stafford's hospital.

The group was founded four years ago by Mrs Porter, Karen Howell and Sue
Hawkins, who has since left, initially to save the A&E department. It gathered
major support, with tens of thousands joining a mile-long march in the town. The
group also camped in the grounds of County Hospital last year in protest at
services being downgraded.

But Chris Baron told the Newsletter this week: "We had always worked together
cross-party but in recent times it has been becoming quite party political from
some, although not the committee.

"For me it was about trying to get the best for the people and I want to
continue to do that.

"It is likely we will set up another group. We have a Facebook page, called
Champion County Hospital, which gives information about the hospital and the
services."

Jane Cannell said the five, including SSH treasurer Graham Powell and committee
member Mandy Stanley, were concerned about the political approach.

"We have always agreed that SSH is a non-political group However, over the past
12 months it has become apparent that some members wish to pursue a political
approach."

Support Stafford Hospital's Facebook page includes a number of posts criticising
the Conservative Government.

Mrs Porter said: "I was shocked by their resignations to be honest. We are
apolitical. We have always been a campaign group and we are fighting the
Government and its policies.

"As a group SSH has not changed. We will keep fighting. The job is not
finished."

Mrs Howell added: "We need a proper open meeting with our members, but I think
we continue to go forward as a campaign group, as we have always done. After the
elections, we took some time out but we will continue as before. The committee
has done good work."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


