                              294 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            November 4, 2011 Friday

Programme summary of Pakistan's Khyber news TV 1200 gmt 3 Nov 11

LENGTH: 562 words


The following is a summary of the 1200 gmt bulletin consisting of news from
Pakistan's Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), aired by Islamabad-based
private Pakistani television news channel AVT Khyber News on 3 November.

A. News headlines

B. News in details

1. 0122 NADRA [National Database Registration Authority] opens new office in
Landi Kotal Sub-Division of Khyber Agency. The NADRA general manager in Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa [PK] opens the office at a function today. The local people have
recently called on the political administration to open NADRA office in Landi
Kotal in order to resolve the problems of the locals in receiving identity
cards. Security has improved in Landi Kotal with the efforts of local residents,
security forces and the political administration. Meanwhile, Khyber Agency's
assistant political administration meets the local tribal elders and heads of
political parties to discuss ways to ensure security in the agency. Video shows
correspondent giving details over the phone from the agency.

2. 0544 The political administration in Miranshah, North Waziristan launch
search operation at Miranshah's headquarter hospital. The political
administration members take notice of absent doctors and other staff in the
hospital. The political administration says they will take action against the
doctors and staff not present on duty. They say that they will send a report to
the FATA [Federally Administered Tribal Areas] Secretariat about the doctors'
absence in the hospitals in Miranshah. Meanwhile, the para-medical staff in
Miranshah hospital stage peaceful protests against the political administration
and other officials saying that they do not receive their salaries on time.
Video shows correspondent giving details over the phone from the area.

3. 1016 Residents of Bara Sub-Division of Khyber Agency call on government to
reopen all the roads in Bara, ease curfew and restrict the military operation in
the area ahead of Id-ul Adha. The residents of Bara say the government has not
told them when they will end the military operation in the area. The local
residents and representatives of tribal elders say they need to buy cattle and
other stuff for Id-ul Adha. The local people are faced with many challenges,
because of curfew and military operation. They say that their children's
education and health care have been badly affected, because of curfew. The local
people call on government to provide aid packages for them and lift the ban on
cattle trading in Khyber Agency on the eve of Id-ul Adha. Government has banned
cattle trading in the area, because of cattle being smuggled to Afghanistan.
Video shows correspondent giving details over the phone from the agency.

4. 1550 People in Mohmand Agency are making preparations for Id-ul Adha.
Traditional cattle picnic is also being held in Mohmand agency on the occasion
of Id, after years of delay. Traders says cattle prices have gone up in the
agency, because the government has raised taxes on cattle. Meanwhile, plans are
under way to repatriate hundreds of displaced families to Mohmand Agency. The
residents of Mohmand have decided to mark first day of Id-ul Adha together with
Saudi Arabia. Video shows correspondent giving details over the phone from the
agency.

[End of the bulletin]

Duration: 21 minutes

Source: AVT Khyber TV, Islamabad, in Pashto 1200gmt 03 Nov 11

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


