                              291 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     The Leader-Post (Regina, Saskatchewan)

                            December 6, 2005 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

NDP's hospital plan shows Saskatoon bias

BYLINE: Lloyd E. Wilson, The Leader-Post

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. B8

LENGTH: 645  words


In its recent throne speech, the provincial government indicated a new
children's hospital would be constructed in Saskatoon, and I'm not very happy
about it.

The construction of another hospital in Saskatoon will give them four hospitals,
compared to Regina's two. That's a ratio of two-to-one and in a city only
20-per-cent larger than Regina it doesn't seem very fair.

Also, at the present time, specialist doctors in Saskatoon outnumber those in
Regina nearly three-to-one. Adding another hospital there will only make the
problem worse.

I would really like to see local politicians lobby the provincial government to
get a third hospital for Regina.

Perhaps Lorne Calvert's NDP government should be reminded that the NDP under Roy
Romanow, closed a Regina hospital nearly a decade ago. Romanow was faced with
health-care cuts, however, the decision to close the Plains Health Centre was
pure politics and bordered on gutlessness.

A decision by Romanow to close one of Saskatoon's hospitals probably would have
resulted in political suicide. He calculated he could make health-care cuts in
Regina with the least amount of political fallout. Talk about taking the Regina
electorate for granted and taking all of us for a bunch of fools and suckers.

Does the NDP government really think it can continue to treat Regina as a
second-class city and escape any political damage? If so, it is badly mistaken.

The tragedy of the Romanow years was the fact he was the best premier Saskatoon
ever had, and it would appear Calvert is following in his footsteps.

I suspect the Calvert inner cabinet is made up primarily of Saskatoon MLAs, with
the Regina MLAs on the outside looking in and Calvert's Saskatoon colleagues
holding the "trump card", in any decisions being made.

The NDP government closed one of our hospitals, and Reginans want it back.

As far as health-care funding is concerned, dollars have been spent in Saskatoon
and pennies in Regina. That is completely unacceptable.

It would appear politics is involved, with Saskatoon replacing Regina as the key
to an NDP victory in Saskatchewan elections. The NDP thinks Regina is an NDP
stronghold, consequently, it doesn't have to work as hard. Unfortunately, for
Regina, the Saskatoon electorate rolls with the flow in each election, so
Saskatoon receives more attention. That's pure politics and pretty disgusting.

Calvert talks of Prime Minister Paul Martin playing political games over the
equalization payments.

Unfortunately for Calvert, that's the pot calling the kettle black. The premier
is no stranger to political manoeuvres, bribing the Saskatoon electorate with
some of Regina's tax dollars.

There is a bias towards Saskatoon, not only in politics, but in the world of
business and commerce as well, and has existed for many years. I think small "p"
and big "p" politics are behind it.

If the Calvert government is prepared to give Saskatoon "X" number of dollars
for health care, it had better be prepared to give an equal amount to Regina, or
there is going to be hell to pay at the next provincial election.

In summation, I'm disappointed in the announcement by the Calvert government to
construct a children's hospital in Saskatoon. There exists even now, a great
disparity in health-care services provided by the two cities and the problem
will only magnify.

The NDP stole a Regina hospital a decade ago and I would like to see it
returned. If Saskatoon can have four hospitals, surely in hell's half acre
Regina can have three.

For the Calvert government, it is a matter of setting political priorities. It
would probably say another hospital in Regina would be too much money, not
saying, however, that the money would best be spent bribing and manipulating the
Saskatoon electorate. Then politicians wonder why the public at large is so
cynical about them. A person doesn't have to look very far.

Lloyd E. Wilson

Regina

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

