                              296 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                     Simcoe

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                                 Final Edition

Coalition calls for health care talk in vote

BYLINE: STAFF, bareditor@simcoe.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 328  words


ONTARIO - Ontarians need to talk about health care with Oct. 6 provincial
election candidates, says Ontario Health Coalition director Natalie Mehra.
"While promises to improve access to home care are welcome, all political
parties' platforms are lacking details on how the parties will deal with the
severe shortfall of hospital beds across Ontario," said Mehra. "The McGuinty
government deserves credit for the improvements they have made in access to
family doctors, nurse-led clinics, community health centres and family health
teams. They have also reduced wait times for a number of surgeries and
treatments.

"But there is a severe shortage of acute care hospital beds and access to
longer-term care for seniors both in hospitals and in the community is poor and
inequitable." She added after two decades of health-care restructuring - which
began in the 1990s - there are still half as many hospital beds than there were,
18,500 fewer than there were in 1990. Ontario's hospital occupancy rate is 98
per cent, far above occupancy rates in the rest of the industrialized world. Bed
shortages contribute not only to emergency-room backlogs, but also cancelled
surgeries, high infection rates and longer waits for care. More than 23,900
people are waiting for a long-term care home bed and more than 10,000 are
waiting for home care, the coalition noted. Ontario's Liberals have increased
long-term care beds, but bed cuts still challenge health care workers, Mehra
said. "This election, Ontarians need to push our political parties for clear
commitments on the key health care issues. Will they stop privatization and
protect public, non-profit health care? Will they commit to keeping small and
rural hospitals' acute care and emergency services open?" she said. "Will they
restore closed hospital beds? What concrete steps will they take to improve
democratic governance and public accountability?" More about the coalition is
online at www.ontariohealthcoalition.ca.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

