                              295 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                            October 21, 2011 Friday

Programme summary of Pakistan's Khyber news TV 1200 gmt 19 Oct 11

LENGTH: 427 words


The following is a summary of the 1200 gmt bulletin consisting of news from
Pakistan's Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), aired by Islamabad-based
private Pakistani television news channel AVT Khyber News on 18 October.

A. News headlines

B. News in details

1. 0123 Residents of North Waziristan have decided to stage protests against
long power outages in the area. The tribal elders, political parties and
businessmen have spread pamphlets and made announcement through mosques, calling
on people to take part in the protests against power outage. The South
Waziristan residents warn that they will close the supply route linked to
Afghanistan, unless power supply is resumed. There is lack of water in schools,
mosques and hospital in North Waziristan because of power outage. Video shows
correspondent giving details over the phone from the area.

2. 0511 People in Orakzai Agency complain about lack of medical staff and
doctors in government hospitals. The local people are faced with many
challenges, because of lack of doctors in several sub-divisions of the agency.
The local residents transfer their patients to other hospitals in Pakistan.
There is only one doctor for around 30,000 people in the agency. The Orakzai
Agency residents say government has not renovated around 30 hospitals destroyed
by insurgents in Orakzai Agency. Many schools also remain destroyed in the
agency. Video shows correspondent giving details from the agency.

3. 1025 Power outages have reached 23 hours out of every 24 hours in Landi
Kotal, Khyber Agency. Traders and shopkeepers' businesses have been affected,
because of lack of power. The local people have several times discussed the
problem with the political administration and Members of National Assembly [MNA]
from Khyber Agency, but they failed to resolve the problem. Meanwhile, there is
lack of specialist doctors in Landi Kotal hospitals. The Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
governor has promised to employ new doctors in government hospitals in Landi
Kotal, but the locals say the provincial governor has not fulfilled his promise.
Video shows correspondent giving details over the phone from the agency.

4. 1634 There are reports of widespread smuggling and abduction in tribal areas.
The political administration is also involved in widespread corruption.
Government officials have links with smugglers and abductors in the areas close
to Pakistan-Afghan border. Video shows correspondent reporting from the area.

[End of the bulletin]

Duration: 20 minutes

Source: AVT Khyber TV, Islamabad, in Pashto 1200gmt 19 Oct 11

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


