                              290 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                   October 24, 1998, Saturday, FINAL EDITION

The Bloc and the hospital: Did separatist MPs really mean to stir up a race
fuss?

BYLINE: TERRANCE WILLS; THE GAZETTE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 917 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


The publicity campaign financed by separatist MPs in Quebec to restore full
services at Eastern Ontario's lone francophone teaching hospital is stirring up
a race fuss on the eve of the Quebec election campaign.

Critics of the Bloc Quebecois's $ 10,000 gift to Ottawa's Hopital Montfort
contend that the French-English controversy playing on the airwaves and in
letters to the editor is exactly the result the separatists intended.

And that's so especially now, they add, when Premier Lucien Bouchard is trying
so hard to connect Quebec Liberal leader Jean Charest in the voter's mind with
Ontario Premier Mike Harris, who is seen as the villain in the severe
contraction of services at Montfort.

The Bloc decided this month not to donate directly to the legal fund the
French-language hospital is collecting to fight the sharply reduced role forced
on it by an Ontario government commission. Rather, Bloc MPs chose to finance an
ad campaign in Quebec about Montfort's troubles and its fundraising efforts to
fight the cutbacks.

In the face of criticism that the Bloc's real purpose is to stir resentment
against Harris and the rest of Canada to benefit Bouchard's Parti Quebecois
candidates, Bloc leader Gilles Duceppe insisted the whole idea is to help
Ontario's francophones.

"It is helping them to collect more money," Duceppe said in an interview about
his party's ad-financing donation. "We made an agreement with them (the hospital
authorities). They will have publicity, advertising, in a lot of newspapers with
that money to collect more money. That was the purpose and they were perfectly
in full agreement with that. And they are not sovereignists, eh? Mrs. Lalonde is
not a sovereignist."

Federalist Gisele Lalonde is a feisty volunteer spokesman for the effort to
raise $ 500,000 nationwide to counter in the courts the squeeze put on Montfort
by the Ontario Health Services Restructuring Commission. So far, about $ 200,000
has been raised to argue that the "amputation" - as Lalonde describes it - of
the hospital's services violates Franco-Ontarians' rights under the Charter of
Rights and Freedoms.

Lalonde makes no apology for accepting the Bloc's money to pay for
Montfort-designed ads in Quebec, nor does Liberal Senator Jean-Robert Gauthier,
chairman of the hospital campaign. "The Bloc is a political party and we are not
naive that we don't think there is a political intention here, but as chairman,
I don't ask donors if they have vested interests of some kind," Gauthier said by
phone.

On the other hand, Faye Sullivan-Stafford, president of Outaouais Alliance, the
English-rights group, has assailed the Bloc's donation as a suspicious stunt.
"Of course, the Montfort deserves our support - it's a valuable institution that
deserves protection. However, when this support comes from factions that endorse
the infringement of basic minority rights, we have to be careful," she said.

"If the BQ is so concerned about the state of the official-language minorities
in Canada, why does it continue to endorse the mistreatment of Quebec's own
linguistic minority?" Sullivan-Stafford demanded. "I'm sure one of the hospitals
in Quebec could have used that money just as effectively."

That comment made Duceppe bristle. "I don't know where those people are living.
The Royal Victoria, the Montreal General are full hospitals working perfectly,"
he said. "All the francophones outside of Quebec would be happy to have the kind
of hospitals the anglophones have in Montreal."

But the Bloc's indignation has not stemmed the attack on its style of charity.
"These are the same guys who have treated Franco-Ontarians as 'dead ducks' and
have said 'Pouf! Francophones (will disappear)," Liberal House leader Don
Boudria said. "So, I don't know what one should think of their gift. They've
just discovered Franco-Ontarians, when not so long ago they were telling us they
were dead."

Ottawa Vanier Liberal MP Mauril Belanger added: "To run a publicity campaign
during an election campaign, I think that is using a difficult and delicate
situation for political and partisan ends. I find it regrettable."

Duceppe dismissed these criticisms. "Why are Mr. Belanger and Mr. Boudria
denouncing us for helping Franco-Ontarians? I think they are showing their
incompetence on the issue and their hypocrisy."

The Ottawa Citizen has run several letters to the editor on the donation, some
for, some against, and nearly all marked by extravagant rhetoric. Sample: "What
we are witnessing is one more advance in the step-by-step program for French
dominance in all public institutions in Eastern (for now) Ontario," warned Jim
Redfern of Carleton Place.

The Citizen pitched in yesterday with its own editorial. "The fight to keep the
only francophone teaching hospital in Ontario open has become a political fight,
pure and simple," opined the editorial board, which earlier this year crusaded -
unsuccessfully - against the appointment of David Levine to oversee Ottawa's
redesigned hospital structure because he was a onetime PQ candidate and worked
for Bouchard's government in New York. "By cozying up to the Bloc it will
alienate those who, rightly, believe the real issue of access to health care has
been overtaken by a game of political point-scoring."

Montfort supporters are quick to point out that the real issue is access to
health care, all right - but in both official languages where numbers warrant.


LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


