                              292 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Second Edition

Detail lacking on both sides

SECTION: NEWS; Leaders; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 874 words


Government leaders conventionally avoid televised debates to deny their
opponents a place on the same podium. Prime Minister Kevin Rudd deserves praise
for bringing on the health policy debate yesterday. He may be disappointed that
it is hard to score a victory in this type of debate, despite the advantage of
having more policy in the public arena than Opposition Leader Tony Abbott. But
Mr Rudd made a good case for the need for fundamental healthcare reform and was
able to take a more positive stance than Mr Abbott, who had few policy
principles of his own to talk about and spent most of his time criticising the
Rudd government's policy.

Mr Abbott, with five years as health minister in the Howard government under his
belt, was able to do this to good effect, and landed more verbal punches than
the Prime Minister. This is an important part of the opposition's role but the
voters want better healthcare services and will be looking for practical
policies and positive solutions as the election draws nearer, not just negative
attacks on the government's policy.

In fact, there are significant gaps in the policies on both sides. The
government wants to reverse the public hospital funding split from the current
40:60 commonwealth-states mix to 60:40 to give the commonwealth the dominant
share, and to fund local hospital networks directly to cut out inefficient state
bureaucrats. But the states would still run the hospitals, since the
commonwealth has no experience in doing this, and Mr Rudd waffled badly when
asked how this would "end the blame game" -- a key goal of the reforms. He was
evasive on whether the government would tighten proposed private health
insurance rebate means testing, which is stalled in the Senate.

Mr Rudd 's laboured invitations to Mr Abbott to join him and the states to
reform and improve the healthcare system for "working families" rang hollow
against the background of his peremptory treatment of the premiers in what is
supposed to be a shared Council of Australian Governments reform Â­exercise. He
also had to exempt small rural hospitals from activity-based funding, as the
Brumby government has done in Victoria, and was forced to defend the claim that
MrAbbott as health minister had "ripped $1 billion" out of public hospitals by
resorting to a line-by-line recital from the 2002-2003 budget.

Mr Abbott made a good case that this claim is at best a half truth based on a
selective reading of the budget. He also made a convincing case that the
government's plan won't "end the blame game" on public hospitals but failed to
explain how his proposed return to local hospital boards would do so, given the
persistence of split funding and past experience that such boards were
ineffective and stacked with local political supporters. The Opposition Leader
had to resort too often to broad generalities in the absence of settled policy,
though he did appear to commit the coalition to 3500 new hospital beds should it
win government. He floundered a little in defending his own record as health
minister, which is unsurprising as the coalition did allow the commonwealth's
share of public hospital funding to fall behind population growth and responded
tactically to healthcare crises rather than try to come up with the kind of
strategic reform plan the Rudd government - to its credit - is developing. What
we now need to know from the government is how it plans to control the growth in
healthcare costs. The policy for primary healthcare and integrating primary care
with acute care in hospitals is still to come. So is the policy concerning the
interface between the public and private hospitals, which could exert strong
price competition on the state-run hospitals if the commonwealth as dominant
funder were game to exploit this lever. Mr Rudd's backflip on case mix for rural
hospitals - while sensible - shows the pitfalls in advancing major reform of
such a complex area of policy.

What we need from Mr Abbott is much more detailed policy on health across the
board. At present we have some good Â­intentions and a few policies such as
increasing public hospital beds, opposing means testing on health insurance
rebates and local hospital boards. Mr Abbott needs to come up with a
Â­convincing plan of his own for ending the blame game and controlling costs in
a more sophisticated way than merely starving the states, as the coalition did
in government. He has been leader for only a few months so can't really be
blamed but the coalition has been in opposition for nearly 2 \xC2½ years and
should be able to offer more than this.

Mr Rudd showed himself across the detail but somewhat wooden and prone to
getting lost in detail and tensing up when on the back foot. None of this
surprises. As a first-term government the election should be Labor's to lose but
Mr Rudd's Â­colleagues will want him to sharpen his debating skills before the
election campaign. Mr Abbott may have had the better of the verbal jousting but
the voters want positive policies and Â­solutions, not just attacks on the
government. The coalition has much to do here, not just in healthcare but across
the board, if it is to offer itself as a credible alternative government in the
election expected later this year.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2010 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


