                              300 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                              May 14, 2007, Monday
                                  1ST Edition

More bodies recovered amidst political crisis;
INTERNATIONAL PAKISTAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 313 words


The death toll from the worst political violence in years in Pakistan rose to 36
after hospitals received more bodies, hospital officials said yesterday.

A political crisis threatening President General Pervez Musharraf exploded into
violence on Saturday when pro-government gunmen and opposition activists clashed
in Karachi, Pakistan's main sea port and commercial hub.

At least 28 people were reported killed in the violence.

But the death toll rose to 36 after more dead bodies arrived in four Karachi
hospitals and a police officer was killed by a mob on Saturday, police and
hospital officials said.

Karachi was largely peaceful at the time of going to press yesterday but a group
of about 100 people had blocked a street with burning tyres and stones in
Jamshed Quarters neighbourhood.

Traffic was thin on many Karachi roads, and most shops and restaurants, which
are usually busy with people eating breakfast in the early morning, were closed.

On Saturday, gunmen with assault rifles traded fire among bungalows and concrete
apartment blocks in the city of 15 million, a major port and home to Pakistan's
stock market. Shipping containers and immobilised trucks blocked streets and men
brandished rifles and handguns against a backdrop of burning cars and buses.

The attacks trapped ousted Chief Justice Ift-ikhar Mohammed Chaudhry at the
Karachi airport, unable to attend what organisers hoped to be the largest rally
yet calling for Chaudhry's reinstatement and for Musharraf to step down.

Musharraf loyalists insist that the president remains popular despite resentment
of his alliance with the Bush administration to pursue al Qaida.

But simmering resentment has been unleashed by Musharraf's removal of Chaudhry,
who had a reputation for challenging government misdeeds.

Critics accuse Musharraf of removing Chaudhry to protect the president's plan to
seek a new five-year term.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2007 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


