                              303 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            August 2, 1994, Tuesday

Around the South POLITICS Primary slugfest pits 2 wily pros

BYLINE: TOM BAXTER

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 3

LENGTH: 581 words


Nashville - Tom Perdue brought a scorched-earth reputation with him when he left
Georgia for the first time and came here to run Republican Bill Frist's Senate
campaign. As the race enters its final days, he has surpassed all expectations.

Striking back at campaign ads he says were unfair, Perdue has blasted Frist's
chief opponent, Chattanooga builder Bob Corker, as "rotten on the inside," "a
coward" and "pond scum."

Corker, responding in a debate last week, chided Frist for hiring a "convicted
slanderer" - a somewhat overblown reference to Perdue's out-of- court settlement
with Public Service Commissioner Mac Barber. Frist distanced himself from his
consultant's words, saying that he wasn't sure what "pond scum" is - a remark
that probably won't help him overcome the rap that he lacks the common touch.

All this - plus the cat story, which we will get to later - has turned what
would have been a consolation-prize primary, to see who will face Sen. Jim
Sasser this fall, into the hottest political race Tennessee has seen in years.

With American politics headed in their present direction, this race is also
likely to be the pattern for many more to come: an expensive and increasingly
bitter contest between two political newcomers, coached by wily professionals.

Perdue's client is a Nashville heart-transplant surgeon, a graduate of Princeton
and Harvard Medical School whose father and brother founded Hospital Corporation
of America. Perdue, who made no secret of his dislike for Sen. Paul Coverdell
even when he was running his campaign, seems fond of Frist, comparing him with
his old boss, former Gov. George Busbee.

Frist seemed to hold an early edge in the six-man primary field, but Corker,
another amateur who has a Republican advantage in being from East Tennessee,
emerged from the pack and is running a close race as this Thursday's election
nears.

Corker is a self-made, just-folks millionaire who bears a striking resemblance
to Clayton Williams, the Texas oilman who lost to Ann Richards. He embodies "the
best of Claytie," says his consultant, Bill Kenyon. He ought to know - Kenyon
also ran Williams's 1990 campaign.

Even more than their first-time candidates, the two managers are a fascinating
contrast of styles: Perdue, the brooding, often enigmatic Georgian who
cultivates a bare-knuckles image, and Kenyon, the laid-back Texan who likes to
make people think he's not working as hard as he is.

Just to make sure the other side isn't asleep, Kenyon sometimes calls his
opponent's headquarters at odd hours to see whether anyone picks up the phone.
When he has called Frist's headquarters, he says, Perdue has answered.

Kenyon has countered Perdue's salvos with a light touch - and the cat story.

In a book he wrote about his career, "Transplant," Frist recounts how as a med
student he adopted cats from the pound and, after playing with them for a few
days, practiced transplants on them. The press and rival campaigns were aware of
the passage in the book, but no one knew quite what to do with it.

After Perdue took his shots, the Corker campaign issued a tongue-in- cheek
release which said, among other things, that Garfield had withdrawn his support
from Frist after reading his book. Since then, the cat story has traveled like
wildfire.

This race may come down to who spends the most money on television, as so many
do. But weird cat stories sometimes make a difference, too - and so do the
styles of campaign managers.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH942160125

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


