                              302 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            The Daily Star (Lebanon)

                              July 18, 2016 Monday

Protesters demand opening of hospital

BYLINE: Mohammed Zaatari

LENGTH: 566 words


Facility in Shebaa completed in 2009 but kept shut due to political disputes

Hundreds of protesters demonstrated Sunday in the southern border town of Shebaa
to demand the opening of a UAE-funded hospital, as sources said Hezbollah had
opposed the move out of fear the facility would treat Syrian rebels from across
the border."We don't want to die on the roads like our friends and the sons of
this area have," read a sign held by one of the protesters during a
demonstration calling for the Khalifa bin Zayed Public Hospital to open.

The issue came into the spotlight after Lebanese Red Cross first-responder
Shaker Jamal Madi, 19, died on the way to the nearest hospital, which is located
some 20 kilometers away from Shebaa where the accident occurred.

A moment of silence was held for him during the protest, before his uncle Nidal
Madi gave a fiery speech. "Our roads are neglected and paved with the blood of
our loved ones, while the people who should be listening to us remain deaf," he
said. "We have rights to institutions and we want them all. ... We give them 10
days to open and activate the hospital or they will hear our cries even louder."

Despite the area's dire need for a hospital, sources say security considerations
prevent one opening.

Around two years ago, wounded militants from a Syrian opposition group were
snuck over the frontier from the Syrian villages of Beit Jin and Erneh. The
wounded were smuggled into Lebanon on mules. Syrian regime and opposition forces
have clashed intermittently in these villages.

Hezbollah is concerned that if the hospital treats Syrian opposition militants
it would become a headquarters for the Syrian rebels, turning it into a "new
Arsal," according to sources from the area. For several years, militants
belonging to the Nusra Front and Daesh (ISIS) have been holed in the northeast
border region around the town of Arsal, and the town has been used as a safe
haven on numerous occasions.

During the protest, Shebaa Mayor Mohammad Saab read a statement by Health
Minister Wael Abu Faour to the protesters tackling the issue.

Abu Faour explained that despite all attempts to open the hospital, "political
requests came up as a result of security considerations to slow down in
launching the hospital because of fears that were based on cautiousness against
a repetition of events that have happened in other Lebanese areas."

However, locals deem the hospital vital for the area. "It has surgery rooms,
labs, clinics, 60 beds and other sections that are designed to improve the
area's health standard," explained the Future Movement political coordinator in
the area, Abdallah Abdallah. The hospital is on par with some of the best
hospitals in the Middle East, he added.

The hospital was established following Israel's 2006 war against Lebanon and was
financed through an Emirati endowment of $10 million. Construction was completed
in 2009, but the hospital did not open its doors due to political disputes.

Abdulhakeem Abdallah, chair of the committee charged with opening the hospital,
blamed the Finance Ministry for not providing the hospital with the necessary
guarantees.

"No official excuse will convince us or the locals," he said. "How is it that
another state is standing with us and cares about our suffering, while our state
is oblivious and the hospital remains unopened because of political tensions and
personnel disputes over seats?"

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 23


             Copyright 2016 The Daily Star - The Daily Star FZ LLC.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


