                              297 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Western Daily Press

                              May 3, 2011 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lib Dems breaking long-held charity rule;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 251 words


It has been the rule that no political party will seek to use local charities to
gain political advantage over any other.

Sadly, it now appears that the local Liberal Democrats have decided to break
another promise by claiming that they are in some way involved in and
responsible for supporting and protecting the future of our local hospital.

The League of Friends of Crewkerne Hospital was set up many years ago to fulfil
these roles and continues to do so to this day. It is a charitable, non-
political organisation looking to support the whole community and goes about its
business quietly.

As a trustee of the charity, I can state that to my knowledge neither the
League, nor the hospital, is receiving any direct support, financial or
otherwise, from any of our local Liberal Democrat politicians or their party. To
try and infer otherwise in their election leaflets is simply misleading and
untrue.

The League remains determined to stay nonpolitical and fight the hospital's
corner with the NHS. Trustees have attended a number of meetings with the local
PCT to discuss and hopefully influence the reorganisation of the NHS in this
area.

We know we are strong enough to be listened to, particularly as we will be
giving almost £100,000 to the hospital this year alone.

We depend on support from everyone, regardless of their political allegiance and
are not here to provide 'brownie points' to anyone seeking to influence the
voters - the hospital is far too important for that.

Tony Foot Misterton, Somerset

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WDP


                    Copyright 2011 Northcliffe Media Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


