                              306 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                            December 20, 2013 Friday
                                 Mumbai Mirror

Residents protest as BMC shuts down Malad hospital over 'crack in the wall'

BYLINE: Jyoti Shelar

SECTION: CIVIC

LENGTH: 415 words


Suspect civic body plans to sell the prime 5-acre plot to a private builder as
the hospital was hurriedly vacated and most of its facilities were shut down
overnight.

Malad residents are protesting the shutdown of SK Patil Hospital - one of the
oldest and most capacious BMC hospitals in the western suburbs - after the civic
body declared the building unsafe on Tuesday. Since the hospital stands on 5
acres of land in a prime location, they suspect that the BMC closed down the
hospital so it can sell the plot to a private builder.

According to the residents, the BMC's structural committee came on Monday and
inspected a crack in the building wall. "The committee was summoned simply
because the wall has developed a crack which can be repaired," said resident
Suryakant Nikam. The very next morning, over 25 patients were shifted to the
Shatabdi hospital in Kandivali.

On Tuesday, the hospital was hurriedly vacated and most of its facilities,
barring the Out Patient Department (OPD), were shut down. Though the hospital
does not have many facilities, almost all beds were occupied because of the
spurt in cases of viral flu, said Nikam. As the news of the shutdown spread,
residents gathered outside the hospital on Tuesday. A few residents along with
political party workers met Mayor Sunil Prabhu and told him that the hospital
was not dilapidated. BJP corporator Vinod Shelar, who accompanied the residents
to meet Prabhu, said that no one in the area had a clue of the hospital being
shut down. "They carried out the entire process in one night," he said.

"The building is completely fine. Instead of reviving the hospital, the civic
body has made it defunct to make way for private builders," said a resident
Sanath Mane, adding that the hospital's casualty services, x-ray and pharmacy
had been gradually discontinued over the past few years. "Political parties and
the BMC may give it up to any builder," said Mane.

The shutdown of the hospital has come as a big blow to the residents. "Over the
last year, only the OPD services were functional. Patients are admitted only for
minor ailments like fever. The civic body gradually shut down the facilities.
Locals don't have any faith in the team that declared the hospital unsafe," said
a resident.

The civic body has now appointed a team from IIT to carry out another survey of
the two-storey hospital. "We have asked for the IIT report to be submitted
within 7 days. The OPD will be functional only till we get the report," said
Prabhu.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


