                              301 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                  Toronto Star

                   January 24, 2002 Thursday Ontario Edition

Clement sees 'politics' in delay of new hospital

BYLINE: Richard Brennan, Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A07

LENGTH: 485 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Says another Tory candidate played a part

Politics and the Premier's office played a direct role in delaying the
announcement of plans for a new Downsview hospital, Health Minister Tony Clement
said yesterday.

Clement was set to announce plans for the $244-million Humber River Regional
Hospital Tuesday when the Premier's office pulled the plug on the news
conference, saying cabinet had not given the project the okay.

"I guess I have a genuine disagreement with the staff of the Premier ...
(because) this is the kind of thing that typically has been done by the ministry
because no funding is attached until they have a (full) plan," Clement said.

Government insiders said Finance Minister Jim Flaherty asked for the
announcement to be called off. He and Clement are candidates in the leadership
race to replace Premier Mike Harris.

"What I felt peculiar about is that it is starting to get rolled into leadership
politics, which I find unfortunate," Clement said. "And so I have a genuine
disagreement with the Premier's office on how they see this thing."

Plans, yet to be approved by cabinet, call for one super-hospital on the former
Downsview air force base, replacing three existing Humber Regional sites. It's
expected the old Northwestern and York-Finch hospitals would close and the
former Humber Memorial would be turned into a limited-service day hospital.

Leading the charge for the new site is hospital president Rueben Devlin, who is
also president of the Ontario Conservative Party. His daughter Heather Devlin
works in Clement's ministry office as a policy adviser.

Clement said he wasn't accusing the Premier's office of playing politics with
the hospital announcement, "but I think somebody else is, another leadership
candidate." He stopped short of naming Flaherty.

When asked directly if leadership politics scuttled the announcement, Clement
said: "I think that's part of it. That's what I'm saying."

Minutes later, he tried to backtrack during a news conference with Harris, who
stood to the side and smiled.

"You said the Premier's office was interfering with the running of your
ministry," said one reporter, to which Clement said: "No, no, that's your take
on it."

Harris called the news conference to talk about his plans to take the fight for
more federal health-care dollars to a premiers' conference in Vancouver this
week.

New Democrat MPP Michael Prue (Beaches-East York) said the Tories seem "to be
imploding. I watch in constant amazement every day (at the) gaffes of all the
senior ministers."

Clement also defended paying his press secretary Gord Haugh $300,000 a year - up
to six times what other government communications assistants receive.

"He was offering a level of expertise in my office that I thought was required
to manage a $24 billion ministry," Clement said.

Asked whether the $300,000 was well spent, Harris said: "That's not for me to
judge."


LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2002 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


