                              299 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                             August 24, 2015 Monday

LETTERS: Bandhs violate child rights

BYLINE: The Himalayan Times

LENGTH: 488  words


This is with reference to the news story "Use of children in protests slammed
(http://thehimalayantimes.com/kathmandu/use-of-children-in-protests-slammed/)"
(THT, Aug. 18, Page 2). Using children in political rallies and  demonstrations
and sit-ins to be organized by the political parties to  get their demands
fulfilled is illegal and such practice is against the  child rights. This is a
kind of child rights abuse. This kind of  activities not only affect the
mentality of the children but also risk  their lives. Children are used in any
forms of political activities  because they do not know what is right and wrong,
and they also have no  idea why such rallies are taken out by the political
parties.

They  are easily influenced by the local surroundings and their mindset and
psychology are shaped by what happens in society. Studies have shown  that the
children in a volatile and violent society easily get involved  in crime or
violent activities after they grow up. So, the children  should be encouraged to
go to schools and to play games so that they  engage in education and sports.
Therefore, the concerns expressed by the  Central Child Welfare Board (CCWB) and
NHRC should be addressed by the  bandh enforcers.

The bandh enforcers should allow the  schools and colleges to open even during
the bandh or general strike as  they allow the press, ambulances and other
utility vehicles. They must  understand the fact that closure of the educational
institutions time  and again will not help fulfill their demands. Such act will
only  deteriorate the quality of education and teaching-learning environment.
Will the bandh enforcers listen to our voices? Closure of educational
institutions is a nonsense practice and it should be condemned by all  walks of
life.

Nishan Lal Joshi, Little Angels' School

Sanitation

Recently,  I got a chance to visit the Kathmandu Medical College for a few hours
and during that time I got an opportunity to know about the hospital  very well.
Everything is fine, except for the toilets. The doctors are  fine, and some
nurses need to be

trained on how to behave with the patients that will help to heal the pain of
the patients.

I  have heard about the ill practices of some nurses at Thapathali  Maternity
Hospital. But in comparison to Thapathali Maternity Hospital  the nurses at KMC
are more polite. Some of them need to be  professionally trained.

Moreover, the toilet in the  post-operation gyno ward is in a very sorry state.
I fear that such a  deplorable condition of the toilet can be a source of
spreading  infectious diseases within the hospital premises. Instead of healing
the  wounds, the toilets may encourage the spread of the source of  epidemics. I
would like to advise the hospital administration to make  the hospital toilets
clean and pay proper attention to the overall  sanitation of the hospital where
thousands of people visit every day.

Raman Adhikari, Jorpati

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


