                              304 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                          February 24, 1993, Wednesday

Hospital votes to open books and meetings

BYLINE: By Macon Morehouse and Anne Rochell STAFF WRITERShospitals;
administration; meetings; private; public; policy; reform; law; violations;
gwinnett/county

SECTION: EXTRA; Section J; Page 1

LENGTH: 375 words


Gwinnett Hospital System (GHS) bowed to political pressure Tuesday when the
corporate board voted unanimously to meet openly and make its financial records
public.

"We're striving to work with all the political factions," Wayne Sikes, the
hospital system's financial chairman, said after the meeting. "Maybe we made a
mistake by saying we don't want to be a political animal."

GHS, formerly under a public authority whose members were appointed by the
County Commission, restructured last year to become a private, not- for-profit
corporation. Even though the hospital will continue to receive money from the
county to offset the cost of indigent care, it no longer has to abide by
Georgia's laws on open meetings and records.

"We don't have anything secret," said board member Jim E. Hinshaw Sr. after the
meeting.

A few Gwinnett County legislators and commissioners cried foul in recent months
over the new arrangement, saying the hospital gets county tax money but is not
answerable to the commission.

At the Capitol on Tuesday, efforts continued to require state hospitals to abide
by Georgia's sunshine laws:

A House subcommittee debated a bill sponsored by Rep. Vinson Wall (R-
Lawrenceville) that would make hospital systems such as Gwinnett meet in public
and allow access to their financial records. Before approving it, committee
members amended the bill to make it cover all hospitals that accept Medicare or
Medicaid.

Mr. Wall and Rep. Charles Bannister (R-Lilburn), who sits on GHS's corporate
board, co-sponsored a similar bill Tuesday.

"We're all working to the same goal, it appears," said Mr. Wall, who blasted Mr.
Bannister last week for spreading "trash" in the form of a memo that accused Mr.
Wall of waging a "personal vendetta" against GHS.

In other action, the board discussed plans to offer skilled nursing services for
older people at the GHS facility in Buford. The proposed 50- bed facility also
would provide sub-acute care, which is more intensive than a nursing home but
less expensive than a hospital stay. And there could be adult day care in the
future. Renovation of the building would cost about $ 3.1 million. The building
currently serves as an urgent-care center, and those services would remain.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH930690184

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


