                              305 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             April 1, 2005, Friday

POLITICIANS MISSING POINT' ON SUPERBUG

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 324 words


Political point-scoring over MRSA means that policies to tackle the superbug are
failing to address the issue, experts said today.

The Government's focus on pleasing the public "means its policies are missing
the point", it was claimed.

Politicians have seized on public fears about the health implications of unclean
hospitals, but have failed to address the real problem of unclean hands among
hospital staff.

"With a General Election looming, all major political parties in the UK have
seized on public fears about the health implications of unclean hospitals to
fuel arguments over rising rates of infection with MRSA," it was claimed.

"This tit-for-tat political posturing has certainly helped keep health in the
public eye.

"But none of these policies reflect the real failure in UK hospitals:
non-adherence to basic infection control."

The comments were made in The Lancet medical journal, which said that the
Netherlands had "managed to virtually eliminate MRSA with a search and destroy
approach to infection control".

In an editorial, The Lancet said: "If there are numerous MRSA carriers visiting
health facilities, infection-control measures are unlikely to work.

"At the end of last year, Health Secretary John Reid set a new target to reduce
MRSA bloodstream infections by half by 2008, mainly through cleaning up
hospitals.

"But the document produced to back up this approach contains only scant mention
of the main vectors for MRSA transmission: the hands of health-care providers.

"Evidence shows that housekeeping programmes are unlikely to have an overall
effect on transmission of MRSA unless essential infection-control practices the
use of glove and hand-hygiene are prioritised.

"The attention on MRSA and hospital cleanliness has made hospital-acquired
infections an election issue.

"But the Government's focus on pleasing the public means its policies are
missing the point

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


