                              309 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Telegraph (India)

                            October 18, 2016 Tuesday

PM extends all help, politicians reach out

BYLINE: Subrat Das

LENGTH: 516  words


Bhubaneswar, Oct. 18: Politicians made a beeline at various hospitals to see the
victims of Sum hospital fire mishap, who were rushed to various other locations
for emergency treatment. Those who were not in the city, tweeted to express
their condolences for the victims and wished a speedy recovery for those
undergoing treatment.

Chief minister Naveen Patnaik visited the Capital Hospital where patients from
the tragedy-struck Sum hospital were rushed last night. Accompanied by health
minister Atanu Sabyasachi Nayak, he met the patients and asked officials to
provide free treatment expeditiously. He followed it up by visiting AIIMS and
AMRI Hospital today, where more than 60 victims are undergoing treatment.

By the time the chief minister visited the hospital last night, Prime Minister
Narendra Modi spoke to him over the phone and assured all possible support. Modi
asked the Union health minister J.P. Nadda to make necessary arrangements for
the treatment of critical patients at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, and visit the state
capital to supervise the arrangements.

The PM said: "Deeply anguished by the loss of lives in the hospital fire in
Odisha. The tragedy is mind-numbing. My thoughts are with bereaved families," on
Twitter.

Modi's tweets followed those of senior BJP leaders, including party president
Amit Shah, Union ministers J.P. Nadda, Jual Oram, Dharmendra Pradhan and senior
state party leaders. Nadda is also scheduled to visit Bhubaneswar tomorrow
morning to oversee the arrangements at AIIMS here.

At the Capital Hospital, leaders and supporters of the ruling BJD and other
political parties vied for reaching out to the patients and their family
members. Even supporters of chief minister and cadres of other political parties
were seen raising slogans and counter slogans.

"This is a time when you can win the hearts of the people by expressing
sympathy," said a senior BJD leader.

All the three city MLAs, city mayor and other ruling parties were seen at the
Capital Hospital, while a ruling BJD MLA Prasant Jagdev got busy in a heated
argument with senior police officials in an attempt to get the body of a mishap
victim released.

Leaders of BJP and Congress also did not lag behind in registering their
presence at the hospital. While a BJP delegation led by party's legislature
party leader K.V. Singh Deo visited the hospital, the Congress legislators, who
had gone to New Delhi, were scheduled to visit the Capital Hospital and other
hospitals on their return today evening. PCC president Prasad Harichandan was
one of the first Congress leader to visit the various hospitals. CPI general
secretary D. Raja, who was also in the city, also visited the victims.

Activists of CPI(M) staged a demonstration in front of the health minister's
official residence, demanding his resignation for the utter failure of the
health department in handling the situation. Former Pradesh Congress Committee
president Niranjan Patnaik sought a judicial probe into the tragedy.

Congress MLAs led by leader of Opposition, Narasingha Mishra, visited the
patients at various hospital today evening.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Telegraph (India), distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


