                              314 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Caboolture Shire Herald (Australia)

                             March 6, 2012 Tuesday
                                  1 - Edition

Hospital at `crisis point'

BYLINE: GLENN ROBERTS<br/>robertsg@qst.newsltd.com.au

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 292  words


BOTH the state's top doctors organisation and state's major political parties
say the Caboolture Hospital needs fixing, but there's no agreement on how.

AMAQ president Dr Richard Kidd said the hospital had been at crisis point for
much of last year, running at ``over 100 per cent occupancy for a lot of the
time''.

``This is putting the hospital under really great stress and unfortunately we
know from international studies as well as our own experience that when any
hospitals are running at more than 85 per cent bed occupancy systems break down
and there's more likely to be bad outcomes and harm done to patients,'' Dr Kidd
said.

He said the shortage of beds was the fundamental cause of emergency departments
getting blocked.

Labor's Pumicestone candidate Carryn Sullivan said Caboolture was the ``next
priority'' for a major expansion, but Premier Anna Bligh had made no
announcement.

Mrs Sullivan defended the government's record, pointing out the $5.2 million
emergency department expansion and its $9.5 million spending on training centres
for doctors and nurses at Caboolture.

Also, plans for a maternity section expansion were ``ready to go''.

But, she said, getting enough doctors was a problem, citing the inability to
attract a haematologist despite $1.2 million in funding.

Katter's Australian Party candidate Brandt King said his party wanted local
boards that could be more responsive to local needs and more accountable.

LNP candidate Lisa France said they had a ``whole-of-hospital approach'' but
would not outline her strategy for Caboolture Hospital.

Dr Kidd said there might be a need for a new hospital, but the current hospital
needed to be more efficient, such as getting patients out of hospital sooner and
reducing unnecessary admissions.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: CSH


                   Copyright 2012 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


