                              32 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         Illawarra Mercury (Australia)

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday
                                 First Edition

We can't wind back the clock We can't wind back the clock

BYLINE: COURTNEY TRENWITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 561 words


FORMER Illawarra hospital board member and city mayor David Campbell says
Federal Government moves to establish boards for all Australia's public
hospitals are a step back in time.

Now the state Minister for the Illawarra, Mr Campbell was one of 12 members of
the then Illawarra Area Health Service Board who were sacked by the NSW Liberal
government in 1988.

Mr Campbell said returning to an era of hospital boards would undo two decades
worth of work.

"If you go back to (having individual hospital boards), we'll wind back what a
lot of people have spent 20 years doing in our region and that's building the
services and attracting more specialist doctors," Mr Campbell said yesterday.

Wollongong Hospital had its own board until 1983, when it was expanded to
include all Illawarra hospitals and renamed the Illawarra Area Health Service
Board.

In 1988, Premier Nick Greiner sacked the board as part of his health service
makeover.

The boards had been criticised for being too political, particularly favouring
members of the Australian Labor Party.

Former Wollongong lord mayor Frank Arkell criticised the Illawarra Area Health
Service Board in 1988 for having a history of political appointments which he
said were "paybacks" for political alliance to the ALP.

Meanwhile, Illawarra-based urologist Paul Kovac said yesterday he was concerned
new boards would also be politicised.

"One of the really key things is why did we change from hospital boards, and the
reason is they were overpoliticised," Dr Kovac said of the planned move.

"A lot of hospital boards were essentially tailored for the purpose of gaining
some kind of recognition in party political careers. That's what people used
them for."

Dr Kovac said Illawarra hospitals needed stability and not a series of boards
for members to use as political building blocks.

He said the region's hospitals were already struggling to cope with the high
turnover of managers and warned that further changes "would be terrifying".

"The public health system needs stability, it's just absolutely floundering," Dr
Kovac said.

"We don't have anyone, for example, running (Wollongong) Hospital now who has
been there for more than a year.

"I think we've had something like 10 CEOs in 10 years, which is really crazy.

"That's one of the reasons why we have such a disaster in public health."

Wollongong Hospital Division of Medicine chairman Chris Dunn said the present
system pressured managers to cover up the poor state of their hospitals.

"The Department of Health at all levels works on a good news system," Dr Dunn
said.

"They don't give a damn about patients, all they're interested in is making sure
that first of all, their statistics are fine and secondly, that nothing gets
into the newspapers ... because if they don't have good things to report to the
person above them they miss out on their promotion.

"I can't really blame them because that's the way things are, they're not really
able to tell the truth because if they tell the truth they get punished."

"The Department of Health at all levels works on a good news system. They don't
give a damn about patients, all they're interested in is making sure that first
of all, their statistics are fine and secondly, that nothing gets into the
newspapers ... if they don't have good things to report to the person above them
they miss out on their promotion." - Dr Chris Dunn

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Three photos: WOLLONGONG HOSPITAL "If you go back to (having individual
hospital boards), we'll wind back what a lot of people have spent 20 years doing
in our region and that's building the services and attracting more specialist
doctors." - David Campbell "A lot of hospital boards were essentially tailored
for the purpose of gaining some kind of recognition in party political careers.
That's what people used them for." - Dr Paul Kovac

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2007 Illawarra Newspapers Holdings Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


