                              312 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                              July 2, 1996 Tuesday
                                  Late Edition

Why health planning is a political hazard

BYLINE: James Gillespie James Gillespie teaches Politics at Macquarie University
and is author of The Price of Health: Australian Governments and Medical
Politics, Cambridge University Press 1991.

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Opinion; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 949 words


Attempts to redistribute health services have been made before ... it looks like
they'll be made again.

THE Minister for Health, Dr Andrew Refshauge, has just had a savage lesson in
the political barriers to rational planning of health services. The intervention
of the Premier, Mr Carr, to cancel the plans to amalgamate St Vincent's and St
George public hospitals has ended a messy and embarrassing policy disaster.

The move was the first large step to fulfil the Government's promise to achieve
a fundamental reallocation of resources to areas of greatest population growth.
It was soon clouded, however, with secondary issues which took command of the
political debate.

While the mobilisation of affected interest groups - ranging from visiting
medical officers, nursing staff and local community groups - was predictable, if
ill-planned for, there were additional complications stemming from the religious
affiliations of St Vincent's.

The arguments for the move on pure lines of health policy were impeccable. For
some years, the management of St Vincent's has publicly acknowledged the
problems of distance from the regions with population increases and growing
demands for health services. Similarly, the needs of the St George region for
upgraded medical services had been recognised when its hospital recently became
a teaching hospital.

These problems have been with us for a long time and the political obstacles to
achieving a more equitable distribution of resources have been equally
persistent. The first coherent attempts to replan the location of health
services to serve growing populations date from the 1940s.

The Federal and State Labor governments of the 1940s abandoned the attempt in
the face of opposition from the medical profession, the large teaching hospitals
and the Catholic church. Half-hearted attempts by subsequent Coalition
governments achieved little. It was only the financial largesse of the Whitlam
Government that led to the first major breakthrough, including the construction
of Westmead.

But since the mid-1970s, health politics has operated within a harsher financial
climate: where the gain of one sector must be balanced - or more than balanced -
by the losses of other sectors.

The greatest breakthrough came with the tactics which made Laurie Brereton's
reputation as a political bulldozer by successfully implementing the Wran
Government's "Beds for the West" campaign in 1983. He defeated a formidable
alliance of inner-city trade union and ALP branches and the medical staffs of
hospitals facing closure.

The Greiner and Fahey Coalition Governments continued this redistributive
approach: with the smooth move of the Children's Hospital from Camperdown to
Westmead and the rather messier, and politically damaging, reorganisation of the
hospital services of the inner west.

The Carr Government promised from the start to carry these policies to a higher
stage. Last October, Dr Refshauge signalled the distinctive features of the
Labor Government's policy approach to the finance and administration of NSW
health services in the economic statement "Caring for Health: Equity, Efficiency
and Quality".

The main element in the policy was to improve equity between the State's
regions. On the assumption of no major increases in government spending, the
only way to achieve redistribution is by taking away from the wealthier areas -
the great teaching hospitals of inner and eastern Sydney.

This aroused some media attention at the time - with warnings that the minister
would require "nerves of iron" to implement the program of resource
reallocation. But most interested groups waited to see where the cuts would hit.

St Vincent's, established in Darlinghurst since 1870, was a logical place to
start. In many ways it provided a condensed version of the wider problems of the
system.

Its administrators have recognised the problems posed by a shrinking population
base for some years. In 1992 the Greiner Government sponsored a move to the
south west, with St Vincent's taking over Liverpool Hospital.

This met with vociferous opposition, from Liverpool Hospital, medical academics
and the Labor Party. The themes were familiar: the fate of reproductive
services, family planning and terminations in a Catholic hospital, and the
spectre of privatisation of a publicly managed hospital.

The move was compounded by the anomalous position of St Vincent's. As a Schedule
3 hospital under the Public Hospitals Act it is funded as part of the public
system, but managed privately. The issue became complicated with opposition to
other attempts at privatising the health system, and St Vincent's withdrew.

The Carr Government's attempt to relocate St Vincent's followed remarkably
similar lines.

The array of forces that swiftly mobilised were predictable. Even if the
assurances of the State Government that there would be no involuntary
redundancies are accepted, there would have been job losses, as well as the
problems of relocating to Kogarah.

Existing power hierarchies would have been threatened and the uncertainty of
change posed more intangible threats, such as relationships to the wider
community. On top of this was the question of Catholic medico-ethical concerns
entering a secular institution.

The settlement of this dispute appears to leave St Vincent's in a relatively
secure financial position - although with its long-term future still uncertain.
The promise of additional funding for the health system, so that the next stage
of reallocations will not be muddied with budget cuts, may make the next stage
easier.

But it is unclear how this can be achieved in the face of the Federal
Government's planned cuts to the health system in the August Budget.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 1996 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


