                              307 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 13, 1991, Sunday

Tories face rift over hospital; As health specialists pour scorn on the
Opposition's ideas for 'saving' the service, the Government faces internal
trouble over its changes

BYLINE: By DONALD MACINTYRE, Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 454 words


THE GOVERNMENT is facing a split within its ranks over plans for a
self-governing hospital trust which threatens to become the main issue in the
critical - and imminent - Kincardine and Deeside by-election.

Ian Lang, the Secretary of State for Scotland, is under pressure from his Health
Minister, Michael Forsyth, to approve the trust plan for the Foresterhill group
of hospitals in north Aberdeen, despite opposition from the Tory candidate in
the by-election.

Tory party managers could decide this week to move the writ for Kincardine and
Deeside, which the late Alick Buchanan-Smith held in 1987 by 2,063, and
Langbaurgh in Cleveland, held by 2,088, by the late Richard Holt. That would
allow the by-elections to take place on 7 November.

A senior constituency official at Langbaurgh said yesterday that it would have a
candidate by Monday evening and was expecting the by-election on that date. Some
ministers argue, however, that it should be left to allow the ''conference
effect'' to sink in.

If Mr Lang approves the hospital plan he risks highlighting the trust
controversy again, and pointing up the opposition of Marcus Humphrey, the Tory
candidate, and the Conservative group on Aberdeen council.

The crisis comes amid continued Government complaints about BBC coverage -
particularly that of the Nine o'clock News on Health Secretary William
Waldegrave's speech on Wednesday, and a ''package'' featuring a British Medical
Association attack on the speech. Cabinet Ministers complained to BBC executives
at Blackpool. The Tory party has yet to make an official complaint though Judith
Chaplin, the Prime Minister's political secretary is said to have telephoned the
BBC to convey Mr Major's anger.

Meanwhile, determined to dispute the Prime Minister's pledge to stand by the
NHS, Labour's health spokesman, Robin Cook, yesterday released details of three
cases where NHS patients complained of being charged for fertility treatment and
incontinence aids. He said Mr Major ''does not appear to know what is actually
happening in the NHS, for even as he speaks patients across the country are
being charged for a range of services''.

Labour will put the health service centre stage when Neil Kinnock launches an
autumn campaign in Birmingham today. Tomorrow, they will release a pamphlet on
the Tory record on health and the economy.

Michael Heseltine, Secretary of State for the Environment, is likely to play a
prominent role in the run-up to the election after his triumphant reception last
Thursday. The warm applause is seen by party managers as removing any obstacle
to using his formidable campaigning skills.

It is also clear the Tories plan to continue to attack Labour's union links.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd


