                              311 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 April 24, 2004

'Keep hospital moving'

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 388 words


A Bristol MP has issued a warning to the city's hung council not to allow their
political differences to get in the way of building a new hospital in south
Bristol.  Dawn Primarolo, Labour MP for Bristol South, was speaking after the
announcement of the Bristol South and West Primary care Trust's decision to
press ahead with a planning application on the Hengrove Park site.

Labour and Tory councillors have been keen to give the green light to the plans,
but Liberal Democrat members have had reservations about how much information
they have about the future facility.

Last year, a masterplan for Hengrove Park was agreed by the council, which
included a 50-metre swimming pool and other leisure services, but originally the
hospital was not part of it.

But the Liberal Democrat party voted against it while the other two parties
recommended it.

Since the hospital has been involved with the plan they have been even more
concerned about the overall scheme.

Ms Primarolo said: "After all the years of waiting, the people of South Bristol
want to see this important new facility delivered.

"Now is not the time for political games and wrecking tactics. I will continue
to do all I can to support and guide the PCT and City Council through the next
stages of this project and I hope that locally elected representatives - of all
parties - will be doing the same." She also welcomed the move taken by the PCT.
She said: "The PCT has conducted a thorough consultation with residents, which
has enabled them to make some important decisions on the hospital plans." Ms
Primarolo said she would be looking very carefully at the way the council
conducts itself over the coming months.

Councillor Mary Sykes (Lib Dem Hengrove) stressed her party wants to see the
right hospital in the right place.

She said: "We want to make sure that we are doing the right thing in the right
location.

"There is no political agenda apart from to try and ensure that all parts of the
hospital and the masterplan work in the best way possible.

"It's not correct that Labour and the Tories do not take these points
seriously." Tory councillor Richard Eddy, a member of the Hengrove Park
Sponsors, said: "It is now time that the Lib Dems put these political tactics
aside and concentrated on the job ahead."

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2004 2404BRISEP191Tkeep

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2004 Bristol United Press


