                              316 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              Daily The Pak Banker

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

Minister orders removal of banners of political parties from hospitals

LENGTH: 384  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


Sindh Minister for Health, Jam Mehtab Hussain
Dahar on Thursday sought immediate removal of banners and posters of different
political parties and groups from all government hospitals in the province.


     Chairing a departmental meeting in his office, he directed the medical
superintendents and administrators of public sector health facilities in the
province to also ensure immediate wiping away of graffiti by activists in
support of their respective political affiliations.
     "This is high time to ensure that hospitals and healthcare facilities are
meant for public service and are not used as political battle fields," said Jam
Mehtab Hussain.
      He reiterated that a healthy and apolitical environment must be urgently
created in healthcare centres so as to facilitate patients in
seeking uninterrupted assistance, otherwise noticed to be hindered under pretext
of protest by elements claiming to have their varied political affiliations.
     "This is not acceptable and would not be tolerated," said the provincial
minister for health.
     During the meeting the Minister Jam Mehtab also took exception to
vacant post of gynecologist at Civil Hosptal, Umerkot.
     He directed the Special Secretary for Health, Dr. Khalid Shaikh to ensure
immediate appointment of a qualified gynecologist at the hospital, with due
consideration towards her necessary presence and
timely deliverance of service to the women belonging to the remote area.
     "These women must not suffer due to absence of gynecologists and other
relevant professionals assigned responsibilities, against salaries and perks,"
said Jab Mehtab Hussain Dahar.
     He also urged the concerned authorities to ensure that all public
sector hospitals, including those functional in less developed areas, remain
well equipped, with ready availability of all relevant medicines, drugs and
disposable and also manned by qualified and trained personnel.
     During the meeting the provincial health minister also took stock
of reported mishandling of polio workers during the recently concluded
special polio immunization campaign in 11 high risk districts.
     Instances of vaccine dropping and reported carelessness of these
workers can not be tolerated and the matter would be duly investigated
so as to bring to task the miscreants, he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


              Copyright 2014 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


