                              310 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                         November 10, 1985, Sunday, SUN

First Liver transplant performed at Toronto General

BYLINE: By Laurie Monsebraaten Toronto Star

SECTION: PERSPECTIVE; Pg. F6

LENGTH: 718 words


   Metro physicians broke new medical ground last week by performing the area's
first liver transplant operation.

The 48-year-old recipient is listed in serious but stable condition at Toronto
General Hospital where a transplant team spent 14 hours giving the man a new
liver.

The organ was donated by a 38-year-old Toronto man who died Oct.  31.

The transplant was performed even though the hospital had not received requested
approval and funding from Ontario's health ministry to set up Toronto's first
liver transplant program.

The Metro Toronto District Health Council - a committee set up to advise the
minister of health on matters including the establishment of new programs - has
requested that three Toronto hospitals begin liver transplant programs with the
University of Toronto's faculty of medicine.

Hospitals recommended for the program are Toronto General, Mount Sinai and
Hospital for Sick Children.

University Hopsital in London has been the only Ontario hospital now performing
liver transplants. Since 1977, 40 liver transplants have been carried out there.

Counting promises

The gloves came off last week during the final countdown to municipal election
day as Toronto mayoralty candidate Anne Johnston launched her fiercest attack
yet on Mayor Art Eggleton.

"He's a do-nothing mayor. I'm sorry to be so negative all the time, but that's
the record," Johnston said after releasing a paper that lists almost every major
promise Eggleton has made during his five years as mayor.

She accused him of making 27 election promises during his 1980 election campaign
"that either disappeared or were abandoned after a half-hearted effort."

Eggleton refuted Johnston's claim, saying that he had made 82 promises during
the 1980 campaign and, by 1982, 82 per cent had been largely fulfilled.

Meanwhile, in the City of York, where the New Democratic Party is battling to
re-elect party faithful to the school boards and city hall, Liberal MP John
Nunziata came under fire for giving a little help to his political friends in
the municipal area.

The former York alderman has endorsed seven municipal election candidates in an
attempt to help federal Liberal leader John Turner rebuild the party from the
grassroots.

"If we can get Liberal-minded people elected to local councils, it's a
tremendous step in the right direction," said the rookie MP, one of only 40
Liberals who survived the Tory sweep across Canada last September.

But York mayoral candidate Guy D'Onofrio - who isn't getting Nunziata's support
- said there is no room for party politics at the municipal level.

D'Onofrio's campaign headquarters is staffed by people from all three political
parties, he said.

Architects angry

There was yet more dome dealing last week after the price tag of Metro's domed
stadium shot from $150 to $225 million.

The Ontario Dome Group, one of four bidders for the contract, came up with some
major monetary persuasion - an extra $20 million to the $40 million of private
investment.

The announcement has left rival bidders scurrying to find the extra money and
has angered architects.

They say the winner should be decided on the merits of the designs, not on who
finds new investors.

Mayor Art Eggleton said more private money is needed and, while merit should
decide who wins, some consideration will have to be given to the financial side.

Concert loss feared

The threat of losing last summer's lucrative Bruce Springsteen concerts moved
Exhibition Place staff to overlook safety regulations and overcrowd the stadium,
The Star learned last week.

Under fire and building department regulations, total capacity for the stadium -
including fixed seating and the playing field - is 54,331 people. The concerts
were packed with nearly 70,000 fans.

No charges have been laid as a result of the apparent infraction and no reasons
have been given.

But an official told The Star last week that Springsteen organizers wanted a
substantial percentage of the "possible" gate, and a crowd of 54,331 didn't
interest them.

"Somebody had to make a call," the official said. "Springsteen already had two
dates set up in Buffalo. They had a bigger stadi um. They were ready to go.
There was really no time."

- Laurie Monsebraaten

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1985 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


