                              308 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                           October 18, 2006 Wednesday

Unions pull out of battle for services

BYLINE:  dave blackhurst

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 510 words


Unions representing thousands of staff at the University Hospital of North
Staffordshire, have pulled out of a community campaign to fight NHS cuts.

They have quit the Save Our Services (SOS) movement, after accusing it of
"putting out misinformation" which is undermining their own attempts to save
under-threat jobs at the Hartshill complex.

And another pressure group, North Staffordshire Healthwatch, has also quit the
alliance, after claiming it has become a vehicle for the Socialist Party.
despite being set up as a non-political organisation.

SOS was formed to fight the hospital's programme of cutting 1,000 jobs and
closing hundreds of beds, to claw back debts of £15 million.

Its high spot was organising a protest march and rally in the summer, which saw
5,000 demonstrators take to the streets.

But following regular talks between senior management and unions, the hospital
has reduced the level of compulsory redundancies from initial estimates of 700
to just 122 registered so far, although officials cannot rule out further forced
departures.

Pat Powell, the  Unison union branch secretary at the hospital, said: "While
resisting the cuts, we are pleased with progress which is coming from these
talks. SOS has been picking up on gossip being told them by people attending
their meetings, and then putting it out as fact on flyers.

"This goes for the number of staff who are going and the identity of wards which
are closing. We cannot afford our members' campaign to be based on inaccuracies
which undermine what we are trying to achieve," added Mrs Powell, who is also
secretary of the hospital staff side representing all the unions.

Healthwatch is now to form a North Staffordshire branch of the national movement
called Keep Our NHS Public, instead of working with SOS.

Co-ordinator Ian Syme said: "We were instrumental in setting up SOS, but it has
been taken over by sectarian political forces, and it is based on making
personal attacks on people like Antony Sumara before he left as chief executive
last month.

"There are some very good people in the Socialist party, but SOS was supposed to
be non-political."

SOS secretary Andy Bentley said: "We are disappointed the unions at the trust no
longer participate in the wider campaign. But we are pleased to see patients and
hospital staff are still with us.

"We have members of other political parties with us, including Labour and the
Greens."

He added that some of the information put out was based on what is already in
the public domain.

In its latest newsletter, advertising a meeting in the Coachmakers Arms, Hanley,
on Monday, at 7.30pm, SOS says: "Antony Sumara is now taking his bloated salary
and running.

"He is to be rewarded for his hatchet job with a lucrative 'top post in London'.
Sumara is many things but not a fool. He has realised that the hatchet job he
took on at our hospital will ultimately fail, so he is getting out while he can.

"This is a victory for NHS staff and patient campaigners, and the message will
go out loud and clear to whoever is appointed as the next hatchet man."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


