                              320 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Union Daily Times, S.C.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 12, 2014 Saturday

Hospital district moving forward with bankruptcy process

BYLINE: Charles Warner, The Union Daily Times, S.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1141 words


July 12--UNION -- The Union Hospital District is moving forward with a
bankruptcy process that could help it pay off its debts while continuing to
provide health care services to the people of Union County.

On June 6, the district filed a Chapter 9 bankruptcy petition in order to seek
an "adjustment" of the debts of the the district and its four service areas --
Wallace Thomson Hospital, Ellen Sager Nursing Homes, Carolinas Health
Associates, and Union County EMS -- under the supervision of the Bankruptcy
Court."

Most of the $18 million-$20 million in debt, which the district had accumulated
over the past five years, is owed to vendors, a number of whom the district no
longer does business with because it brought those services in-house in an
effort to reduce costs.

When the district filed the Chapter 9 bankruptcy petition, CEO Paul Newhouse
said the district hoped to settle those debts during the bankruptcy process
through a combination of negotiations and restructuring.

On Friday, Newhouse discussed the bankruptcy process and the circumstances that
lead to the district filing the Chapter 9 petition and how the process is
proceeding.

Newhouse began by pointing out that Chapter 9 bankruptcy is a lesser known form
of bankruptcy specifically designed for municipalities, a category that includes
not only cities and towns, but also counties, municipal utilities, and school
districts. He pointed out that the Bankruptcy Code defines a municipality as a "
political subdivision or public agency or instrumentality of a State."

"We are a political subdivision created by the state," Newhouse said. "That puts
us under the Chapter 9 umbrella."

Newhouse also pointed out that Chapter 9 enables political subdivisions such as
the hospital district to reorganize their debt by extending the time period
during which they have to be paid; refinancing the debt; or reducing the
principle or interest on those existing debts. The assets of a political
subdivision are not liquidated under Chapter 9.

Initially, Newhouse said the district was working to deal with its debt
situation through affiliation with another health care organization.

"We had for the past year been negotiating with the vendors," Newhouse said. "A
part of that discussion was that we were talking with other health care systems
about an affiliation. The hope was that those debts would be off if we
affiliated with someone."

Newhouse said the district had hoped to have an affiliation agreement in place
by the beginning of this year, but learned in May that the organizations they'd
been in communication with were not prepared to move forward with affiliation at
the present time.

After learning of this, Newhouse said the district contacted its major vendors
to inform them of the situation and the district's response to it. Newhouse said
this took the form of a conference call with the attorneys representing the
vendors. He said that during the call the attorneys were told of the district's
continuing efforts to develop a reorganization/restructuring plan that would
help deal with the debt. The attorneys responded that they could not commit to
that plan without first contacting their clients.

Newhouse said that shortly after this one of the vendors decided to go ahead and
file a judgment suit against the district.

It was at that point that the district's attorney advised the district to file
Chapter 9 in order to prevent that vendor's judgment suit and to prevent other
vendors from doing the same. Newhouse said the attorney said that in situations
like this when one creditor files a judgment suit, other creditors will then do
the same, creating a piling on effect that could prove extremely costly to the
object of that suit.

"It needed to be filed for protection from litigation by some of the creditors,"
Newhouse said. "It also give us extra time to work on the plan to adjust that
debt."

Newhouse said that under the rules governing Chapter 9, before they can file for
bankruptcy, the debtor is required to attempt to negotiate with its creditors.
He said the district had been negotiating with its creditors for the past
several years, a process that included making payments when possible as well as
attempting to restructure the debt. When, however, one of the vendors chose to
file a judgment suit, Newhouse said the district had no choice but file for
Chapter 9 bankruptcy.

With the filing of Chapter 9, Newhouse said all the debt the district owed as of
June 6 "is put on hold," while the district goes through the bankruptcy process.

The district, including Wallace Thomson, Ellen Sagar, EMS, and Carolinas Health
Associates has continued to operate since that time, including do business with
its vendors. Newhouse said while the debt the district had accumulated up until
June 6 is on hold, the costs it has incurred since then are being paid and the
vendors kept informed of the district's efforts to reorganize and restructure as
part of the bankruptcy process.

Even as it goes through bankruptcy proceedings, Newhouse said the district is
still delivering health care services to the community as it did before June 6.

"We have not reduced any staff involved in treating patients," Newhouse said.
"Any and all reductions in personnel have been made in administrative staff or
those not directly involved in patient care. Staffing is at the same level it
has been for the past 15 years. We still have the same nurse to patient ratio."

Newhouse said he expects the Chapter 9 process to take several months as the
district, working with its attorney, reviews and analyzes all contracts with its
vendors to determine what can be renegotiated as part of the development of a
reorganization/restructuring plan that can be presented to the court. He said
the district had its first meeting with the judge presiding over the case in
Spartanburg this past Wednesday during which he and other representatives of the
district explained its history over the past few years including changes in
health care and their impact on its finances.

The hearing went well according to Newhouse who said the judge stated that he
understood the importance of the district in providing health care to the
community and that he wanted to help them work through the
reorganization/restructuring process.

"It was a good start," Newhouse said.

Newhouse added that if successful, the reorganization/restructuring plan it is
developing will not only enable it to pay off its debts to the satisfaction of
its creditors, but make it a more efficient organization that will be more
attractive to other health care systems. This in turn would increase the
likelihood of the district affiliating with one of those systems in the future.

___ (c)2014 The Union Daily Times (Union, S.C.) Visit The Union Daily Times
(Union, S.C.) at uniondailytimes.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140712-UH-Hospital
-district-moving-forward-with-bankruptcy-process-0712-20140712

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UH


                                 Copyright 2014


