                              326 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           November 13, 2012 Tuesday

Nurses plan to intensify stir; Collectorate march today

SECTION: KOZHIKODE

LENGTH: 345 words


KANNUR: The coordination committee of the joint action councils in Kannur and
Thaliparamba, which were formed to support the agitation by the Indian Nurses'
Association (INA), would organize a Collectorate march on Monday. Sunny Joseph
MLA will inaugurate the march.

"This coordination committee comprises representatives of various political
parties as also the representatives of the INA and this march is part of the
effort to intensify our agitation," said E M Vineeth Krishnan, the national
secretary of the INA.

"Though the hospital managements are adamant in their stand against the
agitation, all the political parties are convinced of the demands of the nurses
and they have offered all supports," said the association. They said nearly
2,000 people including 600 nurses, their parents and the general public would
participate in the march.

"Former health minister and CPM leader P K Sreemathi visited the striking nurses
at Koyili hospital and offered all support to us. Prominent Congress leaders
like K Sudhakaran MP and PC Thomas also visited yesterday," he said.

Meanwhile, State Human Rights Commission member Adv K E Gangadharan who visited
the nurses two days back asked the labour commissioner and the director of
health service to study the issue and submit a report.

The INA also claimed that the functioning of the hospitals had been seriously
affected and the managements were illegally using the service of trainees even
in ICUs.

However, the hospital managements said that they were taking the help of the
nurses who had not taken part in the strike. "Apart from the nurses who are not
participating in the strike, we also take the help of the qualified staff in the
nursing colleges that we run," said K Jayarajan, district secretary of the
Qualified Private Medical Practitioners' and Hospitals' Association (QPMPA).

He also said in the hospitals, where nurses were striking they have restricted
inpatient admission and half of the rooms and wards were closed. "Only one ICU
was functioning in these hospitals," he said.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


