                              317 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                      May 21, 1998, Thursday, ALL EDITIONS

ON WASHINGTON;
Medicare enforcers criticized

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14A; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 749 words


IRS bashing seems to have worked on the tax guys, so why not try the same
technique on Medicare overseers?

U.S. hospitals have turned to Congress in an effort to curb Medicare fraud
prosecutions, using the same pitch crafted to capitalize on the furor over
abusive government investigators. Their message is similar to the one heard
repeatedly by witnesses testifying before Congress about alleged abuses and
strong-arm tactics by Internal Revenue Service investigators.

In trying to roll back a two-year crackdown on Medicare fraud, health care
industry execs argue that the crackdown has had the effect of criminalizing
simple billing mistakes. They also have hired a top prosecutor, former U.S.
Attorney Joseph diGenova, to lobby. Their message, delivered by hospital
executives calling and visiting the Capitol, is that prosecutors are abusing the
False Claims Act to coerce hospitals to pay fines and escape the threat of
criminal prosecutions. ''You shouldn't be using capital punishment for
jaywalking,'' said Richard Pollock, executive vice president of the American
Hospital Association, sounding the rallying cry.

Congress appears to be listening, because the hospital-backed bill has been
introduced in both chambers of Congress.

The False Claims Act provides for triple damages and fines of up to $ 10,000.
Medicare lost $ 20 billion to fraud, waste and simple error last year, according
to the Department of Health and Human Services. Budget knife wielded Majority
Republicans brushed off Democratic catcalls Wednesday and muscled a $ 1.72
trillion 1999 spending plan through the House Budget Committee, chaired by Rep.
John Kasich (R-Ohio). The measure calls for cutting spending by $ 101 billion
over the next five years and reducing taxes by the same amount. The package,
approved on a party-line 22-16 vote, moderates any pain its spending reductions
might cause by delaying most of them until after the next presidential election
and by not indicating the programs to be trimmed. It also doesn't reflect
potential effects of the two biggest bills Congress is now considering: tobacco
and highways. Even so, the election-year blueprint is aimed at letting
Republicans argue that they would go beyond last year's budget-balancing deal
with further belt-tightening and more generous tax cuts. Women in command It was
only four years ago that laws were changed to permit women to serve aboard U.S.
combat vessels. Now, the Navy has come up with another first: This year, five
women will take command of warships, the first time that female officers will
skipper men o'war. Between June and January, the female officers will take the
helm of a guided-missile frigate and four amphibious ships. Degrees of
separation College isn't for everyone, of course. And quite a few people without
college degrees have done pretty well for themselves by running for Congress,
where they earn $ 136,700 a year and all the rubber chicken they can eat. Here
are the elected ungrads, as listed by George magazine and The Washington Post:
Sens. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.), Lauch Faircloth (R-N.C.) and Rod Grams (R-Minn.);
and Reps. Brian Bilbray (R-Calif.), Dan Burton (R-Ind.), Sonny Callahan
(R-Ala.), Mac Collins (R-Ga.), Terry Everett (R-Ala.), Mark Foley (R-Fla.),
Elton Gallegly (R-Calif.), William Hefner (D-N.C.), William Lipinski (D-Ill.),
Matthew Martinez (D-Calif.), Solomon Ortiz (D-Texas), Silvestre Reyes (D-Texas),
Esteban Torres (D-Calif.), Zach Wamp (R-Tenn.) and C.W. "Bill" Young (R-Fla.).
ELSEWHERE

A sudden case of Powerball fever before Wednesday night's estimated $ 175
million drawing, and a long line at the local 7-Eleven, made White House press
secretary Mike McCurry 24 minutes late in starting his daily briefing.

Former Sen. Bob Packwood (R-Ore.), now a Washington lobbyist, has signed on to
help Marriott International Inc. rewrite a law that gives a tax break to five
''paired-share'' real estate investment trusts, hotel industry competitors of
Marriott.

Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), who led the congressional drive to ban
anti-personnel land mines weapons worldwide and create a war victims fund, has
received the Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation's first humanitarian award.
DULY NOTED "Even though she's a Republican, I really like her." --- Cher,
talking about Rep. Mary Bono (R-Calif.), her late ex-husband Sonny Bono's widow,
on Jay Leno's TV show Tuesday night. Compiled by Ernie Freda from staff, news
services and published reports

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Final Today's News

                    Copyright 1998 The Atlanta Constitution


