                              319 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               New Era (Windhoek)

                                October 22, 2014

Health Manifestos At a Glance

LENGTH: 844 words

DATELINE: Windhoek


Most political parties contesting the November presidential and National
Assembly elections agree health facilities at state hospitals are inadequate,
dilapidated, under-equipped and need a facelift.

In the same breath, the political parties also call for affordable or free
health care for the needy and want to see a future government rolling out a
vigorous training programme for medical staff such as nurses and doctors.

Furthermore, the parties also share similar sentiments on the social welfare
system in their manifestos - that social welfare is inadequate.

The National Democratic Party (NDP) says that if elected to power, it would open
more clinics, health centres and hospitals in all regions and set up mobile
clinics and send citizens for training for ten years.

NDP promises that senior citizens would not need to pay for medicine and no
patient would be turned away because they do not have money, adding that the NDP
would promote free health.

The Congress of Democrats (CoD) says it would use a radical approach to
transform the current health and welfare system with comprehensive medical aid,
medical insurance and a pension system to include public and private sector
employees.

It says social workers, church functionaries, bishops, pastors, religious sector
employees, employees in the farming sector, domestics, war veterans and children
of war veterans would be included in such a scheme.

"All former exiles shall be given the opportunity for permanent rehabilitation,
restitution and resettlement by state," reads the manifesto, adding that war
veterans need to heal the wounds of the past and damage caused by the history of
genocide, dehumanization, expropriation of property, poverty, political
oppression and economic exploitation.

CoD promises to provide medical insurance to unemployed youth, students as well
as pensioners to allow access to health facilities.

The DTA of Namibia says Namibia needs a holistic care system that is universally
accessible and affordable.

"The last health care policy dates back to 2010 and Namibia now needs a
comprehensive health care policy to address complex health care challenges,"
says the DTA.

The DTA says it would address a shortage of health care professionals, modernise
all government hospitals and infrastructure, increase the number of paramedical
and medical colleges, focus on rural health care delivery, give high priority to
chronic diseases and invest in research and development.

The Swapo Party promises to upgrade existing infrastructure and develop new
health facilities, undertake research and training to achieve national public
health objectives, introduce health care packages and specialised services at
district and regional hospitals.

Swapo says it will enact the public health bill, environmental health bill and
food safety bill, traditional medicine and introduce high specialized services
such as orthopedic and spinal surgery, hip and knee replacement, maxillo-facial
surgery, blindness prevention, nuclear medicine and cardiac surgery.

"Under strategic intervention and improved access to health facilities and
services, a number of infrastructure improvements were undertaken including the
construction and renovation of various clinics, health centres and hospitals,
renovation of maternity wards at Windhoek Central Hospital, Oshakati
Intermediate Hospital and Opuwo District Hospital, while mortality rates from
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria were drastically reduced," state Swapo.

Swanu of Namibia plans to improve public health care by investing heavily in
renovating the Katutura State Hospital and Central State Hospital, and
streamlining public hospitals so that operations are smoother and cycle times
for patients are significantly reduced. It also plans to phase in universal
medical aid for those who cannot afford conventional medical aid and build new
state hospitals to reduce pressure on current ones.

The Republican Party (RP) says it would ensure all state hospitals and clinics
are well maintained and properly equipped, that hospitals, clinics and
pharmacies are consistently equipped with the required medicine and priority is
given to nurses and sisters to be employed and trained to meet international
standards.

The RP says its government would subsidize those who cannot afford medical
services if voted into power.

The All People's Party (APP) says it would embark on mass training of nurses and
other medical practitioners if they win the elections and added that retired
professional nurses and doctors still fit to work would be called in to help out
at clinics.

APP promised to revamp and expand a decadent ambulance system and each health
district would have an ambulance, while all companies would be mandated to have
full health care coverage for workers.

The Rally for Democracy and Progress (RDP) says that health for all is a
priority and it would implement the Social Security Commission-backed up
national medical insurance.

Furthermore, the RDP wants to provide accessible health to rural communities and
give priority to primary health care.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


