                              321 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                               February 25, 2005

MRSA a medical issue, not a political weapon

SECTION: Features; General; Letters; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 336 words


I would like to state my views as a nurse in reply to the prospective
parliamentary candidate for the UK Independence Party, Mr David Challice, in
Matron will cleanse our hospitals, Points of view, February 21.  Firstly, MRSA
is not a subject to be used by political parties to gain points. It is a problem
needing co-operation among all members of the health professions, including
infection control specialist nurses, microbiologists, housekeeping staff,
nurses, medical staff, patients and visitors.

I can reassure everyone this is happening at the Royal Devon & Exeter Hospital.
We already have matrons in each specialist area, and an excellent director of
nursing in control of the wards.

Agony aunt Claire Raynor, unfortunately, has lost sight of the current
environment of the ward. In her day, the wards were staffed by larger numbers of
nurses, students and orderlies. Nursing and housekeeping staff work just as hard
at keeping the ward clean now. We also wash our hands just as frequently, and
use disinfectant gels.

In her day, patients stayed in hospital much longer and there was plenty of time
to clean between with several beds left empty. Today, many patients stay in
hospital only for a day or two. Beds are not left empty, and often, patients are
waiting for a bed before the previous person has gone home.

If Mr Challice looked at the age range of nurses, he would find the majority are
not young giggly girls or boys, but mature adults approaching retirement.
Indeed, the majority of students entering nursing now are aged 25 years plus.

Today, visiting hours are generally open and numbers unrestricted, as in the
past. Some visitors, unfortunately, are not considerate when they visit in dirty
clothes and welly boots, and sit on the beds of their relatives and others.

I would like to invite Mr Challice to visit my ward, then he can see for himself
how clean wards are, and also the pressure under which we all work.

Charles Conibear Raglans Alphington, Exeter

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2005 Express & Echo (Exeter)


