                              318 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                             July 2, 2016 Saturday

Messy affairs of Vehari DHQ Hospital

BYLINE: Mian Inamul Haq

SECTION: Vol. 26 No. 121

LENGTH: 564  words


People have demanded Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif make a surprise visit to the
District Headquarters Hospital whose messy affairs have made the life of
patients miserable.

The hospital is the only health facility in the area but it has reportedly
become a 'slaughterhouse' for the patients as a number of them has lost their
lives in the last few days either due to the alleged negligence or
unavailability of doctors. The main reason behind increase in deaths in
emergency ward was reported that the specialist doctors have forbidden the
emergency doctors not to make them any call after 2pm. If a patient is brought
to the DHQ Hospital after 2pm, he is referred to the Nishtar Hospital in Multan
and if the patient has no resources to go Multan, the emergency doctors start
ignoring him and consequently he dies.

Another major problem for the patients is non-functional air conditioners in the
hospital. It is reported that the air conditioners are repaired every year but
the result is zero. The other problem of the hospital is poor sanitary
conditions as some sweepers were Muslims and they have refused to work soon
after their appointment. They have been appointed on political grounds. The
shortage of staff is yet another problem being faced by the patients and their
attendants at the hospital. The hospital has been upgraded to 300 beds but the
staff has not been provided.

When contacted, DHQ Hospital Medical Superintendent Ghazanfar Abbas Dharalla
said that he was posted here about 45 days ago. When he took the charge, all the
generators were out-of-order, he said, adding that now three generators were
functional due to his efforts. He said that repair of air conditioners was under
way. He, however, said that 50 per cent air conditioners could not be repaired
and he had sent its report to the district administration. About poor
sanitation, the MS said that there were 38 sanctioned posts of sanitary workers.
Of them, eight were ill while six others were Muslims and 12 seats were lying
vacant. He said that the Muslim sweepers had been appointed on political grounds
and he was helpless to take action against them.

Ghazanfar said that there were 36 sanctioned posts of doctors and of them 15
were lying vacant. He said that if he tried to take action against any doctor
for any negligence, he either came under political pressure or threatened to
resign.

To a question regarding specialist doctors, who did not admit patients after
2pm, the MS said that he had repeatedly asked the doctors in this regard, but to
no avail. He suggested that the Punjab Health secretary should issue a letter to
all specialist doctors, directing them to visit the emergency ward in the
evening. The MS admitted that the paramedics were posted on political grounds
and he had started rotating them but the speed was slow due to political
involvement.

DCO Akbar Ali Bhatti said that he was making surprise visits to the hospital and
he had succeeded in improving the emergency ward. He added that air conditioners
of one room of emergency ward were working and free medicines were being
provided to the patients. He admitted that the paramedics had been working on
the same post for the last many years and no one could change them. The DCO said
that he had sent a report to the health secretary about working of specialist
doctors and now it was his duty to take action against them.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


