                              33 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                               May 2, 2011 Monday

Cancer patients lose in hospital fight

BYLINE: LAXMI MAHARJAN

LENGTH: 630  words


KATHMAMDU: The prolonged closure of the Chitwan-based BP Koirala Memorial Cancer
Hospital has proved fatal for several cancer patients in need of critical care.

At the heart of the two-month closure is the ego clash between Dr Laxmi Narayan
Singh and Dr Bhaktaman Shrestha, and the political parties they represent.

Dr Singh, the 'new executive director (ED)', enjoys the Nepali Congress'
backing, while Dr Shrestha, the 'outgoing' ED, has the UCPN-Maoist by his side.

Health experts with years of experience say the political parties are behind the
standoff.

It is illegal to disrupt essential services like critical medical care, but the
government is acting like a mute spectator, they hold.

The experts say the crisis has surfaced because the government does not have a
transparent system for the appointment of employees and politicians have a
vested interest in misusing the public resources.

Dr Kiran Shrestha, president of the Nepal Medical Association, says both the
directors are using political patronage to their advantage at the expense of the
patients.

Dr Kedar Narsingh KC, immediate past president of the NMA, argues that
power-sharing arrangements and political intervention of the new government are
at the root of the crisis.

"Political parties are promoting a culture of impunity and are working against
the rule of law," Dr KC observes.

"An institution should not be closed to serve the interest of an individual,"

he says, requesting the 'outgoing' ED Dr Shrestha

to create a conducive environment for the functioning of the hospital.

"Political parties should not meddle with the internal matters of the hospital,"
Ram Chandra Simkhada, secretary of the Forum for Consumer Protection, argues,
suggesting the appointment of a new new executive director as a way out.

"Political leaders lack the will to implement the Essential Services Act," he
says.

Meanwhile, the NMA council is meeting on Wednesday to press for an early
resumption of the hospital's services and is likely to ask both the 'warring'
doctors to step aside.

Charan Prasai, human right activist, holds that the hospital closure is the
extreme form of rights violation as it has denied people the right to health,
something which the Interim Constitution 2007 has guaranteed.

According to Prasai, political parties' meddlesome behaviour is the major reason
behind the hospital crisis. The government should provide security to the health
sector, he argues.

What the rivals say

KATHMANDU: Dr Bhaktaman Shrestha says he is not going to accept the new
executive director as he was appointed by the board of director, which is an
'illegitimate move'. "I will not take a legal recourse either as I don't believe
in the country's legal system," he says, adding the Supreme Court had discarded
the writ he had filed against the board decision on February 9.

According to Dr Shrestha, the problem will be solved within days with the
appointment of a Maoist Health Minister. According to Dr Shrestha, the new board
members are trying to have their way with Nepali Congress' support. "I sought
YCL's support after Dr Laxmi Narayan Singh came up with more than 55 of his
supporters." The fact that the hospital bears BP Koirala's name doesn't mean
that the hospital belongs exclusively to the NC and its sympathisers, holds Dr
Shrestha. According to Dr Shrestha, Dr Singh had quit as the head of the
hospital's radiology department on 2010 after he failed to discharge his duties.
He said the government should be blamed for the hardships facing the public due
to the hospital closure. On his part, Dr Singh, the newly-appointed executive
director, said he had to enter the hospital with supporters after YCL barred him
from the health facility. According to him, Dr Shrestha has tarnished his image
by politicising the issue.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2011 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


