                              324 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Financial Daily

                             October 7, 2011 Friday

3 political activists among 6 killed in Karachi

LENGTH: 279  words


Around six persons including three workers of a political party fell prey to
target killing and firing incidents while ten others including a child received
bullet injuries from aerial firing in various areas of the city in separate
incidents on Thursday.

According to police, in PIB Colony unidentified armed miscreants opened
indiscriminate fire at a person identified as Kamran 35, killing him at the
spot. Police shifted the body to hospital for medico legal investigation.

Later on it was revealed that Kamran was worker of a political party.

In North Nazimabad, miscreants sprayed bullets at security guard Faiz Ahmad 50.
Locals shifted security guard to hospital who succumbed to injuries on the way
to hospital.

Another citizen, Syed Abbas came under the barrage of fire when he was on the
way to home along with his child in Federal B Area. Abbas met his fate at the
spot while his child sustained critical bullet injuries who was rushed to
hospital.

In Gulistan-e-Jauhar, workers of two political parties traded fire which
resulted in the killing of two political activists.

Both the deceased were identified as 25-years-old Azeem alias Asad and Ajmal 18.
Prior to the tragic incident of killing and firing, miscreants gunned down a
person whose identity was not yet ascertained in Old City area. The body was
shifted by police to hospital for autopsy.

At least six people sustained bullet injuries when two groups traded fire in
Machar Colony area. Exchange of fire between the two rival groups continued for
several hours which was pacified when police and Rangers personnel arrived in
the area and took control of the spot. However, no arrest was yet made in this
regard.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2011 The Financial Daily
                              All Rights Reserved


