                              336 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           September 15, 2006, Friday

Labour ploy to protect hospitals in marginals

BYLINE: Nigel Hawkes Health Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 796 words


A secret meeting has been held by ministers and Labour Party officials to work
out ways of closing hospitals without jeopardising key marginal seats, The Times
can reveal.

Concerns about the political impact of planned hospital closures and other cuts
to the NHS, which had a deficit last year of more than £ 500 million, prompted
ministers to organise the closed-door discussion. Details of the meeting,
revealed in e-mails passed to The Times, show that it included Hazel Blears, the
Labour chairman, political advisers from No 10 and even -at the request of Ms
Blears -a Labour Party representative.

Opposition politicians said yesterday it was "deeply inappropriate" that party
officials should have had an influence over plans drawn up by civil servants for
changes in services on medical grounds. They also expressed concerns that
hospitals in Tory constituencies were more vulnerable.

The e-mails show that Patricia Hewitt, the Health Secretary, called for those at
the meeting to be provided with "heat maps", showing marginal Labour seats where
closures or reconfigurations of health services could cost votes. She also asked
for lists showing hospitals where the European Working Time Directive is likely
to hit hardest, making 24-hour rotas hard to sustain.

Ministers have always insisted that the directive will not affect hospitals, but
the e-mails suggest otherwise. Ms Hewitt may have been seeking to blunt the
impact of the loss of 24-hour care by reconfiguring services to conceal it.

David Nicholson, the new NHS Chief Executive, gave warning this week that
closures and reconfigurations were imminent. He expected there would be about 60
such changes, affecting every strategic health authority (SHA) and focusing
particularly on maternity and accident and emergency services.

The leaked e-mails make it plain that such changes have been considered since at
least May. The first, from Alison Smith, a Department of Health official, refers
to a May 12 submission about "supply-side reconfiguration".

The second, from Ms Hewitt's private secretary, says that the Health Secretary
asked for a political meeting to discuss the submission. She wants the health
ministers Lord Warner and Andy Burnham to attend with their advisers, Ms Blears
and her two advisers, and John McTernan and Paul Corrigan from No 10.

A further e-mail from Ms Hewitt's diary secretary says that Ms Blears has asked
for a party representative to be included. The meeting took place on July 3 at
the Department of Health.

Andrew Lansley, the Tory health spokesman, said: "There is a secret political
debate going on to try to minimise damage to the Labour Party."

A spokesman for Ms Blears confirmed that the meeting had taken place but said
that because it was political there was no record of who was present. "It
wouldn't be unusual for Labour Party press officers to attend meetings with
ministers," he said. "And as Minister without Portfolio, Ms Blears has the
responsibility of providing policy advice to the Prime Minister across all
departments, so she had a second reason for being there."

Ministers are worried that the changes planned by Mr Nicholson may have the same
effect as the removal of an A&E unit from Kidderminster Hospital in 2001, which
led to the Independent candidate Richard Taylor ousting the Labour MP.

After Mr Nicholson's interview appeared, the Department of Health said his
remarks did not mean "wholesale closures of hospitals" but rather that the NHS
needed to work with local communities to decide how best to organise services.

One of the first strategic health authorities to make a move is the East of
England SHA, whose board met yesterday to discuss a review of acute services.

There are 19 district general hospitals in the region and reports suggest that
as many as nine will be downgraded.

Mr Lansley said it was no coincidence that the hospital top of the list for
changes, and the only one specifically targeted in the board papers, for
yesterday's meeting, was Hinchingbrooke -"which happens to be in one of the two
safest Conservative seats in the country".

Leading article, page 19

DANGER LISTS * East of England Strategic Health Authority says some of its 19
hospitals may be too small to provide comprehensive services. Hinchingbrooke in
Huntington tops the list for changes or closure, but no guarantees have been
given for any hospital in Cambridgeshire, Norfolk, Suffolk, Bedfordshire, Essex
or Hertfordshire

* Many A&E departments are under threat. Those reportedly at risk include Chase
Farm in Enfield, Penzance, Northwick Park in Harrow, and Central Middlesex

* Maternity services may be lost at Fairfield Hospital in Bury, Rochdale
Infirmary, Alexandra Hospital in Redditch, and Stroud Maternity Hospital.
Community hospitals also face a doubtful future

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


