                              328 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                      May 26, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

Politics and the hospital board: Levine isn't the only one with party
affiliations

BYLINE: LUIZA CHWIALKOWSKA; THE OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: CITY; Pg. D2


There are Liberals, Conservatives and New Democrats among them, but no one asks
the people who set policy for the new Ottawa Hospital about their political
pasts or affiliations, says Graham Scott, a provincially appointed independent
facilitator who oversaw the hospital amalgamation.

"There is no restriction on (political activism among board members) that I know
of," said Mr. Scott, a Toronto lawyer who has been involved in the mergers of
about 25 hospitals in the past two years. "Politics has nothing to do with the
(selection) process."

That David Levine came under scrutiny for his political affiliation is ironic,
said Mr. Scott, since the board of trustees, not the CEO, sets policy.

"You could argue that there would be a greater reason for concern regarding (the
political affiliations of) board members since the board is a policy-making
body," Mr. Scott said last week. "The CEO has nothing to do with policy. The CEO
makes day-to-day decisions, but can't make major decisions without approval of
the board."

Among the politically connected Ottawa Hospital board members is Don Grant, who
has organized major fund-raising dinners for Prime Minister Jean Chretien and
raised money for Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson's election campaign.

Board member Isabel Metcalfe is the executive vice-president of the Liberal
Party of Canada for Ontario.

Board member Claudette Boyer is a former Liberal riding association president
and ran unsuccessfully for the Ottawa-Vanier seat in Parliament in 1995.

Also on the board is former regional chair Peter Clark who helped elect
conservative MP Jean Pigott around the time Mr. Levine was running for the Parti
Quebecois.

The people who volunteer for boards are active in their communities and
therefore more likely to be politically active, said Mr. Scott, though they
don't join boards in a partisan capacity. Politically active members were in the
minority, he added, and their disparate views "probably balance each other out."

The steering committee that chose the board included people of various political
stripes.

Pierre Richard (who sat on the chairman selection committee) is an active
Conservative supporter. Doug Rowland, who was on the steering committee, was an
NDP MP before joining the public service.

To whom does the board answer?

"It's not fair to say they are unaccountable," Mr. Scott said. "The government
has the right to remove them."

The board is accountable to itself and to the provincial government. The Public
Hospitals Act and the Corporations Act give the board powers that include the
selection of the CEO and policy decisions regarding merging of the Civic,
General, Riverside and Salvation Army Grace hospitals.

Premier Mike Harris said earlier that he would not direct the board in the
Levine matter.

Normally, corporate boards can be elected or defeated by the members of a
corporation. But in the case of the new Ottawa hospital, there is no membership
yet.

The board must decide on a membership structure, Mr. Scott said. Then the
membership will elect or defeat the board.

There are many possible membership structures for the hospital corporation. They
could include representatives of community groups and associations deemed by the
board to have a stake in the policy of the hospital. Or, they could have a
broad-based membership open to anyone willing to pay a dollar to join and vote.

"The membership could be massive or small," Mr. Scott said. "Small towns tend to
have broad-based membership, and big city hospitals tend to limit their
membership to stakeholders."

It won't be until June 1999 that the board will hold an annual meeting, where
one-third of the board will be up for re-election.

How were members chosen?

When the Health Services Restructuring Commission instructed four area hospitals
to amalgamate, the details of the process were left to the hospitals.

The four hospital boards created a 15-member steering committee to run the
amalgamation process. Each hospital nominated three of its existing board
members to the steering committee, which also included the dean of medicine from
the University of Ottawa and a representative from the French Language Services
Network.

The steering committee hired an interim CEO, developed a mission for the new
hospital, and a governance structure under which each hospital appointed
trustees to a new hospital board.

The Restructuring Commission required that the "governance structure of the
Ottawa Hospital be representative of the community served and have regard to the
demographic, linguistic, cultural, economic, geographic, ethnic, religious, and
social characteristics of the Ottawa-Carleton region," said spokesman Paul
Kilbertis. "The plan must ensure that members of the new board have relevant
experience and expertise."

The steering committee decided that the new board was to have a "gender balance"
and be one-third francophone.

Sixteen board members came from the existing hospitals and the committee
appointed eight new directors who had no connection with any of the hospitals.

"They felt it would be healthy to have fresh blood, fresh faces, that weren't
tied in with existing hospitals," said Mr. Scott. "They also wanted to have a
new chair that was independent of existing hospitals."

The steering committee created a nominations subcommittee to choose seven new
directors, as well as a special subcommittee to select the chair, Nick Mulder.

That nominations committee included hospital representatives, plus a number of
people from the community, including representatives of the Ottawa Board of
Trade, District Labour Council, Francophone Businessmen's Association, the
Montfort Hospital, Ottawa Councillor Allan Higdon, regional councillor Madeleine
Meilleur and the Canadian Ethnocultural Council.

The nominations committee received about 80 applications in response to
advertisements placed in newspapers. The people who applied were interested in
health care and community issues, said Mr. Scott. The nomination committee tried
to pick people with knowledge and backgrounds that would be helpful to the
boards, such as a knowledge of health care or finance.

"The committee picked the candidates," said Mr. Scott. "The steering committee
just accepted whoever was recommended by the nominations committee."

The board also included the dean of the University of Ottawa's medical school,
the dean of health sciences, and the president and vice-president of the Medical
Staff Association. The Public Hospitals Act also required that volunteer
association and foundation representatives be on the board.

"They have an enormous task ahead of them," said Mr. Scott of the volunteer
board. "Everyone was told it would be an enormous, time-consuming job."

And that was before David Levine.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1998

LENGTH: 1143 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Black & White Photo: Isabel Metcalfe is federal Liberals' Ontario VP.
Black & White Photo: Don Grant has raised funds for Jean Chretien.

Black & White Photo: Claudette Boyer is a former Liberal candidate.

Black & White Photo: Peter Clark is a long-time local political player.

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


