                              34 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                           February 2, 2017 Thursday

Rs 2.36 b splurged on community hospitals under party influence'

LENGTH: 718 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, Feb. 2 -- At a time when many government hospitals are in a pathetic
condition, the Ministry of Health (MoH) doled out more than Rs 2 billion in
three years to community hospitals and NGOs with political access.

There are 109 government hospitals with a total of 5,271 beds and 154 private
hospitals with7,394 beds across the country. Of the government hospitals, 37
hospitals do not have the sanctioned number of beds and many more are without
the necessary equipment.

The government, which started distributing grants to community hospitals 17
years ago, provided Rs 2.36 billion to community hospitals and NGOs under the
influence of political parties and party leaders over the last three years,
according to MoH sources. The distribution of funds in the previous 14 years has
not been recorded in the files. Every year, approximately Rs 500 million is
distributed to community hospitals and to various organizations and political
cadres.

MoH distributed Rs 568 million to 59 hospitals and various organizations in
fiscal year 2013/14, Rs 1.31 billion to 52 hospitals and NGOs in 2014/15 and Rs
479 million to 22 community hospitals and NGOs in 2015/16, according to
documents obtained by Republica. Different ministries distribute more than Rs 20
billion annually to different organizations, individuals and political cadres,
said the MoH sources.

During the tenure of then health minister Ram Janam Chaudhari, Rs 479 million
was given to 22 community hospitals just one day ahead of the end of fiscal year
2015/16, and the receipients were required to submit their reports to the
government within 90 days. However, no reports were submitted within the 90
days.

According to a working manual, the grants should be provided in installments as
the work progresses. "While distributing the Rs 479 million, the manual was not
followed," said Bhavanath Khatiwada, under-secretary at MoH.

Former minister Chaudhari said that the funds used to be distributed haphazardly
in the past. "We started work to bring in new regulations but the cabinet
approved these only in the last hour. So we went ahead and distributed the funds
as per the regulations even though only one day remained before the fiscal year
ended," he added. "If they had failed to submit their reports within the 90
days, the ministry should have monitored them and taken necessary action."

Reports submitted by a few hospitals after 90 days show that the funds were used
for religious activities, seminars and other activities although the working
manual allows expenditure of the funds only on medical equipment and the
construction of hospital buildings. Six of the hospitals are yet to submit their
reports.

Most of the community hospitals, which were expected to deliver cheaper services
as at government hospitals, have charged fees for different tests and surgeries
just like at the expensive private hospitals.

"There is no difference between private and community hospitals in terms of
service charges," said the MoH officials. "This is not the spirit of community
hospitals, which are meant to serve in rural areas where there are no government
hospitals. But many of the community hospitals are located in urban areas, which
are already served by government hospitals."

The present government has not allocated any grants despite the dozens of grant
applications that have piled up at the ministry. "Providing state funds to
community hospitals without examining them thoroughly is questionable," said
Health Minister Gagan Thapa. "We found that the grants were misused, wrongly
used and under-used at community hospitals," he said.

"So we have prepared a draft amendment to the working manual, provisioning
different markers such as not repeating grants to the same organizations every
year, locating community hospitals in remote areas and away from government
hospitals, not providing grants to Kathmandu Valley and the urban areas and
ensuring cheaper services to people," said Minister Thapa. "The working manual
will be tabled at the cabinet meeting on Thursday. Only after it is approved
will grants be distributed to hospitals this year."

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2017 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


