                              330 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             March 22, 2011 Tuesday

Pakistan: Attendants crowding CHK raise security concerns

LENGTH: 992  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, March 22 -- The medical staff in the Civil Hospital Karachi continues
to work in highly vulnerable conditions despite the recent security measures
taken by the administration following a newborn`s kidnapping and threats hurled
at lady doctors by patients` relatives.

According to sources, the insecurity in the hospital is directly related to the
huge number of patients visiting the health facility daily with an equally large
number of attendants that often stay in the health facility in case of a
patient`s admission as well as the influence of political parties, amply visible
from the banners and posters pasted all over the CHK.

The sources also blame the failure of the administration in devising an
efficient life-saving system at the emergency department that, they say, often
creates a conflict.

A visit to the hospital revealed that political parties have set up their
offices in the hospital under different names and one group backed by a ruling
party has reportedly taken over a ward room.

"With political wall-chalking everywhere and attendants resting in the
corridors, on the ground and even on the bricks, the CHK looks anything but a
hospital," comments a senior doctor.

According to estimates, between 700 and 800 people daily visit the hospital`s
emergency section. Between 3,500 and 5,000 people visit its out-patient
departments daily.

Speaking to , doctors said that the attendants who created security problems
usually had the backing of a political party or a resourceful person.

They described the situation in the CHK emergency department as "critical" which
could turn "violent" anytime, especially in the late evening hours.

Although the department is guarded the whole day by security personnel at the
entrance and a police checkpoint has also been set up nearby, these arrangements
seem to be of little effect.

"This is eyewash. The guards pose no resistance to men who come in groups while
the policemen are the one who escape first when there is a trouble. Our life and
dignity is at risk all the time and when it is breached, there is no one to help
us," said a doctor.

The presence of a large number of attendants, most of them were men, inside the
emergency section gave credence to his opinion.

Referring to a recent incident, another doctor said that a man riding a
motorbike and a pillion passenger with a gun-shot wound were allowed to enter
the "dressing room" for treatment.

People associated with different political parties also threaten the staff to
get their patients treated on priority, he said, adding that it was difficult to
perform efficiently under such pressures.

"There are too many patients and it`s humanly not possible to properly attend to
every patient. There are some who are brought in near-to-die condition and we
cannot do much about them. But, people don`t understand. Two weeks ago, a man
grabbed my collar while I was attending to another patient only because I forgot
to tell him the drugs` dosage," said another doctor.

There is a drastic increase in the number of patients after 2pm at the emergency
section after the closure of out-patient departments in the hospital.

Doctors reason that this rise in patients` number is related to the
non-functioning of the Lyari General Hospital emergency in the evening. They
believe that the CHK security issues will resolve to a great extent, if the
emergency department of the Lyari General Hospital starts functioning all-day.

Doctors at the emergency department also complain that the delay in receiving
help from specialists from other departments for trauma patients often strains
patient-doctor interaction and causes a clash.

"At times, patient`s life is in danger when we don`t get specialised support.
Recently, a girl having head injuries received treatment from a neurologist
after an hour. Ironically, it`s a routine affair at the emergency," a doctor
said, adding that the delay in treatment often put their lives at risk because
they had to manage the patient during these crucial hours.

The lack of medical supplies and the malfunctioning of equipment also contribute
to making the situation more stressful, he said.

Explaining problems, house officers - 70 per cent of whom comprise women at the
CHK - said that they felt insecure in the presence of so many male attendants
especially at nights while performing their duties.

"We need to go to other departments to seek medical opinion on specific cases.
The responsibility to take blood samples to the blood bank and, then, to bring
the reports is also ours. Sometimes, we need to take the patient for a scan. So
far, I haven`t encountered any problem, but a sense of insecurity remains," a
house officer who has been working for six months said.

Giving his opinion on political interference, Prof Dr Saeed Qureshi, medical
superintendent, CHK, said that: "It does exist, but we try to contain it as much
as we can."

"Security is a great challenge in hospital visited by hundreds and thousands of
patients and their attendants daily. Many of them come from the interior areas
of the province and have no option but to stay at the hospital till the patient
is discharged. Currently, there is no feasible solution to the problem and I
don`t think this problem could be resolved unless the government makes public
sector hospitals in other districts functional."

The cash-strapped hospital, he said, was spending Rs11 million annually on
security expenses alone. Personnel deputed for security also included private
guards.

Regarding problems at the emergency section, he said that a lot of improvement
had been brought at the department as now facilities for different medical
investigations were now available there while efforts were being made to provide
further assistance to patient Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


