                              327 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           September 6, 2007 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Doyle's health, poll barbs sting Libs

BYLINE: Paul Austin, state political editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 358 words


FORMER state Liberal leader Robert Doyle has embarrassed his successor, Ted
Baillieu, by saying Victoria has a world-class public hospital system and that
as leader he would have "fought like buggery" to run candidates in the Albert
Park and Williamstown byelections.

Mr Doyle made the comments as the Opposition railed against "Labor's continually
failing health system" and as senior Liberals privately criticise Mr Baillieu
for not fighting hard enough to ensure the party was represented in next week's
byelections.

Mr Doyle, who quit as Liberal leader last year and was named chairman of
Melbourne Health by the Bracks cabinet in June, yesterday defended the health
system amid reports of patients facing long waits for ambulances and hospital
treatment.

"If you're in a big car accident or a major trauma somewhere, you wouldn't get
better care than you would get in our major public hospitals," he said, adding:
"But there's no doubt that from time to time, the seams (of the system) are
stretched a bit."

Within hours, Opposition health spokeswoman Helen Shardey issued a statement
saying the hospital system was "reaching breaking point" and suggesting
patients' lives were being put at risk. "Hospitals have been in meltdown for
some time and last week we saw most of our major hospitals go on bypass, with
ambulances lining up outside hospitals trying to off-load patients," she said.

As Premier John Brumby stepped up Labor campaigning for Saturday week's
byelections for the seats vacated by former premier Steve Bracks and former
deputy premier John Thwaites, Mr Doyle made clear he disagreed with the Liberal
Party's decision not to field candidates.

"I would have fought like buggery to get candidates in Albert Park and
Williamstown," he said. "I'm not exactly a quiet, passive, retiring type - I
like a fight. I would have relished a fight with a new Premier and a whole lot
of new ministers."

Mr Baillieu wanted to run a candidate for Albert Park, which is less safe for
Labor than Williamstown, but was rebuffed by his party's administrative
committee, which wanted to save money and resources for the imminent federal
election campaign.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


