                              332 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                   October 21, 1987, Wednesday, Final Edition

Freed Dissident Describes 5-Year 'Horror' in Soviet Mental Clinic

BYLINE: Gary Lee, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: FIRST SECTION; PAGE A25

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 19, 1987


A former KGB agent, just released from a five-year stay in a mental clinic for
passing information to the West, told journalists here today of harrowing
conditions faced by Soviets who run afoul of the law and are placed in
psychiatric hospitals.

According to Vladimir Titov, his years in the Orlov psychiatric hospital were a
"horror" -- months of lying motionless on the bed, watching patients turn to
suicide, being given so many forced injections that his tongue swelled.

Titov, 49, was hospitalized in 1982 after telling westerners that Soviet prison
labor was being used to build the gigantic Siberian natural-gas pipeline. In
all, he spent 12 years in mental clinics after abruptly ending a five-year tour
with the KGB security police in 1961.

Freed last week, Titov was given a visa to Israel and ordered to leave the
Soviet Union by the end of this month, he told journalists.

Titov's account was buttressed by those of other former patients related at a
press conference offered by dissidents for western journalists today, and by
interviews with other ex-patients. These accounts highlight use of one of the
harshest punishments the Soviet Union has in its power to crack down on
political dissidents: hospitalization.

Under the current Soviet human rights thaw, some of the best-known Soviets
hospitalized for their political activities have been released. Earlier this
year, psychiatrist Anatoly Koryagin, imprisoned in 1981 for examining a number
of dissidents who had been placed in mental hospitals and diagnosing them as
sane, was set free and allowed to emigrate.

In an article published recently in the government newspaper Izvestia, a Soviet
journalist and legal expert complained of abuses of Soviet psychiatry and
proposed revision of the terms under which patients are confined.

Titov and other Soviet dissident sources charged, however, that conditions in
the clinics are worsening and political dissidents are still suffering alongside
actual mental patients.

The number of political prisoners in mental hospitals is unknown. Some western
sources estimate about a thousand. It must be "several thousand," Sergei
Grigoryants, a former political prisoner and editor of the independent
periodical Glasnost, told journalists today.

As editor of a new journal devoted largely to Soviet human rights issues,
Grigoryants said, "I see two to three cases every day" of people who have just
been released from a term in a mental hospital for some political offense.
"There must be hundreds of such cases that we know nothing about. Until now, I
had not realized the magnitude of this problem."

One of the biggest difficulties is controlling the terms under which patients
are confined in hospitals, Grigoryants said: "Under the current situation, any
local official can have an opponent or someone he doesn't like committed for an
indefinite period of time. There is no trial, no sentencing and no one to
oversee whether the decision was correct or not."

The doctors are generally not professionals but "sadists," Titov charged.
Patients are given heavy doses of psychotropic drugs, such as tranquilizers, he
said, adding that if they protest they are injected by force.

According to Titov, 11 patients committed suicide during his five-year stay at
Orlov, including one who went to the top of the fire escape and jumped off.

Titov and other former patients interviewed said patients in mental hospitals
include many accused of anti-Soviet propaganda, workers who complained about
work conditions, and Baptists and other religious worshipers.

The lengths of confinement vary. Vladimir Shapilo, 70, has been in a mental
hospital for 38 years, said a spokesman at the press conference.

One 22-year-old Leningrad student told in an earlier interview of being held for
two months of check-ups in a local hospital last winter after he complained of
mandatory college military courses.

The dissidents presented a taped interview that they said was smuggled out of a
hospital in Gegamskii Hills, 60 miles from the Armenian capital of Yerevan.

The patient, Sirvard Abakyan, described how in February she was denied requests
to leave for the West. A member of the Armenian branch of the Helsinki Watch
group of human rights monitors, she told of poor hospital conditions and of
being force-fed drugs. "It's horrible here," she said. "Somebody should try to
get me out."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO, LADIMIR TITOV.

TYPE: FOREIGN NEWS

                       Copyright 1987 The Washington Post


