                              329 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            October 2, 2008 Thursday

County puts strings on offer to help Healthcare District

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 741 words


MARIN COUNTY officials are considering extending a financial helping hand to the
Marin Healthcare District as it prepares to resume management of Marin General
Hospital.

For the county and its residents, there is a great deal at stake in making sure
that this complicated transition is successful, primarily to protect the quality
medical care provided by the doctors, nurses and other staff at Marin General.

The county has more at stake than the $20 million line of credit that officials
have been negotiating to help make sure the change of management can take place
while minimizing impacts on the care on which many Marin residents rely.

This line of credit comes with some big strings attached. It would require the
hospital to continue to provide trauma care, including neurosurgery, and
maintain an adequate number of intensive-care beds and a 17-bed mental health
unit.

It also establishes a limit on Marin General's diversion of ambulances with
patients to other hospitals.

The agreement does not appear to address the need to establish a helipad at
Marin General. Perhaps that life-saving improvement, which is opposed by many of
the hospital's neighbors, is too controversial to deal with.

But political heat didn't stop the county from asking for some political
engineering regarding the management of the Marin Healthcare District board. The
draft pact requires the district board to create a so-called "firewall" board
that would manage the hospital, in theory separating its hands-on management
from the bitter and dysfunctional politics that have dominated Healthcare
District politics for nearly 20 years.

County requirements for hospital services come as little surprise. Supervisors
are rightly worried about preserving these vital services after the departure of
Sutter Health, the health-care giant whose contract to run the hospital comes to
an end in less than two years.

The county's insistence on the creation of a management board raises questions,
even beyond those of public accountability. That same question could be raised
in the way the county has set forth such a requirement. Talks with the
Healthcare board have taken place behind closed doors. Only two supervisors,
Steve Kinsey and Susan Adams, have been involved and their public presentations
on talks' progress and details have been paltry at best.

Although outlined in a Sept. 2 letter from County Administrator Matthew Hymel to
the Healthcare District, supervisors really have had no detailed public
discussion about the county requiring a "firewall" board.

Hymel's letter was made public only after a local health-care activist asked for
it.

A major change in the governance of the hospital coming as a required financial
commitment to the county does not bode well for the district to freely and
openly debate such a move as good public policy.

This is not an issue that should be part of requirements demanded during
closed-door negotiations. It deserves full public debate, with ample efforts to
fully inform district residents about the proposed structural change before the
district approves it.

If the county is worried about extending $20 million to the elected Healthcare
District board and it wants to get involved in political engineering, perhaps it
should consider the option of dissolving the district, which encompasses most of
Marin outside of Novato, and making Marin General a county-run hospital.

Such a move would remove the risk of a hospital board whose politics are
poisonous and replace it with the county Board of Supervisors, an elected board
that has displayed a greater sense of constructive collegiality.

The supervisors could then establish a hospital commission that would have to
comply with public-meeting rules.

The county's requirement to create a "firewall" board is a sign of its lack of
faith in the political leadership of the Healthcare District board. A separate
management board would end the acrimonious political tug-of-war that has
dominated district politics.But the requirement reflects a lack of faith in the
people district voters elect to represent them.

Supervisors want a well-run hospital without the political and financial
responsibility for managing it. That may be wishful thinking.

Supervisors are reluctant to consider such a controversial move because of the
huge governance and financial responsibilities of running a hospital.

Should the Healthcare District stumble, the county may be faced with no other
choice.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2008 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


