                              331 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 26, 1989, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Team to Inspect Soviet Mental Hospitals

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 672 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 25


A team of American experts will begin a long-awaited visit to Soviet mental
hospitals next week to determine if political dissidents are still imprisoned
there, American and Soviet officials said today.

The American team plans to interview about 30 current and former mental
patients. It also plans to visit four Soviet mental hospitals, including two
so-called special psychiatric hospitals that have been under police control. The
project will take two weeks. The visit is of considerable political importance
to Moscow and Washington. A positive assessment by the team would help Moscow's
effort to rejoin the World Psychiatric Association and improve the international
standing of its psychiatric profession.

The United States, for its part, hopes that the visit will help resolve concerns
that Soviet patients may still be held in mental hospitals on political grounds.

The American team plans to interview 18 current mental patients who Soviet
dissidents maintain are political prisoners. The Soviet psychiatric
establishment has denied that patients are being held in mental hospitals for
political reasons. The American team is headed by Robert W. Farrand, a Deputy
Assistant Secretary of State for Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs, and Dr.
Loren H. Roth, a professor of psychiatry at the Western Psychiatric Institute
and Clinic at the University of Pittsburgh.

Mr. Farrand and Dr. Roth, who helped negotiate the rules for the visit, have
already arrived in Moscow. The rest of the American team, including specialists
from the National Institute of Mental Health and the American Psychiatric
Association, are scheduled to arrive in Moscow on Sunday.

The two sides have worked out a series of elaborate ground rules for conducting
the visit. Under the rules, Soviet mental patients will be brought to Leningrad
so that they can be interviewed by American psychiatrists, an American
specialist said.

A Soviet patient will have the right to insist that Soviet psychiatrists not be
present at an interview conducted by the American psychiatrists. But at the end
of the interview, Soviet psychiatrists, American psychiatrists and the patient
will meet to jointly discuss the case. At that time, the Soviet psychiatrist can
put forth the justification for why the patient was committed.

An Administration official said the arrangements were intended to allow a full
airing of the case.

But one member of the American team expressed concerns over some of the
arrangements. Some Unresolved Matters Ellen R. Mercer, director of the office of
international affairs at the American Psychiatric Association, expressed concern
that the arrangements might discourage some Soviet citizens who have been
released from mental hospitals from agreeing to interviews with the American
team.

She said some former mental patients do not want to meet with members of the
Soviet psychiatric establishment, which ordered their incarceration, after an
interview with American psychiatrists. An Administration official expressed
confidence that the American team would be successful in conducting its
interviews.

In preparing for the visit, the two sides have resolved some last-minute
problems. One problem reportedly arose when Soviet authorities indicated that
Vladimir Korfidov, a Soviet mental patient, did not want to be interviewed by
the American team. Soviet dissidents disputed that point. An interview can only
take place with the patient's consent. An interview has since been arranged.
One unresolved matter is whether the American team will be denied the right to
visit one of the 18 so-called special psychiatric hospitals, which is in the
Soviet Far East in an area closed to foreigners. The Soviet Ministry of Foreign
Affairs has reportedly informed Washington that it cannot guarantee access to
hospitals in such areas.

An American official said Washington had no information that political prisoners
are being held at the hospital. The American team plans to visit 2 of the 18
special psychiatric hospitals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company


