                              335 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                      May 21, 1998 Thursday Final Edition

Ex-PQer heading hospital in Ottawa fuels unity battle: 'Fire him' clamour
increases

SOURCE: The Canadian Press

BYLINE: Janice Tibbetts

SECTION: CANADA & WORLD; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 931 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


A dispute over hiring a former Parti Quebecois candidate to head an Ottawa
hospital exploded into a national unity battle yesterday, pitting separatists
against federalists as David Levine waited to hear whether he would lose his
job.

Politicians from Prime Minister Jean Chretien in Rome to Quebec Premier Lucien
Bouchard in Chicago jumped into the debate over whether Levine's sovereigntist
past makes him the right choice to run Ottawa Hospital, the city's newly
amalgamated mega-hospital.

The political squabbling followed an emotional public meeting Tuesday night,
where crowds bulged into the hallways of a local hospital. Outside, protesters
waved placards that read "Fire Levine" and "Separatists Must Go."

BUILD A BRIDGE

The bilingual anglophone from Quebec ran for the Parti Quebecois almost 20 years
ago, saying he wanted to build a bridge between the English and the French.

"In Canada, political considerations are not a question that we ask for
employment," Chretien said at a news conference in Rome, where he is on a trade
mission.

"We look at the qualities of the person to serve."

That's also the position of the hospital's board of directors, which has
repeatedly defended their choice despite the uproar that has persisted for more
than a week. The hospital has received hundreds of call, some from donors
threatening to stop sending money.

Others describe the furor as a witch hunt that smacks of the McCarthyism of the
1950s in the United States, where suspected communists were rounded up and
blacklisted.

Members of the board refused comment yesterday, saying they wanted to take the
day to reflect on the raucous public meeting before making an announcement on
Levine's future that is expected today or tomorrow.

"Everybody wanted to sleep on it and take a day to reflect after the meeting,"
said a communications consultant hired by the hospital to field calls.

"To tell the truth, they did not expect as many people and as much acrimony."

In Chicago, Bouchard called on Ottawa residents to calm down.

"I am as surprised as many people to see this outburst of intolerance," he said.
"I count on the good sense and democratic values of our fellow citizens in
Ottawa to lower the tone and recognize what counts in all of this is
competence."

Bloc Quebecois Leader Gilles Duceppe was less conciliatory, describing the
outcry as a blow to Quebec that will cast further doubt on whether Quebecers
will want to remain in Canada.

"We find it very upsetting this is happening in Ottawa because it's very close
to home," Duceppe said.

"It's a very bad signal for Canada. It means Canada is no longer a tolerant
society."

He also said it violates the Charter of Rights to deny people work because of
their political beliefs.

The hospital's volunteer board is faced with the task of weighing the public
opposition to Levine keeping his $300,000-a-year job against their contention
that his experience makes him the best person for the job.

The board has also tried to dispel concerns among staff that Levine would
eventually limit jobs to those who are bilingual.

Editorials in the Ottawa Citizen and Ottawa Sun newspapers have called for
Levine's resignation, arguing the debate over his politics will make him an
ineffective administrator as the city tries to cope with provincial budget cuts.

Among other things, there has been friction over western Quebecers using
Ottawa's hospitals, a practice some say is forcing Ontario residents to wait in
line in their own city.

The appointment has divided area mayors and residents.

Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson said this week that Levine has no choice but to resign.

POLITICAL AGENDA

Levine, who could not be reached yesterday, told a news conference late last
week that he has no political agenda. He said he is an experienced hospital
manager who had a long and distinguished career in Quebec before his appointment
last year as the province's envoy to New York.

He noted he worked in Quebec's hospital system under PQ and Liberal governments
and politics has never been an issue in his work.

Levine, who was a member of the PQ from 1975-81, has not commented on his
current political allegiance.

Ontario Premier Mike Harris said he understands why people are upset but it is
up to the board to decide if the appointment is appropriate.

"I think we'd all prefer to have people receiving taxpayer dollars who are
interested in keeping the country together," Harris said in Toronto.

"I don't know if he's a separatist. If he says he's a separatist I'd rather have
somebody who's not a separatist."

Deputy Premier Bernard Landry denounced the public protest as "disgraceful and
profoundly intolerant.

"This controversy does nothing for Ottawa's reputation as the federal capital of
Canada," Landry said in Quebec City.

Unity Minister Stephane Dion accused separatist politicians of trying to make
political gain from the Levine affair.

Chretien said separatist politicians should not be "throwing rocks" at Ottawa,
particularly after the PQ government replaced Claude Dauphin, Quebec's delegate
in Boston, in 1994 because the federalist wasn't comfortable promoting
separation abroad.

LEVINE PROFILE

Appointed: May 1, 1998 as the chief executive officer of Ottawa Hospital

Age: 50

Experience: CEO of Notre-Dame Hospital in Montreal from 1992-1996; 10 years as
CEO of the Verdun General Hospital

Current job: Envoy for Quebec government in New York City since 1997.

Controversy: Member of the separatist Parti Quebecois from 1975-81. Ran
unsuccessfully in a 1979 byelection.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruno Schlumberger and Maria Bohuslawsky, The Ottawa Citizen;
David Levine, left, and chairman of the hospital board Nick Mulder at the press
conference. Photo: Bruno Schlumberger and Maria Bohuslawsky, The Ottawa Citizen
/ David Boon, left, and George Clarkin take part in a Levine demonstration
outside Ottawa Hospital yesterday.

TYPE: News

                    Copyright 1998 Metroland Media Group Ltd


