                              334 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Cape Argus (South Africa)

                           September 26, 2008 Friday
                                   e1 Edition

Helderberg Hospital is just a name change

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 492 words


In August 2007, Pierre Uys, then the MEC for Health, advised Dr E Erasmus,
senior medical superintendent of Hottentots Holland Hospital, Somerset West,
that the name of the hospital had been changed with immediate effect to
Helderberg Hospital.

This change of name has created considerable confusion among the general public
as well as the medical fraternity.

For many years, until as recently as last year, there was talk of a new hospital
being built in Somerset West to replace Hottentots Holland Hospital.

As the public generally was not informed that the province had decided to
postpone the building of a new hospital, many are under the impression that
Helderberg Hospital is the new hospital and waste time, possibly critical time,
searching for a non-existing hospital.

It is of utmost importance to bring to the attention of the public that
Helderberg Hospital is merely the new name of Hottentots Holland Hospital and is
still to be found at the usual address - Lourensford Road, Somerset West.

E Adams

H van der Walt

Somerset West

Going back to 1994 when Nelson Mandela was released from prison and the ANC
became the dominant political party in South Africa, it was already apparent
that an unholy alliance was forming.

How was it possible for ex-freedom fighters, who now wanted to form a democratic
government, to agree to link up with the South African Communist Party and the
trade unions, who had no idea of politics or the needs of running a country but
simply wanted to screw more money for themselves?

It was obviously simply to entrench themselves into positions of power and
privilege.

I make this statement not as a white racist, but as an employer of about 80
black people in a dairy business in the 1970s when I found it impossible to mix
Zulus and Xhosas.

Fast-forward to September 2008. We have a situation where the president has
resigned, the vice-president has resigned, the minister of finance resigned and
then stayed on, and many others quit. Surely the time is ripe for a new
political party?

One that looks beyond Xhosa, Zulu, white, black, brown, male, female, previously
advantaged, previously disadvantaged - a party that has the interests of the
country and her people at heart, not the selfish interests of a powerful
privileged few.

F R Spangenberg

Somerset West

Considering the sanctimonious and pious utterances by Peter de Villiers since
being made Springbok coach, his recent blatantly racist outburst (on par with
the mindset of ANC leaders), simply cannot be excused with a simple apology.

Having been fully exposed to media coverage since taking on the position, he, of
all people, should have been more circumspect and diplomatic in all that he
uttered.

However, as with this present ruling mob, De Villiers has shown that he is, at
heart, a racist himself.

And to think that the South African Rugby Union has decreed that players wear a
"no to racism" message on their jerseys.

To me it reeks of hypocrisy!

D Beelders

Vasco

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CA


                 Copyright 2008 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


