                              333 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

             September 30, 2004 Thursday Ill Five Star Lift Edition

Maag pulls commercial after hospital complaint Organization fears ad resembles
endorsement

BYLINE: PAUL HAMPEL Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. C01

LENGTH: 410 words


A candidate for the Illinois Supreme Court has pulled television and radio ads
for his campaign in response to a complaint from the Shriners Hospitals for
Children.

That organization said the ad violated Internal Revenue Service regulations
prohibiting charitable institutions from endorsing candidates for public office.
The 30-second spots for 5th District Appellate Judge Gordon Maag, a Democrat
from Glen Carbon, began airing Monday on KMOV, KTVI and KSDK, as well as some
radio stations.

In the ads, Maag stated, "I serve on the board of Shriners Hospital. We provide
free medical care for thousands of sick children."

Maag went on to say in the ads that he would fight "frivolous" medical
malpractice lawsuits.

The commercials were filmed at Touchette Regional Hospital in Centreville.

Jay Fleisher, managing attorney for Shriners Hospitals for Children in Tampa,
Fla., called Maag on Wednesday and asked him to pull the ads.

"Judge Maag has assured me that he has given instructions to the Illinois
Democratic Party to immediately pull the ads from all television and radio
stations, and that they will not be aired any further," Fleisher said.

Fleisher said that he had not seen the ads but that conversations with hospital
officers who had seen them indicated to him that "a reasonable person could be
led by the ads to believe that Shriners Hospital was endorsing a candidate for
political office, which is prohibited by our status as a charity."

The commercials were the first to air in the St. Louis market for an Illinois
Supreme Court race.

The campaign of Maag's opponent, Washington County Circuit Judge Lloyd Karmeier,
a Republican from Nashville, Ill., said it would begin airing its own television
ads in the next few days.

A spokesman for Maag, Brendan Hostetler, said the judge had pulled the ad out of
respect for the hospital.

"If that organization is uncomfortable with us talking about the judge's service
(at Shriners) in paid media advertising, we're going to honor that," Hostetler
said. "The judge's respect for that institution is more important to him than a
political campaign."

Hostetler said the campaign would substitute another commercial.

Hostetler declined to disclose how much the television spots cost, or how long
they would run.

A spokesman for Karmeier, Steve Tomaszewski, said his campaign had tracked the
money Maag spent on the commercials and estimated the amount as more than
$180,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

NOTES: CAMPAIGN 2004 SUPREME COURT

                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


