                              343 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            April 23, 1997 Wednesday

Hospital closing cited as unity issue  Ontario's merger plan will fuel national
debate, Montfort supporters contend

BYLINE: BY RICHARD MACKIE and IJEOMA ROSS The Globe and Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 974 words


Francophones in Eastern Ontario are playing the national-unity card in their
attempts to get the government to save the only French-language teaching
hospital in the province.

Yesterday, a group trying to save Montfort Hospital in Ottawa rolled a
132,000-signature petition into the legislature on a stretcher. Liberal MPP
Gilles Morin, whose riding includes Montfort, received the petition that calls
on the government's hospital-restructuring commission to reconsider its
recommendation to merge Montfort's services with Ottawa General Hospital.

"The issue of Montfort has grown beyond the concerns of individuals whose access
to health care in their own language would be adversely affected to a broader
concern about the rights of a historical minority in the province of Ontario,"
he said.

At a news conference, Montfort president Gerald Savoie said there are also sound
financial reasons not to close the hospital. Montfort, he said, had been praised
for being the most cost-efficient hospital in the province only days before the
commission's February announcement about the merger plan.

"It will cost roughly $11-million more to do the care [in another hospital] than
for Montfort to stay a hospital," he said.

Without trying, Montfort has been drawn into a discussion on the effect the
decision could have on the national-unity debate and the coming federal
election.

"To us, this is the most dangerous question since Meech," said Gisèle Lalonde,
president of the SOS Montfort campaign. ". . . To maintain the recommendation to
close Montfort will prove that Canada -- which we like to believe is tolerant of
its minorities -- is a failure, and the prospect of such a failure has already
been noticed widely in the province of Quebec and will no doubt be exploited in
the near future by these forces of separation."

She called on Premier Mike Harris to assume Ontario's traditional role as
defender of a bilingual Canada and support the rights of 40 per cent of
franco-Ontarians who live in the Ottawa region.

Brian Tanguay, a political-science professor at Wilfrid Laurier University, and
other veteran political observers warned in interviews recently that closing
Montfort would give Quebec Premier Lucien Bouchard and fellow separatists
something they could cite as evidence that Canada has failed to protect the
rights of the French-speaking minority outside Quebec.

The potential volatility of the issue can be seen by the fact that both Mr.
Bouchard and Prime Minister Jean Chrétien were quick to ask Mr. Harris to
intervene to keep the hospital open.

The issue also has been jumped on by anglophones in Quebec, who say they fear
closing Montfort could open the way for the Quebec government to make further
cuts to English-language health services.

"It doesn't bode well for the future of Canada," said Michael Hamelin, president
of Alliance Quebec, the province's major English-language-rights group. It is
supporting the franco-Ontarians in their fight to keep the hospital open on the
grounds that provinces must protect the rights of their linguistic minority.

But switching tactics and allowing Montfort to remain open would be a risky
strategy for the Ontario government, said Michael Bliss, a history professor at
the University of Toronto and a veteran analyst of the province's political
scene.

He said that to allow Montfort to remain open while closing hospitals in other
communities would invite accusations that the government had bowed to pressure
from Quebec and had favoured franco-Ontarians.

"It's going to cause a lot more resentment out there if Montfort is singled out
for special consideration, that's clear," he said in an interview.

Mr. Harris and Health Minister Jim Wilson have said repeatedly that the
government is determined to avoid any action that would suggest special
treatment for Montfort or that the government is interfering with the
commission's decisions on which hospitals should be closed.

Although Mr. Wilson and his deputy minister sent a letter to the commission
suggesting that some of Montfort's programs could be preserved at a new
hospital, Mr. Wilson and Mr. Harris were adamant that the commission will make
the final decisions.

The Premier reiterated his position yesterday morning and dismissed the concerns
about national unity.

"I don't believe decisions made in Ontario in the best interests of Ontario
francophones ought to have much to do with unity vis à vis other provinces," he
said on his way into a caucus meeting.

"They may be trying to play a political card, but it's a political world. That's
why we've tried to depoliticize the decision making and get sound health-care
decision making made by professionals."

About 2,500 Montfort supporters staged a march when Mr. Harris spoke at a
Conservative Party fund-raising dinner in Ottawa last Wednesday. They were there
to press the argument by SOS Montfort that French-language hospital services
would swiftly disappear if they were confined to "a ghetto" in a larger,
English-speaking complex. Such a complex centred at Ottawa General has been
proposed by the restructuring commission.

"It's going to be an issue" in the federal election, said Michel Gratton, a
spokesman for SOS Montford.

In addition to the support from the Alliance Quebec, SOS Montfort is receiving
backing from sovereigntists, Mr. Gratton said.

"It's a national issue if we can't keep the only francophone hospital in
Ontario," he said.

Jeff Rose, a former deputy minister of intergovernmental affairs in Ontario who
is now a professor at the University of Toronto, reinforced Mr. Gratton's
comments.

The closing "is already being portrayed in the [Quebec] media as evidence that
there is no quid pro quo in the treatment of francophones on the west side of
the Ottawa River, as compared with the way in which anglophones are treated in
Quebec."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1997 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


