                              346 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      Abbotsford Times (British Columbia)

                             June 26, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Massive costs are attached

BYLINE: The Times

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 292 words


It's probably a decade too late, but for most citizens in the Lower Mainland,
this month's hospital road show by the Liberals was still a welcome sight.

Health Minister Michael de Jong unveiled what could be an up to $750 million
redevelopment of Royal Columbian Hospital.

A day later, Premier Christy Clark was promising a major upgrade and renovation
of St. Paul's Hospital, saying there was half a billion dollars in the 2012
budget for the job. And, of course, in neighbouring Burnaby, a planning
committee is gathering input for redevelopment of that hospital.

NDP naysayers say the announcements are pure political propaganda intended to
boost the Liberals' sagging popularity.

And, there's no question that the announcement for RCH seems a bit premature
given that nothing concrete would really happen at the most optimistic - for at
least five to seven years. But de Jong also gave RCH a 150-day deadline to
reduce waiting times.

And, yes, we've heard those promises before as well.

But the reality is that no matter which political party is in power during the
next 10 to 20 years, hospitals and health care will be critical. The baby boomer
generation is about to peak - and all those aging hips and knees will put a huge
strain on the system. Combine that with a potential mini baby boom, and we may
all be looking back at today's surgery wait-lists and emergency room traffic
jams with fond memories.

The question isn't whether the Liberals are serious or not about these
announcements. The question is: can taxpayers afford several massive hospital
redevelopments in the near future?

Our guess is that neither political party wants to tell taxpayers that there's a
massive price tag coming down the line-unless they can blame it on the other
party.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

