                              35 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Cyprus Mail

                            April 5, 2017 Wednesday

Cabinet greenlights next step towards hospital autonomy

BYLINE: Evie Andreou

LENGTH: 393 words


The cabinet has approved the regulations for the state health services
organisation that will oversee hospital autonomy, it was announced on Wednesday.

According to the health ministry, the cabinet's move aims at ensuring that the
timeframe set by political party leaders last year on the introduction of the
national health scheme (Gesy), is kept.

Hospital autonomy is the first step toward the implementation of Gesy, as state
hospitals must be administratively and financially autonomous to be able to
compete with private hospitals after the health scheme kicks in. The new
organisation in question will oversee the autonomous hospitals.

"According to the decisions of the meeting of the political leaders, the bills
on (hospital) autonomy and the Gesy will have to be passed by parliament before
June 1, 2017," the ministry said. The two bills were tabled to parliament in
mid-October.

It added if amendments are required as a result of the ongoing consultations
between health professionals and the government, they would be made during
discussions at the House health committee.

"The health minister makes a plea to all political parties to cooperate to
achieve the goal of voting the first bills on the Gesy and autonomy so that the
June 1, 2017 timeframe is kept," the announcement said.

Following the meeting of political leaders with President Nicos Anastasiades
last year, it was announced that by June 2017, a public organisation would be
set up to oversee hospital autonomy, while by June 2019 outpatient care would be
introduced. The ultimate date for the full implementation of Gesy is June 1,
2020.

Health Minister Giorgos Pamboridis said last month that the signing of a deal on
the Health Insurance Organisation (HIO) and IT company NCR Cyprus for the
development of a software programme for Gesy, meant no more excuses for those
blocking laws for the national health scheme. The government, he said, had done
its bit as it had overseen the two bills on hospital autonomy and Gesy tabled to
the House and the award of the contract for the software programme. It was now
up to the political parties to approve the bills he said.

The post Cabinet greenlights next step towards hospital autonomy appeared first
on Cyprus Mail.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/41/70/9/149141173960.jpg

Hospital autonomy is a major step towards the full implementation of Gesy

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 70


               Copyright 2017 Cyprus Mail - Cyprus Mail Co. Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


