                              345 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 18, 2004

WHAT TOOK YOU SO LONG?; HEALTH SECRETARY FINALLY PLEDGES A CAMPAIGN TO CLEAN UP
OUR HOSPITALS TO FIGHT MRSA SUPERBUG

BYLINE: By Lianne Kolirin

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 436 words


HEALTH Secretary John Reid has promised to launch a new drive on hospital
cleanliness in a bid to tackle hospital infections like the MRSA superbug.

The new Chief Nursing Officer, to be appointed this week, will be instructed to
make hospital hygiene her first priority, Dr Reid said yesterday.

"I believe that cleanliness in hospitals should be the responsibility of the
nurses and the matrons, " he told the BBC1 Breakfast with Frost programme.

"The top priority for the top nurse w ill be cleanliness in hospitals." At the
end of last month, Dr Reid promised that there would be "no more cut-price,
two-tier cleaning contracts" signed in the NHS.

Addressing the recent Labour Party conference, he said: "Cleanliness is not an
optional extra in hospitals. It is the foundation on which everything else is
built." Mr Reid has already ordered health staff to observe better standards of
cleanliness and hand-washing in a bid to counter deaths from MRSA.

In his conference speech, Mr Reid signalled that he planned to accelerate the
redistribution of health funds, ensuring the neediest areas got the biggest
allocation. He said that under the agenda for change, the minimum hourly rate
paid to NHS staff would not be the current national minimum wage of £4.85 an
hour, but £5.69.

And he indicated that he hoped to save the NHS hundreds of millions of pounds a
year by driving through a tough pricing deal with drugs companies later this
year.

Dr Reid also indicated yesterday that the health white paper expected next month
would include measures to curb smoking in public places, while stopping short of
outright bans such as those in Ireland and New York. "We have to find a British
way. Most people want us to get a compromise to protect people's rights, " he
said.

"The status quo isn't an option and I want to move that balance of rights in
favour of the 75 per cent who don't smoke so that they have the bias of rights.
The vast majority of people want smoke-free atmospheres." Earlier this year Dr
Reid sparked a furious row when he said that the poor should be allowed to enjoy
smoking.

He angered Downing Street, medical experts and anti-smoking groups by claiming
cigarettes are one of the few pleasures left for poor people living in poor
housing.

Former smoker Dr Reid said: "I do not think the worst problem on our sink
estates by any means is smoking. It is an obsession of the learned middle class.

"What enjoyment does a 21-year-old single mother of three living in a council
sink estate get? The only enjoyment sometimes they have is to have a cigarette."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2004 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


