                              344 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 26, 2002

HEALTH CHIEFS SAY SORRY TO PATIENTS' FAMILIES AS BLAIR CALLS ON PUBLIC TO
SUPPORT THE NHS AND ITS STAFF; AND FINALLY, AN APOLOGY

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 455 words


THE hospital at the centre of a political storm over its treatment of three
vulnerable patients has finally apologised to them.

Managers at the Whittington Hospital were forced into the climbdown after public
outcry over the alleged neglect of 94-year-old Rose Addis.

Hospital officials admitted a catalogue of blunders and said they were sorry for
a racial slur against Mrs Addis after a senior member of staff claimed she had
refused treatment by black nurses.

They also apologised to the families of Sidney Hockley and 13-year-old James
Scott-Faulkner who had complained about their treatment.

And Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith yesterday accused Tony Blair of using hospital
staff as a "human shield" and angrily attacked him for orchestrating smears
against anyone who dares to criticise Labour's record.

Mr Duncan Smith was responding after Mr Blair accused him of running down
Britain's hard-working hospital staff.

He said: "This is the ultimate smear in a week of smears from this Government.
The Prime Minister's idea of a debate on public services is to threaten anyone
who dares criticise his dreadful record.

"The Prime Minister should stop using doctors and nurses, police officers and
teachers, as a human shield and start to account for his own failure to reform
public services after five years of promises."

But Mr Blair hit back by saying that the Conservative Party was attacking public
service workers to score political points.

The Prime Minister, who launched his staunchest defence of hospital staff, said:
"At present they confine themselves to denigrating everything about the public
services - running them down, saying the services are lousy - so people feel
it's all hopeless, nothing works, that any investment is just wasted."

"I say to those who are undermining our public services: If you're on the side
of the people who use public services, you should be on the side of the people
who work in public services, as they make the reforms vital to those services.
If you're on the side of the patient, you should be on the side of the nurse,
the doctor, the hospital staff."

And Whittington Hospital's medical director Professor James Malone-Lee has
spoken out in support of staff. He said: "They are the finest group of doctors I
have worked with in 30 years. I am bitterly distressed that my staff are being
subjected to these kind of accusations. These people work hard for the care of
their patients. I feel very upset about things being said about the nursing
staff."

Professor Malone-Lee, a Labour Party member, also defended his own political
allegiances, adding:

"I have sufficient integrity to recognise that I must separate that from my
job."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2002 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS


