                              338 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Hemel Today

                             May 15, 2014 Thursday

Really, desperately in need of modernisation': Ed Miliband's verdict on our
hospital

BYLINE: David O'neill

LENGTH: 536  words


Ed Miliband said Watford General Hospital is really, desperately in need of
modernisation' during a party political broadcast to the nation last night.

The Labour leader praised the good work of its staff, but said there was a sense
of deep anxiety' among them.

Watford General has been the main hospital for most of Dacorum since Hemel
Hempstead Hospital's A&E closed in 2009, while Labour was in power.

Speaking about Watford General, Mr Miliband said: "This hospital is really,
desperately in need of modernisation.

"There was a plan under the last Labour government - it was got rid of by this
government - to modernise the hospital.

"It is really interesting going to the maternity ward, because there is one bit
that's new - the birthing centre.

"And there's quite a lot of it - the old bit - that's got peeling paint.

"And you know if you are giving birth, it really matters whether the facilities
are good enough or not good enough."

Mr Miliband was filmed alongside doctors, nurses and chief executive of West
Herts Hospitals NHS Trust Samantha Jones, who also oversees the operation of
Hemel Hempstead Hospital.

Mr Miliband said: "There is a sense of deep anxiety. The head nurse in A&E said
to me on the first day I was there: People can't get to see their GP for a week
or two weeks, and they end up in A&E.'

"There are just too many people ending up in A&E, because the services elsewhere
just aren't there. As a basic thing, everyone has the right to expect they can
see a GP within 48 hours - and that is a promise a Labour government will
deliver."

He said the NHS is facing new pressures from the growing elderly population and
new medical technologies, which is making life harder, not easier.

But he said his experience at Watford General made him impatient' to become
Prime Minister, so he can improve the NHS.

He said: "There is a reason why people in this country love the NHS - because of
the values, the people who work in it and the job they do.

"I don't think politicians can get the right solutions to the health service
without seeing exactly what is really going on.

"So I spent two days going around different parts of the hospital. It wasn't
about putting things on show. It was seeing through the eyes of the nurses, the
doctors, the patients, and to try and learn from them.

"Too often politicians come along and say: We are going to propose this big
change to the health service.' It looks good on paper and in Whitehall and in
Westminster, then in practice it causes chaos.

"How can you run the health service just from the top-down without drawing on
that incredible expertise of the people who are doing the work?

"You have got to start from the grassroots, and that's why I did it."

He described the next five years as a crunch moment for the NHS'.

He said: "I dread to think what another five years of the Tories would mean for
the National Health Service."

He accused Tory Prime Minister David Cameron of breaking his promises to protect
the NHS before the last election. He said the NHS and the social services should
work more closely together.

He said: "We have got to put the right principles back at the heart of the NHS:
care and cooperation and compassion, not privatisation and competition."

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MCHG


                       Copyright 2014 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


