                              340 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                              July 18, 2016 Monday

Charrsadda dilapidated condition draw attention of political parties

SECTION: Vol. 31 No. 198

LENGTH: 331  words


District Headquarter Hospital (DHQ) Charrsadda dilapidated condition draw
attention of political parties and a resolution 31 points charge sheet was
proposed against the administration of DHQ Hospital. According to details, Save
the DHQ Hospital movement meeting took place under the banner of Jamaat-i-Islami
youth wing. In the meeting members of different Union Councils Amir and General
Secretaries participated. Local elected representatives Qari Noor-ul-Ameen,
Zulfiqar, Muhammad Ismail, Mudasar Shah, Gohar Rahman, Imtiaz Ali Shah,
Aman-Ullah, Muhammad Arif, Imtiaz Ali, Ishaq, Wasaal and others also
participated.

The Charge- sheet was consisting of 31 points which contains complaints with
regards to Hospital stuff and facilities. Some of the prominent points are lack
of class 4 stuff in total 142 requited stuff only 67 are coming regularly while
others are sitting at home and taking salaries. Medicines are issued on the
names of patients which are wrongly sells in outside market. The MS Doctor
Muhammad Ali of Management Cadre is running illegal clinic. Hospital electricity
was illegally sold to residential houses, while patents suffer due to
un-availability of power. After 12 O\'clock no lady Doctors are present in Gynea
and Emergency wards. Doctors refer minor patients to Peshawar hospitals.

Machinery worth in millions is not operational and getting rusted due to which
patients had to leave for other cities for treatment. Two stores in DHQ Hospital
are allotted to people of the chose of administration. Doctors do not give
proper time to O.P.D and send patients to their private clinics. At late night
nurses and class 4 treat patients due to unavailability of doctors. The
condition of hygiene in BHQ is very bad and bad smell spread many diseases. The
Participants vowed to fight till their last breathe and will take other
political parties, civil society, Business community into confidence, to ensure
good treatment for patients by providing them facilities.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


