                              342 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Northern Miner (Australia)

                              May 21, 2013 Tuesday
                                  1 - Edition

Hospitals campaign `political'

BYLINE: MICHAEL SAUNDERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 324 words


michael.saunders@thenorthernminer.com.au

A QUEENSLAND Nurses Union representative believes Charters Towers Hospital and
Rehabilitation Centre are at risk of privatisation by the State Government.

QNU assistant secretary Des Elder said the hospital and a number of other health
facilities across North Queensland could be up for sale under State and Federal
privatisation policies.

Mr Elder joined a number of nurses and midwives outside Townsville Hospital
recently to protest the move.

``The State LNP and the Federal Liberals and Nationals are now clearly in the
business of privatising our free public hospital system, but are trying to hide
or disguise it,'' Mr Elder said.

``We are going to ensure the people of Queensland, including the state's nurses
and midwives, know exactly what this LNP State Government are up to in terms of
our hospitals and community health services.'' Mr Elder said the ``Not For
Sale'' campaign would include two weeks of radio advertising in Charters Towers,
Townsville and Mount Isa.

However Health Minister Lawrence Springborg believes the scare campaign put
forward by the QNU is simply a political ruse by the Labor Party, with nurses
being exploited as a result.

``Not one existing Queensland hospital is listed for sale anywhere except on the
Queensland Nurses Union website,'' Mr Springborg said.

``Union bosses are hoodwinking their members by promoting the sale of every
hospital in North Queensland.

``It is a naked bid for the political benefit of the ALP,'' he said.

Mr Springborg said the nurses union was driving a campaign to force the sale of
public hospitals onto the public agenda.

``I question their ethics and their objectives,'' Mr Springborg said. ``This is
the same union that said nothing when Labor mismanagement left nurses and
midwives and their families entirely without pay and food on the table for weeks
on end.

``It beggars belief that in 2013 nurses remain so badly represented,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: MIN


                   Copyright 2013 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


