                              349 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 1, 2003, Thursday

WARD ZONE;
 BROWN AND BLAIR CLASH OVER NHS

BYLINE: PAUL GILFEATHER WHITEHALL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 397 words

HIGHLIGHT: UNHEALTHY DEBATE: Blair and Brown sit together yesterday at Prime
Minister's Question Time. Left: Alan Milburn


GORDON Brown squared up for a battle with Tony Blair yesterday by putting the
boot into the PM's flagship foundation hospitals scheme.

Under Mr Blair's scheme, NHS Trusts selected as foundation hospitals will be
able to opt-out of Whitehall control to set their own financial priorities.

But, the Chancellor told the Commons Treasury Select Committee that foundation
hospitals had to stay within the NHS budget he has set out for the next five
years.

He said: "We have got to work within a very generous settlement that takes us to
2008.

"Hospitals cannot borrow off the balance sheet. Therefore the additional
investment that hospitals make, whether foundation hospitals or not, has got to
be kept within the NHS budget.

"That has been resolved and there is no question of that."

Mr Brown also appeared to contradict Health Secretary Alan Milburn's belief that
in time all hospitals will become foundation trusts.

He said: "I don't know how many hospitals will become foundation hospitals.

"I don't know at what rate they will become foundation hospitals. They have got
to meet certain tests."

And he refused to deny that non-foundation hospitals would lose out on money.

When pressed on whether hospitals which stayed under Whitehall control would
suffer by not having the same fundraising powers, he said: "I am not going to
get into this."

Mr Brown's outburst is sure to bolster a rebellion among Labour MPs due to
culminate next week during a Commons debate. Some 130 backbenchers, who fear
foundation hospitals will create a two-tier health care system, have signed a
Commons motion opposing the scheme.

Labour Treasury committee member George Mudie said: "This is going to be the
hottest issue in Parliament since Iraq, with maybe a bigger revolt."

And its Labour chairman, John McFall, told the Chancellor he must convey the
anger felt by MPs to Mr Blair. He said: "Your comments, however valiant, have
not persuaded our committee. You better have good answers for George Mudie et
al."

Mr Blair also faced hostile questioning at a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour
Party yesterday, but Mr Milburn attacked those fighting the changes. He said:
"Now is not the time to back off reform.

"I freely admit that this is a very controversial policy but I believe it is
absolutely the right policy."

paul.gilfeather@mgn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.


