                              351 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Record (Baltimore, MD)

                             August 10, 2007 Friday

Commentary: The Pursuit of Justice: Mediation is needed now to resolve P.G.
hospital crisis

BYLINE: Steven I. Platt

SECTION: COMMENTARY

LENGTH: 921  words


As the "hospital crisis" in the Washington Metropolitan area deepens, its
dimensions have become increasingly more alarming.

"Greater Southeast Community Hospital and Prince George's Hospital Center serve
thousands of the region's most vulnerable people, many of whom cannot afford
medical care. But the issues that have pushed the two institutions to the edge
of failure go far beyond the burden of poor and uninsured patients," say Susan
Levine and Rosalind S. Helderman, staff writers for The Washington Post.

The causes of these two hospitals moving from one crisis to another in the last
few years include leadership and funding issues which are longstanding and
unresolved, as well as unattended allegations of poor management. Perhaps most
of all, protracted political acrimony and the accompanying instability and
uncertainty of funding and funding sources have paralyzed management and the
decision-making processes at both of these hospitals.

The lack of resolution of these problems has now resulted in litigation of those
issues over which the circuit court has subject-matter jurisdictions. By
definition, however, the court does not have jurisdiction to address political
questions and the accompanying managerial deficiencies resulting from personal
and political acrimony and intrigue. To complicate the matter even further, the
political and personal feuding which underlies this dispute more than the
individuals involved wish to admit or even realize is getting worse, not better.

Most importantly, and obviously, the court can't address management issues which
aren't based on contract principles or other statutory or case-based rights and
responsibilities.

This was evidenced most recently when the Circuit Court for Prince George's
County addressed the Prince George's Hospital board's request for preliminary
injunctive relief. Preliminary, and therefore temporary, relief was provided in
the form of a $2 million injection of funds to deal with the "imminent" problem
of the hospital needing funds to continue to operate until the next hearing.

That was legally all the court had authority to do at that time. So Judge Dwight
Jackson did all he could legally do to prevent what appeared to be a result
which would be "devastating. " The court certainly did not address any issues
other than the threat of "imminent and irreparable harm," which the judge was
convinced would occur if he did not act. Nor did the circuit court intend to do
more because it had no authority to go beyond the relief granted at this stage
of the legal proceedings.

The bottom line is that litigation will not produce a long-term solution to a
crisis that has resulted from all of the causes listed earlier in this column
because litigation is a process that doesn't address the underlying causes of
the economic, political, personal, demographic and policy disputes that have
caused the crisis and prevented a resolution of the issues to this date.

Nor can litigation frame the ultimate issue - which is "what if these two
critical health care providers collapse?" - in a way that legally compels the
interested and affected parties to face the ultimate issues directly and be held
accountable for their action or inaction.

Part of the reason litigation can't address the real issues is that many of the
affected, and therefore necessary parties, are not represented as parties in the
actual case. The state of Maryland is not a litigant in the case. The other
hospitals in the region that would be directly affected are not in the case.
They must be a part of a comprehensive solution or there will not be one.

What dispute resolution technique offers the best hope of reaching a
comprehensive solution which would prevent what Sharon Baskerville, executive
director of the D.C Primary Care Association, describes as an impending "perfect
storm"?

This storm would carry with it strong economic winds that could carry the
thousands of patients diverted to the remaining regional hospitals. These
hospitals would quickly be overloaded and potentially paralyzed.

These other regional hospitals have a strong economic and professional interest
in preventing the closing of either, let alone both, of these hospitals. They
therefore need to be involved directly in the prevention of this scenario. The
specter of this set of events should be more than sufficient to motivate all of
the region's other hospitals to enthusiastically participate in the crisis
prevention effort that needs to be made.

The process best suited to produce a comprehensive and long-term resolution is
mediation and it should be convened immediately with all of the stakeholders in
this regional community in the room.

As Robert C. Fiskis and Peter S. Adler point out in an article in the 2007
edition of AC Resolutions, entitled "Leading From Behind," "If conflict is the
crucible of leadership, negotiations are the mortar and the pestle. Responsible
professional and political officials must lead the people and organizations they
represent through the grinding and stirring that makes something useful out of
sometimes mundane ingredients. The job of the Mediator is to lead the process of
bringing out everyone else's best leadership. "

Everyone else's best leadership has yet to emerge in this high-stakes political,
personal, policy and economic dispute. It's time to "bring it on!"

(Steven I. Platt, a retired associate judge on the Prince George's County
Circuit Court, writes a regular column for The Daily Record. He can be reached
at info@apursuitofjustice.com)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

