                              350 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Ottawa South News

                          September 24, 2015 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Meet the Ottawa South Communist Party candidate: Larry Wasslen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 978  words


Larry Wasslen is a new face on the Ottawa South election campaign trail, but has
sought to be a political voice in past election races elsewhere in Ottawa.

Wasslen, 63, said he is a strong advocate for public healthcare, state-funded
education and workers' rights. He was played a large role in forming the first
union at the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario in the early 1980s,
advocating for better wages.

The majority of Wasslen's 40-year nursing career was in the neonatal intensive
care unit at the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario and the General campus
of the Ottawa Hospital. He retired in 2013 after working in the special care
nursery at the Montfort Hospital.

The year after he retired, Wasslen represented the Communist Party in the 2014
provincial election in the Ottawa-Centre riding. Prior to that, he served as
campaign manager for Stuart Ryan who ran for the Communist Party in Ottawa
Centre at the federal level.

Born in Winnipeg, Man., the father of three and grandfather of four has resided
in Orl)ans since 1990 with his wife of almost 40 years, Ninfa.

Q: Why are you running?

"I'm running to give the voters the opportunity to choose between any one of the
neo-liberal agendas that the various major political parties are offering - the
Conservatives, which we consider to be a fairly far-right agenda.

"But the Liberals and the NDP are basically running a neo-liberal austerity
agenda, and they're just offering a tweaking of the current pro-war,
pro-capitalist agenda.

"And we want to offer people an opportunity to look at a socialist agenda.

"It entails things like full-time employment, a major employment effort with an
emphasis on cutting down the unemployment rate, a full employment strategy,
higher wages, some conditional ideas such as nationalizing the banks and the
extraction industries, such as oil and gas and the mining industries, much
stronger public health orientation, state-funded education, from Kindergarten
through to university - a typical socialist approach to running the economy and
delivering social services."

Q: Detail your past political and civic experience or activism at any level of
government or political party.

"I was one of the nurses who led the formation of the first union at the
children's hospital. That was in the early '80s. The Ontario Nurses Association
was the first union to establish itself at CHEO and I played a significant role
in that effort.

"One of the things I was fighting for was equal pay because the nurses at the
children's hospital were making 10 per cent less than the nurses at the
General," he said.

"As a registered nurse, I was also in favour of fighting for public education,
public healthcare, reinforcing the Canadian Health Act and opposing
privatization on many fronts in the health-care field," he said.

Q: What is the biggest federal issue facing Ottawa South and how has it been
handled to date? How would you approach it?

"I think one of the big issues is the cost of housing. People are having a great
deal of difficulty making ends meet. So one of the things the Communist Party is
fighting for is large-scale investment in low-cost public housing, co-operative
housing, to reduce the costs for people and to increase the amount of available
residences people could have access to.

"The other thing we're looking for is much better wages for workers, full-time
employment with benefits for workers. One of the things we're advocating for is
a workers' bill of rights and make unionization easier, which would make
strike-breaking illegal and give workers a chance to catch up on the wage front,
because over the last many, many years, even decades, wages have been stagnating
or dropping for a large section of the population."

Q: What are the biggest federal issues affecting the Ottawa region? How will you
address them?

"The Harper regime has devastated public services in Ottawa. There have been so
many layoffs and cuts, so stopping the austerity agenda of the Harper regime is
a big issue for us.

"Increasing wages is big. One of the other things i would say is important is
state-funded education.

"Certainly, we support light rail and mass transportation. We'd like to see that
go ahead and that should be federally funded."

Q: Nationally, what do you view as the biggest issues facing Canada, and how do
you plan to address them?

"A very big issue facing Canada is this pro-war agenda of the Harper regime.
It's also very much an NDP-Liberal problem because they fully support this kind
of foreign policy. Not just overseas fighting ISIS, but the Harper regime's
foreign policy of regime change.

"If they don't like a government, they go in and bomb that country. They did it
in Libya. They participated in Afghanistan and they're participating in Iraq and
Syria. They're destabilizing these countries, and there's a massive refugee
problem and they say it's not our problem. We're not going to deal with that.

"Canada has to develop a different foreign policy of peace and disarmament. This
is a war crime - to go off and start a war, and the vast amount of people who
are hurt in these efforts are ordinary working class people, women, children and
workers. It's time for peace."

"These so called free-trade agreements are also a great threat to sovereignty
and democracy in Canada. These are basically secret trade deals that open up
Canada to foreign markets, to capitalists, and would make it illegal for Canada
to implement certain policies. For example, public education, public
healthcare."

To learn more about the Communist Party's election platform, go to
communist-party.ca/platform.

Other candidates in the federal Ottawa South electoral district include
Conservative Dev Balkissoon, Green John Redins, Liberal incumbent David
McGuinty, Libertarian Damien Wilson and New Democrat George Brown.

*Editor's note: Some answers have been edited for length or clarity.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                                 Copyright 2015
                              All Rights Reserved


