                              354 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Messenger

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

SHC asks, health secy, police to remove wall chalking from hospital

SECTION: Vol. VII No. 14

LENGTH: 306  words


The Sindh High Court on Wednesday directed the health secretary and area police
to ensure removal of all wallchalking, banners and posters of different
political parties from the premises of National Institute of Child Health.

A division bench of SHC directed the SHO of police station concerned to take
action in accordance with law when any complaint is registered by the
administration of the hospital. While disposing off the petition, the court
asked them to submit compliance reports by January 20.

These directions came on a petition filed by Javed Iqbal Burki who had gone to
the court, stating the NICH, a 500bed public hospital, was defaced by the
wallchalking, banners and posters of different political parties.

The petitioner said that some NICH paramedic staff, most of them members of the
medical wings of various political parties, damaged the appearance of its
building by fixing huge banners, posters and flags of their respective parties
in different wards and at the entrances and exits of the hospital.

Moreover, they have carried out wallchalking in wards, rooms and the boundary
wall of the NICH. He said that the paramedics were seen indulging in direct
interaction with patients to promote their respective parties.

He said that the hospital management tried numerous times to take steps to
remove the banners, flags and graffiti but the paramedics held unlawful
gatherings on the NICH premises to intimidate, insult, annoy the functionaries
and threatened them with violence in case any action was taken against them.

The petitioner requested the court to restrain the paramedic staff and political
activists from interfering, harassing and hindering the administration and
functioning of the NICH. He also prayed to the court to direct the respondents
to take action against the NICH staff involved in such activities.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2015 The Messenger
                              All Rights Reserved


