                              348 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 21, 1994

BBC HOSPITAL DRAMA UNDER TORY ATTACK;
MP alleges propaganda in series about junior doctors

BYLINE: ANDREW CULF, MEDIA CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 397 words


A POLITICAL row was brewing last night over a hard-hitting BBC drama which
focuses on the pressures faced by junior doctors in an over-stretched National
Health Service.

A Conservative member of the Commons health service select committee said
Cardiac Arrest, which begins on BBC1 tonight, would "put the worst possible
gloss" on the NHS to pull in viewers.

David Congdon, MP for Croydon North East, pointed to Casualty, the BBC hospital
drama, which he said contained "all the usual propaganda" and in nearly every
episode set out to show that the NHS was short of money and had too many
managers.

The BBC hit back, saying Mr Congdon had not seen Cardiac Arrest. The
scriptwriter, a junior hospital doctor using the pen name Dr John MacUre, said:
"It is deliberately apolitical."

The drama, filmed in an almost documentary style, focuses on 80-hour weeks
worked in overcrowded wards, showing junior doctors making mistakes and turning
to drink to cope.

The timing is sensitive after the death of Dr Alan Massie, aged 27, who
collapsed at the end of an 86-hour week at Warrington district general hospital.

Dr MacUre said: "If you've worked for 30 to 40 hours in a situation where you
are under great pressure to do something you don't want to do, you don't hold
the Prime Minister personally responsible.

"I don't want people to think the reason junior doctors are treated so shabbily
is because any given political party is in power. Any political party would
treat us as badly as another. No one makes any political comment in Cardiac
Arrest and I certainly have no political axe to grind."

He said it was not make-believe but was the first drama to give a voice to a
group of dedicated young people who felt betrayed, misunderstood and
unappreciated.

Margaret Matheson, the producer, said the series was not a message to the
government.

David Blunkett, the shadow health secretary, said: "Anything which highlights
the appalling pressure under which junior doctors are forced to work can only be
positive."

The six-part drama begins at 9.30pm. Alan Yentob, the BBC1 controller, has
already ordered a further eight episodes.

The political debate has echoes of an intervention in 1986 by Edwina Currie and
other Tory MPs who said Casualty was anti-Government propaganda. Angels, another
hospital soap, was also criticised.


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 Guardian Newspapers Limited


