                              352 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                          Sunday Tasmanian (Australia)

                              June 20, 2004 Sunday

Public health system needs major surgery

BYLINE: Simon Bevilacqua

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1071 words


Simon Bevilacqua finds the patient in serious condition

TASMANIA'S public health system has deteriorated over 10 years needs major
surgery, some of the state's leading medics say.

They say the shambles is not the fault of one political party or one bureaucrat.

It was the result of years, if not decades, of pandering to parochial politics
and a lack of political will to face a huge and complicated problem.

Health now accounts for about a third of the state budget -- more than $1
billion.

But the public system is failing to deliver standards expected of a modern
system.

High-profile Tasmanian medico Bryan Walpole said there were problems across the
board.

"It's going to need major attention," Dr Walpole said.

Hadyn Walters, head of medicine and associate dean for research at the
University of Tasmania's Faculty of Health Sciences and clinical chief of
medicine at the Royal Hobart Hospital, said the problem would need unprecedented
co-operation.

"This is going to need across-the-board support, all the political parties, and
a major public debate," Dr Walters said.

"Tasmanians are going to have to face the fact that if they want a decent public
health system, there are going to have to be major changes.

"Otherwise there'll be nothing left of the public health system. There'll be a
system for the rich and a disgrace for everyone else in the community."

Health and Human Services Minister David Llewellyn has called for a review of
the public health system by an expert advisory committee led by Monash
University professor Jeff Richardson.

The Richardson report has been completed and is expected to be released soon by
the State Government.

Submissions to the report have suggested major overhauls of the system.

A key debate to surface is the need for a restructure of the state's public
hospitals.

But opinions vary about how the changes should occur.

Some say the only cost-effective way to operate in Tasmania is to have one major
hospital with tertiary services based in Hobart.

Two secondary hospitals with adequate local facilities would be needed in the
North, most likely the Launceston General Hospital and a new hospital to be
built in Ulverstone.

"Tasmania, as a decentralised state, will always have this dilemma, as in all
other states, the capital dominates the provinces, and if Tasmanians are to have
national-class services, they will need to travel," Dr Walpole said in his
submission to the Richardson report.DR Walpole says the Tasmanian medical
workforce is "problematic and needs urgent attention".

The Mersey Community Hospital was a case in point.

"Having practised there recently, I saw serious errors of judgment, lack of
supervision, bizarre decisions being made, more through lack of support than
knowledge," Dr Walpole said.

If the RHH assumes a larger role, there would need to be a major upgrade of
paramedic services and air and road ambulance services.

But the devil is in the detail.

The RHH has no helipad landing strip and paramedics are forced to land on the
nearby Domain and ferry patients by ambulance to the hospital.

Choppers have been forced to land on a roundabout in the middle of the Bass
Highway to get to the Mersey Community Hospital.

A helipad was considered for the RHH in the 1990s but the cost of fire-proofing
the roof was prohibitive.

The Tasmanian branch of the Australian College of Ambulance Professionals says
the RHH needs a helipad.

It says ambulance practice in Tasmania is "pedestrian", has fallen behind
international best practice and needs upgrading.

It says the Tasmanian Government must develop an Emergency Medical System and
increase the scope of practice for Tasmanian paramedics so patients get better
treatment before they reach hospital.IT says ambulance response times must be
improved so 90 per cent of emergency cases are responded to within eight
minutes.

"Trauma patients have the greatest chance for good recovery if they are able to
be in surgery within one hour of the incident," its submission to the Richardson
review says.

It also says there should be a pre-hospital research unit attached to the
Tasmanian Ambulance Service or linked to the university.

Another idea raised is to restructure public hospitals by maintaining three
major hospitals -- each specialising in certain areas.

It would see patients transferred between the hospitals, including some Hobart
patients being taken to the North-West Coast or Launceston.

Many submissions to the Richardson report call for a new hospital on the
North-West Coast to be based at Ulverstone.

But this is nothing new.

One senior medic, who did not want to be named, said he had been working at
Wynyard in 1959 when most of the experts agreed that Ulverstone was ideal for a
North-West hospital.

"Political pandering won out and we finished with the situation it is now," he
said.

"Decisions have been made on purely parochial and political grounds."

The Australasian Society for Emergency Medicine says there should only be one
specialist emergency department in the North-West.

Its submission says the emergency department should be located in the regional
base hospital with 24-hour availability of core specialty services and other
services including general surgery, orthopedics, urology, opthalmology, general
medicine, pediatrics, psychiatry, obstetrics, gynaecology, anaesthetics, CCU/ICU
and ENT/maxillofacial.

"It is also essential there be a 24-hour pathology and medical imaging
services," the society says.

Senior NWRH emergency department medical staff say there is general agreement
about the need for one specialist hospital in the North-West but there is huge
debate about where it should be sited.

"For many years there has been an inefficient and expensive duplication and a
lack of co-ordination of hospital services on the North-West Coast," the NWRH
staff said in their submission. "We know of no other situation in rural
Australia where there are two public hospitals in such close proximity competing
to provide a range of specialist services.

"The ongoing difficulties of recruiting and retaining health professionals in
small institutions with low case loads, onerous on-call rosters and lack of peer
support are well known."

The NWRH emergency staff said the problems were resulting in "care well below
the accepted clinical standards of today".

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: STS

                   Copyright 2004 Nationwide News Pty Limited


