                              360 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 5, 2013 Saturday

CALLS FOR BURNHAM TO BE SACKED OVER COVER-UP OF HOSPITAL CARE DISASTER

BYLINE: BY TIM SHIPMAN DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 854 words


FORMER Health Secretary Andy Burnham is facing calls to quit after claims he
tried to block the publication of a devastating report into hospital neglect
before the last election.

Tory MPs demanded Ed Miliband fire Mr Burnham as shadow health secretary after
the Mail published damning emails which show the health watchdog was asked to
stop the release of a report on Basildon and Thurrock hospital in Essex where
patients were left to die.

Britain's most powerful civil servant Cabinet Secretary Sir Jeremy Heywood was
last night examining whether he needs to set up a Whitehall investigation into
whether civil servants breached their code of conduct. Emails released under the
Freedom of Information Act have revealed that the Department of Health stopped
the watchdog Care Quality Commission from releasing the report just hours before
it was due to be published in November 2009.

The report revealed that death rates in A&E were a third above average while
catheters were strewn on the floor and blood was spattered on the walls and
curtains. Mr Burnham was furious' when news of the poor standards of care was
leaked, the emails reveal.

In a second controversy, the commission was due to publish its state of care
report' into hospitals and care homes in February 2010

, three months before the election. Yet an email sent round by a senior CQC boss
following a meeting with one of Mr Burnham's junior ministers instructs them
that, given the political environment', the report should be largely positive'.

In July, in a House of Commons debate on hospital scandals, Mr Burnham rounded
on Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt after he was accused of covering up poor care.
Mr Burnham said at the time: The Secretary of State claims that we were covering
up...it is outrageous for [him] to come to the House and repeat those concerns
without a shred of evidence to back them up'.

Mr Burnham is now accused of misleading MPs about his role in the affair and is
facing calls to make a statement to Parliament next week.

Tory MP Stephen Barclay, who obtained the emails, said: Labour tried to cover up
failing hospitals before the last General Election. Andy Burnham told the House
of Commons in July there was no shred of evidence of political interference with
the health regulator.

But these emails show a clear paper trail of political meddling - leading back
to him.

He owes a big apology to the patients and families who suffered, and he should
resign. No one will ever trust Labour with our hospitals again.' He added that
he had written to Ed Miliband demanding Mr Burnham be sacked.

Former CQC head of media, Roger Davidson, has previously said the watchdog was
told by Labour before the general election that we don't want bad news'.

Baroness Young, the former chairman of the CQC, told the Francis inquiry into
deaths at Mid Staffordshire Hospital Trust, under oath, that the CQC was under
more pressure...when Andy Burnham became minister'.

Professor Sir Brian Jarman, the country's foremost expert on hospital death
rates, has said Labour ran an NHS denial machine', which ignored issues in the
NHS when they were politically inconvenient.

After the publication of the emails yesterday, Tory MP Stephen Metcalfe wrote to
Sir Jeremy Heywood asking him to investigate whether the civil service code was
breached.

He wrote: The evidence presented this morning suggests that Andy Burnham, then
Health Secretary, and his team, attempted to manipulate the release of CQC
reports for political gain.

I am deeply concerned civil servants came under undue political pressure from
the front bench Labour team and those associated with them, who were nervous
about the proximity of the General Election.'

Health Secretary Mr Hunt tweeted: Shocking revelations on Andy Burnham's
attempts to cover-up failing hospitals.'

He added: What it looks like...is that the last government wanted the NHS to be
a good news factory, really, in the run-up to the last election - to the extent
that they were prepared to lean on the regulator not to publish a report about
poor care at one hospital, and I think that's wrong.

That's why I announced this week that we will make the CQC, the regulator,
completely independent in the way the Bank of England is.'

Mr Burnham demanded an apology from the Tories and threatened to sue Mr Hunt. He
claimed he was only furious about the release of the information on the hospital
because the leak of the report into Basildon hospital broke Department of Health
rules'.

In a letter to Mr Hunt he said: The unauthorised briefing by a CQC press
officer, which broke the CQC/DH rules, was not agreed with the senior leadership
of the CQC.

I ordered a press release, in accordance with proper process, be issued later
that day. It is impossible to see how you can claim this mounted to a cover-up.'

He asked for evidence to substantiate your assertion. If you fail to provide
such evidence, I will require a full retraction and public apology. If that is
not forthcoming I will consider further action.'

Labour said it had asked Mr Hunt to substantiate his comments or withdraw them'.

Comment - Page 16

Yesterday's Daily Mail

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


