                              355 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                           October 01, 2015 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

Union calls on MEC to intervene at Bara

BYLINE:  VUYO MKIZE vuyo.mkhize@inl.co.za

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 419 words


THE NATIONAL Education, Health and Allied Workers Union has described the
management at Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital as irresponsible and
incompetent.

The union marched to the hospital yesterday to hand over a memorandum addressed
to Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu and the head of department, in which it detailed
its grievances.

Nehawu complained that management had disregarded due process when hiring 147
workers recently.

The union also alleged that the EFF had "captured" the hospital and infused it
with "corrupt tendencies".

"We cannot allow Bara to become a political playground where political parties
will come and demand employment (while) disregarding employment processes," the
memorandum stated.

"If our employer succumbs to pressure from a political party, it is dangerous.
This is a clear indication that we lack management with vision."

The union alleged that when management employed the workers, it didn't inform
organised labour about the deviation from the recruitment process.

Nehawu also accused |management of misleading the employment equity committee on
the number of posts available. "The process was so flawed that no interviews
were conducted (and) no screening was done. Contract employees, who have been
cleaning the hospital for years, were overlooked."

The union said there was |a backlog in translations and payments of nurses and
|auxiliary nurses who were upgraded to staff nurses dating from 2012.

"In February 2015, the hospital board sponsored a relationship-building
exercise. Management and shop stewards went to Parys (in the Free State) in an
effort to improve relationships.

"This was an important exercise, which was led by labour relations. Once more,
important resolutions were adopted. (Until) today, not a single resolution was
implemented."

The union blamed that on management's unavailability each time a consultative
forum was due to meet.

Nehawu made several demands, among them the removal of the 147 employed workers,
proper engagement with unions as well as the immediate removal of the chief
executive and human resource director and all managers allegedly involved in the
corruption.

It also called for a forensic commission of inquiry to investigate the matter.

The Health Department's spokesman, Steve Mabona, said the department would
peruse the memorandum and attend to the demands.

"It must be noted that we have been in constant liaison with labour and we will
continue to do so, to address all concerns," Mabona said.

The EFF couldn't be reached for comment.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2015 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


