                              362 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                             July 9, 2014 Wednesday

Shortage of medicines at Burns Center hits patients hard

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 548

LENGTH: 283  words


Friends of Burns Center, a non-governmental organization (NGO), had stopped the
supply of medicines to Burns Center Karachi over political activities of medical
wings of political parties and frequent protest demonstrations of paramedics
against the administration. Reliable sources of Burns Center Karachi said
Friends of Burns Center had stopped supply of medicines to patients with burns
injuries due to increasing political activities of medical wing of political
parties in the premises of healthcare.

The administration of NGO asked Civil Hospital Karachi administration to take
the control of Burns Center again. Sources said Friends of Burns Center had
limited their public welfare activities in healthcare due to political
activities and frequently held protest demonstrations against the
administration. All the administrative affairs of Burns Center are almost in
state of halt. The administration has also stopped the provision of medicines to
poor patients brought throughout the Sindh province and Balochistan province for
treatment. The shortage of medicines partially affected the routine operational
work like dressing of patients in healthcare.

They said there were of capacity 70 beds in hospital for burns patients.
However, sources said MS Civil Hospital Saeed Qureshi has sought one week time
to resolve the matter with Friends of Burns Center administration in this
regard. In-charge CHK Burns Center Dr Ehmer-Al-Ibran when contacted said Civil
Hospital administration has started provision of medicines to Burns Center and
there was no shortage of medicines in healthcare now. He admitted that Friends
of Burns Center had limited their public welfare activities over some issues.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


