                              364 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            July 24, 1999, Saturday

MAVERICKS FACE INQUIRY OVER HOSPITAL VOTE

BYLINE: Jon Hunt Medical Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 627 words


A "maverick" group of political activists who have jeopardised plans for a
pounds 200 million hospital for Birmingham face an investigation after opposing
the authority that appointed them.

Birmingham City Council nominees to the South Birmingham Community Health
Council were almost entirely responsible for a controversial vote which meant it
officially opposed the hospital plans, inquiries by The Post have revealed.

Yet 24 hours earlier, city councillors on a key policy committee voted
unanimously in favour of the hospital project in a rare cross-party show of
support.

Last night, senior opposition councillor and health campaigner Coun Les Lawrence
(Con Northfield) called for an all-party inquiry into the behaviour of the
council nominees whom he branded a "maverick group".

Hospital managers also disclosed CHC members had declined invitations for a tour
of the two hospitals at the centre of the row, the Queen Elizabeth Hospital and
Selly Oak Hospital, to see for themselves their state of decay.

The CHC voted by 14 votes to six to adopt a controversial report opposing the
new hospital project. Eleven of the 14 were city council nominees, including the
CHC chairman Mrs Ursula Pearce.

The council nominates about half the CHC's members, mainly on recommendations
submitted by political parties. The remainder are elected by voluntary
organisations or appointed by the Department of Health.

Analysis of the voting figures shows a majority of voluntary and Department of
Health representatives voted for the new hospital - three from each group. But
not a single city council nominee supported it.

Coun Lawrence said: "They are city council representatives and should take due
notice of what it is doing or saying and should be willing to discuss its views
with it. The three parties on the city council should collectively look very
closely at this."

Mr Steve McCabe, the Labour MP for Hall Green, has tabled a series of
Parliamentary questions to Health Secretary Mr Frank Dobson asking whether he
has the power to order a judicial review into the CHC's actions.

He said it was "outrageous" a handful of people could jeopardise the hospital
project.

Another local MP, Mrs Gisela Stuart (Lab Edgbaston), said: "I suspect there is
ideology behind what has happened. They should look more closely at the needs of
Birmingham people.

"The time has come for the CHC to look at itself and see how representative it
is of the community's views."

The CHC report accused hospital managers of exaggerating the state of decay of
the Queen Elizabeth Hospital and Selly Oak Hospital and claims the project would
mean the loss of hundreds of medical and nursing jobs.

The CHC opposition means the project will automatically be referred to Mr Dobson
and could face lengthy delays while Department of Health civil servants analyse
it, especially if a new Health Secretary is appointed in next week's Government
reshuffle.

A spokeswoman for University Hospital Birmingham NHS Trust, which runs the
hospitals, said: "The CHC has not been and had a look at the situation, despite
invitations.

"City councillors, MPs and MEPs are among the many people who have been to see
for themselves but the CHC has not."

But Mrs Pearce claimed the CHC's views were based on a public consultation it
held 18 months ago and accused its critics of intimidation.

She said the claim that the repair problems were exaggerated was based on a
study of the trust's figures.

She said: "They have included backlog maintenance for some quite new buildings
and even for a porter's lodge. We are there to represent the interests of the
patients, not of anybody else and include representatives of all political
parties."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Under fire: Ursula Pearce. Furious: Steve McCabe. Inquiry call:; Les
Lawrence.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


