                              363 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            October 14, 2012 Sunday

Editorial: IJ recommends Simmonds, Sparkman for Marin Healthcare District board

BYLINE: Marin Independent Journal Editorial

SECTION: NEWS; Opinion; Editorials

LENGTH: 474 words


CAMPAIGNS for seats on the Marin Healthcare District board used to provide the
stage for acrimonious political fights.

Today, with two incumbents seeking re-election and a single challenger doing
little to campaign for votes, what once was a political battlefield appears far
different.

Dr. Harris "Hank" Simmonds, a retired obstetrician, is seeking a second term.
His primary focus, he says, is to shape the proposed expansion, modernization
and seismic-safety repairs for Marin General Hospital. He says the health care
district directors are heading the decision-making process on what likely will
require voter-approval of a bond measure to become reality.

Simmonds' election to the board in 2008 was a political milestone for the
district, signaling its departure from the political antagonism of the fight
over control of MGH to the successful re-establishment of public management.

He has helped rebuild public trust in Marin General and the board, a trust that
had come under attack by critics of Sutter Health's long-term contract to run
the hospital.

That trust helped keep MGH's physicians and nurses from leaving the hospital
when the new public management took over. A political "firewall" has been
created, turning day-to-day management of the hospital over to a separate board
of health-care experts. Simmonds says the district board still maintains an
oversight role, including being the employer of the hospital's top management.

Simmonds' commitment to the quality of care at Marin General, today and in the
future, is crystal clear. He has earned another term on the board.

He should be joined by Ann Sparkman, a lawyer at the University of California at
San Francisco who last year was appointed to the board to fill a vacancy.
Sparkman's experience as a nurse and a hospital lawyer provides the board with
expertise that could prove valuable as the district moves forward with the
building plans and deals with employment contracts.

Their challenger is San Rafael lawyer Joe Salama, who ran unsuccessfully for the
board in 2010.

He's raising many of the same issues he did in that race, questioning whether
the "firewall" best serves the public. He fears the district board and the
public are being kept in the dark about important hospital decisions and
possible conflicts of interest.

The most constructive contribution of his candidacy is its reminder to the
district's leadership that it needs to keep its decision-making process as open
as possible if it wants to win voter approval for a bond measure.

Simmonds is right   this election isn't about re-fighting old battles, but about
winning public trust and support for keeping Marin General a top-quality
hospital and modernizing its facilities, buildings and campus.

The IJ recommends Dr. Hank Simmonds and Ann Sparkman for the Marin Healthcare
District board on the Nov. 6 ballot.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


