                              359 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                       Sunshine Coast Daily (Queensland)

                          February 15, 2012 Wednesday

Hospital caught in election maul

BYLINE:  Kathy Sundstrom

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 372  words

UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL:

Cost: $2.03 billion

Completion: It will open with 450 beds in 2016 and expand to a 738-bed facility
by 2021.

The hospital will be the centrepiece in a network of hospitals which includes
Nambour General Hospital, Caloundra Health Service, Gympie Hospital and Maleny
Soldiers Memorial Hospital.

Source: Queensland Health

BOTH major political parties have promised the Sunshine Coast University
Hospital will be delivered on schedule.

But Labor and the LNP claim this won't happen if the other party comes to power.

The crucial piece of infrastructure the Sunshine Coast needed years ago appeared
to have become a political football with both parties kicking around debate
about its future.

In response to a question if the Government expected any delays caused by the
election, Health Minister Geoff Wilson used it to attack the LNP.

"The caretaker period will not affect the timeframe for tenders for the
hospital, but the outcome of the election will," Mr Wilson said.

"Bids will be received during the caretaker period and Queensland Health can
begin the process of analysing the bids during that period as well. That will
mean a re-elected Bligh Government will be in a position to announce the outcome
of the bid process later in 2012.

"But if the LNP is elected the hospital project will be set back by at least a
year.

"That's because the bidders have been putting together their final bids for the
full $2.03 billion hospital, based on the Labor Government's plans. However, the
LNP has publicly stated it will "~re-scope' the project and rip up to $400
million from its budget.

"At the very least if the LNP is elected, the bidders will have to start the
bidding process all over again under the LNP's plan to re-scope the entire
project.

"That process would delay the project by more than a year. It would also mean
that vital services planned for the hospital would have to be abandoned in order
to reduce the cost."

Deputy Opposition leader Tim Nicholls said the LNP "will deliver the Sunshine
Coast University Hospital without delays and without excuses".

He said the LNP "has long been committed to delivering the Sunshine Coast
University Hospital, while Labor had flip-flopped for years on the important
project".

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SCN


                    Copyright 2012 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


