                              361 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

Plea against political activities, graffiti at NICH

SECTION: Vol. LXVII No. 318

LENGTH: 470  words


The Sindh High Court on Wednesday directed the interior minister, Sindh chief
secretary and officials to file their respective comments in a petition seeking
removal of banners and posters of different political parties from the National
Institute of Child Health.

The petition was filed by Javed Iqbal Burki who cited the interior minister,
chief secretary, home secretary, health secretary, provincial police and NICH
executive director as respondents.

A twojudge bench comprising Justices Muhammed Ali Mazhar and Naimatullah
Phulphoto issued notices to the respondents and put off the hearing to Dec 3.

The petitioner's counsel, Advocate Muhammad Vawda told the judges that the NICH,
a 500bed public hospital, was the first children's hospital in the country and
it provided tertiary care services for almost all paediatric diseases.

He said that the hospital was equipped with the latest diagnostic equipment.
Reportedly, 700 to 800 patients visit different outpatient departments for
treatment on a daily basis and 18,000 children receive treatment every month at
the NICH.

The counsel said that some NICH paramedic staff, most of them members of the
medical wings of various political parties, defaced the its building by fixing
huge banners, posters and flags of their respective parties in different wards
and at the entrances and exits of the hospital.

In addition wallchalking was also visible in wards, rooms and the boundary wall
of the NICH.

He said that these activities were going on without an approval from the NICH
management and administration.

Advocate Vawda said that the paramedics were seen indulging in direct
interaction with patients to promote their respective parties.

He said they were also seen interfering with the administration, interalia, and
meddling in the procedures and functions of the blood bank, operating
theatre/surgery rooms and emergency ward without any approval from the hospital
management or doctors. He said that the paramedics were also involved in
extorting funds from patients, doctors and functionaries of the NICH.

The counsel said that the hospital management tried numerous times to take steps
to remove the banners, flags and graffiti but the paramedics held unlawful
assemblies on the NICH premises to intimidate, insult, annoy the functionaries
and threatened them with violence in case any action was taken against them.

The petitioner prayed to the court to permanently restrain the paramedic staff
and political activists from interfering, harassing and hindering the
administration and functioning of the NICH.

He also prayed to the court to direct the respondents to take action against the
NICH staff involved in such activities.

The petitioner sought court directive to the respondents for the remove all
party flags, posters, banners and graffiti from the building.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2014 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


