                              356 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                           October 1, 2014 Wednesday

Editorial: Measure R is right for Marin General

BYLINE: Marin Independent Journal

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 579 words


In 2013, voters in the Marin Healthcare District passed a bond measure to pay
for a capital plan to bring Marin General Hospital up to modern-day standards.
Voters approved a new tax to finance a $394 million bond measure that will
modernize the hospital, including building new buildings, renovating existing
structures and, most importantly, making seismic-safety improvements.

The vote was a significant investment, but it was also a public vote of
confidence in Marin General Hospital's rise from years of being mired in
political controversy. The hospital's impressive transition to greater public
control helped build that community support.

On the Nov. 4 ballot, voters will be asked to complete that effort, approving a
new lease that would turn the day-to-day management of the hospital to a board
whose members would be appointed by the elected healthcare district board
members.

Sutter Health, which ran Marin General for many years, had a similar local
board, but the medical care giant handpicked its membership.

The old lease left the elected healthcare board with little power over the
hospital   an arrangement that fueled a lengthy and bitter battle played out at
board meetings, in courtrooms and in acrimonious political campaigns.

When Sutter agreed to end its lease, the healthcare district had to rebuild a
management structure, one that would help instill public confidence in Marin
General. The hospital's well-respected corps of physicians insisted that a
"firewall" be created to keep the hospital from becoming a political tug-of-war.

The proposed 30-year lease has done just that. It is a major improvement over
the bunker-style approach that Sutter took in dealing with the Marin Healthcare
District board.

Unlike under the Sutter lease, the 11 board members of the new lessee   a local
nonprofit   will be publicly appointed by the elected healthcare district board
which, importantly, will retain control of the hospital's buildings and other
assets.

Board members can be picked for their breadth of expertise rather than their
ability to win a political campaign.

In addition, the board will present quarterly public reports to the district
board. It will also pay the district $500,000 per year in rent and the
hospital's profits will be reinvested in the hospital, not diverted to a
statewide chain of hospitals, as happened under Sutter.

The state law that requires voter endorsement of hospital leases was authored by
critics of Sutter's Marin General lease. Some of those same people have
criticized Measure R, likening it to the controversial Sutter lease.

We don't agree with that criticism.

The Sutter lease left the healthcare board legally neutered, with little say
over the quality and changes in patient care at Marin General Hospital.

That disconnect fueled years of circus-like politics that took a toll on public
confidence in the hospital. Measure R seeks to prevent a return to those days.
It is a practical solution, a hybrid. It is a lease that still gives the
district effective power to address issues facing the hospital.

Measure R is modeled on an interim lease that been in operation since Sutter's
departure.

Voter approval of the 2013 bond measure was a vote of confidence by the
community. Measure R deserves the same support.

Measure R provides a firewall, but still gives the public, through its election
of healthcare board members and built-in public processes, a strong say in
steering the governance of Marin General Hospital.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2014 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


