                              368 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                              July 4, 2004 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Loudoun Letters to the Editor

SECTION: Loudoun Extra; T02

LENGTH: 534 words


I sincerely hope the Loudoun County Board of Supervisors doesn't let "politics
as usual" interfere with common sense when voting on the new Broadlands Regional
Medical Center.

Folks, we need this hospital in its proposed location and for all the right
reasons, which have been hashed out over and over in this paper and elsewhere.
And we're going to need it sooner than anyone will ever realize.

In my humble opinion, Scott K. York (I), chairman of the Board of Supervisors,
unfortunately took a somewhat strident approach in explaining why he is in favor
of the proposed HCA Corp. hospital in Broadlands ["Misled on Health Care Plan,"
Letters, Loudoun Extra, June 27].

In part, he said: "Like it or not, Loudoun is the nation's fastest-growing
county. We have the lowest number of hospital beds per capita in Northern
Virginia. More than half our residents leave our county for health care
services."

Although what he said is true, he could have made a greater impact without the
comment, "Like it or not." The same holds true for his other comment that "this
scheme reeks of it [politics]" and his mention of "a Board of Supervisors that
at its first meeting, with no public notice, disbanded the county's Health Care
Commission." Comments like these serve only to challenge the members of the
board who represent other political parties, who in turn feel obliged to strike
back as they seem to do in all matters political.

The need for this hospital is not and should not be a political issue to any
member of the Board of Supervisors. It is a matter that requires meeting the
needs of Loudoun's citizenry. I sincerely hope the entire board puts this kind
of an attitude behind it and looks at the necessity and the overwhelming growth
in our area that this hospital will hopefully serve.

I also continue to sound the alarm, thus far unheeded, of any overwhelming
accidents or natural disasters, including possible terrorist attacks at Dulles
International Airport, the Federal Aviation Administration facility or any of
the other numerous "choice" targets for terrorism in Loudoun County. I again
want to remind all concerned that the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, did not test
the capacity of New York City's hospitals since, unfortunately, the majority of
the victims did not survive to require medical treatment.

As if we need any more proof about our county's growth, one only has to look at
the growth map  in this very same issue of the Loudoun Extra ["What's Going
Where in Loudoun County"]. It details the numerous housing projects and rezoning
requests that are but the tip of the iceberg of future growth.

All this without including the many schools, offices and warehouses and the
needed expansion of the fire and rescue training center facilities that will
attract even more residents requiring even more housing.

I do sincerely thank York for his needed support of the HCA hospital. My only
concern and intent here is to ask him and all members of our elected board to
put aside any political bickering and/or rhetoric on an issue of such importance
and vote responsibly to approve this over-debated, over-challenged but much
needed hospital in Broadlands.

Gerald F. Merna

Potomac Falls

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2004 The Washington Post


