                              367 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           The Australian (Australia)

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday
                           All-round Country Edition

Abbott admits plan has unhealthy flaw - ELECTION 2007

BYLINE: Matthew Franklin, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 540  words


POLICY BATTLEGROUND ELECTION 07 - HEALTH

TONY Abbott has admitted to a flaw in his plan to force states to establish
boards to operate public hospitals, conceding he will be powerless to prevent
the committees being stacked with political appointees.

But the Health Minister says he still believes community-based boards will be
better at running public hospitals than state government bureaucracies.

On Monday, Mr Abbott said that if re-elected, the Howard Government would
require states to return to a decades-old system under which all public
hospitals are administered by a board comprised of local appointees.

State governments rejected the move, with Queensland Health Minister Stephen
Robertson saying that before Labor abolished the board system in 1992, previous
National Party state governments had stacked the boards with political
appointees who had created $313 million in debts for taxpayers.

Asked yesterday whether his proposal included a mechanism for eliminating the
politicisation of boards, Mr Abbott said: ''We can't stop state Labor
governments stacking boards.

''The requirement that a third of the board must be hospital clinicians or
staff, and that other members should have expertise in governance, finance or
health service delivery, will help.''

He said Mr Robertson was ''really saying you can't trust state Labor governments
to appoint good people'' to boards.

Mr Abbott said he believed the hospital board system would work. ''It will
certainly be a vast improvement on the current situation,'' he said. ''It is
interesting that the Labor states don't think they can keep politics out of
it.''

Mr Robertson said he would not appoint political hacks if forced to return to a
board system. But he said Queensland had abolished boards because they were
inefficient and had been shown to be ripe for political exploitation.

''For me, the major flaw is that Tony Abbott cannot provide any advice or expert
opinion that shows that boards deliver better outcomes,'' Mr Robertson said.
''Where is his proof?''

He said boards still existed in Victoria and South Australia but that public
hospitals in those states were as cash-strapped as other hospitals across the
country. ''How will a hospital board employ one extra doctor?'' he said.

The Rural Doctors Association said debate about community management of public
hospitals was ''an unfortunate distraction'' from the real problem -- workforce
shortages. The debate raged as both sides of politics continued to press the
health issue, which has dominated recent days of pre-election-campaign
posturing.

John Howard cited problems at Sydney's Royal North Shore Hospital, where a
pregnant woman awaiting treatment last week suffered a miscarriage in a public
toilet, as reason for voters to be wary of a Labor government.

''This mismanagement of public hospitals in NSW is a disgrace and the level of
the disgrace becomes more apparent every day,'' the Prime Minister told Sydney
radio 2GB. ''Do they (voters) really want duplicated at a federal level the
appalling mismanagement that's occurring at a state level in areas such as
public hospitals and public transport?''

Later yesterday, Labor leader Kevin Rudd visited the Gladstone Hospital in
central Queensland.

Opinion -- Page 14

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


