                              365 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                            March 12, 2011 Saturday

Pakistan: PMA condemns hooligansim at CHK Gynaecology Ward

LENGTH: 310  words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, March 12 -- The Pakistan Medical Association (PMA) has strongly
condemned hooliganism at the gynaecology ward of Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK)
where a male attendant carrying a weapon entered the labour room of the CHK a
couple of days ago and threatened the lady doctors and women in the labour room.

The incident was reported to the high-ups but nothing concrete has so far
emerged for provision of security to doctors.

"Patients in the gynecology ward, most of them hailing from low-income
localities, are exposed because of hooliganism,' Dr. Samrina Hashmi, an eminent
gynaecologist and a PMA leader told media.

"PMA has always demanded security of doctors during performance of their duties,
particularly in the public sector hospitals. Doctors need peace of mind and a
conducive environment for better discharge of duties for providing solace to
suffering humanity," a strongly-worded statement issued by PMA on Wednesday
said.

"But, it appears that now and then the hospital administration has failed to
bring about discipline in maintenance of working conditions that obviously
results in several incidents when doctors are beaten and maltreated either by
attendants of the patients or the political workers," the statement further
said.

PMA leader Dr. Idrees Adhi visited the gynaecology ward of CHK on Wednesday and
assured concerned doctors of PMA's full support. The PMA has urged the
government. to look into this grievous matter and order the concerned hospital
administrators to take measures for protection of duty doctors of public sector
hospital and remove the political influence and interference of political
parties from these hospitals Published by HT Syndication with permission from
Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or any other
content requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


