                              372 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 27, 2005, Tuesday

HOSPITAL NEEDS £11.5M TO STAY LEGAL

BYLINE: BY EMMA BRADY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 404 words


A cash-strapped Midland hospital trust needs to spend more than £11.5 million to
ensure its buildings meet statutory health and safety standards.

Shrewsbury and Telford Hospitals NHS Trust was ranked fourth out of the 500
trusts across Britain with the highest spending requirements, in a construction
industry report.

It ended the last financial year with an unexpected £10.1 million deficit, which
has taken its current debt to £19 million.

The report, published by trade body the Construction Products Association (CPA),
reveals the total cost for the backlog of repairs to the NHS estate is £2.6
billion - with more than £500 million to be spent on basic health, safety and
fire measures alone.

Shrewsbury and Telford Hospitals NHS Trust needs to invest £11,548,000 to meet
statutory fire safety, according to official figures obtained under the Freedom
of Information Act.

The report, Achievable Targets - Is Government Delivering?, states that previous
targets for eliminating the safety repairs backlog were missed back in 2002 and
2003.

In 2002, there were 2,700 fires on NHS properties, which points to obvious
implications for patient safety.

Michael Ankers, chief executive of the CPA, said: "Tackling the current safety
backlog should be a top priority and the Government should set a new timetable
to end it by 2010/11, with an interim target to cut the repair backlog to £1.5
billion by April 2008.

"While the Government might be on target to deliver its programme of new
hospital buildings and healthcare facilities, there remain major areas of the
NHS estate that are in poor state of repair, something which has been linked in
the past to increasing the risk of infection spreading.

"Meeting its target of 100 major hospitals by 2010 is likely to be achieved but
it is doing this by deferring major projects in its original plan and replacing
them with smaller projects that are easier to finish."

The CPA report, which has been endorsed by CBI director general Sir Digby Jones,
is being presented at the Labour Party Conference.

It shows the Government is missing targets in a range of public service sectors,
and failing to set new targets. In many areas it is not even monitoring progress
towards meeting targets.

The UK remains at the bottom of the European league for the percentage of GDP
invested in construction - just seven per cent compared with

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


