                              38 of 998 DOCUMENTS



               South Burnett Times and Rural Weekly (Queensland)

                               September 14, 2010

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 708  words


Queensland Health has no plans to close Murgon Hospital.

As recently as August 2009, the hospital's Palliative Care Unit was extended and
modernised to give greater privacy and comfort to patients, their family and
friends and also to the staff who work in the facility.

We are committed to providing access to safe, sustainable and appropriate health
care services for the people of Murgon and the greater South Burnett.

As is the current practice, all patients are triaged to determine the level of
care required and the most appropriate hospital to provide this. This could be a
transfer to Kingaroy hospital or a tertiary hospital.

The Murgon Hospital will continue to provide emergency and inpatient care to a
level appropriate for quality and safe care.

Kingaroy is the main centre of the South Burnett region and the town's hospital
was set up to provide care to this community with the support of outlying
smaller facilities such as Murgon and Nanango. There are seven doctors at
Kingaroy Hospital which is also serviced by an additional three visiting medical
officers and an anaesthetist who is on call 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

Kingaroy Hospital is also staffed with experienced rural nurses 24 hours a day.
This includes five specifically trained Rural and Isolated Practice Registered
Nurses.

Kingaroy Hospital has a long established and continuing practice with Murgon
Hospital to accept patient transfers and admissions when a Murgon doctor is not
on duty.

The medical coverage for Murgon Hospital has always been, and continues to be,
part of a rotational medical roster that provides 24 hour emergency response.

DR PETER BRISTOW,

Darling Downs - West Moreton

Health Service District

Acting Chief Executive Officer.

Democracy denied?

In five decades our political scene in Canberra has reflected and transferred
the bullying tactics of the school play grounds to parliament - just watch
Question Time on ABC television.

Political parties in Question Time is all about feral, bullying standover
tactics, with nothing to do with running the country, or keeping the voters
informed about the country's affairs.

Our three amigos show quite clearly, the leadership on how to keep our country
from slipping into a dictatorship, as we now know that the major political
parties, have lost the vision to keep the voters informed on the state of the
affairs of the country, the blame game is what is carried out in parliament, it
is our three amigos that has pulled up parliament, through democracy to indicate
the right path of and the guts to do the right thing. Political parties have
long ago given up any pretence of doing good for their electorates, but are
using their elected candidates to expand their Political Party power in
Canberra.

This last election has also shown that the media (all forms) has shown that it
was not prepared to just report the new in a democratic manner, but ignored this
basis principle of freedom of the media, to become the King maker in this past
election, by not publishing what some candidates stood for or making known what
the candidates political policies are. This action reduces the electorate to
complete ignorance, if such information is suppressed, a case of the "mushroom
people, keep them in the dark and feed them B/S" applies, what about giving a
fair go?

Please explain under what principle, was democracy denied?

CY D'OLIVEIRA

Killing whales not on

I watched Sunday Night on August 28 about dwarf minke whales.

The Japanese killing for research is obscene, barbaric and a great big lie. It
must stop.

Australian border security deals very severely with Taiwanese fishermen and
others, so why are the Japanese exempt?

Where is border security when the Japanese are killing the whales? They trespass
in our waters and kill our protected animals and both governments allow them to.

Whichever party is in power I say to you, stop being hypocrites and stop the
Japanese. These beautiful, gentle, intelligent and trusting creatures need and
deserve to be left in peace. We betray them, for what, money and trade! Is it
really worth it?

MAUREEN PAUL,

Blackbutt.

WHAT DO YOU THINK?

Send an SMS to 0428 154 233, post a letter to

PO Box 312 Kingaroy, 4610 or email editorial@southburnetttimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: KSB


                    Copyright 2010 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


