                              371 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Gazette (Montreal)

                           January 24, 2008 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Bilingual service in hospitals not optional, Couillard says; 'No compromise' on
care in French

BYLINE: KEVIN DOUGHERTY, The Gazette

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 313  words

DATELINE: QUEBEC


Health Minister Philippe Couillard wants Quebec's hospitals to offer treatment
to patients in their own language - French or English.

The minister was asked to comment on the 15 complaints the Office québécois de
la langue française received last year from patients who said they did not
receive health care in French.

"The number of complaints is relatively low," Couillard said. "It doesn't mean
that it's not a problem."

He said all Quebec hospitals should provide service in French.

"The first principle we always stress is that in my view, in my mind, in the
government's mind, there is no such thing as an anglophone hospital and a
francophone hospital," he said.

"They are all Quebec hospitals serving Quebecers and Quebecers work and practise
medicine in these hospitals and the law says that all Quebec citizens have a
right to be treated and served in French.

"There will be no compromise in this matter."

But Quebec also has Bill 142, to ensure anglophones, even in regions where there
are few English speakers, have access to service in their language.

"I think it is a tremendous success," Couillard said of Bill 142.

"And if you compare what we are doing for our anglophone minority outside
Montreal, I think our standing is quite good compared to what is done for the
francophone minorities outside Quebec.

"I think we have nothing to be ashamed of for the way services are given for our
anglophone fellow Quebecers," the minister said.

"We want these Quebecers to be treated fairly."

Action démocratique du Québec leader Mario Dumont, commenting on the 15
complaints about shortfalls in health care in French, said the situation is not
new. "The law is there and it is there to be applied," Dumont said.

kdougherty@thegazette.canwest.com

- - -

montrealgazette.com

Soundoff Are Quebecers making too much of the language issue? Does the debate
still reflect reality? Join the debate

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:
Colour Photo: TYREL FEATHERSTONE THE GAZETTE; "In my mind, in the government's
mind, there is no such thing as an anglophone hospital and a francophone
hospital," Health Minister Philippe Couillard said yesterday, adding that
medical care should be provided to patients in the language of their choice. ;

