                              366 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                            December 2, 2012 Sunday

NCP creates ruckus at Daga hospital after death of a newborn

BYLINE: Payal Gwalani

SECTION: NAGPUR

LENGTH: 394 words


NAGPUR: A ruckus ensued after the death of a newborn baby at the government-run
Daga Memorial Hospital for Women and Children on Saturday afternoon. Parents of
the child blamed the doctors for their child's death. Members of the Nationalist
Congress Party (NCP) flocked to the hospital and spoke of the many
insufficiencies at the hospital. They demanded a probe into the matter.

The body of the baby was sent for post-mortem and an enquiry committee has been
set up to look into the matter. Even though the political workers said that the
number of children dying at the hospital is huge, sources from the hospital said
that it was lower than that at many other hospitals.

"Today, itself there have been two deaths at the hospital. We have been
receiving regular complaints about many such deaths taking place here. On
Tuesday, a patient even complained that one of the doctors manhandled her. There
are too many insufficiencies at the hospital starting with low stock of
medicines, doctors not being available and important procedures being attended
to by the nurses and midwives," said city NCP chief Ajay Patil. He said that his
party has demanded the suspension of the doctor who has been found to be
violating norms according to the report of the enquiry committee.

Hospital superintendent Dr Vaishali Khedikar said that a committee has been
formed and will be coming up with a report by December 10.

A source from the hospital refuted all charges levelled by the political party.
"We have more than 1,200 deliveries every month. Moreover, most of the cases we
get are very complicated. The fact that we can save so many babies is an
achievement which is never appreciated but when such deaths that only happen
when things are beyond our control, the matter is blown out of proportion and we
end up being object of contempt for the people. Even a nominal one per cent
death rate, which is a natural proportion of newborn deaths, goes up to 120
deaths in a month," said the source.

The showdown by the political outfit has also left a bitter taste among many of
the staffers of the hospital. "Such pressure tactics scare us to be a part of a
government organization. Many of our colleagues are finding it difficult to cope
with it and are thinking of making a shift to the private sector," said one of
the staffers of the hospital.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


