                              377 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               November 14, 2003

Pressure Grows At Holyrood

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 460 words


Political pressure is growing to prevent the loss of acute services at the
Belford Hospital in Fort William and the Lorn and Isles Hospital in Oban.  The
growing political activity follows two packed public meetings in both towns this
week at which hundreds of people had to be turned away for lack of space.

The meeting in Fort William is thought to have been the best ever attended
public meeting in Scotland, attracting one-fifth of the local population. The
following night, hundreds packed into Oban High School.

Fergus Ewing, SNP MSP for Inverness East, Nairn and Lochaber, lodged a
parliamentary motion yesterday designed to gather cross-party support for the
Lochaber option for Belford to be a consultant-led facility.

It follows informal efforts by a consultant at the hospital to see how many of
his colleagues around the country would be willing to move to Fort William.

Mr Ewing said: "The massive attendance at the Fort William meeting on Tuesday
demonstrates that every single political party must now unite in demanding that
the Highland Health Board includes the Lochaber Medical Community option as one
of the options to be the formal consultation process which is to begin in
January.

"It is crystal clear that the health board has failed to evaluate the Lochaber
option and some of their objections, such as the lack of consultants willing to
work in Fort William, are now proved to be totally wrong." Dr Charles
Leeson-Payne, a consultant anaesthetist at Belford, said he had managed to come
up with the names of six consultants willing to work in the area with just a few
telephone calls.

Maureen Macmillan, Highlands and Islands Labour MSP, yesterday discussed the
issue with Health Minister Malcolm Chisholm, but he cannot act until he sees
Highland Health Board's final recommendations.

"We all want to get the best possible solution for the people of Lochaber and
Oban," she said. "There should be an acute hospital in both towns as far as I am
concerned. I hope that the Lochaber option is workable but that will have to be
tested." Highlands and Islands Tory MSP Mary Scanlon said she intended to table
parliamentary questions on the issue. She would also be writing to Belford-based
consultant David Sedgwick and Andrew Sim, of the rural doctors' association, the
Viking Surgeons' Club, to ask them to help draw up options which would gain
widespread support.

Highlands and Islands SNP MSP Jim Mather said: "People retire to the Highlands
and Islands, but how can you retire with confidence to an area where hospitals
have been downgraded?" Argyll and Bute LibDem MSP George Lyon, together with his
Westminster counterpart Alan Reid, will be meeting clinicians and consultants at
Lorn and Islands today.


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2003 Aberdeen Press and Journal


