                              39 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Kashmir Observer

                            January 25, 2015 Sunday

Anantnag Maternity Hospital Shifted Back To Unsafe Bldg

LENGTH: 436  words


ANANTNAG: Years after the main building at Sherbagh was declared unsafe by the
Department of Fire and Emergency Services, the authorities shifted back the
Maternity and Child Care Hospital there under mysterious circumstances late last
night.

The hospital had been shifted to a safe building in Janglat Mandi recently.
Hundreds of people registered protest and blocked the Anantnag-Kishtwar road
against the move. NC activist Iftikar Misger who also participated in protests
told to media that a group of chemists bribed few leaders of a political party
who are exerting pressure on administration. "I have reports that four to five
influential chemists have bribed politicians and health department officials who
are creating hurdles in shifting the hospital." Iftikar said. He said that how
chemists provided vehicles to health department for shifting the hospital
equipments during the dead of night.

Official sources at M&CC Anantnag told to Kashmir Observer that medical
superintend has ordered doctors to convert a ward into theater unethically. "Our
theater suffered damage in a fire incident last week and so we were directed to
convert a ward into theater that is totally against the ethics," a doctor
wishing anonymity said.

He acknowledged that hospital was shifted back under political pressure.
"Government has ordered a year earlier to shift the hospital as according to
Fire and Emergency Services hospital building is unsafe but due to political
interference precious lives are being put at risk." He added. 100 bedded
Maternity and Child Care Hospital Anantnag has highest bed occupancy in South
Kashmir according to  official records and is catering rush from not only south
Kashmir but from the far flung areas including Banihal. "If we go through ethics
then there should be a proper space from bed to bed in  recovery ward but if you
will visit the hospital you will find that wards are crammed and there is no
space between the beds for doctors to do check up rounds."

A lady, whishing not to be named said. South Kashmir Civil Society has already
threatened to lunch  agitation if the administration does not shift the hospital
to new building at Janglat Mandi. "We will not allow political parties to
politicize our health care sector." Rao Farman Ali, spokesman SKCS said. "It is
a demand of public that the hospital be shifted  to a new building  which is
comparatively better than old one." He said that all the narrow road links to
old hospital building are creating lot of problems to patients and is difficult
to be reached so the authorities must reconsider decision in the interest of
public.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


          Copyright 2015 Kashmir Observer, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


