                              382 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               December 21, 2000

NHS must not be used as a political football

SECTION: Agency: AGENCY, Pg.10

LENGTH: 992 words


Yesterday the WMN reported that Derriford Hospital faced a consultants' revolt
over standards of equipment and that management was considering a plan to
accommodate day-case patients in hotels. Here, PAUL ROBERTS chief executive of
Plymouth Hospitals NHS Trust, responds

'Hospitals such as Derriford are seeing huge increases in the number of
emergency medical and surgical patients'

IF the newspapers are to be believed, in the spring we will be in the throes of
a General Election. It is very likely that the NHS will be one of the key issues
on the political agenda, and it may well provide the main battleground on which
the election is fought.

Along with education and crime, the NHS is an issue of fundamental significance
to politicians, and its continuing prominence in the political arena is both
understandable and correct.

We should never lose sight of the fact, however, that the NHS is of even more
importance to the public - every one of them is likely to be a patient at some
point in their life.

As the recently appointed chief executive of Plymouth Hospitals Trust, I feel
genuinely saddened when I see issues connected with our hospital, its staff and
services, used as a device to make political capital at the expense of our
credibility, integrity and morale.

A hospital like Derriford should have a place in the affections and minds of
local people which is over and above the realms of political squabbling and
turmoil.

I fear, however, that in the run-up to the next election - and particularly
during the next few months when pressures on the NHS are at their peak - that
the health service is in danger of becoming a political football that is kicked
far too often and far too hard. Alarming headlines such as those that appeared
in this newspaper yesterday are likely to become more common and their
cumulative effect on the health service can only be a negative and increasingly
damaging one.

In the short time that I have been chief executive based at Derriford I have
seen day in, day out the excellence, dedication and unerring commitment of our
staff offering services which would hardly have been dreamt of a few years ago.
People are living longer and enjoying a greater quality of life and this is
partly because of what hospitals like Derriford are able to do for them.

The letters pages of all our local newspapers, which are regularly full of the
appreciation of those we have treated, are a constant and welcome reminder of
the vital role that we play within the community.

It would, however, be wrong of me not to acknowledge that there are problems.

The whole NHS system is under severe pressure, and never more so than in the
winter.

GPs are faced with more patients needing to see them, district nurses are caring
for a group of ever-increasingly dependent people in their own homes and
hospitals such as Derriford are seeing huge increases in the number of emergency
medical and surgical patients being admitted into the hospital.

Overlaying this situation is the ongoing requirement to reduce our waiting lists
for outpatient and routine treatments.

There is nothing that the hospital and its staff want to do more than to meet
these demands and meet the public's high expectations of the NHS on a day-to-day
basis, but the tremendous pressure on the NHS is something that needs to be
acknowledged. This is not a plea for sympathy - far from it. It is, however, a
plea for the NHS to be accorded a certain degree of understanding by those who
comment publicly on it, and a plea too for common sense and realism.

Already this year, local newspapers have been full of headlines about
difficulties in recruiting nurses and the need to develop more NHS facilities,
both in the community and at the hospital.

More nurses, more doctors and more buildings will be needed for the health
service to deliver what everybody, including the Government, expects of it
during the next few years and we are working hard to make this happen.

I have no doubt that our counterparts in education, social services and other
parts of the public sector are experiencing similar tensions between resources
and expectations.

Hospitals are very complicated places. At Plymouth Hospitals Trust alone we have
around 5,000 staff from many different professional backgrounds working together
to provide care for patients.

To deal properly with the sort of pressure which we face every day, we need to
work as a team and the team effort can be easily and quickly undermined by those
with an alternative agenda.

You rarely see the word "memo" nowadays unless it is immediately preceded by the
word "leaked" and the issue of confidential material finding its way to the
media is both topical and well-documented. Leaked memos are relished by
journalists and universally abhorred by the organisations concerned.

They are invariably anonymous (Mr X and Mrs Y are seldom anywhere to be found
when it comes to substantiating alleged deeds or comments) and can cause untold
amounts of unwarranted and unnecessary work and anxiety for no gain whatsoever.

As a matter of personal principle, I would never seek to stifle any form of open
and constructive debate on NHS issues, but colleagues undermining each other and
their organisation anonymously in the press is difficult to defend on any level.

While I have no desire to wash linen, dirty or otherwise, through the pages of
the Western Morning News, I would make a heartfelt request to anyone within or
connected to the healthcare community to recognise the damage that can result
from such behaviour and to examine both their motives and their conscience
before they act.

Caring for patients is more important than the political wrangling which, all
too often, engulfs the NHS.

I am hopeful that we can spend more of our time in the future maintaining and
improving our service to patients and less of it being sucked into political
battles in the press.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2000 Western Morning News


