                              376 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Lancashire Telegraph

                            November 13, 2009 Friday

Burnley MP's message to political rivals: stop hospital 'scare stories'

BYLINE: Neil Docking

SECTION: EAST LANCASHIRE NEWS (EASTLANCASHIRE)

LENGTH: 406 words


BURNLEY MP Kitty Ussher has accused rivals of undermining public confidence in
East Lancashire's hospitals.

And the MP said the Government was concerned by 'scare stories' about the
hospital being 'spread' by political leaders in the town.

The Labour minister said she had received a promise from the Health Secretary
Andy Burnham that he would look at what could be done to reassure people
following a meeting with him in parliament on Monday.

She said: "He was particularly concerned that some people in Burnley were making
unnecessary journeys to Blackburn emergency department because of the scare
stories that have been flying around, when they could just as well be treated in
Burnley.

"I share his concern and think it is a shame that some local politicians seem to
want to talk our hospital down.

"There is a campaign called 'I want my hospital back' and there is a perception
put about by some of the town's senior leaders that there is either no A&E
provision at all in Burnley or no hospital.

"Eighty five per cent of patients previously seen at Burnley can still be
treated at Burnley's urgent care centre.

"The message is simple. Have confidence in our hospital because it's great and
it's getting better."

The MP said Andy Burnham was pleased that there was 'clear evidence that more
lives had been saved' following the 2007 decision to close Burnley's A&E
department and move blue light care to Royal Blackburn Hospital.

She said: "There is now independent evidence that around 200 lives have been
saved since the changes to Burnley and Blackburn hospitals."

Hospital critic Gordon Birtwistle, the leader of Burnley Council, said political
leaders were only responding to the 'horrendous experiences' of patients from
the town forced to visit Blackburn.

He said: "I don't know how she has the brass neck to blame local politicians for
what is going on in East Lancashire when its her cohorts and her Government that
is responsible and she has not once supported our campaign."

Ian Woolley, former hospitals trust chairman and critic of the A&E re-structure,
insisted it was people's right to ask for their emergency department in Burnley
to be reinstated.

He said: "Kitty Ussher seems to be completely ignoring the request of local
people to see Burnley A&E reopened when she should be supporting her fellow MP
Gordon Prentice and Peter Pike in their campaign for an independent review which
could put this matter to bed once and for all."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


