                              381 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                               September 20, 2001

City children's hospital campaign is launched

SECTION: POLITICS: OTHER GEN, Pg.10

LENGTH: 1284 words


A campaign was laun-ched in Swansea yesterday to create a new regional
children's hospital at Morriston.

It would cost around GBP 6million and cater for up to 150 youngsters on the site
of Morriston Hospital.

It could be a new building on the hospital campus or an extension on part of the
existing network of buildings.

The campaign was launched by Plaid Cymru, the second biggest party in the
Assembly, a week before the voters of Swansea East go to the polls to elect a
new AM following the death of Val Feld in July.

Plaid's candidate in next Thursday's by-election John Ball told a news
conference of his vision of developing a landmark facility in children's health
care in the city.

"Establishing a specialist children's hospital in Swansea serving the whole of
South West Wales is not only sensible but long overdue," he said.

"There is ample room at Morriston Hospital ready and waiting."

Shadow health minister Dai Lloyd said he was delighted his party's campaign for
a children's hospital came in the week the new Swansea Clinical School opened
its doors for the first time.

Morriston Hospital accident and emergency specialist Michael McCabe said it was
a major initiative which he hoped would win the support of all political parties
and all the people of South West Wales.

"I'm non-political but I recognise that to have a specialist hospital here in
Swansea would be a major advance in child care," he told the Post.

He said Morriston already had a range of trauma specialists and teams, unique in
Southern Britain, providing services for burns and facial injuries, plastic
surgery and neurosurgery.

Mr McCabe added: "It is an existing opportunity for Swansea to have all aspects
of child healthcare and injuries dealt with on one site.

Consultant paediatrician Dewi Evans said it would not compete with the proposed
children's hospital in Cardiff but would complement it.

"It is unrealistic to have just one children's hospital in Wales," he said.

Swansea NHS Trust already provides a service for the largest catchment areas in
Wales for child patients.

"There is a crying need for multi-disciplinary care," said Dr Evans.

"While many services are already provided others are not, for example,
paediatric intensive care does not exist in Swansea."

Plaid Cymru's Carmarthen East and Dinefwr AM Rhodri Glyn Thomas said he hoped
his party's latest campaign would enjoy the success of locating Wales's second
medical school in Swansea.

Welsh ale voted tops by Liberals

OWAIN Glyndwr has been voted tops by a Liberal Democrat Assembly minister -
Owain Glyndwr ale, that is, named after the founder of the first Welsh
parliament 600 years ago.

Culture Minister Jenny Randerson sampled the fine ale during a visit to
Swansea's Tomos Watkin Brewery with the party's candidate in next week's Swansea
East by-election Rob Speht.

The Lib Dem duo unveiled this season's Owain Glyndwr ale, first launched three
years ago in memory of the founding figure of the first Welsh Parliament.

Ms Randerson said the tour had been arranged to highlight Liberal Democrat
support for small and medium sized businesses in Swansea.

"Tomos Watkin is a great success story for Swansea, providing jobs in the area
and producing a quality Welsh ale to boot," she said.

"Independent breweries are, sadly, in short supply having suffered at the hands
of big business over the last 20 years."

She added: "It is imperative that the Labour government in Westminster ease the
pressure of red tape on firms such as Tomos Watkin.

"This will help the future of the Welsh beer industry prosper and help put Wales
firmly on the map."

Rob Speht said locally brewed beer had been part of Welsh life for centuries.

"Unfortunately successive governments have allowed large global companies to
dominate the market, mass-producing poor quality beer on the cheap," he said.

"Sadly, this has forced many independent brewers out of business."

Significant jobs boost steps closer to reality

THE prospect of hundreds of new jobs being created at Swansea Enterprise Park
moved a step nearer reality today.

It was welcomed by Labour's candidate in the Swansea East by-election Val Lloyd
who said a major obstacle to the jobs boost appeared to have been overcome.

She was referring to expansion plans by American-owned Alberto Culver, which has
been making a range of hair and cosmetic products in Swansea, for the past 10
years.

In March the company announced it was looking to double its operating capacity
and its workforce from 450 to 900.

The expansion plan attracted a GBP 1million investment from the Welsh
Development Agency.

But it also depended on Swansea Council agreeing to relocate its employment
training centre from the Beaufort works next door to Alberto Culver's Enterprise
Park site.

The centre, the largest of its kind in South West Wales, provides skills
training for 3,600 people supporting 200 local businesses.

The council has now found a new site and preparations are being made for the
transfer.

Although the number of new jobs is put at around 300, less than originally
intended, Mrs Lloyd said it was a significant jobs boost.

"This news is in stark contrast with the knocking stories issued by opposition
parties during this campaign," she said.

Concern over tax increase is voiced

MOVES to slap an extra five per cent on the rates of

commercial and industrial premises could be the

death-knell for many more businesses, leading

Conservatives have warned.

Newly appointed Shadow Welsh Secretary, Swansea born Ribble Valley MP Nigel
Evans, said he was horrified to learn the Assembly planned to raise business
rates. "We should be doing everything to encourage

businesses, not raising their rates which is just going to cripple many of
them," he said.

He was campaigning in Morriston with Tory

candidate Gerald Rowbottom in advance of next week's Swansea East by -election.

Alun Cairns, the

Conservatives' economic spokesman in the Assembly, produced correspondence from
Finance Minister and Gower AM Edwina Hart who acknowledged concerns about the
introduction of

supplementary rate.

Gerald Rowbottom, a

businessman himself, said small businesses across Wales were finding it
difficult to return a profit.

"I'm afraid it might be a step too far for many of them when they hear they may
have to pay an extra five per cent on their rates," he said.

"Looking at the depressing scene in Morriston today, there are boarded-up shops
and others announcing

closing down sales. This tax will cause difficulties for

businesses, not only in

Morriston but throughout Wales."

Socialist call to up basic wage

WELSH Socialist Alliance candidate Alan Thomson is calling for the basic wage to
be increased to GBP 7 an hour.

He is using the Swansea East by-election to highlight the problems of low pay.

And he is advocating that the basic minimum wage be increased to the so-called
European decency threshold of GBP 7 an hour.

"Many low paid workers in Swansea Eastside are

struggling to survive on poverty rates of pay while top directors received
average salary increases of 28 per cent last year," he said.

Mr Thomson, a computer technician from Birchgrove, said he believed poverty was
blighting lives in the Eastside.

He maintained the Labour government had set the

minimum wage far too low because of pressure from business interests.

He went on: "Just look at the salaries being enjoyed by fat cat directors who
have in many cases creamed off

profits while presiding over collapsing companies.

"I also want to see

anti- trade union laws repealed so workers such as those in low paid jobs can
protect their livelihoods,

pensions and pay."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FUTURE VIEW Dr Jean Matthews, (from left) Dr Dewi Evans, Plaid
by-election candidate John Ball and accident and emergency specialist Michael
McCabe proposing the new children's hospital at Morriston. D010919/4513/GW2
brewed to perfection Assembly cabinet member Jenny Randerson with Liberal
Democrat candidate Rob Speht and free trade sales director Phil Moore at the
Tomos Watkin brewery in Swansea. D010918/4473/GM/01 Welcome Labour's Swansea
East by -election candidate Val Lloyd. 01/08/11/3645/HD

                    Copyright 2001 South Wales Evening Post


