                              380 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                    NewsDay

                             June 10, 2014 Tuesday

'Lack of political will exposing people to killer diseases'

LENGTH: 434  words


A LOCAL public health lobby group, Community Working Group on Health (CWGH),
says lack of political will to effectively address serious concerns affecting
the health sector has left millions of people exposed to killer diseases.

Feluna Nleya
Staff Reporter

The group cited the country's heavy dependency on donor funding to support the
health sector as a ticking time bomb.

In an interview with NewsDay yesterday, CWGH director Itai Rusike said the
country needed a vibrant health sector for the good of the people which was
being affected by lack of political will among the leaders.

"The biggest challenge we are facing is an underperforming economy, skewed
priorities and lack of political will to get projects in the health sector
implemented," Rusike said.

Health and Child Care minister David Parirenyatwa is on record saying the
government was planning to construct two district hospitals in Harare and
Bulawayo to ease pressure at the main public hospitals.

But Rusike said the project had been on the drawing board since independence in
1980 because of lack of political will by government.

"The proposal to build district hospitals in Harare and Bulawayo has been
discussed since the early days of independence when our economy was at its peak
and it has remained on the drawing board without any implementation," Rusike
said.

"It will be a huge challenge for both the government and the concerned local
authorities to build the hospitals in the current economic environment when most
of the hospitals and clinics are in a dilapidated state with obsolete equipment
in urgent need of replacement."

"My advice to the authorities is to use the little available resources to make
our public health system functional again like what it used to be."

Rusike said the idea to upgrade the existing polyclinics to a district hospital
rather than construct new facilities was the best option.

"Resources are needed most in the existing clinics and hospitals that are
failing to provide quality service in line with the provisions in the new
Constitution that now guarantees the right to health that unfortunately is only
on paper and yet to be enjoyed by the majority of the population that depends on
public health delivery," Rusike said.

"We definitely need district hospitals in Harare and Bulawayo as primary health
care has always been poor in these urban areas with patients directly presenting
themselves at central hospitals such as Parirenyatwa and Mpilo without following
the referral chain with cases that should be dealt with at lower levels thereby
suffocating the central system and increasing the workload."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1279


                             Copyright 2014 NewsDay
                 Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.Syndigate.info
                              All Rights Reserved


