                              375 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Newcastle Herald (Australia)

                            October 7, 2004 Thursday
                                  Late Edition

Pledge to inject regional health workforce;
ELECTION 2004 AUSTRALIA DECIDES

BYLINE: MELISSA CHAIN State Political Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 245 words


AN extra 40 medical student places at Newcastle University will be fully funded
to ensure regional hospital requirements are fulfilled by 2007 if Labor is
elected this Saturday.

Labor's spokeswoman for health, Julia Gillard, flanked by local MPs at John
Hunter Hospital yesterday, announced the injection to improve future medical
services in the region.

The move comes after the university's health pro-vice-chancellor, John Marley,
told The Herald this week that Newcastle's allotment of 80 HECS places fell 22
short of the yearly intern workforce needed to staff Central Coast, Hunter and
New England public hospitals.

But Ms Gillard said data showed regional medical students tended to return to
the area as doctors.

"It makes good sense to increase medical places at a regional university that
specialises in the training of GPs and is located in a region with serious GP
shortages," Ms Gillard said.

She said Labor's promise was a much better outcome for the Hunter Region than
the Coalition's commitment of $29 million for two new medical schools in Sydney.

Professor Marley said the additional placements at the Callaghan Campus medical
school would help the university meet the growing needs of the region.

Dr Annette Carruthers of the Hunter Urban Division of GPs also welcomed the
announcement.

Ms Gillard also reaffirmed Labor's pledge of $6.5 million a year for four years
towards running the Hunter GP Access After Hours service.

Paterson electorate profile, Page 14

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FUNDING: Member for Charlton Kelly Hoare, ALP candidate for Paterson
Giovanna Kozary and Opposition health spokeswoman Julia Gillard.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 Newcastle Newspapers Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


