                              378 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                              May 12, 2015 Tuesday

Scott's strange letter

SECTION: A; ARCHIVES; Pg. A06

LENGTH: 666 words


Idea of having hospitals share their 'profits' is no help

If Gov. Rick Scott is truly offended by hospitals making "record profits" and
sincerely interested in ensuring Floridians' access to health care at affordable
prices, he could:

· Call on the Legislature to effectively tax some of those profits generated in
Florida, and use the money to offset the anticipated loss of federal funds for
hospitals that provide a lot of care to low-income Floridians.

· Present his own plan for ensuring that Floridians have access to high-quality
and affordable care, regardless of their incomes.

Such a plan could entail requiring hospitals to provide, in an amount
proportionate to their profits, discounted or free care to uninsured and
underinsured Floridians.

· Have his political committee return the latest check it has received from
hospital corporations -- this one for $100,000, from a political action
committee for HCA, a behemoth whose profits have soared.

None of those things are likely to happen, of course, because Scott is keeping
his future political options open and doesn't want a tax proposal on his record.
Plus, he has shown little interest in using the governor's office to help expand
access to health care.

Budget crisis

As has been well reported, Florida is on the verge of a budget crisis linked to
a dispute over the expansion of Medicaid and the likely loss of additional
federal funds. The Senate passed a budget bill that included a conservative
version of Medicaid expansion; the House of Representatives and Scott oppose the
bill.

The annual legislative session ended in a stalemate, without an approved budget.
(A special session is scheduled to begin June 1.)

Scott responded first by creating a Commission on Healthcare and Hospital
Funding, an oddly timed move that seemed aimed at intimidating hospitals that
have lobbied for Medicaid expansion, rather than at providing information useful
for shaping sound policies and informing the debate.

Then, Friday, he sent a letter to hospital executives, subject: "How hospitals
can fairly share record profits."

Actually, the letter does not say how hospitals can "fairly share record
profits" with hospitals "that rely on them most."

It bizarrely asks hospital executives to develop their own ideas.

After reading the letter, we were reminded of the words shouted by former tennis
star John McEnroe, who verbally challenged a Wimbledon referee's blown call: You
cannot be serious!

The governor cites no authority for requiring the hospitals to fulfill his
request.

This isn't baseball

The letter says that sharing hospital profits, which are not defined in the
text, would be akin to revenue sharing "similar to how large-market baseball
teams share revenues with small-market baseball teams."

But the letter was sent to executives at private for-profit, private non-profit
and public hospitals that have different operating models and objectives.

For instance, Scott sent the letter to publicly owned Sarasota Memorial
Hospital, which treats Sarasota County's uninsured patients (and many others
throughout the region) but has a reasonable operating margin and a healthy
"total margin" because its "profits" remain at the hospital and in the community
for investment. What's more, Sarasota Memorial's enabling legislation prohibits
local tax dollars from being spent outside the county, and general law limits
how public hospitals can use other revenue outside their service areas.

In addition, if most of the revenue were sent to large urban hospitals such as
Shands Jacksonville Medical Center (the only hospital specifically mentioned in
the letter), how would hospitals in mid- and small-size counties offset their
federal-funding losses?

Gov. Scott received some criticism for largely staying out of the health-care
debate for most of the legislative session. The critics were off base: In light
of Scott's ill-timed creation of a commission and last week's strange letter,
Floridians were better served when the governor was doing nothing.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2015 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


