                              383 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                             July 14, 2015 Tuesday

Rs 589.5m to hospitals with politicians' stake

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, July 14 -- Several government hospitals, including major ones like
Bir Hospital and Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital (TUTH), have been
struggling to meet their daily costs and pay salaries to staff, due to budget
crunch.

However, hospitals named after the deceased leaders of major political parties
like Nepali Congress and CPN-UML or in which influential leaders of those
parties have invested have received huge grants from the Ministry of Health and
Population (MoHP).

According to its own report, MoHP has provided Rs 589.5 million in grants to 37
hospitals in the ongoing fiscal year, and the leaders of the ruling Nepali
Congress and CPN-UML have stakes in a majority of these.

Officials at MoHP said that the amount provided to those hospitals is almost
twice the annual grant for Bir Hospital. Bir provides treatment to over 350,000
patients every year, including 75 percent free treatment to indigent patients.

Authorities at Bir said that it has to struggle to pay the salaries of its staff
and has been running into debt. "MoHP has provided us an additional grant to pay
staff salaries but we are still in debt," Dr Swyam Prakash Pandit, director at
Bir, said adding that the hospital owes over Rs 50 million to contractors
supplying medicines and accessories.

However, MoHP does not even bother to inquire about the number of patients in
hospitals in which the political leaders have invested. The ministry also does
not take any notice how many patients are benefiting from its largess. Source at
MoHP said investors and employees at those hospitals even draw bonuses from
these funds.

A list provided by the ministry shows that hospitals in which leaders of the
Nepali Congress and CPN-UML have shares took Rs 100 million in grants this year.

According to MoHP, Mahendra Narayan Nidhi Hospital received Rs 50 million in
grant from MoHP. Bimalendra Nidhi, son of the late NC leader Mahendra Narayan
Nidhi, is minister for physical infrastructure and transport management.
Likewise, the Susma Koirala Memorial Trust received Rs 10 million in MoHP grant.
GP Koirala Center for Respiratory Diseases took Rs 20 million, and the BP
Memorial Hospital, Rs 10 million.

Similarly, Puspalal Hospital run by Janswastya Sarokar Trust received Rs 40
million. BP Eye Foundation received Rs 10 million, Manamohan Community Hospital
Rs 50 million, National Kidney Center Rs 50 million and the Sahid Memorial
Hospital, Jhapa received Rs 10 million. Sahid Memorial Hospital, Kathmandu took
Rs 50 million.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2015 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


