                              40 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                           December 17, 2013 Tuesday

Political meddling in affairs of Narayani Hospital

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 341  words


BIRGUNJ: It has been learnt that Narayani Sub-Regional Hospital in Birgunj is
under tremendous political pressure not to evict people, who have been using the
hospital's shutters illegally for years.

A meeting of the hospital development committee held on October 5 had decided to
evict tenants who had been using the hospital's shutters and call for new
quotation bid for a new agreement.

The committee had taken initiatives in this regard with a view to increasing the
hospital's income. However, political leaders started to apply pressure
immediately after the hospital authority made public its decision.

"Immediately after we publicised the decision to call for new bids, leaders of
different parties started to pressure us not to evict traders who had been using
the hospital shutters," said Dr Ramashankar Thakur, medical superintendent of
the hospital. He further said, "The trend of putting pressure is on. Employee
union, human rights activists and political leaders are forcing us to revoke our
decision." However, Santosh Singh, central member of the hospital development
committee employee union, expressed his union's solidarity with the hospital
management's decision.

A hospital source said that if the shutters were given on the basis of new bids,
the hospital would gain four times more rent compared to the present.

The hospital has neither increased the rent nor renewed the contract for the
past six years though they ought to have been updated every two years.

Hence, the committee has been charged with financial irregularities. On the
other hand, hospital staff, traders and the union members who have been using
the shutters are accused of renting them to third parties at a huge margin.

Nepal Medical Association, Birgunj, Chairman Dr Rabindra Singh said no party
should interfere in the initiatives the hospital has taken for utilisation of
its property.

Medical shops operating in the building next to the hospital are paying Rs
25,000 every month but those renting the hospital shutters have been paying only
Rs 5000 to 6000.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2013 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


