                              392 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                   January 11, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Official adamant Bow Centre will close

BYLINE: ROBERT WALKER

SECTION: CITY & LIFE; Pg. B4

LENGTH: 343 words


The Calgary Regional Health Authority remains committed to closing the downtown
Bow Valley Centre, deputy chairwoman Phyllis Kane said Wednesday.

"We are committed to our business plan which includes the closure of the Bow
Valley," said Kane. "And we will not be diverted from that by political
pressures."

A question mark over the hospital's closure was raised last Friday by an
authority spokesman who acknowledged too many political pressures have built up
for the authority to say when -- or even if -- the hospital will close.

Added Kane: "We are not going to allow political interference to reverse
decisions that are reached on the basis of sound health care and economic
arguments."

However, another member of the board said he's not so sure the closure will ever
happen.

"There are multiple factors like a possible provincial election where the future
of the Bow Valley could become a political issue," said Dr. Rowland Nichol, also
chairman of the Calgary Regional Medical Staff Association.

The Bow Valley is to close in February 1997 but Nichol said this will likely be
delayed until the middle of next year because building elsewhere won't be
complete. And this will place its closure date in the middle of political
re-election wars as they heat up.

The Calgary family physician said it's possible the hospital could be used in a
role similar to the Grey Nuns Hospital in Edmonton, which was converted to a
so-called community health centre but retaining hospital beds.

Doubts over the hospital's closure were raised in comments by authority
spokeswoman Judy Williams.

"The Bow Valley site has a lot of complications to it and it won't be an easy .
. . quick answer," Williams said.

On Wednesday the authority issued an internal newsletter claiming the Herald
erroneously reported Saturday the Bow Valley may not close. However, the
authority is not disputing Williams's comments in interviews directly with the
Herald.

Premier Ralph Klein reaffirmed Tuesday a provincial election will not be held
until 1997.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


