                              384 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                          December 27, 2001, Thursday

Watch on our hospitals

BYLINE: By Political Reporter SUSIE O'BRIEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 323 words


PATIENTS and doctors dissatisfied with the state's health system are being
encouraged by the Labor Party to come forward.

Labor MP Jennifer Rankine is heading a "hospital watch team" which will monitor
the state's public hospitals.

Yesterday, she invited the public and medical staff to phone her with
information on ambulance diversions, bed shortages, delays in accident and
emergency treatment, and surgery cancellations.

"Labor wants hospital staff, patients and their families to let us know what's
happening in our public hospitals over the holiday season," Ms Rankine said.
"This way we will be able to highlight the importance of public hospitals to
South Australian families and prevent the Kerin Government from covering up the
true situation."

She said she was concerned doctors and nurses had been "gagged" from speaking
out on behalf of patients.

"We are not asking professionals to violate ethics but if families are happy to
be identified, then we will pass on the stories of their experiences," Ms
Rankine said.

Information gathered will be provided to Opposition Leader Mike Rann and health
spokeswoman Lea Stevens for further action and policy formulation.

Other members of the health watch team include southern suburbs Labor candidate
Moira Deslandes, western suburbs Labor candidate Paul Caica, and Whyalla-based
Labor MP Lyn Breuer.

A Government spokesman yesterday described the hotline as "another political
stunt".

"We would hope the Labor hotline is also prepared to take calls from the
hundreds and thousands of South Australians who are happy with the treatment in
our hospitals," he said.

"While there are always going to be issues within any hospital system that need
to be addressed, if you listen to Labor, nothing good ever happens in our
hospitals.

"What an insult that is to our thousands of hard-working doctors and nurses."

Labor's hotline telephone number is 8289 0700.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 2001 Nationwide News Pty Limited


