                              391 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

             December 15, 1999, Wednesday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Siegel takes brunt of commissioners' anger

BYLINE: WAYNE WASHINGTON

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 601 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The commission's withholding of a $ 22-million payment to Tampa General Hospital
is seen as a slap at its president.

He offers himself up. Doesn't fight back. Not here anyway, with the public
access television cameras rolling and angry Hillsborough County Commissioners
firing away at him.

Tampa General Hospital president Bruce Siegel adopts the pose and expression of
a petulant adolescent, mad that Dad took the car keys but powerless to demand
their return.

His friends read the next day's headlines and see his unsmiling face in the
newspaper and ask, "Who is this man?"

Certainly, it's not the quiet, witty man his friends have come to know.
Certainly, it's not a man who can't handle hard public blows.

"Given the tenor of the political debate, I think people would think I'm
belligerent, and I'm not," Siegel said. "I'm trying to do the right thing by
this hospital."

Who is this man? Bruce Siegel, 39, Ivy League-educated, husband, father of two,
is many things. But friends and colleagues say he is not a man easily ruffled or
run off.

There's a job to do, and Siegel plans to do it his way: Damn the critics; full
speed ahead.

Today, commissioners plan to discuss releasing all or part of a $ 22-million
payment the hospital expected to receive for providing health care to the poor.
The money has been withheld by commissioners who say they are concerned about
the financial condition of the hospital, which has lost $ 24-million in the two
years since it was privatized in a nasty political fight.

Whatever official reasons commissioners gave for refusing to release the money,
it was widely seen as a slap at Siegel and members of the private board who
oversee the hospital. The move underscored the chasm that has long existed
between local politicians and the man chosen to run a hospital.

Prominent members of Tampa's political establishment said Siegel's credibility
has run dry. "I haven't talked to Bruce Siegel in a year-and-a-half," Tampa
Mayor Dick Greco said. "It is vital that this hospital survives. I don't think I
would operate it the way it has been."

Many others - county commissioners, state legislators, county hospital board
members - agree.

Members of the private board Siegel answers to are not talking about the
criticism their president has endured in his 2 1/2 years at the helm.

In public meetings, however, they have thrown their support behind him. "As a
board, we believe management is getting beaten up terribly, unfairly," board
member Jeremy Ross said.

To Siegel, the critics are of a similar mind: They are angry that the hospital
was privatized over their objections and are using him as a scapegoat.

Siegel's job got tougher when he became the center of a federal extortion
investigation that resulted in subpoenas for  County Commission members and top
county staff. Siegel alleged that two commissioners - Thomas Scott and Jim
Norman - tried to pressure him into awarding a medical equipment contract to
David Bekhor,  their friend and political supporter.

Both commissioners denied the charges, and a subsequent federal investigation
has yet to produce any criminal findings. Siegel won't comment on his role in
the investigation.

Today, as the commission discusses releasing the $ 22-million to the hospital,
another effort will be made to aid the cash-strapped facility. County
Administrator Dan Kleman will ask the commission to help  obtain $ 10-million
from the Legislature to pay for the cost of teaching medical students from the
University of South Florida.

- Staff writer David Karp contributed to this report.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Bruce Siegel

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


