                              388 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           April 13, 2005, Wednesday

GENERAL ELECTION 2005: WHO WILL NET THE NHS FOOTBALL;
 HEALTH IS A MAJOR ELECTION ISSUE

BYLINE: JESSICA SHAUGHNESSY

SECTION: NW Merseyside Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 1084 words


AS POLITICAL footballs go, the health service is the one that certainly sees a
lot of on pitch play.

From MRSA fears to hospital waiting times, from the number of nurses on the
front line to the trial and tribulations of finding an NHS dentist - these are
the burning issues that could swing votes at the polls on May 5.

The ordinary voter, who claims no great political expertise, has a vested
interest in the NHS and often its the one issue we can really relate to.

And as Merseyside is one of Britain's unhealthiest places to live, with high
heart disease and lung cancer rates, many have experience beyond the statistics.

In recent months, Merseyside and Cheshire has been the arena for battles between
Labour and the Tories that have grabbed the nation's attention.

Michael Howard used Cheshire grandmother Margaret Dixon and her infamous
shoulder operation to catapult the NHS into becoming one of the foremost issues
in the run up to the election.

Meanwhile the slow progression of the Smokefree Liverpool Bill through the
Commons could be a decider for some.

So what are the health matters that will make the voter sit up and listen in the
next three weeks?

MRSA

EVERY mother's nightmare came true for Michelle Ferguson when she and her
newborn son Fynnley both contracted MRSA.

They were the only two patients to come down with the virus at Liverpool Women's
hospital between April and September last year.

Mrs Ferguson, of Everton, said: 'The whole thing was a terrible experience and
quite frightening.'

Fynnley, who is now seven months old and fully recovered, was taken ill again
when he was three months old.

His mother rushed him to hospital after he had stopped breathing and it was
found he had MRSA again.

Liverpool Women's had the second lowest infection rate of 45 specialist
hospitals in the country, falling from four to two.

The Cardiothoracic Centre and Southport and Ormskirk also saw massive
reductions. In fact, Southport had the lowest infection rate of more than 100
acute general hospitals in England.

But the same success cannot be said for the rest of Merseyside and Cheshire.

Despite a nationwide fall in infection rates, the region saw an overall increase
of 6.6% with the number of cases rising from 151 to 161.

Seven out of 13 hospitals in the area reported and increase, the biggest being
at Aintree, going from 19 to 33 cases.

Hospitals in Mid-Cheshire, North Cheshire and St Helens and Knowsley Hospitals
also saw a big rise.

The MRSA issue is still a political hot potato.

Some experts say media headlines and political stunts have fed public concern
and the fear of the bug is greater than the risk of it.

Others have predicted an even deadlier untreatable version of the virus will
soon surface.

Tory leader Michael Howard has vowed to spend £53m on fighting MRSA if he is
elected.

But Prime Minister Tony Blair shot down these promises saying Mr Howards' sums
just don't add up.

WAITING TIMES

THE case of Penketh grandmother Margaret Dixon, whose shoulder operation had
been cancelled seven times, launched hospital waiting times into the furore of
the election battle Tory leader Michael Howard became the 69-year-old's chief
campaigner when it emerged she was living in pain until the procedure took
place.

Even though she had just a 30% chance of surviving the procedure Mrs Dixon was
desperate for treatment because her quality had life had deteriorated. She was
eventually admitted to Warrington General Hospital last month, and the operation
was a success.

Tony Blair accused Mr Howard of using Mrs Dixon as a political pawn. But the war
of words invited the goverment's record on hospital waiting times to be put
under scrutiny.

In March, 2004, John Reid hoped the number of people waiting more than six
months for hospital treatment would be cut from 79,950 to 46,666, that's 58% by
the end of March this year.

Last month's figures have not yet been released, but February's figures showed
the number had fallen to 60,400 - still a dramatic drop but the the government
had fallen 13,734 short of its target.

According to Department of Health statistics, the number of patients waiting
more than six months to be treated at Aintree Hospitals has risen 2% to 4% from
March 2004 to December 2004.

While the Countess of Chester Hospital has seen an increase from 11% to 13% and
North Cheshire Hospitals' figures have risen from 10% to 14%. At Wirral
Hospitals, the increase was just over 3% to 9%.

While the Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen Trust saw a small decrease from 9.8% to
9.4% and the Royal Liverpool Childrens Trust fluctuated from 0% to 0.5

GPS AND DENTISTS

FOR many in Merseyside and Cheshire finding an NHS dentist can be an ordeal, but
when you do, getting an appointment can be even harder.

That is because last year, it was revealed dental patients in Merseyside and
Cheshire struggle to get NHS treatment because the average surgery has 1,121
people on its books,s almost twice the figure in many areas of Southern England.

And the problem is even worse in Ellesmere Port and Neston, which was recently
revealed as having the lowest density of NHS dentists in the country.

The nationwide shortage was illustrated in a study which looked at the number of
dentists per 10,000 people.

While Westminster had the highest with 8.8, Ellesmere Port and Neston only had
1.6. But according to the National Audit Office, at least 50% of people in
Merseyside and Cheshire is registered with a dentist, which is a lot higher then
the rest of England.

Merseyside has also seen a fall in the number of GPs, forcing doctors to deal
with patients over the telephone to save time.

Recently it was revealed the some surgeries are moving away from traditional
face-to-face consultations and towards a service where people are given advice,
test results and sick notes in short phone conversations.

DOCTORS AND NURSES

THE Government is celebrating a record annual increase in the number of
consultants, GPs and midwives working for the NHS.

A staff survey showed the NHS recruited over the past year an extra 8,000
doctors, 11,200 nurses, 900 midwives and 3,000 therapists and allied health
professionals.

There were 9,200 more consultants working in the NHS than in 1997, an increase
of 42.7%. There were 78,700 more qualified nurses (up 24.7%) and 32,600 more
scientific, therapeutic and technical staff (up 33.8

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Liberal Democratic leader Charles Kennedy and his wife Sarah show their
first baby Donald James to the world yesterday just hours after he was born;
Michaela Bauress, manager of the Welkin, Whitechapel, removing ashtrays on a
smoke-free day last month

TYPE: Newspaper

               Copyright 2005 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd


