                              389 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           November 3, 2005 Thursday

Chinese dissident diagnosed with 'litigation mania';
Man's freedom after 13 years may be tied to visit from Canadian UN commissioner

BYLINE: GEOFFREY YORK

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A19

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


The psychiatric report on Wang Wanxing said he was obedient and stable, except
for one thing: a condition that the Chinese doctors called "litigation mania."

It was an odd diagnosis, not used anywhere except China. It meant that Mr. Wang
was considered crazy because he was persistently petitioning for justice.

The diagnosis was the beginning of a personal nightmare. For 13 years the
pro-democracy dissident was held in a Beijing psychiatric hospital controlled by
the police. He was kept in a special ward with dozens of psychotically disturbed
inmates, including many who had committed murder. Here, he says, he witnessed
regular cases of torture and even sometimes death, inflicted by sadistic staff.

The 56-year-old dissident was finally freed from the asylum in August and sent
into exile in Germany, although his release was not disclosed until yesterday.
And he may owe his freedom to a Canadian as he was released shortly before a
visit to Beijing by Louise Arbour, the former Supreme Court of Canada justice
who is now the United Nations Human Rights Commissioner. The timing was not a
coincidence, according to human-rights activists.

Of the estimated 3,000 political prisoners sent into Chinese psychiatric
hospitals since the early 1980s, Mr. Wang is the first to reach the West and
give a detailed account of his ordeal. His account was released yesterday by
Human Rights Watch, an independent rights group based in New York.

He was first arrested in 1992, on the third anniversary of the brutal military
crackdown on student protesters at Tiananmen Square. He was detained for trying
to unfurl a protest banner on the square, calling for justice and redress for
the victims.

After his arrest, he was sent to Ankang Hospital, run by the Beijing Public
Security Bureau for the custody of people considered criminally insane or a
threat to society. He was briefly released in 1999, but was forced back into the
hospital when he announced that he was going to hold a press conference to
describe his treatment at the asylum.

According to the account released yesterday, Mr. Wang told Human Rights Watch
that he witnessed terrifying levels of violence from inmates and staff at the
hospital. "He frequently had to force himself to stay awake all night to avoid
sudden and unprovoked inmate attacks," the report says.

"Almost every week, and sometimes several times a week, the staff would punish
difficult or stubborn patients by tying them to a bed and administering
painfully high levels of electric acupuncture treatment," the report says. "All
the other patients on the ward were ordered to watch the punishments being
administered."

In one case, Mr. Wang said he personally witnessed a patient dying from a heart
attack as a result of this punishment.

In another case, he said, he saw a patient choke to death after the staff poured
liquid food into his mouth. The man had gone on a hunger strike after he was
placed in the hospital for persistent petitioning activity.

"These reports are credible and disturbing," said Brad Adams, Asia director at
Human Rights Watch. "Wang's release is welcome news, but it highlights the fate
of hundreds of other political detainees forced into psychiatric care in China
for no good medical reason."

Two other political prisoners who survived Chinese psychiatric institutes have
given accounts of their treatment to the German magazine Die Zeit. In an article
to be published today, the two  describe severe punishment and torture they
experienced or witnessed.

"I was tortured three or four times a week," said Qiu Jinyou, who was
incarcerated for 208 days in a psychiatric hospital in the city of Hangzhou
after he petitioned against corruption in his village. "Not even the murderers
there were treated as harshly as inmates of my category - people who had filed
complaints or petitions with the authorities."

Mr. Qiu and the other former inmate, Meng Xiaoxia, said they were subjected to
electric shock treatment. Both of them, like Mr. Wang, were also forced to take
psychiatric medication.

In a medical report given to the German government a week before his release,
the Beijing asylum officials said Mr. Wang "displays impairments of thought
association and of mental logic" whenever the subject turns to politics. "His
[mental] activities are still characterized by delusions of grandeur, litigation
mania and a conspicuously enhanced pathological will."

China's system of psychiatric custody for dissidents, which closely parallels
the use of forensic psychiatry against political prisoners in the Soviet Union
from the 1950s to the 1980s, includes 25 hospitals run by the Public Security
Bureau in cities across the country. Many patients are held in these hospitals
for 20 years or more. The police have sole jurisdiction over the inmates, and
there is no right of appeal or review.

Jerome Cohen, a professor at New York University Law School who is an expert on
Chinese law, says Chinese police still maintain the option of sending detainees
to psychiatric hospitals. "It is a live option," he told reporters in Beijing
yesterday. "While it is not as prominent as it was in the old Soviet system,
it's still there."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2005 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


