                              387 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                          September 23, 2004 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Cash injection won't fix health crisis, doctors say;
THE CHOICE 2004

BYLINE: Mark Metherell Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 493 words


Labor's promise to inject $1 billion into public hospitals has drawn a mixed
response from public hospital groups and the nation's most influential doctors'
organisation.

While public hospitals welcomed the plan as a necessary boost to a system under
strain, the Australian Medical Association said the policy was based on "wrong
assumptions about relieving the pressure on hospital emergency departments".

Announcing his plan to "rebuild public hospitals", Labor leader Mark Latham said
access to quality health care was a "human right" and Labor would stop the
development of a two-tier health system.

The difference on health was that "Labor is doing everything to restore and
rebuild Medicare, whereas the Coalition is putting every available dollar ...
into private health".

But the Prime Minister, John Howard, said Labor was taking money away from the
Medicare safety net to increase specialist services at public hospitals.

Labor has pledged $414 million to increase hospital specialist services but the
Health Minister, Tony Abbott, said the abolition of the safety net would put
more pressure on public hospitals.

"Without the security of the safety net against out-of-pocket costs, people will
be more inclined to get tests and specialist consults done in public hospitals,"
Mr Abbott said.

The AMA - which earlier yesterday expressed "outrage" at "the gross
misrepresentation" of doctors in Labor's television advertisements depicting an
auction for a doctor's consultation - said it was not the co-ordinated policy
that was needed.

It was a shortage of hospital beds, not a shortage of general practitioner
services, that was causing queues at public hospitals, the AMA vice president,
Mukesh Haikerwal, said.

The pledge to increase specialist out-patient services by 2.4 million at public
hospitals appeared to be a substitute for the safety net. "But many of these
specialists outpatient services are already being delivered in public hospitals
," Dr Haikerwal said.

The Australian Healthcare Association, representing about 500 public hospitals,
said the Labor plan was "a great start" but it was disappointed it did not
specifically tackle the need for more public hospital beds.

"The declining bed numbers is the major reason for 'bed block' in hospital
emergency departments, resulting in patients spending too long on trolleys
waiting for admission," the association's executive director, Prue Power, said.

The chairman of the National Public Hospital Clinicians Taskforce, John Dwyer,
said the Labor policy was a welcome sign that Labor was serious about supporting
the public system.

Catholic Health Australia said Labor's plan would ease the long waits which
faced more than a million patients in hospital emergency departments,
particularly if Labor also provided solutions to the aged care crisis.

But the Australian Private Hospitals Association said the Labor focus was "too
narrow" and ignored the private hospitals where most surgery was performed.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2004 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


