                              390 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   The Star Phoenix (Saskatoon, Saskatchewan)

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Kids' hospital drawn into political battle

BYLINE: James Wood, The StarPhoenix

SECTION: THIRD PAGE; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 593  words

DATELINE: REGINA


The head of the foundation raising money for a planned children's hospital for
Saskatoon called for the foundation to be kept clear of politics as she ended up
caught in a political crossfire Tuesday.

A day after the New Democratic Party accused Saskatchewan Party Health Minister
Don McMorris of misleading the legislature over consultations relating to health
privacy and on the same day Speaker Don Toth ruled there was evidence to support
the contention, the Sask. Party went on the attack Tuesday over an NDP mail-out
that said funding for the proposed children's hospital had been "cancelled."

All but $5 million of the $100 million allocated to the project in the 2009-2010
budget was deferred last year as part of cost-cutting, which the government said
was justified because the hospital was not yet ready to proceed. A further $100
million originally slated for this year's provincial budget was also not
allocated.

However, the government says the money remains in trust under Crown Investments
Corp. and will be available as soon as it is needed.

The Saskatchewan Party caucus issued a news release blasting the NDP over the
issue after children's hospital foundation president Brynn Boback-Lane said in a
Tuesday morning interview on NewsTalk Radio that the NDP mail-out had raised
concerns among donors and parents of children.

The issue also become a talking point for government members in the assembly,
with Premier Brad Wall -- sparring in question period with NDP Leader Dwain
Lingenfelter over McMorris -- saying that "the biggest threat to that
(children's hospital) project . . . is the irresponsibility of that leader of
the Opposition and the New Democratic Party of Saskatchewan."

When contacted by The StarPhoenix on Tuesday afternoon, Boback-Lane was
surprised that her comments had been the subject of a Sask. Party news release.

Boback-Lane was reluctant to comment on the NDP flier, but did say "there is a
difference between postponed and cancelled" and confirmed that the foundation
had received calls over the mail-out.

She would not comment on the Sask. Party news release.

"I really don't want the foundation and our good work to become the focus of a
political debate. That's not our role here. Our role is to fundraise for a
children's hospital and to do our work according to the plan and the plan has
always been that the children's hospital will be built," she said.

Lingenfelter made no apologies for the NDP flier, which began to be mailed last
week, saying the project has been discussed in three budgets with no progress
being made by the government.

He said the Sask. Party's focus on the issue was simply an attempt to "take the
pressure off" the government over McMorris's comment.

Toth ruled Tuesday that there was enough evidence to suggest McMorris misled the
assembly over consultations with the province's privacy commissioner on new
regulations affecting health foundation fundraising that a debate over whether
the minister was in contempt was warranted.

A children's hospital within a hospital has been a long-standing goal in
Saskatchewan.

Originally announced under the previous NDP government, the Saskatoon Health
Region chose Royal University Hospital as the location for the children's
hospital in 2007, with construction slated to start in 2009. In February of this
year, the health region announced the original proposal was going to be
re-evaluated in light of questions from the public, other construction at and
around RUH and rising operating costs.

A panel is expected to report in June.

jwood@sp.canwest.com

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

