                              398 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           February 8, 2012 Wednesday

Nurses strike takes a political turn

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: KOCHI


KOCHI, Feb. 8 -- In a turn of events that could well give a political colour to
the ongoing nurses strike, a number of political outfits have joined the
striking nurses at the Kolenchery MOSC Medical College.

While several groups, including the BJP and the Shiv Sena, have declared a
hartal in Kolenchery on Wednesday, the Youth Congress held a protest march to
the hospital on Tuesday.

The All-India Nurses Welfare Association, which is holding the strike at
Kolenchery MCH, has declared that a 'Samara Samithi' will be formed with the
participation of the various outfits that have declared solidarity with the
strike. "Several organisations have pledged solidarity with us. We will be
forming a Samara Samithi with these organisations to take the movement forward,"
said the State Secretary of the association, Shivprasad Unni.

Tuesday also witnessed the failure of yet another round of talks between the
hospital authorities and the union. "The hospital agreed to implement some of
our demands but put forth the condition that we must end the strike if further
discussions are to take place. They have called for another round of discussions
on February 9. We are willing to take part in it," he said.

Social activist C R Neelakantan who visited the hospital said,"This issue has
gone beyond the local level. If the impasse continues any longer, we will also
join the nurses on the fast." The fast entered the 5th day on Tuesday.

Meanwhile in Lakeshore Hospital too, several political parties, including the
AIYF, Kerala Congress (Jacob), the BJP and several trade unions have pledged
solidarity with the nurses. The United Nurses Welfare Association conducted a
candlelight vigil at Lakeshore Hospital. About 700 nurses walked up to the
Nettor Palli from the hospital and back.

The IMA denied their earlier statement about seeking ESMA against striking
nurses. The IMA, however, said that crucial medical personnel, including doctors
and nurses should deter from protesting in a way that affects emergency
services. Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express.
For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


