                              393 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            July 3, 1991, Wednesday

Rockefeller pushes health care for children in visit to Atlanta

BYLINE: By A.L. May Staff writerpolitics; health; care; hospitals; insurance;
hospitals

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; SECTION D; PAGE 07

LENGTH: 339 words


CAMPAIGN SWING? The West Virginia senator, a potential presidential aspirant,
also met with Democrats while in Atlanta.

Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.) breezed through Atlanta on Tuesday, highlighting
the health-care crisis of children and his potential candidacy for the 1992
Democratic presidential nomination.

He tried to keep the focus on children and health care as he toured an intensive
care unit for tiny newborns at Egleston Children's Hospital at Emory University.

Later, he met privately with Democratic Party leaders at the Ritz- Carlton
Hotel.

At the hospital, he took reporters and camera crews along to see premature
babies tethered to sophisticated life-support systems.

"What you all saw was the most enormous technical wonder and yet, in many ways,
an enormous tragedy," Mr. Rockefeller said afterward.

The senator said many of the intensive care unit's beds would have been empty if
their mothers had gotten prenatal care. In Europe, he said, those children would
have gotten the care because it is mandated by extensive health insurance
programs.

Mr. Rockefeller is the chairman of federal commissions calling for major
programs and tax breaks for children and health care. He is trying to turn his
causes into a political campaign.

"Let me talk about health care," he said when asked about his political
meetings. He also sidestepped questions about President Bush's nomination of
appeals court Judge Clarence Thomas to the U.S. Supreme Court.

Democrats are hungry for a challenger for Mr. Bush. State Democratic Chairman Ed
Sims helped arrange the get-acquainted session at the Downtown hotel for Mr.
Rockefeller.

Gov. Zell Miller did not attend but said the session has encouraged Mr. Sims to
play host at such affairs for each Democratic hopeful who requests it for an
initial campaign visit.

"I'm just delighted that someone of his stature and experience is taking a
serious look at running," said Gordon Giffin, an Atlanta lawyer and party
fund-raiser who attended.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.) is briefed on prenatal care
Tuesday at Egleston Children's Hospital by Dr. J. Devn Cornish (center) and Dr.
William Sexon. The senator toured the hospital's intensive care unit. / John
Spink / Staff

                    Copyright 1991 The Atlanta Constitution


