                              41 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                              May 17, 2010 Monday

red shirts protest

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 751 words


thai pain is singapore's gain as medical tourists go elsewhere

Crisis has hit hospitals in Bangkok but some expat patients have only deferred
non-urgent surgery or treatment

Nalin Viboonchart

The Nation

The prolonged political crisis has hit the medical tourism industry, as
international patients lose confidence in the Kingdom and in many cases fly to
chief competitor Singapore, instead.

However, some private hospitals are keeping their revenue projections for this
year unchanged, having recorded impressive operating results in the first
quarter.

Chatree Duangnet, CEO of Bangkok Hospital Medical Centre, the operator of
Bangkok Hospital, which is under the umbrella of Bangkok Dusit Medical Services
(BDMS), said recently that many countries had warned citizens to avoid
travelling to Thailand. As a result, insurance companies in those countries are
refusing to cover medical treatment performed here. Some foreign patients whose
conditions are serious and who cannot wait for the situation in Thailand to be
resolved have already opted for Singapore or other destinations. This was
reflected in a decline in international-patient numbers at Bangkok Hospital in
the second quarter, Chatree said.

"Hospitals in Singapore are seeing a windfall, as foreign patients have shifted
to the country to avoid the violence in Thailand. However, I believe it is a
temporary problem. Once the political turmoil ends, they [international
patients] will again show a preference for Thailand over other destinations,
because of our kind people, better service and quality tourism destinations," he
said.

If the political demonstrations end soon, he said, Bangkok Hospital's
foreign-patient numbers would pick up again as patients who put their plans on
hold resumed them.

Chatree said that while foreign-patient numbers had dropped, the number of Thais
coming to Bangkok Hospital had increased, as many patients were opting to avoid
hospitals in the centre of Bangkok.

Furthermore, patient numbers at Bangkok Hospital branches upcountry had
increased, he said, adding that Bangkok Hospital was taking full advantage of
its nationwide network.

Chatree said that despite the political turmoil, BDMS retained its revenue
target of 7- to 9-per-cent growth from Bt22.175 billion last year, because of
its impres-sive operating results in the first quarter of this year. The
company's revenue in the first three months grew by 13 per cent compared with
the same period of 2009.

Kenneth Mays, senior director, hospital marketing and business development, at
Bumrungrad Hospital, said that international-patient numbers had been affected
right from the very beginning of the red-shirt demonstration on March 12,
because the subsequent decline in the overall tourism industry had also reduced
the number of tourists seeking unexpected medical treatment.

Bumrungrad has seen a small decline in medical travellers. Patients from regions
such as the Middle East, Africa and Central and South Asia seem to be less
sensitive to political developments than those from North America, China and
Southeast Asia, Mays said.

Meanwhile, many expat patients, concerned about their safety while travelling in
Bangkok, have postponed non-urgent medical treatments, he said.

Mays said Bumrungrad would maintain its business plan for this year, which is
based on boosting client numbers. The hospital recently opened a Women's Centre,
and inpatient room upgrades were completed last week. The hospital is also
adding overseas representatives to help expand its outreach to new international
markets in Europe, Africa and the Middle East, he said.

Chokchai Jarusiripipat, newly appointed director of Samitivej Sukhumvit
Hospital, said the prolonged political crisis had had a minimal impact at his
hospital as foreign clients accounted for only 2 per cent of overall patient
numbers. Most of the hospital's foreign patients are expats, particularly
Japanese living on Sukhumvit Rd and Soi Thong Lo, which are close to Samitivej
Sukhumvit Hospital.

He said the hospital had not adjusted its medical ser-vice fees this year.
Moreover, the hospital has organised many medical activities to attract both
Thais and international patients.

Samitivej has also designed affordable medical packages and optimised medical
costs for some patients who cannot access hospitals in central Bangkok, he said.

"We are continuing with these policies despite the political tension. And we're
confident that our revenue this year will grow by 9 to 10 per cent, as planned,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2010 Nation Multimedia Group
                              All Rights Reserved


