                              401 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                         October 28, 1986, Tuesday, WES

Hospital promised by Premier a political hot potato

BYLINE: By Paul Barker

SECTION: NEIGHBORS; Pg. W6

LENGTH: 846 words


   A campaign promise by Premier David Peterson during the last provincial
election has evolved into a political issue for Peel Regional councillors.

At stake is a second hospital for Brampton, which some say should be built as
soon as possible but others say won't be needed until the late 1990s.

The possibility of another hospital being built to help ease overcrowding at
Peel Memorial Hospital was heightened when the Liberals and New Democrats formed
a coalition government 18 months ago.

Earlier in the campaign, during a stopover in Brampton, Peterson told supporters
that he were if elected, a second hospital would be a "major priority" for his
cabinet.

Since the election, there have been some developments. The Peel District Health
Council, an arm of the Ministry of Health, recently approved a report that
recommends development of a multi-tiered facility over the next seven years.

Emergency department

Commissioned by Chinguacousy Health Services Centre Board, which is responsible
for developing the hospital, consultants recommended that a primary-care health
centre be built first. The centre would include an emergency department and
specialized clinics on a 19-hectare (46-acre) site at Bovaird Drive and Bramalea
Rd.

The next phase would include a 120-bed, long-term care area for the chronically
ill, followed by construction of a 300-bed hospital at a cost of $61.7 million.
The hospital is to be operating by 1993.

The consultants say, "Planning for this acute-care hospital should be undertaken
in conjunction with Peel Memorial Hospital to ensure that opportunities for
shared services are maximized, unnecessary duplication of services is avoided
and patient care services are planned on a complementary basis between the two
institutions.

"The success of this project will be dependent upon the ability of the board to
effectively and efficiently direct the planning and construction of each phase
of this project."

Before that begins, however, the board must still contend with Peel council,
which supports the concept but not the timing.

Second report

Council has already adopted a report from Peter Cole, the region's health
commissioner, which recommends the development of the first two phases
immediately but delaying the opening of a hospital until 1998.

As an alternative, the Cole report suggests that a 200-bed expansion take place
at Credit Valley Hospital within the next four years at a cost to the region of
$10.3 million.

By 1995, a shortfall of 209 beds in Brampton and Caledon is predicted. However,
Cole says, "several factors may reduce the severity."

"It is probable that a substantial segment of Caledon's population will continue
to use hospitals in neighboring municipalities.

"Secondly, previous experience has shown that a high percentage of families who
(move) to Brampton from Metro Toronto continue to use hospital services in Metro
for several years.

"It is likely that Brampton will require a minimum of 200 acute-care beds at the
(Chinguacousy) site by 1998 to keep pace with population growth and to enable
specialty services to be developed at the two hospitals."

Chinguacousy Health Services Centre Board chairman Jim Yarrow says the adoption
of the report by council was not a "practical decision but a political one.

On back burner

"Our major concern is that the project not be put on the back burner for
political reasons," he says.

Bramalea Councillor Nancy Porteous says regional staff used "statistical facts
instead of human facts" in reaching the conclusions.

"The hospital itself is needed today but by the latest in 1993, especially
considering the growth rate," she says.

She said in an interview the entire hospital issue has a "parochial flavor" and
"politics will determine if the Credit Valley Hospital is expanded before a new
hospital is built in Brampton.

"I have not heard Mississauga complaining about hospital beds," she says, "and
I'm not saying that the Credit Valley shouldn't be expanded. But somehow we have
to figure out a way where the two can be developed hand in hand."

Peel Chairman Frank Bean says he is not anticipating a great parochial fight.

"It will all depend on what the province has to say but the important thing is
that now we have begun to start planning for Chinguacousy.

"I'm an optimist and I think we're going about it in the right way," he says.

Meanwhile, John Butler, executive director of the Peel District Health Council,
called approval of the consultants' report a major step forward.

"There are differences of opinion between the health council and the region but
hopefully any gap between our projections and their own can be narrowed through
discussions," he says.

"It would be terrible if each of us froze our attitudes and positions but the
situations change."

The next step in the development of a second hospital will take place after a
review of the proposal by the Ministry of Health.

Until then, discussions between the region and the health council are to
continue.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1986 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


