                              397 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                            October 30, 2016 Sunday

Police handcuff ailing PTI worker before taking him to Pims

BYLINE: IKRAM JUNAIDI

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 299

LENGTH: 630  words


Even though it is standard practice for the police to take a handcuffed suspect
to a hospital for treatment if necessary, the police's decision to handcuff a
severely weakened Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) worker and take him to the
Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (Pims) has triggered a debate about how
ethical the step was.

Pims Vice Chancellor Dr Javed Akram has distanced himself from the move, saying
the patient was brought from Adiala Jail and police had already handcuffed him.

However, Supreme Court advocate Riasat Ali Azad, who specialises in criminal
cases, said handcuffing a poor political worker was a violation of Article 25 -
which ensures equal treatment for every citizen - since this would not happen to
the head of a political party.

Pims management, police criticised for 'unethical' step

PTI leader Asad Umer also criticised the police's treatment of the party worker,
calling it unethical.

Baitullah, a 51-year-old PTI worker from Bhara Kahu, was arrested by Golra
police for participating in a youth convention and taken to prison. An FIR was
registered against him and others under section 188.

However, he began to have chest pains while in jail and was taken to Pims for
treatment on Friday. While he did receive medical treatment, Baitullah was
handcuffed. An image of the handcuffed PTI worker was shared on social media,
leading to criticism of the hospital's management.

Dr Akram admitted that he faced some criticism over the matter, and said the
hospital management was blamed for it.

"We have nothing to do with the patient. [He] was brought by the police and they
put handcuffs on him. We told the police to remove the handcuffs while the
angioplasty was being done, but they put them on again."

"The police shifted the patient - whose heart was working at around 20pc - to
the hospital, and we applied two stents at the hospital's expense because it was
an emergency case. We may not get the price of the stents and the fee for the
angioplasty, but we have still been facing criticism," he complained.

When asked about the patient's condition, Dr Akram said it will be suggested
that the political worker not be taken to jail again as he needs rest for around
three weeks.

"We will also strictly advise him not to take part in any political activity for
the next few weeks, because it could be dangerous for him. The patient may spend
another day or two in the hospital's cardiac care unit and then he will be
discharged."

Mr Azad told Dawn that handcuffs are only applied to hardened criminals, or
criminals desperate to flee - they cannot be used on political workers.

"Senior politicians have been arrested a number of times, but handcuffs - which
are for proclaimed and hardened criminals - are never applied to them. It is a
clear violation of Article 25, which ensures equal rights for all the citizens
of Pakistan. A political worker should not be treated like a terrorist," he
said.

The duty officer at the Golra police station, Ameer Bux, said handcuffs are used
on suspects brought from prison to keep them from escaping.

Another official who asked to remain anonymous said police officials are
responsible for ensuring a suspect does not run away.

"A number of times, suspects run from district courts and even from hospitals,
because of which police officials get suspended," he said.

Because of the criticism, a magistrate visited the patient at the hospital,
removed the handcuffs and approved his bail.

Jan Badshah, Baitullah's relative, told Dawn Baitullah had been handcuffed since
Friday.

"We went to the court of the assistant commissioner in the morning to get bail
but he was not in his office. However, when the issue became the talk of the
town, an assistant commissioner came to the hospital and approved Baitullah's
bail," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


