                              400 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           December 6, 2001 Thursday
                                National Edition

Saskatchewan to keep rural hospitals

BYLINE: CRAIG WONG, Canadian Press

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A13

LENGTH: 366 words

DATELINE: REGINA


As governments across Canada look for ways to trim soaring health-care costs,
Saskatchewan, the birthplace of medicare, has decided the answer does not lie in
closing small rural hospitals.

Premier Lorne Calvert announced Wednesday that his NDP-Liberal coalition
government has rejected a recommendation to close 50 of 70 hospitals across the
province, as suggested in a review of medicare released earlier this year.

"When we listened to the voices of Saskatchewan people from across the province,
they made it very clear to us they wanted access to their hospitals, to their
doctors, to their emergency care near to their community," Mr. Calvert said.

The report by Ken Fyke, a former deputy health minister in Saskatchewan and
British Columbia, had recommended closing nearly all the hospitals in rural
Saskatchewan.

Mr. Fyke had said he believed people would be served by fewer, stronger
hospitals. But Mr. Calvert said that wouldn't ensure the financial
sustainability of the health-care system.

"If we were to select 20 of our smallest community hospitals and close them, I
am told the savings would result in about $14-million," he said.

"That represents about two days of funding for the Department of Health. . . .
the larger question of financial sustainability must be a national debate."

The decision not to close smaller hospitals may be the coalition government's
attempt to reconnect with the rural areas, said David Smith, a political science
professor at the University of Saskatchewan.

At one time Saskatchewan had more than 130 hospitals, more than any other
province except Ontario, which had roughly 10 times the population. In 1993, the
NDP government slashed that number by closing 52 rural hospitals.

The New Democrats lost nearly all their rural seats in the 1999 election and
were forced into a coalition with the Liberals.

Rod Gantefor of the Opposition Saskatchewan Party said there was nothing new in
the plan.

"These issues have been in the forefront for a long time," he said. "For the
government now to come out and bill this as some revolutionary thing is really
overdone."

The Fyke report was commissioned by former Saskatchewan premier Roy Romanow.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 2001 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


