                              396 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                           May 31, 1988, Tuesday, NOR

Politicians take interest in fight to save Villa

BYLINE: By Victoria Stevens Toronto Star

SECTION: NEIGHBORS; Pg. N8

LENGTH: 595 words


   The fight to save the old Villa hospital in Vaughan is attracting increasing
political interest.

Markham MPP Don Cousens says he has the support of the Conservative caucus at
Queen's Park and plans to get a question asked in the provincial legislature
about why the facility for severely handicapped children and young adults is to
be closed within five years, instead of being renovated or rebuilt.

MP Tony Roman (Ind - York North) wrote a letter to Health Minister Elinor Caplan
a month ago, but hasn't had a reply so far, he said last week.

Increasing demand

"I asked the minister to analyze things very carefully before a final decision
is made," he said. "Our area is rapidly growing and the demand for services will
increase. How is the province anticipating facilities for that?"

The New Democratic Party is getting involved too, says Donalda Jones,
vice-president of the NDP's York Centre riding association and a nurse at the
Villa.

When the riding association has chosen its federal candidate at tonight's
nomination meeting, the candidate will meet with the party's health critic at
Queen's Park to get the issue raised in the Legislature, she says.

To bolster support and raise money to make its case to the provincial
government, the Villa Hospital Association, representing the parents of the 74
children at the hospital, will hold a benefit dinner and dance June 10 at the
Atrium Banquet Hall in Aurora.

The money raised will help pay for a consultant retained to put together a
proposal to the health ministry, says Bev Griffith, president of the parent
association. The association suggests renovating the existing 120-bed facility
or building a new hospital on the same site on Bathurst St. north of Highway 7.

Ministry-owned

The hospital, now called Vaughan Glen, was run privately for 25 years until the
ministry bought it for $5 million a year ago and appointed a board of directors
to administer it as a public hospital.

Parents and employees say they were assured verbally and in writing at the time
that the hospital would continue to operate as before. But last fall, they were
shocked and angry to learn the board planned to close the hospital within five
years, saying the building is in such a poor state of repair it is not worth
renovating.

Donna Scully, the consultant retained by the parents, says she has not been able
to see the full engineering report on the state of repair of the hospital.

"There certainly appears to be some problems, but not of the magnitude the
ministry is talking about," she says.

Scully says there's "no logic" to removing 120 chronic care beds from the region
when it's growing so rapidly and is already short of chronic care beds. Nor does
it make sense to remove the children against their will from an environment
that's been like a home to them for years, she adds.

Worst fear

Most of the patients are not "developmentally handicapped" and able to live in a
group home situation, but are "severely handicapped" and need institutional
care, Scully says.

Griffith says the parents' worst fear is the children will be moved to chronic
care wards in hospitals with the elderly and the dying and not receive the kind
of care and stimulation they get from the staff at Vaughan Glen and volunteers
in the surrounding community.

Tickets for the benefit dinner cost $25 with a door prize of a trip to Florida
and raffle prizes. They can be ordered by calling Anna Sardaro at 883-0209, Rene
Drielsma at 1-632-8687 in Burlington or Bev Griffith at 881-0387.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1988 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


