                              42 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                     April 15, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Pakistani political feud blamed for hospital blast that kills six

BYLINE: AP; NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: LAHORE, Pakistan


A bomb tucked under a sofa exploded in the crowded waiting room of Pakistan's
only cancer hospital yesterday, killing at least six people, injuring more than
20, and adding a grim twist to a personal and political feud many Pakistanis
contend could have a profound impact on their country's future.

Imran Khan, a popular former cricket star who runs the hospital in central
Pakistan, said the attack was intended to discourage him from entering politics.

"This was meant to frighten us, but we will fight on," Khan said amid the
wreckage at Shaukat Khanum Memorial Trust Hospital in Lahore. "This kind of
action cannot stop us."

Between 100 and 150 patients were in the waiting room of the chemotherapy ward's
outpatient clinic when the bomb blew up, a hospital spokesman said.

"There was blood everywhere," said Kashif Chaudhry, who works in the hospital's
marketing department.

"There were two bodies lying right in front of me. Furniture was blasted in all
directions and windows and doors were destroyed."

Three people, including a 12-year-old boy, were burned to death in a fire
started by the blast. Three others died later from their injuries, said Khan's
spokesman, Mubashir Ahmed.

At least 10 people were critically injured and 10 more were hurt less seriously,
Ahmed said.

The explosion was so powerful it blew out the glass from several parked cars in
the hospital's parking lot, more than 400 metres away, Chaudhry said.

It was unclear who planted the bomb. Khan, an outspoken critic of Pakistan's
political parties, has upset a growing number of opponents, and has said in
recent days that he is on the verge of starting a political movement to topple
Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, who was a fellow student with Khan at Oxford
University 20 years ago.

The blast came amid intensifying political violence in Pakistan.

Khan, who gained widespread popularity among Pakistan's 130 million people when
his team won cricket's world championship for the first time in 1992, has been
sharply critical of the country's feuding political class, which he has
described as "a culture of corruption and injustice."

Many of his criticisms have been aimed particularly at Bhutto, whom Khan has
accused of leading a government obsessed with political vendettas and
self-enrichment.

Bhutto has responded by targeting Khan with income-tax investigations, a ban on
fundraising events for the cancer hospital in schools and other government-run
institutions, and a blackout on reports about the hospital on the state-run
broadcasting network.

After yesterday's explosion, Bhutto made her first visit to the hospital,
calling the blast "a deplorable attack" and hinting that it might have been the
work of loyalists of Pakistan's main opposition leader, Nawaz Sharif. Sharif,
who has tried and failed to recruit Khan as an ally, denied the allegation.

Khan has stirred controversy in Pakistan for what his critics call hypocrisy.

He has described the country's political elite as "brown sahibs" - meaning that
their attitudes and lifestyles, in a Muslim country, mimicked those of the
British rulers of colonial India.

Opponents responded that Khan, during his cricket career, was one of the most
photographed playboys of London's West End.

Last summer, Khan stunned many Pakistanis by marrying Jemima Goldsmith, who is
the daughter of James Goldsmith, an Anglo-French business tycoon. After Muslim
ceremonies in Paris and a civil wedding in London, Goldsmith, who adopted the
Muslim name Haiqa and converted to Islam, made a home with Khan in Lahore.

But criticism of Khan seems to have made little impact.

The $ 22 million needed to build the cancer hospital was raised in part on a
tour in which Khan walked through Pakistan's slums and villages, accepting
donations of a few rupees.

When Khan showed a visitor around the hospital two weeks ago, patients and
relatives, some of whom had travelled hundreds of kilometres to the hospital,
greeted him with cries of "Long Live the Great Khan!"

A 28-year-old woman named Farzana, mother of a 5-year-old boy undergoing
chemotherapy, said she was illiterate and had never voted, but would if Khan
were a candidate.

"He might be our next prime minister," she said. "We all adore him."


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: AP / Outpatient department of hospital was damaged by
yesterday's bomb blast.

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


