                              403 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                      June 11, 1993, Friday, FINAL EDITION

QUESTION OF THE DAY

BYLINE: PAUL DROHAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 589 words


Waiting and wondering about the truth sometimes is worse than finally hearing
the truth.

Herald columnist Don Martin presented his views of the likely truths amidst the
resounding silence among political candidates about the reality of the impact of
health-care cost-cutting.

His column, Health horrors await (June 9), upset Susan Gallant.

"I work in the operating room at the Calgary General Hospital. I read Don
Martin's column Wednesday. Does he realize how upsetting it is to the staff at
any of the hospitals in Calgary when he prints something like that and doesn't
back it up with any facts? It makes people very upset for their jobs and causes
a lot of unnecessary stress. We know there are job cuts coming but we would like
to know the facts and not be stressed out by these innuendoes in the paper."

Rob Henderson offers suggestions for saving health-care dollars.

"These health care suggestions are from a city boy who knows they how they will
affect the rural folk. I think it is sort of pointless to have hospitals in
small communities which are only 30 minutes away in car or even quicker by
ambulance."

Henderson would change some rural hospitals to extended-care facilities and
trauma centres. ". . . with helicopters and ambulances supporting them instead
of having these hospitals sitting there costing hundreds of thousands or
millions. . . . The Conservatives have catered too much to rural Alberta.

"Usually when someone is taken to one of these smaller hospitals they are
stabilized and taken to one of the major centres where there are trauma centres.
It would be better to have trauma centres throughout the province and fewer
hospitals."

And now something slightly different. We hear a lot today about but not much
from teenagers. Six students from Ernest Manning high school comment today and
Monday on the provincial election.

Kris Noonan: "The huge, crippling deficit and spending are the top issues. I am
also concerned about the federal Young Offenders Act. These issues are not only
important to me but to Ralph Klein and the Progressive Conservative party. If I
was able to vote, I would vote for Klein. He is the only leader who will be able
to follow through in making changes to these issues.

"I think there could be some cuts in education spending without too great an
impact. . . . the Progressive Conservatives will be able to decrease the deficit
quicker than the other parties. I also agree with Klein's points on the Young
Offenders Act and think he would be the best leader to lobby Ottawa to improve
it."

Adam McCrimmon: "Three issues concern me: the deficit, education spending or
rather cutbacks and tax reform. The deficit is an extreme issue that must be
dealt with immediately. The tax reform is directly related to this. The leaders
must see that the deficit is too great to tackle at once. It must be chipped
away slowly. Increasing the taxes by a great amount will do nothing except put
money in politicians' pocket. Taxes must be saved and not spent. This, in the
long run, will spell the end of the debt. The Liberals have the best answer to
this. The PCs and NDP will only take our money and increase the deficit.

"Liberals will not cut back on education spending because they know the
importance of education to someone.

"If I could, I would vote for the Liberals because they have the right answers
and the way to implement them."

HAVE YOUR SAY:

Call 235-7591 to comment on any issue.

Clearly state your name and telephone number.



LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1993 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


