                              410 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                               September 4, 2004

CLINTON HOSPITAL DASH FOR HEART BYPASS OP

BYLINE: Antonella Lazzeri in Los Angeles

LENGTH: 277 words


BILL Clinton faces bypass surgery after doctors found a blockage in his heart.

The shock condition was diagnosed after the former US President suffered chest
pains.

Clinton, 58, went to a hospital near his home in Westchester, New York, two days
ago complaining of pressure around his heart.

After a series of tests docs found a "serious blockage" and he was rushed to New
York's renowned Columbia Presbyterian Hospital.

Yesterday TV news channels reported that Clinton could be operated on within
days -with ABC saying he needed a QUADRUPLE bypass.

Clinton had earlier cancelled a two-day trip across upstate New York with his
senator wife Hillary, 56.

She was not at the Columbia with him when he was admitted but was expected to
arrive later with daughter Chelsea, 28. Hillary revealed doctors at the local
hospital initally found nothing wrong and sent him home.

But she said: "They did some additional tests and advised him to have bypass
surgery as soon as he could."

A family friend said Clinton had already had an angioplasty, an emergency
procedure in which surgeons insert a balloon into the artery to try to clear it.

Clinton told Democratic Party national chief Terry McAuliffe by phone he was
"fine" but confirmed that he did need a bypass.

The news stunned the nation. The ex-leader was seen at the Democratic convention
in Boston in July looking fit and healthy after dieting and working out.

Former White House counsel Jack Quinn said: "This is very shocking."

Clinton, impeached over his scandalous affair with Monica Lewinsky, has just
released memoirs of his time in office from 1993 to 2001.


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD


