                              408 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                    October 7, 1993, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

WESTLOCK'S NEEDS LOST IN FIGHT OVER NEW HOSPITAL

BYLINE: DON MARTIN, HERALD COLUMNIST, EDMONTON BUREAU

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 535 words


WESTLOCK

Earth-movers are massaging the field into shape while pile-drivers ram down the
foundations for Alberta's most controversial public works project.

There are two reasons for the rush to get into the ground before freeze up and
get ahead of the political heat.

The sign says it all: Site of Westlock's Immaculata Hospital; Opening 1995.

This was Deputy Premier Ken Kowalski's election goodie to new voters in his
expanded riding. Now, despite public outrage and a barely contained mutiny
within government MLA ranks, Kowalski has delivered.

But lost in the ruckus is even the remote possibility that this project may have
a non-political reason to proceed.

If one exists, it sits four blocks away in the Immaculata Hospital that is being
replaced. To the casual observer there is an obvious observation this is one
ugly, old active treatment centre.

A few years ago the entire stucco exterior slipped to the ground. Inside, the
1968 addition is cramped, the 1948 wing sadly dilapidated and the original 1928
area almost uninhabitable.

Enema kits, catheters and other medical supplies are stored in corridors. In the
medical labs, a poster covers a ceiling leak and a towel absorbs water seeping
through the floor.

Washrooms are so tiny patients in distress have been trapped behind doors that
cannot be opened. One thermostat controls the temperature for the entire
hospital. Emergency arrivals at night must ring a bell so nurses can rush down
from their upstairs station to unlock the door.

"People see the floors are clean and they wonder what the problem is," fumes
Sister Florence James, the hospital's spunky executive director for 26 years.
"But this hospital has become very inconvenient for patients and extremely
inconvenient for staff."

Perhaps the most convenient option would be to ship patients to St. Albert some
40 minutes drive south or to Barrhead 30 minutes west, but James argues the trip
from outer communities served by Westlock would be stretched dangerously long.
She has a point. Would Calgarians endorse closing the Foothills Hospital if
Canmore was the next acute care centre down the road?

In any event, Westlock's problems go beyond the politics and personalities of
the legislature.

It is caught in a dilemma of being too expensive to restore, too antiquated to
maintain and, having earned kudos as Alberta's eighth best hospital in the
prompt discharge of patients, it is too good to be shut and scattered.

Yet, thanks primarily to Kowalski himself, Westlock's hospital became too
controversial to replace without being christened a payoff.

When he linked construction of this hospital to his re-election bid, it became a
test of his political influence.

That it took just three months to launch hospital construction in a Conservative
riding which had been delayed eight years in Grit territory confirmed the
influence.

That he rushed in the earth-movers on the eve of a $ 31-million slash in
hospital construction confirmed politics were at play.

But that the predominantly senior population of the Westlock area need access to
a better hospital has nothing to do with Ken Kowalski. That's a valid medical
treatment.



LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1993 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


