                              407 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     May 28, 1998, Thursday, METRO EDITION

Hire a separatist? Callers say non

BYLINE: By Walter Stefaniuk TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. B2

LENGTH: 476 words


   Many residents in the nation's capital are furious that David Levine, a
highly experienced hospital administrator who ran unsuccessfully for the
separatist Parti Quebecois in 1979, has been appointed head of a major Ottawa
hospital. The hospital board said it hired him on the basis of his competence,
not his politics.

Tuesday's question: Should a person's political philosophy ever be a factor in
hiring?

NO 39%

YES 61%

155 calls

Politics should be taken into account only when the political view is
anti-Canada. You can't put, in essence, a traitor to our country in important
public office. These separatists should not be walking both sides of the street.

No, unless the person is an anarchist, nihilist, terrorist, his political
position should not have anything to do with it. This man has shown himself
capable of amalgamating hospitals in Montreal. He can do it in Ottawa.

Generally, I would say no. But if a person uses his position to promote a
particular political cause, such as Nazism or separatism, then he should not be
in that position.

No. As long as the philosophy is legal under Canadian law, it should not be a
factor in hiring. This problem with David Levine is ridiculous. He is the best
man for the job.

Yes, if the person is a traitor to the country and belongs to a group of people
determined to break up the country.

No. If this man is the best one for the job, he should have it, and that
irrelevant of how I feel about the Quebec situation.

Yes. Do you think the National Council of Jews would hire (holocaust denier)
Ernst Zundel? Do you think the Fraser Institute would hire (Toronto Councillor)
Kyle Rae? You could go on and on.

No. If the man can do the job, his political leanings shouldn't be a factor. I,
personally, am sick to death of this anti-Quebec rhetoric in Ontario.

Yes. It seems if you're a Nazi and you happen to be hired as a teacher, you can
get fired for it. This Mr. Levine wants to break up the country. That should be
taken into account.

The last time I checked, the PQ was a legal party in Canada and people have the
right to join whatever party they want. Mr. Levine pays taxes and so do
Quebecers.

YES OR NO

In Canada, genetically engineered food must be labelled only when it changes the
nutritional value or could pose a health risk to some people.

Should all genetically engineered foods be labelled?

Dial (416) 868-3900 with your yes or no by 10 a.m. tomorrow. Results on Tuesday.

CALENDAR

Dionne quintuplets (Marie, Emilie, Yvonne, Annette and Cecile), world's first
recorded surviving quintuplets, born at Corbeil, Ont., 1934.

Also birthdate of cartoonist Lynn Johnston, creator of For Better or For Worse,
at Collingwood, 1947.

*You Asked Us runs Tuesday through Friday. Call (416) 868-3900 to record your
questions and comments.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


