                              411 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               dailyrecord.co.uk

                     November 29, 2016 Tuesday 4:32 PM GMT

Community urged to come together to fight to save Vale of Leven Hospital
services;
Members of Hospitalwatch appealed to 200 people who attended a public meeting to
rally outside the next health board meeting to help save the hospital.

BYLINE: By Marc McLean

SECTION: NEWS,LOCAL NEWS

LENGTH: 900 words


The community must come together and lobby the Health Secretary in order to save
Vale of Leven Hospital.

That was the message from a public meeting in Dumbarton on Monday night aimed at
rescuing the birthing unit - and the few remaining services at the hospital.

Around 200 people who attended the meeting - including politicians, hospital
staff, pregnant women, and community campaigners - also agreed to organise a
rally outside the next health board meeting on December 20.

"If we lose maternity services it's a dagger through the heart of the hospital,"
warned Jim Moohan, chairman of campaign group Hospitalwatch.

"If you can't have a child at the hospital the health board will eventually ask,
'do we need a hospital there at all'?"

"The only people who can win this are yourselves."

Politicians on the panel stood united in opposition to plans to transfer all
births from the Vale to Paisley or Glasgow, as well as demanding a halt to other
cuts and a long term sustainable plan for the long suffering hospital.

Mr Moohan then called on people across the Vale, Dumbarton and beyond to write
to Health Secretary Shona Robison and get involved in a protest outside
Gartnavel Royal Hospital on December 20.

READ MORE: Vale Hospital midwives cleared after investigation into traumatic
birth

He said: "The only people that can win this is yourselves.

"With the democratic voice of the people - and the now unified political parties
working together as one - I'm quite sure we can stop the rot."

The meeting was held in the Concord Centre and was organised by Dumbarton MSP
Jackie Baillie in an attempt to form a united front and make a strong stand in
the face of more impending cuts by NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde.

The Labour politician was joined by speakers including West Dunbartonshire SNP
Group Leader, Councillor Jonathan McColl, Conservative MSP Maurice Corry from
Helensburgh, along with Hospitalwatch campaigners Rev Ian Miller and Jim Moohan.

Political rivalries were put to one side as all agreed that the Scottish
Government must act to stop Greater Glasgow and Clyde Health Board from
destroying the Vale Hospital.

Councillor Jonathan McColl said: "I don't care what particular rosette I wear
when I stand for election. I'm here to represent you in this area, not a
political party.

"If the Cabinet Secretary is not doing her job then I'm going to tell her and
hold her to account.

READ MORE: Councillors set to hold Health Secretary to account over Vale of
Leven Hospital

"She has said she's committed to the Vale. The problem is that we've got to make
sure she sticks to that."

Members of the public commented that they did not know which politicians to
trust, including Vale Hospital workers who expressed fears about its future.

Dumbarton woman Rose Harvie, a retired midwife, argued that the health board
have created a situation where women have to go elsewhere to give birth,
resulting in low birth numbers and an excuse to close the Vale's birthing
service.

She said: "Would you not agree that this is deliberate on the part of the health
board?

READ MORE: Health Secretary Shona Robison "snubs" meeting Alexandria hospital
campaigners

"The health board has deliberately, unnecessarily and deceitfully frightened
women by raising the risk criteria for giving birth when, in fact, their motive
is simply to save money."

Renton woman Sam Paton, who has long campaigned to protect services at the
hospital, suggested that the community should turn out in force at the next
health board meeting on December 20.

This was welcomed by the panel and Hospitalwatch members who had already planned
on staging a demonstration with banners.

MSP Jackie Baillie said: "At the end of the day this is about choice.

"Nobody is suggesting women should be coerced (into where they give birth), but
it is about choice.

READ MORE: Vale of Leven Hospital midwives: local births are "not sustainable"

"I could read you a list of midwife-led units across Scotland where they do have
the choice. That's what we want locally as well.

"What they are doing is cutting the service to save money. It's not about safety
because I asked them about that. It's about staff vacancies because I asked them
about that too.

"Coming tonight is important. Having your voice heard is most definitely
important because we can't do it by ourselves.

"The power comes from you. We will make sure the video recording taken tonight
is submitted to the Cabinet Secretary, to the First Minister, to the health
board, and the health council who provide the Cabinet Secretary with advice."

READ MORE: Dumbarton family join fight to save hospital after tragic death of
unborn baby

Urging people to write to Shona Robison, Ms Baillie said: "I want her to make
the decision. She made a promise to this area and she, I think, is our best
chance of keeping the services in this area.

"And let's all turn up on December 20 and make sure the health board understand
what this local community wants - which is services at the Vale, the maternity
unit at the Vale, and that they do not come for any other services."

The health board meeting is being held on Tuesday, December 20 from 9.30am at J
B Russell House, Gartnavel Royal Hospital in Glasgow.

Local people are also being encouraged to write to Shona Robison. The Health
Secretary's postal address is T3.03, The Scottish Parliament, Edinburgh, EH99
1SP and email address is CabSecHS@gov.scot

More Lennox Herald news.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDAR


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


