                              409 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             May 16, 1998 Saturday

Ottawa hospital boss plays down PQ past  New administrator has 'no political
agenda'

BYLINE: BY KEVIN WARD With a report from André Picard in Montreal; CP STAFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A4

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA


A hospital administrator under pressure to resign because of his separatist past
defended his appointment yesterday by telling critics his politics aren't
relevant to his work.

The appointment of David Levine, who ran for the Parti Québécois almost 20 years
ago, has raised the sensitive question of whether his politics make him the
right choice to run the city's new amalgamated hospital.

The hospital board of directors and doctors say his past allegiance to the PQ
shouldn't disqualify him from running the city's biggest hospital.

"I have no political agenda here," Mr. Levine said in a news conference at the
Civic Hospital at which he gave an articulate and firm defence of his
professional ability.

Mr. Levine, who celebrated his 50th birthday yesterday, said he is an
experienced hospital manager who has had a long and successful career in Quebec
before his appointment last year as Quebec's envoy to New York. He was a member
of the PQ from 1975 to 1981.

He noted he has worked in Quebec's hospital system under PQ and Liberal
governments and politics has never been an issue in his work.

"The proof is in the pudding."

The controversy surrounding Mr. Levine's appointment was described in the
Commons by the Bloc Québécois as a witch-hunt.

"Isn't the government saying that the Charter of Rights does not apply to Quebec
sovereigntists or those who are suspected of being sovereigntists?" asked MP
Jocelyne Girard-Bujold, who accused the government of failing to come to Mr.
Levine's defence.

Don Boudria, government House leader, said hiring hospital administrators is not
the responsibility of the federal government.

Guy Bouthillier, president of the ultranationalist Société Saint-Jean-Baptiste,
said the attacks on Mr. Levine are shameful and should be of concern to
Quebeckers of all political stripes.

"In effect, once the intolerance machine gets rolling, there is no stopping it,"
he said. "Today, it's a sovereigntist being threatened outside our borders.
Tomorrow, it will be another sovereigntist, but this time within Quebec. And,
perhaps, one day, Quebec federalists?"

Mr. Levine's publicity has been a distraction. The Civic Hospital Foundation has
received calls from donors threatening to withdraw their financial support if he
remains.

Still, the new amalgamated hospital's board is convinced it has the right person
for the job.

"The political, religious and personal beliefs of the chief executive officer or
of any other member of the hospital staff at any level are not relevant in the
performance of his or her duties," said Nick Mulder, board chairman.

Mr. Mulder said he understands community concerns, and Mr. Levine's background
was reviewed, but it was determined to be irrelevant.

"We finally decided he is not a politician," he said. "In the final analysis, we
are hiring a top administrator."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


