                              404 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Statesman (AsiaNet)

                           September 6, 2012 Thursday

New LG system soon be finalized: Governor

SECTION: Vol. 12 No. 430

LENGTH: 707  words


Governor Sindh Dr Ishratul Ibad Khan has said that new local government system
will be soon finalized with consensus of all political allies.

Talking to media after inaugurating Feroza Hashim Block at Kishandevi Sobhraj
Chetumal Maternity Hospital here Wednesday, he said that they were still having
discussions over the local government system with their political allies, adding
when all debatable issues are settled with consensus the new law would be
announced.

He applauded the efforts of President Asif Ali Zardari for his policy to take
every political party on board. "We want a good local government system that
meets the aspirations of common man," Governor Sindh added.

He appreciated establishment of the Feroza Hashim Block at the maternity
hospital, adding a lot of patients will be benefited from it.

Accompanied with Karachi Metropolitan Corporation administrator Mohammad Hussain
Syed, governor Sindh said that this maternity hospital has been providing
medical facilities to Karachiites since its set up, adding now this hospital is
further expanded with public private partnership.

Administrator Karachi briefed the governor on different facilities being offered
at the hospital.

President of Feroza Hashim Foundation, Hashim Sheikh told him that Feroza Hashim
Block is the result of joint efforts taken by City District Government Karachi
and Feroza Hashim Foundation.

He said that construction work started in 2009 and finalized in three years. He
said today this hospital has a capacity of 200 beds in maternity section and 40
beds in pediatric section, making it a 240bed hospital.

Key reforms needed before general polls

Islamabad: Soon general elections will be held but urgent reforms are
outstanding, namely reliable and inclusive electoral rolls, transparent
management of the process by the ECP, an effective system of election dispute
resolution, guarantees for the participation of women voters and efforts to
reduce political violence.

These have been identified as key areas of reform by prominent Pakistani and
international organizations at a news conference held Islamabad on Wednesday, 5
September. The organizations presenting the joint briefing paper "Key Reforms
for General Elections in Pakistan" included Aurat Foundation AF, Human Rights
Commission of Pakistan HRCP, Centre for Civic Education Pakistan CCE, Free and
Fair Elections Network FAFEN and Democracy Reporting International DRI.

They emphasised that to achieve the reforms parliament should immediately begin
an inclusive process of stakeholder consultation based on constitutional
requirements and international law commitments. In addition, the ECP should
establish transparency mechanisms, including full access of observers to results
aggregation and immediate publication of all polling station results.

"The electoral issues identified in the briefing paper require renewed focus and
reform interventions before the next general elections" highlighted the senior
representative of HRCP Nasreen Azhar at the news conference.

DRI's Country Director Vladimir Pran pointed out that "most of the
recommendations in this paper are based on the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights ICCPR, ratified by Pakistan in 2010". He explained that the
reforms identified in this paper are in line with Pakistan's international
obligations for free, fair and transparent elections.

FAFEN representative Rashid Chaudhry highlighted that the paper identifies
reliable and inclusive electoral rolls as one of the key reforms needed.
"Questions and concerns regarding the voter list still exist and we recommend
that the ECP invests additional efforts in providing access of citizens to the
registration he said.

CCE's Executive Director Zafarullah Khan stressed that adherence to the code of
conduct, neutrality of state administration and reduced violence are crucial to
ensuring free and fair elections. He said that "measures are required to ensure
all parties publicly denounce violence, intimidation and coercion".

Aurat Foundation's representative Wasim Wagha emphasized that "there should be
legislation to ensure a minimum level of women's voter participation at polling
stations and in constituencies and this should be implemented by the ECP".

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Mashriq Group of Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


