                              412 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                              May 17, 2013 Friday
                                 First Edition

The terrible wait meets the eternal debate

SECTION: OPINION; Leaders; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 536 words


There is nothing simple about the funding of hospitals in this state, and
arguments about who bears primary responsibility for their situation are
threaded with distracting political invective. Around it goes, in circles, with
no answers offered.

Try explaining to the old and infirm, young children and the disadvantaged why
they must wait years for elective surgery. Try explaining why the pain they
endure and the uncertainty that plagues their daily lives are prolonged by
politicians who don't do what they promised. Victoria's Health Minister, David
Davis, cannot be allowed to buckpass the problems besetting this state's
hospitals to the federal government alone. This is his backyard, and the
Coalition promised before the 2010 state election that it would "slash waiting
lists".

To that end, it is simply offensive when Mr Davis resorts to political
point-scoring whenever he is forced to confront the reality of the state's
hospitals. On Tuesday, for example, Mr Davis took the cover of federal budget
day to quietly release a report by a three-person panel which examined the data
for waiting lists back in 2011. That report was handed to the government nine
months ago. Why the long wait, you might ask, especially as much of it is a
specialised discussion about categorising certain medical treatments and the
methods of collating appropriate data on how long patients wait from first
consultation to eventual treatment. But, never one to miss an opportunity, Mr
Davis infected it with political rhetoric, saying it offered a "clear stocktake
on Labor's performance in outpatients".

Well, it's 2\xC2&#189; years since your government came to power, Mr Davis, and
each month we get a clearer picture of how the Coalition's administration stacks
up. At March 31, 50,565 people were waiting for surgery that medical specialists
deem may not be urgent but still needs to be done. That is 10.4 per cent more
than a year ago, and well above the 40,000 the Coalition highlighted when it
came to power. The waiting list for elective surgery at the Royal Melbourne
Hospital rose 19 per cent year on year; it was up 11 per cent at the Royal
Children's Hospital; and there have been big increases too at the Royal Women's
Hospital, the Western Hospital in Footscray and Sunshine Hospital.

Changes in quarterly figures may be influenced by all sorts of issues, not just
funding constraints. Still, the lists are not coming down and that is
unacceptable for a state that prides itself on being the home for many of the
world's leaders in medical technology, research and surgical techniques.

Hospitals funding is simply inadequate. Without real increases in funding, as
opposed to the cutbacks the hospitals have endured, this state's health system
will deteriorate. Our population is ageing, and that means each year more people
will need medical services to keep them alive, manage complex health conditions
or alleviate chronic pain. Neither the Gillard nor the Napthine government seems
to grasp this. The inexorable demands on hospitals, coupled with the rising
costs of medical treatment, demand a higher level of immediate funding, and
commitments from federal and state governments to real increases in future
years.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


