                              415 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                             August 22, 2016 Monday

Butchers in Karak violating official price list

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 233

LENGTH: 407  words


The social and political activists have expressed displeasure over the failure
of the district administration to implement the price list fixed by the price
review committee.

Talking to reporters on Sunday, Altaf Khattak, Zahid Usman, Rabnawaz and Asad
Zaman said the district administration had fixed price of beef at Rs280 per
kilogramme, but the butchers were selling it at Rs350. Similarly, the butchers
sold mutton at Rs650 to Rs700 despite the fact that its price was officially
fixed at Rs600 per kilogramme.

The activists said the butchers took the plea that as the prices of cattle had
increased they could not follow the rates fixed by the district administration.

They pointed out that traders had fixed rates of commodities on their own thanks
to non-implementation of the official price list. They demanded of the district
administration to pay surprise visits to the markets and punish the profiteers.

HOSPITAL LACKS FACILITIES: Tehsil Headquarters Hospital, Banda Daud Shah, is
facing shortage of doctors and other facilities.

This was stated by former representatives of local bodies and political workers
while addressing a press conference at Teri on Sunday. They pointed out that the
hospital had been facing shortage of doctors and other facilities since its
establishment in 1991.

They alleged that through fake OPD receipts it was showed that sufficient number
of patients visited the facility daily. They said the hospital building was
withering away due to lack of maintenance. The elders claimed that they had to
move to Kohat and other parts of the province even for routine laboratory tests.
They regretted that even drinking water facility was not available at the
hospital.

They said the hospital had no women medical officer, and demanded of the
government to provide seven medical and two women medical officers to the
hospital as per the sanctioned posts.

POLITICAL INTERFREENCE: Political interference should be discouraged in the
police department to make it serve the public in true sense.

This was stated by DSP Sadat Khan, the district police's resource person, while
delivering a lecture to a workshop held at Karak police station on Sunday under
the title of 'Police Ordinance, 2016'.

He said under the ordinance police would be purged of political interference to
make them people's servant. He asked the police officers to implement the
ordinance forthwith and adopt positive and decent attitude with the people.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


