                              43 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Nation (AsiaNet)

                            November 5, 2010 Friday

Lady doctors complain of harassment

BYLINE:  Erum Zaidi

SECTION: Vol. XXIV No. 269

LENGTH: 519  words


Female house job doctors have expressed serious concerns over the working
atmosphere at Civil Hospital Karachi and said that harassment by some male
paramedical staffers during the job has caused serious mental stress among them.

This harassment is not limited only to female doctors, but it also covers female
paramedical staff that needs attention of the higher authorities towards the
dilemma. As per complaints gathered by TheNation, the newly appointed lady
doctors feel themselves highly insecure while doing long hours duties in
different wards, Outdoor Patient Departments, Intensive Care Unit and the
operations theatres of the CHK. In emergency and normal situation, the entire
burden of patients is mostly borne by the house job doctors at CHK.

"We are already working under poor and unhealthy living conditions at Civil
Hospital. The Staff Rooms available for the junior doctors lack basic facilities
of safe drinking water, proper seating arrangement and clean washrooms.

Nevertheless, the offensive behaviour of the paramedical workers cannot be
tolerated by all means," a fresh doctor, who is completing her house job
training at the General Patient Ward of Civil Hospital, said. "We have brought
this issue into the notice of hospital administration many times by informing
that the male nurses and ward boys do not give proper respect to us. They annoy
and threaten us verbally, psychologically and sometimes sexually without having
any fear and accountability of the hospital management," She added.

Another trainee doctor told this scribe that the junior doctors sometimes face
sexual harassment by the paramedical staffers. She said, "We have lodged several
complaints in written against the criminal and unprofessional behaviour of the
paramedical workers to our In-charge and the relevant Additional Medical
Superintendent but we have not received any type of response on our complaints
from them so far". When Dr Samrina Hashmi, Former General Secretary Pakistan
Medical Association Karachi Chapter, was contacted by TheNation, she said there
is a high-level political interference in the public sector hospitals. Some
political elements among doctors and paramedical staff create hurdles for the
trainee female doctors in fulfilling their professional duties.

They tease, harass and even threat the doctors on the basis of their political
affiliations.

The hospital administration seems helpless in taking any disciplinary action
against them; the political power of such people is evident from the fact that
alleged worker cannot be transferred and suspended in case of doing any
misconduct as belong to different political parties.

They are the workers and supporters of the ruling and opposition parties. There
is no role of punishment and accountability for them. "The only way to get rid
of this problem is to depoliticise public hospitals. In order to improve the
performance of the teaching hospitals, the Government should ban political
activities in the premises of public hospitals. The healthcare institutions
should be free from the interference of the political parties," she added.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2010 The Nation
                              All Rights Reserved


