                              414 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             October 8, 2004 Friday
                                 First Edition

Hospital trip scars Carr;
Premiers ELECTION 2004

BYLINE: Morgan Mellish

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 413 words


Politicians love to spend money. If they can't do that, they love to re-announce
they're spending money. Two or more bites at the cherry are better than one.

Apparently with that in mind, NSW Premier Bob Carr went to the knife-edge seat
of Eden-Monaro yesterday to re-announce an upgrade to the Batemans Bay
Hospital's emergency ward.

Health is a major issue in the Liberal-held seat in the state's south which has
changed hands with each government since 1972. Voters are worried about the
dilapidated hospitals, particularly in the coastal town of Batemans Bay, one of
the state's fastest growing regional areas.

But the visit by Mr Carr who is widely seen as an electoral liability because of
scandals in NSW's health and transport systems didn't go well with some locals.

"I accidentally met him in the corridor and he asked who I was," said Kevin
Harmey. "I said I'm the GP obstetrician that used to work here until you closed
[the maternity ward recently]. I think he was a bit taken aback.

"It wasn't a big thing. But I suppose it just signifies the underlying current
of discontent with medical services."

Mr Carr has done some campaigning in marginal seats during the campaign but,
overall, he has kept a fairly low profile. Far from being a boost to federal
Labor in key electorates such as Eden-Monaro and in those in Sydney's west, he
is widely seen as a neutral at best.

On top of the closure of the maternity ward which means expectant mothers have
to drive half an hour to Moruya there was another matter that didn't go
unnoticed.

When the $2.5 million upgrade was announced last September, it was meant to be
ready by the end of this year. Now it's slated for next October.

"This emergency ward should have been open soon and they haven't turned a sod,"
said local resident Hazel Morgan.

But government spokespeople denied the Premier was re-announcing the project,
claiming he was announcing more details.

They said Mr Carr's visit was originally scheduled for last week, and comments
last September by the Southern Area Health Service that the ward would open by
Christmas were "not accurate".

"[Country Labor candidate for Eden-Monaro] Kel [Watt] has made representations
to ensure we get on with the job and I'm glad to stand here today and report
that's exactly what we're doing," Mr Carr said.

But local Liberal MP Gary Nairn said: "The upgrade hasn't happened because
there's been constant money problems, but he re-announced it anyway, hoping the
locals had forgotten."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bob Carr bumped into trouble in Eden-Monaro. Photo: NICK MOIR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2004 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


