                              421 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Ledger (Lakeland, Florida)

                             August 3, 1997, Sunday

GIANT COLUMBIA/HCA AGGRESSIVE IN POLITICS

BYLINE: ALAN JUDD Ledger Tallahassee Bureau

SECTION: News; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 756 words


TALLAHASSEE -- When Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp. decided to support state Rep.
Dave Bitner's re-election campaign in early 1996, it didn't let Florida's $ 500
limit on political contributions get in the way.

On Jan. 15, 1996, the nation's largest hospital chain delivered six checks of $
500 each to Bitner, R-Port Charlotte: one from each of its Florida divisions, a
total of $ 3,000.

The donations were part of the $ 7,000 that Columbia and affiliated political
action committees gave Bitner's successful 1996 campaign -- and part of the $
299,296 that the company spent trying to elect its preferred Florida legislative
candidates last year.

Because each of its Florida divisions has a separately organized political
action committee, Columbia's multiple contributions to Bitner and to other
candidates were perfectly legal -- even though each PAC has the same treasurer,
who signs all the checks, and three PACs have the same address in Miami Lakes
while two others share one Tallahassee post office box.

Spokesmen for Columbia did not answer telephone messages Friday. Neither did
Bitner.

Regardless, the means it has used to help legislative candidates illustrate the
fact that Columbia, the focus of a massive federal criminal investigation into
Medicare fraud, is as aggressive and as competitive, in the political arena as
it is in acquiring and running hospitals.

Only one other entity -- Associated Industries of Florida, whose members include
hundreds of corporations big and small -- gave more to Florida legislative
candidates last year, according to records at the state Division of Elections.

And Columbia's total dwarfed that of any other health care contributor even the
traditional leader, the Florida Medical Association.

As a result, "the perception is that they're a big gorilla," said a lobbyist for
a competing health care group. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he
didn't want to risk offending Columbia.

The money, the lobbyist added, "buys some great access."

Tony Carvalho, a lobbyist for Florida's not-for-profit hospitals, which are
among Columbia's most fierce competitors, added: "Columbia is a very politically
involved corporation. They are active in the political process. They can make
and have made large political contributions. That obviously gets a lot of
influence."

Interest in Columbia's political activity was piqued by the indictments last
week of three company executives on charges that they conspired to defraud the
federal government through false Medicare billings at the Columbia-owned Fawcett
Memorial Hospital in Port Charlotte.

So far, at least, there has been no indication that federal prosecutors are
looking into Columbia's efforts to influence elected officials.

Nevertheless, the federal inquiry has raised eyebrows in Tallahassee, where
Columbia has employed as many as two dozen lobbyists at a time while spreading
donations among a broad spectrum of politicians.

"Obviously, I have cause for concern about the whole Columbia situation, as
everybody does," said state Rep. George Albright, R-Ocala, chairman of the House
Health Care Services Committee.

Albright, who received $ 2,000 from Columbia and an affiliate last year, said
the company's money had not influenced him --"not any more than anybody else's."

But more than most, perhaps, Columbia has insinuated itself into legislators'
psyches, not just through campaign contributions but also through personal
business dealings with numerous lawmakers.

The $ 299,296 that Columbia donated in 1996 -- a substantial increase from the $
216,676 it gave during the 1994 elections --went to Democrats and Republicans,
incumbents and challengers.

Of the 129 candidates who received Columbia money, all but 11 were elected.

Columbia's six Florida political action committees spent a total of $ 180,250,
including $ 8,500 in contributions to the Florida Democratic Party and $ 27,500
to the Republican Party of Florida.

The Florida Hospital League PAC, which is mostly funded by Columbia, gave
another $ 54,750. And the league's Health Care Leadership PAC, also funded
largely by Columbia, contributed $ 64,296, more than a third of it to the
Republican party.

Lawmakers insist Columbia exerts no undue influence, despite its political and
business ties to so many legislators.

"Has their money been a good investment for them?" asked Albright, the House
health care chairman.

"I can't think of a single thing that's been done in the Legislature for
Columbia."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

             Copyright 1997 Lakeland Ledger Publishing Corporation


