                              418 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Pakistan Observer

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday

Political activist among 5 victims of target killing

SECTION: Vol. XXIII No. 248

LENGTH: 430  words


At least five persons including an activist of a political party were killed and
several others injured in fresh spate of unabated target killing and road
accidents in different localities of the city on Monday. The police arrested
more than a dozen culprits including 10 extortionists during search operations
and raids and recovered arms from their possession.

According to details, in Yousaf Goth area of Sarjani Town unknown armed men
opened fire at two persons killing one on the spot and injuring another. The
deceased identified as Aadil Lashari, 32, and injured Munawar were activists of
a political party and were shifted to Civil Hospital for medico legal
requirements. The enraged protestors of the political party protested and also
ransacked in the hospital besides thrashing the staff. Sohaib, who was injured
during firing of unknown miscreants in Kharadar area, succumbed to his wounds in
Civil Hospital.

The police recovered bullet riddled dead body from Nazimabad No. 2. The body was
shifted to hospital for post-mortem where identity of the deceased was yet to be
ascertained.

Meanwhile, firing incidents continued in different areas of the city during
which eight persons were reported injured. The injured were rushed to different
hospitals of concerned areas.

A head constable was apprehended along with his three accomplices on charges of
looting and plundering in the city's main cattle market. Plain cloth law
enforcement agency personnel succeeded to arrest the group. The accused
confessed that they had looted at least 50 people who came out from cattle
Mandi. The police recovered weapons including 3 TT pistols, bullets, looted
money and others valuable from possession of the robbers. Accused robber police
head constable named Qamardin was a member of Madadgar 15 police force operating
in Korangi.

Two persons died and four others injured in separate road accidents in different
localities of the city. The first accident took placed in Liaquatabad area where
a reckless driven car hit a motorcycle killing one person on the spot while
injuring other and sped away. The body and injured were shifted to hospital
where according to hospital sources condition of the injured person was also
serious.

In yet another incident in Sukkhan area of Karachi a reckless driven good laden
truck rammed over four persons standing by roadside injuring them critically.
The truck driver managed to flee from the scene after accident. The rescue
personnel shifted the injured to hospital where one person succumbed to his
wounds while condition of others was also serious.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Hurmat Group
                              All Rights Reserved


