                              420 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                    October 17, 2001 Wednesday Final Edition

Nurses to walk out for 24 hours

BYLINE: DANIELLE CRONIN,

SECTION: A; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 370 words


Health Reporter Canberra Hospital nurses' decision to walk off the job tomorrow
for 24 hours was illegal, an election stunt and endangered patients, Health
Minister Michael Moore said.

Australian Nursing Federation ACT secretary Colleen Duff announced, in a
statement, that members would strike from 7am tomorrow to 7am on Friday to
protest against the 'incompetence of the ACT Government and management to
provide a safe working environment which impacts on [Canberra Hospital] nurses
and patients'.

Mr Moore said the 'wildcat strike' was called to score political points two days
before the ACT election.

'There is absolutely no way the union can claim that this action is separate
from this political party [the Nurses Good Government Party],' he said.

'This union and this political party are breaking the law and they may do
serious harm to the health of patients in our community.'

Mr Moore said the existing enterprise agreement and an Industrial Relations
Commission ruling in September prohibited 'wildcat' strikes.

Hospital management and the union were scheduled to meet in the commission at
2pm today in a last-ditch effort to avert the strike.

Canberra Hospital chief executive Ted Rayment said he hoped to prevent the
nurses' industrial action, but his first priority was the Canberra community's
safety. Hospital management had devised contingency plans including requesting
assistance from Calvary Hospital, encouraging patients to seek treatment at
Calvary's emergency department, or from their local doctors if appropriate, and
appealing for patience if the strike went ahead.

But the situation could be exacerbated if the NSW Health Department fails to
stop more than 24,000 nurses walking off the job to protest against staff
shortages.

The strike will affect services at 142 NSW public hospitals and state-run
community centres from 7am to 4pm tomorrow, coinciding with the strike action in
the ACT.

Mr Rayment said patients in neighbouring NSW centres were usually referred to
Canberra Hospital.

The Canberra Times made repeated unsuccessful attempts yesterday to contact ANF
ACT secretary Colleen Duff and Nurses Good Government Party president Robyn
Staniforth.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

           Copyright 2001 The Federal Capital Press of Australia Pty
                                    Limited


