                              413 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             June 14, 2016 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Labor, Libs leave $60b health hole;
-Both parties refuse to reverse Hockey budget cut

BYLINE: Laura Tingle Political editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 841 words


Both sides of politics now face a hospital funding "black hole" of more than $50
billion - or will have to revisit lifting the goods and services tax - after
confirmation that neither the Coalition nor Labor has a plan to fund growing
hospital costs over the next decade, health experts say.

Labor's announcement on the weekend that its hospital plan would cover only the
next four years means that neither party has acknowledged the need to fund
growing hospital bills in a sustainable way in their budget figures over the
next 10 years.

There is an additional political liability for Labor in its decision as it has
promised its budget figures will improve over the decade. Its weekend
announcement suggests it will go to the election with a questionable bottom line
since it has said nothing on hospital funding beyond the four years of the
budget.

The Rudd and Gillard governments promised to share with the states the growing
cost of hospitals. They agreed to fund 50 per cent of the growth cost, a promise
that resulted in a $57 billion hit to the federal budget beyond 2016 that was
inherited by the Coalition in 2013.

The Abbott government rejected the suggestion that the federal government had a
responsibility to share the growing hospital bill. It claimed a $57 billion
saving to the 2014 budget - part of an overall saving of $80 billion by 2024-25,
which included cuts to the states for school funding. The move was widely seen
at the time as designed to force the states to agree to an increase in GST.

But the decision sparked an angry backlash among voters and attempts to broker a
deal on the goods and services tax ultimately foundered this year.

The Turnbull government brokered a deal with the states in April - to see it
through the election - in which it changed the funding formula for hospitals
from indexation to activity-based funding for the current four-year agreement.

But it has not said if it would be prepared to cover part of the forecast
increase in hospital costs with the states beyond the agreement.

While Labor has persistently attacked the Coalition for rejecting any
responsibility for hospital funding, its hospital funding agreement over the
weekend is also limited to four years, with a $2 billion top-up.

Health experts say Labor's original promise to take up 50 per cent of the
growing hospital bill - and the Coalition's complete rejection of the promise -
were both unrealistic and a compromise will have to eventually be found with the
states.

"There is now huge uncertainty about hospital funding," health economist Stephen
Duckett told The Australian Financial Review.

"All the states are building hospitals right now without having any commitment
from the federal government about whether it will help them fund them."

After the release of Labor's policy, health academic Stephen Leeder said: "We
are still waiting for a health policy.

"Nothing has come from either side about sustainable funding."

The decision by the two parties to support so-called activity-based funding was
the "first signs of working towards a compromise" in the future on hospital
funding, Professor Leeder said.

But the bigger question of how growing hospital costs would be resolved was
still to be determined - "whether that is through an increased GST or the
likelihood of the Commonwealth coming to the party with greater support", he
said.

Chris Richardson, of Access Economics, agreed, saying Australia was "having yet
another mathematically challenged election where the promises don't add up".

"Both sides of politics are now pretending the states will be able to fully fund
the growing hospital bill," he said.

"The missing element of the Pre-Election Economic and Fiscal Outlook is that it
assumes the federal-state funding trajectory contains no risks."

But he said it was "quite clear that state budgets won't be able to hold to the
diet they are on".

"Australia as a nation still has quite a big black hole," he said.

"You can argue whether it's a federal black hole or a state one but ultimately
it will be up to the federal government to fix."

An irony of the uncertainty about hospital funding is that the growth in
hospital costs has declined since the $57 billion figure was struck, meaning the
funding hole is not as large as it was in 2014.

However, there are no official estimates of what impact that decline in costs -
from about 7 per cent a year to as low as 5 per cent a year - has had on the
budget bottom line.

Despite their intense interest in an eventual funding deal, the states - having
secured an agreement with the Turnbull government in April that covers the next
four years - have generally been staying out of the federal election debate
about hospital funding.

After the Coalition announced the April $2.9 billion funding boost, South
Australian Premier Jay Weatherill said he was "very unhappy" because about 80
per cent of the Liberal health cut remained.

In a lukewarm endorsement of Labor's $2 billion weekend announcement, he said it
was "a welcomed improvement on the federal Liberal government's position".

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


