                              417 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                    Wilkes Barre Times Leader (Pennsylvania)

                            October 22, 2006 Sunday

Let's value the way our veterans are treated at hospitals

SECTION: B; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 311 words


Enough on the Foley sex scandal. Everyone already knows what Foley did. All
President Bush had to call it is an unfortunate incident. Hastert is exceptional
taking responsibility for the consequences. Even as a political science major, I
always believed that the different political parties are supposed to keep each
other on their toes, to make sure each party is doing good things.

Where is all the friendly rivalry gone? In their political campaigns each
politician tries to talk about the family and family values, yet what values are
they showing the American youth with mud-slinging advertisements?

Speaking of family values, do the American people ever wonder what happened to
the veterans from World War II or Vietnam? How is the quality of their life 30,
50 years after the war? Knowing you only had a few years left on this earth, how
would you feel going to your local veterans hospital (with or without a
wheelchair) for medical help, only to overhear a professional making a joke
about body odor and being helpless to change this consequence?

Our veterans' hospitals are just like any place of business, including our
political system. They have good employees along with the few that don't belong
there. This is one business that needs someone like Hastert to take the
responsibility for the actions or lack of action from the few.

The news today is how Hastert changed course and took responsibility and about
how the House, Senate and Congress are taking more responsibility for what's
left of veterans from past wars and our future veterans?

They can start by implementing every view and estimate given for the fiscal year
2008, which was recently presented to committee members by National Commander
Paul A Morin. It would be a good, needed consequence for the past, present, and
future sacrifices of many for their service to our country.

P. Smith Duryea

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2006 Wilkes Barre Times Leader
                              All Rights Reserved


