                              431 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 29, 2004

Crazy to close Queen Mum's says Tory boss;Motion calls for vote of no confidence
in health minister

BYLINE: By Brian Currie Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 371 words


IT would be "crazy" to close the Queen Mother's Maternity Hospital and lose its
link with the Sick Kids' Hospital, Tory leader David McLetchie said.

Mr McLetchie was speaking as he revealed a motion which will be debated in the
Scottish Parliament tomorrow.

It identifies the threat facing hospital services throughout Scotland, including
the Queen Mother's in Glasgow, and calls for a vote of no confidence in Health
Minister Malcolm Chisholm.

Mr McLetchie, who will speak at a protest rally in Glasgow on Saturday against
health bosses' plans, said: "I hope the Scottish Executive will recognise the
strength of opinion in Glasgow, specifically in relation to the Queen Mother's
Hospital.

"I think it's well recognised the importance of maintaining a maternity unit and
the adjacent paediatric unit services."

He said: "This proposal to close seems crazy."

He was backed by Glasgow MSP Bill Aitken who said: "It is vital to have this
kind of unit next to a maternity hospital.

"At the moment you have an intensive care unit within a 20 second walk of the
delivery room. It would be madness to close it down."

However, the Tories have been criticised by the SNP and Stobhill campaigner Dr
Jean Turner for not supporting a motion she had tabled.

SNP health spokesperson Shona Robison said: "While it is true the SNP also have
little faith in the health minister, a vote of no confidence is unlikely to gain
support from Liberal and Labour members.

"This was an opportunity to unite the parliament on hospital closures and they
have failed to do so.

"If the Tories were truly concerned about the cuts, they would have done the
decent thing and backed Jean Turner's motion, already supported by six out of
seven political parties in the parliament,

"Instead they have done little more than play politics with a very serious
issue."

Dr Turner said: "I don't think changing the minister makes any difference - if
it doesn't change the policy.

"It is a kind of politics I just don't understand. We urgently need to stop the
rot."

Dr Turner's motion calls for the Executive to suspend all reorganisations while
a national strategy is developed.

brian.currie@eveningtimes.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FIGHTING TALK: David McLetchie lines up with Queen Mum's

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


