                              44 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                South Wales Echo

                            January 26, 2016 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Political leaflets found in hospital

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 301 words


AN ASSEMBLY Member has accused the Welsh Conservatives of "underhand tactics"
after a batch of political leaflets were found in the visitor information area
of a South Wales hospital.

Plaid Cymru AM Bethan Jenkins says leaflets promoting the Welsh Conservatives'
plans for a designated cancer patients fund were discovered at the Princess of
Wales Hospital in Bridgend. She claims Abertawe Bro Morgannwg University (ABMU)
Health Board would never have authorised such political leaflets to be placed in
the hospital.

She said: "With an election just a few months away, health boards need to be
vigilant and carry out regular checks to ensure that political parties are not
trying to push their agendas inside hospitals.

"Perhaps being charitable an over-enthusiastic Tory supporter may have left
these leaflets without the knowledge of the Conservative hierarchy. "But the
Tory leader in Wales needs to distance himself from such underhand tactics. I
would not expect this behaviour from any political party."

Plaid Cymru announced its own national cancer plan for Wales, with action to
improve diagnosis rates and offer more support for patients during and after
treatment.

A spokesman for the Welsh Conservatives it was "a mystery" how the leaflets made
their way into the hospital.

He said: "We will remind all of our supporters that public places such as these
are not appropriate places to campaign."

ABMU Health Board said it conforms to Welsh Government policy on political
campaigning.

A spokesman said: "We do not allow political activity of this nature and any
requests by politicians to visit our premises have to be agreed through the
chief executive's office.

"These leaflets were not left at the Princess of Wales hospital with our
permission. We check regularly for and remove unauthorised literature."

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SWE


                    Copyright 2016 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


