                              427 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                             October 5, 2007 Friday
                                 First Edition

Queue here for fully sick local hospitals

BYLINE: John Breusch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1404 words


Whoever wins the battle over health reform, local communities and doctors may
end up having more say - and most in the system like that idea, writes John
Breusch.

Just a few months ago, senior figures in the health sector were lamenting that
their pet topic seemed all but forgotten in the political debate.

They needn't have worried.

As Labor leader Kevin Rudd continues his week-long tour of the nation's health
system, the Howard government seems to pull a new policy out of its sleeve every
day.

In a bizarre piece of political symmetry, both major parties this week announced
policies on a subject that is hardly at the centre of the political debate:
assisting children with autism.

The coalition said it had been gazumped by Labor. Rudd said it was a case of
great minds thinking alike.

But if there's one issue sure to get the public's blood boiling, it's the state
of public hospitals.

Australia may have one of the world's best health systems, but the country's
hospitals seem to lurch from one scandal to another. Last week it was the Royal
North Shore Hospital in one of Sydney's most affluent regions where a woman
miscarried in a toilet because of long queues in the emergency ward.

And hospitals just happen to be the one part of the health system not managed by
the federal government.

On Tuesday, federal Health Minister Tony Abbott announced a re-elected Howard
government would make its $10 billion-a-year funding of public hospitals
conditional upon the states agreeing to hand over management of each facility to
a community board.

It came as Rudd was touting his policy to spend $2 billion sorting out the
inefficiencies of the combined state-federal funding of public hospitals - with
the threat of a federal takeover if the states don't lift their game.

At face value, the public is being presented with two very different approaches
to fix what is again being called "the hospitals crisis".

Whereas the coalition believes the solution lies in handing more power to local
communities, Labor wants better national co-ordination.

Like his recent proposal to return nurse training to hospitals rather than
universities, Abbott's plan has much support from the medical community.

If the public is angry about below-par treatment or long queues in emergency
departments, doctors are every bit as fed up that their capacity to care for
patients is hamstrung by the seemingly impenetrable bureaucracy running the
hospitals sector.

The president of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons, Andrew Sutherland,
says he sometimes questions which is a bigger priority for hospital
administrators: managing patients' health or managing their budgets. As a
result, it's a common frustration for surgeons to turn up to theatre only to
discover their operating lists have been cancelled because hospitals don't want
to pay their part of the costs.

"We think that in general the medical profession's opinion is not being sought,"
he says.

"We think there's an awful lot of money spent that doesn't seem to be getting
down to surgeons in operating theatres."

It's hard to find anyone in the medical community who opposes giving communities
- which include local doctors - a greater say in how hospitals are run.

The only question is whether Abbott's is the best way to go.

Stephen Leeder, the director of Sydney University's Australian Health Policy
Institute, says he welcomes any proposal that gives the community a voice in the
running of the health system.

But he questions whether individual boards for each hospital is the right way to
go.

After all, what community wouldn't want the best doctors, equipment and
facilities.

"If you've got every hospital competing in regard to everything, you have a real
problem on your hands," Leeder says.

That is, a hospitals system needs some level of co-ordination.

That was the chief criticism of the government's decision to take control of
Tasmania's Mersey Hospital in the marginal seat of Braddon. As part of an
island-wide health plan, the state Labor government had decided that Mersey
should be downgraded to a day facility.

Some locals complained that patients needing more complicated procedures would
have to head 45 minutes away to Burnie.

But others contend that by maintaining Mersey as a community run, full-service
hospital, Howard had dangerously meddled with the state's health plan.

Not only would his intervention raise demand for scarce health professionals, it
would also mean a small hospital would end up carrying out major procedures that
would be better done in hospitals that service a greater population and
therefore are more familiar with complicated cases.

Leeder says that while Abbott's call for community input is good, he probably
has got the unit wrong. What's needed is the right balance between bottom-up
community input and top-down co-ordination.

Leeder believes such a system may already be in place in Victoria, where
community boards oversee the operation of so-called hospitals networks.

Abbott himself commended the Victorian model yesterday, saying it helped explain
why that state's hospitals performed better than ones in NSW.

Asked why he was proposing to replace Victoria's health networks with local
boards running every hospital, he replied: "I'm not against sensible
co-ordination of service delivery but every hospital should have its own board."

Abbott insists the co-ordination role of government is overstated.

"For some reason [people] think in health we have to have all these
co-ordinators. The co-ordinators are the problem, not the solution," he tells
The Australian Financial Review.

"The best people to co-ordinate things are GPs, practice nurses and ultimately
patients themselves. They don't need bureaucrats to co-ordinate services, they
need good services."

That's why he's advocating a national replication of the Mersey model - only
without the direct federal funding.

But that raises another question.

If the hospital system is to be run by lots of individual, community boards,
what's the point of having the states involved at all?

It's a question a Rudd government could face. Labor's approach has three stages.

First, it will spend $2 billion on measures to take the pressure off hospitals -
things such as improving access to community-based health clinics or providing
transitional facilities for elderly patients who otherwise would be taking up
hospitals beds.

Second, it would set up a commission to work out ways to overcome the
inefficiencies that result from a health system funded partly by the
commonwealth and partly by the states.

And third, if the states don't lift their game by mid-2009, a federal Labor
government would seek community approval - such as through an election or a
plebiscite - for the commonwealth to take control of state-run public hospitals.

Not only is it a big "if", but Labor hasn't said what form this takeover would
take.

But as Labor health spokeswoman Nicola Roxon reiterates, the idea isn't for the
commonwealth to run public hospitals. Rather, it's to cut the states out of the
picture by making the federal government the sole funder of the hospitals
system.

So who would run the hospitals?

The champion of the so-called single-funder model, former federal Department of
Health secretary Andrew Podger, has proposed dividing the country into 20 or 30
regional health authorities, with the possibility of even smaller units
depending on community needs.

Using funding provided directly by the federal government, each authority would
buy not just hospital services for the region but everything - GPs, specialists,
aged and community care.

Podger proposes the operations of the regional authority would be overseen by an
advisory board of health professionals, community representatives and perhaps
even local governments officials.

Abbott's proposal involves a far more hands-on, executive-style board,
accountable to the community and responsible for appointing the hospital's chief
executive. But such a board would still be constrained by the budget allocated
by the state health department.

As much as Abbott believes community representatives would be lining up to serve
on a such a board, the events of recent weeks might give them second thoughts.

NSW Health Minister Reba Meagher is struggling under the extraordinary political
pressure that only a hospital crisis can create.

A former advocate of a Podger-style federal takeover, Abbott has since changed
his tune.

It's not hard to understand why.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO PHOTOS: Kevin Rudd has vowed to take over hospitals if states don't
improve but Tony Abbott and John Howard have gone further, promising local
control.Photos: AAP, BRENDAN ESPOSITO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2007 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


