                              429 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                      May 19, 1998, Tuesday, FINAL EDITION

No politics, board warns Levine

BYLINE: THE OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: CITY; Pg. C1 / Front


David Levine, who will become administrator of the Ottawa Hospital on July 31,
and Nick Mulder, chairman of the amalgamated hospital board, spoke with the
Citizen's editorial board last Friday. While the hospital board admits they
never asked Mr. Levine if he was still a separatist, the board has warned Mr.
Levine if he becomes involved in politics, he will be fired. The following is an
excerpt from that interview:

Citizen: Mr. Levine, you said that for credibility reasons -- and I think I
understand what you're saying -- you are reluctant to tell us what your current
political opinions are. Did you describe your current political beliefs to the (
hospital) board or to the group that was talking to you about ...

Nick Mulder: No.

David Levine: No.

Citizen: No?

Levine: I described ...

Citizen: The board never asked you: what do you believe now?

Levine: No, and I would not have answered the board, if the board said to me,
you know, are you this political -- I explained what I did. I explained what I
was. I answered the question on the impact of what I did on the running of the
organization.

Citizen: So, as far as the board was concerned, the board did not know your
current political belief?

Levine: Ask the board.

Citizen: Did the board know Mr. Levine's current ...

Mulder: The selection committee, and I believe there was a double process that
went through that and dealt with the issue the way it was described. The board
was given the information on the qualifications of Mr. Levine. We also raised
the issue up front.

The fact is that, at one stage, Mr. Levine was active in the Parti Quebecois,
back in 1979 ...

Citizen: Yes, but his current status?

Mulder: And nobody asked at the board.

Citizen: Nobody asked.

Mulder: Nobody asked. They just wanted to be satisfied that he had not been
actively involved recently because he was 29 years old when he did that in the
Parti Quebecois.

The view was also, as we corroborated, he worked as a chief administrator in
hospitals, under the Parti Quebecois and the Liberals, and that he was not
actually involved in the Parti Quebecois right now, and particularly, that
whatever his views were that it would not impinge on his role of being a
first-class administrator of the Ottawa Hospital. And that is what the board
concurred with and that is why the nomination was approved.

Citizen: Is there a political clause in (Mr. Levine's) contract?

Mulder: No.

Citizen: Is he under any instructions not to talk?

Mulder: Yes, by me, and the board.

Citizen: What did the board tell him?

Mulder: 'You are not getting involved in politics,' simple as that.

Citizen: Period.

Mulder: And I would say that to any CEO. It didn't matter what stripe, where
they came from. You are not to go and use that job to promote your political or
personal beliefs.

Citizen: What is the consequence if he did?

Mulder: That we would -- as Mr. Levine says, that if he did that, we would take
action -- probably terminate his employment.


LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1998

LENGTH: 507 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: Wayne HIebert, for The Ottawa Citizen / The chairman of
the hospital board Nick Mulder, right, explains he has advised David Levine,
left, as he would any chief executive, 'You are not to go and use that job to
promote your political or personal beliefs.' If he does, he will be fired.

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


