                              424 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                     May 21, 1997, Wednesday, EARLY EDITION

Hospitals won't be slashed

BYLINE: ROBERT WALKER, CALGARY HERALD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / FRONT

LENGTH: 537 words


A government-approved plan to save Alberta's major psychiatric hospitals from
being slashed to half their present size was attacked Tuesday as political
patronage and a move back to the dark ages of mental health.

"It flies in the face of mental health reform across North America, which
emphasizes services within the home community. And that does not mean large
psychiatric hospitals," said Ron LaJeunesse, executive director of the Canadian
Mental Health Association, Alberta division.

LaJeunesse attacked the plan to keep Alberta Hospital, Edmonton, and Alberta
Hospital, Ponoka, at their combined size of 800 beds as political patronage
because provincial Health Minister Halvar Jonson's riding includes Ponoka.

"At its best, it is a difference in philosophy. At its worst, it is political
patronage to serve the economy of central Alberta," said LaJeunesse.

Jonson was unavailable for comment.

Alberta Health spokesman Garth Norris described the patronage accusation as
"nonsense." He said Jonson is committed to a measured approach to reforming
mental-health services to make sure there is no disruption of services to
clients.

The big hospitals could eventually be cut back when a detailed plan is ready.

"You don't close beds and put people on to the street until the community
programs are in place," said Norris.

The recommendation to keep the two Alberta hospitals at their full size comes in
the Provincial Mental Health Advisory Board business plan, approved by Jonson
Tuesday. The board is responsible for mental-health services across the
province.

The plan, not yet released but obtained by the Herald, undertakes to "ensure
that there are no major changes to provincial institutional mental health
program beds in the near future."

This runs counter to the recommendations of the Provincial Mental Health Board,
which Jonson scrapped last August and replaced with the less-powerful advisory
board. The earlier board proposed slashing the 800-inpatient beds by 50 per cent
and distributing the money saved to regional health authorities such as Calgary.

The Calgary Regional Health Authority was hoping to get up to $ 20 million to
bring its mental-health services into line with Edmonton's.

The business plan talks about increasing community-based funding provincewide by
$ 2.8 million this year, which LaJeunesse says "isn't going to cut it." It is
far less than the $ 13.4 million proposed by the previous board, of which he was
executive director. "That money is simply going to go to maintaining the
existing system. I wouldn't expect anything in it for Calgary in the near
future."

Senior Calgary health professionals claimed in a Herald special report Monday
and Tuesday that Calgary is seriously under-funded for its mental-health
services compared to Edmonton.

"On the mental health side there have been some inequities," Norris agreed
Tuesday. He explained the new business plan recommends more equitable funding
for community mental health services based on the population size of different
regions.

Nancy Reynolds, executive director, and Betty Schoenhofer, chairwoman of the
mental health advisory board, did not return calls from the Herald.


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: JONSON: Committed

               Copyright 1997 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


