                              428 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             May 21, 1998 Thursday

Ottawa hospital battle explodes  Harris starts unity chain reaction

BYLINE: With a report from Canadian Press.; STAFF CP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 1050 words


The fight over the selection of a former Parti Québécois candidate as head of a
new Ottawa hospital grew from a local controversy into a full-blown
national-unity incident yesterday.

Ontario Premier Mike Harris set off a chain reaction when he told a radio
interviewer that a non-Canadian who believed in the unity of the country would
be preferable to David Levine, who was a PQ candidate in a 1979 by-election.

The comments drew quick responses from federalists, who fear the controversy
could undermine the progress made in national-unity efforts since Jean Charest
became leader of the Quebec Liberal Party.

"In Canada, political considerations are not a question that we ask for
employment," Prime Minister Jean Chrétien said in Rome, where he is on a trade
mission. "We look at the qualities of the person to serve."

Quebec Premier Lucien Bouchard, on a visit to Chicago, called on Ottawa
residents to calm down. "I am as surprised as many people to see this outburst
of intolerance. I count on the good sense and democratic values of our fellow
citizens in Ottawa to lower the tone and recognize what counts in all of this is
competence."

Mr. Levine, a Montrealer who was sought out by an executive search firm to be
the chief executive officer of the new Ottawa Hospital, was named to the
$300,000-a-year job May 1 and is to begin work in July. He is currently the
Quebec government's agent-general in New York.

From 1992 until 1997, he was the CEO of Montreal's Notre Dame Hospital, and for
the preceding decade was director of the Verdun Hospital. Before becoming a PQ
candidate (and losing by more than 20,000 votes), he worked as an aide to
Bernard Landry, then Quebec's economic development minister and now Deputy
Premier.

Yesterday, Mr. Harris sought to distance himself from Mr. Levine's appointment,
while sovereigntists tried to take advantage of the outrage and federalists
appealed for tolerance.

"Both [Health Minister] Elizabeth Witmer and I have said, given [Mr. Levine's
political] background, if that's what he still believes in, he wouldn't have
been our first choice," Mr. Harris said. "Surely there is administrative
capability within Ontario, or at least within a Canadian or even a non-Canadian
who believes in Canada and keeping Canada together."

Mr. Harris also indicated he would not intervene in the Ottawa Hospital's choice
of Mr. Levine. "This is a decision that is made by the hospital board. It is not
our decision."

In Ottawa Tuesday night, 200 people showed up at a public meeting to denounce
Mr. Levine's appointment, accuse him of treason, and demand the resignation of
the board of directors of the new Ottawa Hospital (formed by the merger of the
city's Civic, Riverside and General Hospitals).

The meeting was meant for the board to hear the views of residents, but any
thought of it being a forum for calm discussion vanished quickly.

As the board members filed in, the crowd began shouting and chanting, "Resign!
Resign!"

When one person shouted that he heard the sound of jackboots, the crowd
responded by singing O Canada.

"It is unacceptable for a separatist to be CEO of the Ottawa Hospital," audience
member Norma Heathcote said. "Separatism is treason."

"Why do we have to go outside the province [for the hiring]?" asked Nancy
Schroeder, arguing that a Quebec hospital would not hire someone from Ontario.
"It's Ontario taxpayers' dollars -- it should be an Ontario taxpayer who is
hired."

The angriest people were predominantly elderly, and many who expressed their
fury pointed out that they were Second World War veterans who had fought for
their country.

Liberal MP Mauril Bélanger, former Ottawa mayor Marion Dewar and a small number
of people in the crowd expressed support for the hospital board, and their
disgust at the tone of the meeting.

"I'm ashamed and I'm appalled and I'm very, very angry," said Brenda Cooper. "I
implore you not to dismiss Mr. Levine on the basis of his political opinions.
His politics are his own business."

She was greeted by shouts of, "No! No! No way!"

Alan Robinson told the crowd that he went to Montreal for a liver transplant at
St-Luc Hospital when it was under Mr. Levine's supervision as part of Notre Dame
hospital. Mr. Robinson said he was cared for by federalists, sovereigntists,
Christians, Buddhists, anti-abortion, pro-choice, straight and gay people.

"Not once did I ever feel that I was ever given anything but the best of care. I
owe my life to that hospital," he said. "If he and his board can bring that kind
of care to the Ottawa Hospital, I say, Mr. Levine, welcome aboard."

Members of the board refused to comment yesterday, saying they wanted to take
the day to reflect on the raucous public meeting before making an announcement
on Mr. Levine's future today or tomorrow.

Mr. Levine, 50, told a news conference last week that he has no political
agenda. A member of the PQ from 1975 to 1981, he has not commented on his
current political allegiance.

Federal Intergovernmental Affairs Minister Stéphane Dion yesterday called the
hostile reaction to Mr. Levine's appointment "inexcusable."

Mr. Landry saw the incident as an attack on Quebec as a nation.

"It is illustrating, in an absolute way, that there are two nations -- there is
ours and then there is the other," the Deputy Premier said. "The message [Mr.
Harris] is sending to Canada and to Quebec resembles one of profound division
between two nations who must learn to respect one another for what they are,
meaning two different nations."

Quebec federalists fear comparisons with the incident that took place in
Brockville, Ont., during the 1990 debate over the Meech Lake accord, in which a
small group of elderly citizens walked over the Quebec flag, triggering
widespread nationalist sentiment among francophones.

Mr. Charest acted swiftly yesterday, telephoning Mr. Harris, Ms. Witmer and the
chairman of the Ottawa Hospital's board, Nick Mulder, urging them to resist
pressure to have Mr. Levine removed.

Mr. Mulder, who was deputy minister of environment when Mr. Charest held that
portfolio in the Brian Mulroney government, told him the hiring would not be
reconsidered.

"I spoke on several occasions to the hospital board's president," Mr. Charest
said yesterday. "They haven't changed their minds. And what we hope is that they
do not change course."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


