                              426 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                      IBNS

                     September 13, 2016 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Political parties trade charges while chikunngunya cases rise in Delhi

BYLINE: India Blooms News Service

LENGTH: 476  words


New Delhi, Sep 13 (IBNS): Chikungunya cases in Delhi has risen to over 1,000
this season,marking a jump of nearly 90% from its count last week, according to
media reports.

On Monday, a 65-year old man from Ghaziabad died of chikungunya at New Delhis
Ganga Ram Hospital, the first victim of the vector-borne disease in the national
capital, according to media reports. One suspected chikungunya death has also
been reported at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), but
hospital authorities have not yet confirmed it, reported ND TV on Monday. Zee
News on Tuesday posted: As per reports, two more people have succumbed to
chikungunya at Ganga Ram Hospital in Delhi on Tuesday, taking the toll to three
this year. The increase in vector-borne diseases such as chikungunya and dengue
has led to an increase in the number of patient admissions in public and private
hospitals, which are running out of beds, according to reports. Some hospitals
have also said that with doctors and other staff affected, they are also running
out of manpower, which is also aggravating the situation. Meanwhile, political
parties are trading charges over the spread of chikungunya , dengue and malaria
in the national capital. Tweeted Sharmistha Mukherjee of Congrerss, CM in
Bangalore, Health Minster in Goa....Delhi Bhagwan bharose! Chief minister Arvind
Kejriwal is away for throat surgery in Bengaluru while Aam Aadmin Partys (AAPs)
Health Minister Sayendar Jain is away in Goa to oversee the partys preparations
for next years state assembly elections, media reported. When asked about the
absence of the Health Minister in Delhi, Kejriwal pointed out that Delhis
Lieutenant Governor Najeeb Jung is not in the capital either, reported NDTV. In
a pointed reference to the ongoing spat between the Delhi government and LG
Najeen Jung, Kejriwal tweeted o Tuesday, CM n min left wid no power now, even to
buy a pen. LG n PM enjoy all powers wrt Del. LG abroad.Question them for Del. LG
Najeeb Jung is in the US. AAP is not doing anything in Delhi but only indulging
in blame game, said Mukherjee. Manish Sisodia, deputy chief minister and the man
in charge of Delhi during Kejriwals 10-day visit to Bengaluru, is also away in
Finland for an education programme, reported NDTV. Talking to the media,
Sharmistha Mukherjee also said, Everything standstill owing to conflicting
politics. AAP always has been blaming the others- central or opposition or
media. Mr Kejriwals attention is not in Delhi anymore. Kapil Mishra of AAP
blamed the BJP-dominated Municipal Corporation of Delhi or MCD, asking where the
mayor has disappeared, media reported. Union Minister of Health and Family
Welfare, J P Nadda has said the union government is monitoring the situation on
daily basis and there is no need to panic. have asked the MCD to take necessary
steps, he said on Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


            Copyright 2016 India Blooms., distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


