                              439 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Courier Mail (Australia)

                           September 25, 2016 Sunday
                              CourierMail Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 72

LENGTH: 519 words


SICK OF HOSPITAL PARKING FEES Visiting my 102-year-old mother-in-law in hospital
opened my eyes to the high fees charged at hospital parking stations. These
included $11 for one hour and $16 for two hours. For those who go to hospital
often, this becomes a major impost (SM, Sep 18). The alternative of street
parking is made more difficult by extensive use of yellow, no parking lines
which have nothing to do with safety. Leasing the parking stations in such a
lucrative environment does not make sense. The lessee has to pay the rent then
add a margin to make a profit. Unnecessary costs only add to the trauma of
caring for someone who is hospitalised. Hospital boards would offer a major
social service if they ceased leasing and managed the stations in-house. As a
result, they would be held in much higher regard by the public who would no
longer see the stations as an opportunity for profiteering.

Paul Andersen, The Gap

Even staff aren't exempt from paying outrageous hospital parking fees. It is
almost impossible to use the pick-up and drop-off zone at the Royal Brisbane and
Women's Hospital as resentful hospital patrons park there and the
under-resourced security staff never seem to enforce it.

Lance Brady, Wilston POLITICIANS ARE OUT OF TOUCH Critics of Pauline Hanson,
such as columnist Lauren Martyn-Jones (SM, Sep 18), fail to realise that her
support comes from people, like me, who feel totally left out of the
decision-making process. Political decisions seem to be made at very high levels
and then enacted, leaving people to just fall in behind. It's not good enough.
The decisions behind closed doors that major political parties make seem to have
more to do with party wellbeing than with community wishes. Maybe if MPs were
accountable to the electorate through regular public forums, they would be much
more secure in their tenure. Without such public forums, politicians keep away
from their real power base, the voters, and then suffer the consequences.

Lyn Smith, Ferny Hills FADED PHOTOS TUG AT HEARTSTRINGS Hear, hear, to Rory
Gibson and his column (Stellar, Sep 18). There is no comparison between tactile
photographs and a digital image. How can digital images evoke emotional
attachments? I would rather hold and feel, smell, touch and reminisce with
photos that have travelled through time, with their faded figures still waiting
to greet me. They are there to shed a tear, laugh and smile at occasions
captured forever with a real camera. Click, click.

Susan McLochlan, Caboolture South

All correspondence with the editor, including emails, must include your name,
address and telephone numbers. Letters must be short and may be edited.
NEWSQUEENSLAND, as publisher of The Sunday Mail, may license third parties to
reproduce in electronic form and communicate letters.

This publication is bound by the standards of practice of the Australian Press
Council. If you believe the standards may have been breached you may approach
The Sunday Mail itself or contact the council by email at
infopresscouncil.org.au or by phone (02) 92611930. For further infomation see
www.presscouncil.org.au

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Courier-Mail


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


