                              438 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            March 3, 1994, Thursday

WASHINGTON IN BRIEF Hiring pathologists may end doubts over Foster suicide

BYLINE: By Ernie Freda STAFF WRITER

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Section A; Page 12

LENGTH: 892 words


Whitewater independent counsel Robert Fiske has decided to re- examine the
conclusion that White House deputy counsel Vincent Foster committed suicide in
July.

Fiske will hire pathologists to review the evidence. Fiske revealed in court
filings that "forensic experts and pathologists will be retained" to make an
independent analysis of the evidence. Foster's body was found in a northern
Virginia park, and U.S. Park Police officers concluded Foster shot himself.

The Associated Press quoted an unnamed government official as saying Fiske is
reopening the issue because "questions have been raised in the press and
elsewhere about whether it was a suicide." Previously, Fiske had said only that
he would review "all the events" related to Foster's death.

DID HE VOTE? NATCH! He said he'd be back - and he was. Rep. William Natcher
(D-Ky.), 84, was wheeled onto the House floor on a gurney to cast his 18,398th
vote. He hasn't missed one since coming to Congress 40 years ago. House leaders
called off legislative business Tuesday because Natcher couldn't leave Bethesda
Naval Hospital. But aides wheeled him onto the floor Wednesday morning -looking
feeble, thin and pale - dressed in a suit and tie and hooked up to an oxygen
tank and intravenous tube. He was attended by four members of the hospital
staff, all in Navy uniform. Natcher voted first on a routine procedural matter,
and later cast a negative vote on an amendment to the Clinton administration's
education bill. On the way out, Natcher shook hands with House Speaker Thomas
Foley (D-Wash.)

HIGH SCORE; NO CIGAR: Rep. Mac Collins (R-Ga.) wasn't listed on the "honor roll"
of lawmakers doing the most to hold down the budget deficit even though he had
the highest rating - 94 percent - of anyone in the Georgia delegation, senators
included. Blame his party affiliation. Collins failed to make the cut because
the rating was done on a curve for each party, and Republicans had higher
scores. The bipartisan Concord Coalition cited the top 15 Republicans and
Democrats in the House for special recognition on the basis of votes on key
issues affecting spending and the deficit. The 15th Republican scored 95
percent; the 15th Democrat scored 82. So Collins failed to make the cut despite
a higher rating than some Democrats.

JOB FOR A SPELLER: The White House has a proofreading problem that could
alienate someone from every country represented at a high-level international
jobs summit hosted by President Clinton in Detroit on March 14. White House
documents misspelled the names of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth
Clarke (spelled Clark), German Labor Minister Norbert Bluem (spelled Bloehm),
Italian Treasury Minister Piero Barucci (spelled Pietro) and European Economics
Commissioner Henning Christophersen (spelled Christopherson). What's more, the
first names of the French economics and labor ministers, Edmond Alphandery and
Michel Giraud, were omitted, according to the International Herald Tribune. The
newspaper reported additionally that the White House also insulted invitees by
telling them they will have to foot their own hotel bills. The Washington Post
quoted Jay Bryne, a government spokesman for the jobs conference, as saying the
materials in question were simply drafts documents and, "Obviously we apologize
for any embarrassment it caused."

ELSEWHERE

The National Rifle Association abruptly halted the sale of lists of former
members' names after being swamped with complaints from angry members, and NRA
executive vice president Wayne LaPierre said, "The privacy of our members is of
paramount importance and outweighs the revenue benefit." . . . Associate
Attorney General Webster Hubbell, responding to a report in The Washington Post,
said he has been questioned by his former law firm - Rose Law Firm of Little
Rock, Ark. - about his billings in past cases, but he emphatically denied ever
overcharging clients and diverting the excess to his personal use. . . . Vice
President Al Gore will be going to Argentina, Brazil and Bolivia later this
month and will address the International Telecommunications Union on the role of
modern telecommunications in global development. . . . Chief Justice William
Rehnquist rejected the bid by Sen. Bob Packwood (R-Ore.) to hold onto his
subpoenaed diaries, making it almost certain they will be turned over to the
Senate Ethics Committee. . . . Actor Tom Selleck, who launched the Character
Counts Coalition last year with former Rep. Barbara Jordan (D-Texas), visited
Capitol Hill to discuss creative ways to instill basic values in youth as a way
to counter violence and crime. . . . Bar associations representing American
lawyers of Asian and Pacific descent called on President Clinton to start
nominating Asian/Pacific Americans to federal judgeships.

IT'S A FACT

The 76 members of the reform-minded Watergate-class of House members elected in
1974 marked one of the biggest turnovers in congressional history. And of those
76, only nine will remain in January - assuming everyone running is re-elected.

SAY IT AGAIN

"He got the Bushes out of the White House, Flowers in the bedroom and pansies in
the Marines." - Rep. Harold Rogers (R-Ky.), now under fire from a gay rights
group for calling President Clinton "gardener of the year."

-From staff, news services and published reports

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH940630200

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vincent Foster. / Associated Press Photo: Rep. Mac Collins. /
Associated Press

                    Copyright 1994 The Atlanta Constitution


