                              435 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  China Daily

                           January 29, 2015 Thursday

Reforms vital for hospital service

BYLINE: Liu Xiangrui

LENGTH: 451  words


Political advisers of the Beijing committee of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference urged quicker and deeper reforms of the city's
healthcare system during its recent annual meeting.

Political advisers of the Beijing committee of the Chinese People's Political
Consultative Conference urged quicker and deeper reforms of the city's
healthcare system during its recent annual meeting.

Experts and medical professionals on the committee pointed out that medical
services heavily dependent on labor are severely undervalued in the current
system, while the costs of medical checks, medical equipment and some medicines
can be reduced.

According to Wang Chengxiang, a doctor at Beijing University of Chinese
Medicine, the costs of more than 4,300 of 5,300 medical items were set in 1999,
and since then the average price has increased by 18 percent and average income
is four times greater.

"The current medical service prices can hardly support the normal operation of
hospitals," said Hai Li, a doctor at Beijing's Nanyuan Hospital.

Large hospitals have to depend on the medical services they provide to patients
to support their employees' incomes and development, said Jia Jidong, director
of the Liver Disease Research Center at Capital Medical University.

This situation has resulted in overloading of medical workers and unsatisfactory
service for patients, Jia said.

Ao Hushan, director of the Medical Insurance Office at Fuwai Hospital, suggested
that Beijing should accelerate use of the diagnosis-related group system of
medical care to break the link between doctors' incomes and prescriptions,
thereby preventing excessive medical treatments and overprescription of drugs.

DRG classifies patients by diagnosis, average length of hospital stay, and
therapy received. The classification is used to determine how much money
healthcare providers will be given to cover future procedures and services.

Beijing has experimented with DRG in six of its hospitals since 2011. However,
Ao believed the city should take further steps.

"Only some diseases are included in the program," said Ao.

While the government has encouraged patients to have initial diagnosis at
community hospitals and only visit larger hospitals for major illnesses, Jia
from Capital Medical University suggested the adoption of policies favoring
basic-level hospitals and medical workers.

Obstacles to the career advancement of medical workers at lower-level hospitals
should be eliminated, Jia said.

"We must keep those skilled medical workers at community hospitals since they
are the key to attracting patients and winning patients' trust in those
hospitals," he said.

liuxiangrui@chinadaily.com.cn

(China Daily 01/29/2015 page5)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1493


                    Copyright 2015 China Daily Information.
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


