                              45 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  My Republica

                            October 30, 2012 Tuesday

Local politicians protest renaming of Sagarmatha Zonal Hospital

LENGTH: 473 words

DATELINE: Nepal


Nepal, Oct. 30 -- JITENDRA KUMAR JHA

RAJBIRAJ, Oct 29: The local leaders of various political parties have vehemently
opposed a government's recent decision to rename the Sagarmatha Zonal Hospital.

The government earlier this month had decided to change the name of the hospital
into Gajendra Narayan Singh Hospital.

Due to the opposition from the political parties, the hospital administration
has so far been unable to erase the name of the hopsital at the main gate. Prime
Minister Baburam Bhattarai, who visited Rajbiraj on October 14 after the
government decision, was shown black flags by the local youths. Student unions
of various parties have threatened stringent protests if the govenrment does not
take back the decision.

"The hospital administration has yet to respond to our demand. We remained
silent on the issue because of the Dashain festival. We are planning to announce
protests after holding a meeting with all the student unions soon," said Jaya
Prakash Yadav, secretary of the Free Student Union (FSU) at the Mahendra
Bindeshwari Multiple Campus.

Local leaders of the opposition parties have blamed the government of trying to
obliterate the 50-year-old history of the hospital. "The decision erases the
half-century-long history as well as undermines Sgarmatha (Mt Everest), the
highest peak of the world," said former FSU president of the campus, Samir Jha.
"It is good to recognize politicians but history should not be erased in the
name of doing so," he added.

The protesting side has also alleged that Health Minister Rajendra Mahato, who
is also chairman of Nepal Sadbhawana Party (NSP), attempted to enhance his
public image by renaming the hospital after the name of Singh, founder of NSP.
Local political leaders said with elections on the horizon, changing the name of
the hospital would be illegal.

"It is sensitive issue to change the name of a hospital to enhance political
influence among the people at the time when formal announcement for the new
election has already been made," said Sailendra Sah, the central member of
Madhesi Janadhikar Forum Nepal.

According to central member of CPN-Maoist, Mahesh Yadav said the government
should focus on adding more facilities to the hospital instead of changing the
name.

Central member of Youth Association Nepal, Niranjan Jha, said that Health
minister Mahato tried to gain cheap popularity by renaming the hospital after
the name of a Madhesi leader.

However, Saptari District chairman of NSP, Sunil Jha said that changing name of
the hospital should not be made an issue. He also claimed that after changing
the name, other services will also be expanded in the hospital. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from Republica. For any query with respect to this
article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Nepal Republic Media Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


