                              441 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                               May 4, 2012 Friday

Instability costing country dearly says President Yadav

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 299  words


SIRAHA: President Ram Baran Yadav today said Nepal has failed to achieve its
development goals due to lack of stability and frequent changes in the country's
political system.

Addressing the inauguration of Phul Kumari Mahato Memorial Hospital in Siraha,
the Head of State said, "Our country is known as the land of the brave Gurkhas,
and is popular for its natural beauty. But it has lagged behind in development."
He said that lack of cooperation and coordination among political parties was
costing the country dearly.

"The multi-party system that we have today is a result of sacrifice of many
Nepalis. But political parties have not been able to fully utilise it properly,"
had said. "Nepal was declared republic after passing through a decade-long
conflict. But parties have yet to mend their ways," he held.

President Yadav welcomed the latest steps taken by political parties towards the
formation of a national consensus government, a month before the tenure of the
Constituent Assembly expires. "I would like to thank the political parties for
whatever agreement they have recently reached," he said. Yadav called on
political leaders to now settle all contested issues of the constitution to meet
the CA deadline.

The new building of Phul Kumari Mahato hospital, established eight years ago,
has 12-beds. The facility, which cost Rs 180 million to build, was commissioned
by Upendra Mahato, an industrialist and philanthropist. Mahato, speaking at the
programme, expressed hope that the hospital would cater to the need of the local
populace.

The hospital, which has three senior doctors, has facilities such as X-ray and
ultrasound units and operation theatre.

Former Prime Minister and UCPN-Maoist Chairperson Pushpa Kamal Dahal had laid
the foundation of the hospital about four years ago.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2012 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


