                              440 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 17, 1986, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

HOSPITAL BOARD PROHIBITS PARTY TIES

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 624 words


Political party officials have been barred from holding management jobs at city
hospitals and serving on the board of directors of the Health and Hospitals
Corporation, which administers them.

One member of the board - Ruth Bloom, a Democratic district leader from Queens -
announced yesterday that she would resign as a director, and another board
member, Paul J. Henry, resigned from the Democratic State Committee.

''In our government, I don't know how you can have government without
politics,'' said Mrs. Bloom, a district leader from Forest Hills. ''I understand
their intention, but I don't think this is a valid way to go about it.''

While Mrs. Bloom chose to step down from the board, Mr. Henry, a partner in the
Manhattan law firm of Breed Abbott & Morgan, chose instead to resign from the
Democratic State Committee, according to his secretary.

A third board member, Arlene S. Goldstein, said she was inclined to resign from
the state committee, but had not made a decision.

The new policy comes in the midst of a continuing city scandal that has focused
attention on patronage and the role of politics in government. Democratic Party
leaders in Queens and the Bronx have been charged or implicated in extortions
and other allegations.

The rules were issued last week by the president of the board, Dr. Jo Ivey
Boufford, and publicly disclosed yesterday. They were made retroactive to April
1 for new employees. Current employees will have until July 1 to either resign
from the corporation or leave their party posts.

Dr. Boufford did not return a telephone call. Suzanne Halpin, an assistant vice
president for public information at the corporation, said she did not know how
many district leaders, state committeemen or other party officials worked in the
3,216 management jobs at the corporation's hospitals and clinics.

An 11-to-1 Vote

In a resolution last month supporting the new rules, the board said: ''The
simultaneous holding of positions with political parties or political
organizations and positions of discretionary power or influence within the
corporation has the potential for resulting in conflict of interest or creating
the appearance of such conflict.''

The resolution, introduced by the corporation's chairman, Victor E. Botnick, a
top adviser to the Mayor, was approved by a vote of 11 to 1, with Mrs. Goldstein
opposed. Mrs. Bloom and Diane E. Lacey-Winley abstained.

When he first took office in 1978, Mayor Koch barred city employees from serving
as party officials, but the ban was not extended to the corporation, which is
legally independent but under the Mayor's control.

The corporation's board has 16 members, including Mr. Botnick, five city
commisioners serving ex-officio, five others appointed by the Mayor, and five
appointees of the City Council. Board members serve without pay. Some critics
have said that some board members lack background and experience to make
informed judgments about the hospital system.

''I see a board that is relatively inexperienced,'' said Dr. Donald C. Meyer,
the executive director of the Doctors Council, which represents attending
doctors and dentists at city hospitals. ''My concern is that I really don't
believe that the board of directors as a group has that much information.''

Earlier this month, John J. McLaughlin, a former president of the corporation,
was indicted on charges of taking a $150,000 bribe to help a California company
win a city contract. And Monday, a financial officer in charge of billing at the
corporation was directed to go on leave after the disclosure that he had held
100 shares of stock in a company whose operations he oversaw. Neither was known
to hold a party position or to be active in politics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1986 The New York Times Company


