                              447 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                  Mosman & Lower North Shore Daily (Australia)

                            October 4, 2007 Thursday

Fix our hospital system now

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 508  words


A crisis at the Royal North Shore Hospital?

Warringah Federal Liberal MP and Federal Health Minister Tony Abbott plays
politics by taking over one hospital in Tasmania. Why not (take over) the Royal
North Shore Hospital?

He also takes a cheap shot at the State Government for his party's political
gain, then we have the Premier giving us sad puppy-dog eyes at a press
conference telling us that the events of the last week were unacceptable.

Damn right they were.

Australia is supposedly a developed country. It wouldn't be surprising to learn
that Rwanda's public hospital and education system is superior to ours.

It is time for both sides of politics to stop the finger-pointing contests and
thinking only of economic rationalism.

We should also spare a thought for the doctors and nurses and how
under-resourced and overworked they are.

Surely the health and wellbeing of our families and friends is paramount.

A message to all political parties: fix the hospital system. The lives of all of
us depend on it.

Mark Beckman,

Northbridge

It's time for some

answers, Mike

MIKE Bailey, where do you stand on environmental issues and climate change?

Your party shares the Coalition's view that you can produce clean coal. But
there ain't and can't be any such animal.

And your shadow Environment Minister Peter Garrett thinks it is OK to approve
the proposed pulp mill in Tassie's Tamar Valley.

What an environmental disaster that would be. This project has been fast-tracked
by the Tasmanian Labor Premier with no proper environmental assessment.

It will belch out some 800,000 tonnes of greenhouse gases for the next 30 years.
It will gobble up more old-growth forests, and damage farms, vineyards, local
fishing and tourism.

So what does Mike Bailey think of the pulp mill proposal and why should we
expect a more enlightened environmental policy from a Rudd government than from
the Coalition, whose obsolete policies are built into its very name?

Mike, please tell the voters of North Sydney your views

Ted Nixon,

Greens candidate for North Sydney

Our film night

was a sell-out

MORE than 100 guests attended our film night on September 3, kindly sponsored by
Mosman mayor Denise Wilton.

Peter FitzSimons was our genial host. Jessie Taylor the film's writer and
producer flew from Melbourne for this Sydney premiere of her documentary We Will
Be Remembered For This.

Wonderfully filmed and edited it tells a very moving story of the effects on a
group of young people who travelled to Baxter Detention Centre to meet refugees.

The film was so popular all copies of the DVD sold out.

Special thanks to Cr Wilton for her support for our work with Sydney's most
destitute asylum-seekers. She truly embodies the spirit which saw Mosman vote to
register as an official Refugee Welcome Zone.

Thanks to Andre Khoury's excellent article in The Mosman Daily. We booked out
immediately and had to turn lots of people away. We hope to screen this film
again. Please email www.asylumseekers

foundation.com if you would like to be notified.

Kate Maclurcan

Bridge For Asylum Seekers Foundation

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MOS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


