                              448 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               December 15, 1999, Wednesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

Siegel trying to 'do the right thing'

BYLINE: WAYNE WASHINGTON

SECTION: NATIONAL; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 1091 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Bruce Siegel says he can't worry about political critics as he works to save
TGH. Today, some of them discuss much-needed funding.

He offers himself up. Doesn't fight back. Not here anyway, with the public
access television cameras rolling and angry Hillsborough county commissioners
firing away at him.

Tampa General president Bruce Siegel adopts the pose and expression of a
petulant adolescent, mad that Dad took the car keys but powerless to demand
their return.

His friends read the next day's headlines and see his unsmiling face in the
newspaper and ask, "Who is this man?"

Certainly, it's not the quiet, witty man his friends have come to know.

"Given the tenor of the political debate, people would think I'm belligerent and
I'm not," Siegel said recently. "I'm trying to do the right thing by this
hospital."

Who is this man?

Bruce Siegel, 39, Ivy League-educated, husband, father of two, is many things.
But friends and colleagues say he is not a man easily ruffled.

There's a job to do at Tampa General, and Siegel plans to do it his way: Damn
the critics; full speed ahead.

Today, county commissioners plan to discuss releasing all or part of a $
22-million payment the hospital expected to receive for providing health care to
the poor.

The money has been withheld by commissioners who say they are concerned about
the financial condition of the hospital, which has lost $ 24-million in the two
years since it was privatized in a nasty political fight.

The commission's refusal to release the money was widely seen as a slap at
Siegel and members of the private board who oversee the hospital. It also
sharply framed the feud between local politicians and the man chosen 2 1/2 years
ago to run Tampa General.

Prominent members of Tampa's political establishment say Siegel's reservoir of
credibility has run dry.

"I haven't talked to Bruce Siegel in a year and a half," Tampa Mayor Dick Greco
said recently. "It is vital that this hospital survives. I don't think I would
operate it the way it has been."

Many others - including county commissioners and state legislators - agree.

Former County Commissioner Dottie Berger, who supported Siegel's plan to
privatize the hospital, describes Siegel as a good man. But asked if the
hospital will get the political support it needs with Siegel as its president,
Berger hesitates.

"People have drawn a line in the sand," she said. "I think he is a lightning
rod. Personalities are not allowing us to solve the problem."

Members of the private board Siegel answers to offer him public support.

"As a board, we believe management is getting beaten up terribly, unfairly,"
board member Jeremy Ross said.

Even as the political storm rages, Siegel rides the rough seas with ease.

To him, the critics are of the same mindset: They are angry that the hospital
was privatized over their objections and are using him as a scapegoat.

Only rarely do the arrows wound him.

"You can't worry about your job all the time," Siegel said during a recent
interview. "If you worry about your job all the time, you can't be effective."

Siegel's job got tougher when he became part of a federal extortion
investigation into two county commissioners. No charges have come from an
investigation many think Siegel started by complaining to federal prosecutors.

Siegel won't comment on his role, but he said he has no regrets.

Nor, he said, does he regret pushing for the privatization of TGH, a move he
maintains is critical to the hospital's survival.

Several elected officials, noting his fight for public hospitals in New York,
actually thought Siegel was the perfect person to lead a public Tampa General
back to financial security.

There were clues, however, that Siegel's tenure wouldn't be problem-free.

Even with his impeccable background - cum laude Princeton graduate, degrees from
Cornell University Medical College and Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and
Public Health - Siegel had never stayed in one job for three years.

He served as commissioner of New Jersey's Health Department for about a year,
and he was president of New York City's hospital system for less than two years.

His time in New York was tough, punctuated by battles with Mayor Rudolph
Giuliani.

Tampa, by contrast, seemed to offer a smoother ride. So far, it has been
anything but.

"It's been an interesting time since I've been here," he said recently, a boyish
grin crossing his face. "The environment here is chock full of challenges."

That's not how friends and associates describe his experience. They don't know
the Bruce Siegel who critics say came to town saying one thing and ended up
doing something very different.

Dan Greenwald, a Tampa plastic surgeon and a member of the county Hospital
Authority, has known Siegel since they attended Princeton together 20 years ago.

"He's sophisticated," Greenwald said. "He's very well-rounded."

And he has thick skin.

"There are some small-town politics here," Greenwald said. "I think he takes
(criticism) with a grain of salt."

Siegel said he is accustomed to people disagreeing with his views. "What worries
me here," he said, "is the climate of negativity, which only serves to distract
from the problems of the hospital."

Many Tampa General employees agree.

"It's not uncommon at all to see him walking the ICUs at 5:30 on a Friday
night," said Kelley Sharp, a registered nurse. "When I'm there doing my extra to
see that needs are met, he, too, is there to make sure things are being heard. I
have not taken anything to Dr. Siegel and not had it taken care of."

Siegel said he should work harder at building stronger political bridges, but
his already tight schedule makes that difficult.

His wife, Maura Cooper, is a pediatrician. They have two young girls, a
20-month-old and a 4-year old. They own a $ 330,000 home in Hyde Park.
Occasionally, they go out for walks. Siegel said he enjoys taking his daughters
to their friends' birthday parties.

It's a good life but an extraordinarily busy one.

"It's tough to strike a balance," Siegel said.

"I try to make sure that for several nights and mornings I see the kids. But
it's hard. It's a struggle. Tampa General is very important, but my children, my
family, has to be my No. 1 priority."

For now - and for the foreseeable future - that family will remain in Tampa.

Greenwald said he would be surprised if his friend left town. "I don't see him
throwing in the towel," he said. "I've seen nothing that gives me the impression
that he's ready to quit."


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Dr. Bruce Siegel

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


