                              446 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                The Toronto Star

                          December 15, 2010 Wednesday

Liberal 'humiliated' by hospital firing;
Defeated Vaughan candidate accuses board of playing politics with Fantino,
Tories

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 473 words


The Liberal who lost to Conservative Julian Fantino in the Vaughan federal
byelection says he was fired from his position as chair of the regional hospital
board as political payback.

"This is a real kick in the teeth," Tony Genco told the Star of his firing from
the volunteer position early Monday. "It's bizarre to me, but they've decided
I've become a political liability. I feel humiliated."

The board of York Central Hospital is working to expand health service in the
area with a new hospital in Vaughan. Fantino embraced the issue during the
campaign, making the fight for federal infrastructure dollars for the hospital a
central plank in his platform.

Genco says he believes the board wants him out to facilitate relations over the
new hospital with Fantino and the Conservative government. Genco lost by about
1,000 votes in the Nov. 29 vote, after a rough and often personal campaign.

The board is "doing what the Tories want them to do," he said, "which is to get
rid of me ... Now I've lost twice. This isn't how things should be done - this
is not a third- world country."

Acting chair Dina Palozzi denies the firing was political or had anything to do
with the board's future relations.

"After deliberating for a period of time, we came to the conclusion it was best
for the hospital, and the best interests of the hospital, to renew our
leadership," she said.

She said she knew of no pressure from the Conservatives to dump Genco, adding
that the board's only goal is to help bring a hospital to Vaughan.

Genco was appointed board chair last June for a two-year position.

He points out that other board members, including Michael DeGasperis, a
prominent Vaughan business person, remain on the regional hospital board,
despite having been active on the Fantino campaign.

DeGasperis, also board chair of the Vaughan Health Care Campus of Care, another
organization that supports the new hospital, appeared with Fantino during the
campaign.

At the event, Fantino pledged to make "a passionate and forceful case" on
Parliament Hill for both a new hospital and broader health services.

Fantino described himself as a "vocal advocate, supporter and fundraiser for the
Vaughan hospital over the years, co-chairing the highly successful fundraising
committee last year."

Palozzi said it's not against board policy for members to be involved in
partisan politics, but added the chair should be non-partisan.

As a public institution, she added, it's best for the hospital "not to be seen
in a partisan way."

But Genco says there's nothing in the rules making any distinction for the
chair.

The board advised Genco in late October to take a leave of absence for the
campaign. Palozzi said it wouldn't have been appropriate to tell Genco he
couldn't run if he expected to remain board chair.

Genco made a plea to stay on to the board early Monday morning.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Defeated Liberal candidate Tony Genco, left, believes partisan
politics were behind his firing from York Central Hospital's board. THE CANADIAN
PRESS

