                              450 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                              May 4, 2013 Saturday

Health manifestos of political parties challenged

BYLINE:  STAFF REPORT

SECTION: Vol. III No. 305

LENGTH: 273  words


Dr Tasleem Akhtar,Dr. Yasmeen Rashid ,Prof. Humayun Maqsood ,Dr Zia Ullah
Bangash & Dr Tanweer Anwar

Nur Center for Research and Policy (NCRP) in collaboration with Fatima Memorial
Hospital held a seminar to challenge the health manifestos of leading political
parties prior to the general elections in the country.

The seminar was attended by political party representative, hospital directors
from public and private hospitals, healthcare institutions, members of Pakistan
Medical Association, the healthcare community and the members of the media.

Dr Yasmeen Rashid of Pakistan Tehreek-e- Insaaf and Dr Zia Ullah Bangash of
Pakistan People's Party spoke on the health manifestos of their respective
parties and the implication they had on Punjab and Pakistan should they be
elected.

Fatima Memorial College Principal Prof Humayun Maqsood, Dr Tanweer Anwar of the
Pakistan Medical Association along with development partners and donor agencies
shared their health mandates and their upcoming programs at the seminar.

In conclusion, recommendations were formulated for the provincial health reform
mandate after a collaborative process by the NCRP. These reforms were along the
6 pillars of health system defined by the World Health Organisation (WHO) i.e.
health service delivery, health workforce, health information systems, access to
essential medicines, health systems financing, leadership and governance.

The Punjab provincial health department is currently engaged in drafting its
provincial health policy which broadly aims at provision of affordable,
accessible and quality health care to the people of Punjab in an equitable
manner.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2013 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


