                              443 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 14, 2004, Tuesday

HOSPITAL CAMPAIGN GOES TO STORMONT

SECTION: 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 385 words


OMAGH hospital campaigners took their protest to the steps of Stormont yesterday
and unveiled their latest posters .

Speaking at the start of this latest phase of a bid to secure a new acute
hospital in Omagh, campaign chairman Danny McSorley said it had been planned to
emphasise to politicians the seriousness of the situation..

"We have planned the launch to coincide with this week's political negotiations
at Leeds Castle and wish to emphasise to all those involved the urgency of
getting a devolved local administration so that local Ministers can urgently
re-examine the decisions by direct rule Ministers on the future provision of
lifesaving acute hospital services. "The decision on the provision of acute
hospital services is recognised as a local issue, which should be decided by
local politicians.

"The leaders of the political parties recognise that Developing Better Services
fails to provide accessible acute hospital services for all the people of the
rural west and agree that the issue will be re-examined by a new Executive when
a new Assembly is in place.

"Our aim is to highlight that lives will be put at risk as a result of the
removal of all acute hospital provision from Tyrone, the largest county in
Northern Ireland with a population of over 160,000 people."

Mr McSorley said the campaign group had been assured by the four main parties
that the removal of acute hospital provision from Tyrone would be examined by
the Health Minister in a new devolved administration.

" The campaign group has been assured by the leaders of the four main parties
that the decision taken by Des Browne will be looked at again."

The group also held a protest at the Department of Health., Social Services and
Public Safety with short addresses by MLAs Kieran Deeny and Barry McElduff and
councillors from Omagh and Strabane.

Dr Deeney said: "This is a crosscommunity issue and we are suppose to be in a
democracy but no- one is listening.

"We hope, when we get a new Assembly up and running, local people will listen
and this issue will be addressed in the proper manner."

Each of the speakers urged Minister Angela Smith to immediately stop the
implementation of Mr Browne's decision.

The protest group handed in a letter at Castle Buildings to Ms Smith.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2004 Century Newspapers Limited


