                              46 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Pioneer (India)

                            August 30, 2016 Tuesday

Resentment over lack of facilities at DMC hosp snowballs

LENGTH: 444 words

DATELINE: Dehradun


Dehradun, Aug. 30 -- The commotion in the associated hospital of Government Doon
Medical College (GDMC), the erstwhile Doon hospital, continued on third
consecutive day on Monday.

Lack of facilities and mismanagement at the pathology lab of the biggest
hospital of the State is causing resentment among the patients visiting the
hospital.

The political and social organisations have also registered their strong protest
over the lack of facilities and plight of the patients. During the day activists
of the Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJVM) assembled in the hospital and shouted
slogans against the hospital management.

The State vice-president of the organisation, Sachin Gupta said that the people
are facing more hardships in the hospital ever since it was converted into a
medical college. He said that it is a pity that the leadership of the State has
turned a blind eye on the pathetic state of affairs in the hospital.

Later in the day, former State convener of the Aam Aadami Party (AAP), Anoop
Nautiyal and his supporters met the Medical Superintendent (MS) of the hospital,
Dr KK Tamta. Nautiyal suggested that the number of staff in the pathology of the
hospital should be increased to 30 and a token system should be followed there.

He added that separate queues for male and female patients should be made and
the public address system should be upgraded. Nautiyal said that the MS
appreciated his suggestions and assured that the things would improve within 24
hours.

The MS of the hospital, Dr Tamta said that the hospital administration is trying
to improve manpower, infrastructure and other facilities in the hospital so that
the patients don't face any problem.

However, despite repeated assurances of the State Government the situation in
the hospital is not improving. The shortage of staff, medicines and other
equipment are forcing the patients to agitate. The management of the

hospital started deteriorating ever since the hospital was transferred to the
medical college.

The involvement of the political parties have complicated the situation further
with increasing incidences of political and social workers instigating the
patients and their relatives inside the hospital which is creating regular
ruckus in the hospital.

One of a staff member of the hospital said, "Problems are there in the hospital
but things are being ruined further by petty politicians who openly roam in the
hospital campus and create commotion which is not good for the patients.''

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Pioneer. For any query with
respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor
at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 CMYK Printech Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


