                              449 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                December 1, 2003

Health boss faces critics at debate on Queen Mum's;Board planning director to
address public meeting over closure scheme

BYLINE: By David Leask And John Mccann

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 415 words


GLASGOW health chief Catriona Renfrew will face a showdown with

the public over plans to axe the Queen Mother's maternity hospital.

The planning director of NHS Greater Glasgow, a major figure in the health
board's decision to recommend closing the Queen Mum's maternity, will take part
in a debate in the west end.

Tomorrow night's meeting will see the health board's decision come under fire
from patients and staff at the hospital and at Yorkhill Sick Kids' hospital,
whose long-term future is threatened by the

closure plan.

Andy Harvey, of the Save Our Hospitals campaign which organised the meeting,
said: "This is a chance for people who feel strongly about the hospitals to put
their views to the unelected officials behind this

decision."

A health board spokeswoman confirmed it had accepted an invitation from
organisers.

She said: "Catriona Renfrew and the board's medical director, Dr Brian Cowan,
will attend the meeting."

Supporters of all the main political parties have pledged their support for the
closure-threatened hospital, widely regarded as Scotland's most important
maternity unit.

MSPs Carolyn Leckie, of the Scottish Socialists, and Sandra White, of the SNP,
will address the meeting.

Ms White said: "We have the support of members of all the political parties in
Glasgow."

Labour's Kelvin MSP Pauline McNeill, who can't attend, said: "As the
constituency MSP, I face the responsibility for retaining this hospital but it
is fundamental to have cross-party

support for the wider campaign."

Outspoken critics of the health board plans include Tory MSP Bill Aitken;
Labour's Jackie Baillie MSP; Strath-kelvin and Bearsden MSP and hospital
campaigner Jean Turner.

Green MSP Patrick Harvie has passed on a message of support to the public
meeting. The Queen Mum's has

won the backing of senior clinicians across Scotland and health union Unison.

And senior doctors - many of whom believe the closure will put babies' lives at
risk - are eager to see as many

people as possible come to their aid.

More than 100,000 Evening Times readers have signed our petition opposing the
plans.

Today Yorkhill consultant obstetrician Alan Cameron said: "During the public
consultation period, I would encourage anyone interested to express their views
and get involved in any local events organised for this purpose."

lTomorrow's meeting will take place in

Partick South Church, Dumbarton Road, at 7.30pm.

LOAD-DATE: December 02, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DEBATE: MSPs Sandra White, far left, and Caroline Leckie will address
the meeting - as will NHS Greater Glasgow's Catriona Renfrew, right

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2003 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


