                              47 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                             May 1, 2013 Wednesday

Team Hospital shut down

LENGTH: 332 words

DATELINE: DADELDHURA


DADELDHURA, May 1 -- The Team Hospital in the district has been shut down due to
protests by staffers of the Human Development Community Services (HDCS), an NGO
assigned to run the health facility, against a recent government decision to
upgrade it as a sub-regional hospital.

Earlier, the government decided to upgrade the hospital following a week-long
protest by local political parties saying that the HDCS failed to run the
hospital effectively. Although the HDCS was supposed to run the hospital till
May 15, the hospital faced closure.

Following this, hundreds of patients from seven hilly districts-Dadeldhura,
Baitadi, Doti, Darchula, Bajhang, Achham and Bajura-have been affected.

Padam Bahadur Rokaya, a CPN-Maoist state committee member, said the HDCS is
exerting pressure on the authorities concerned to authorise it to run the
hospital again.

Durlav Jhukal, local leader of the Nepali Congress, said such an act of the HDCS
has shown how irresponsible it is towards people.

"It is bad to shut the hospital while the government is preparing for an
alternative to the current management," said Dr Rudra Upadhyay of Dadeldhura
District Hospital.

Established 40 years ago by Dr Siman, an American national, the hospital was
handed over to the HDCS four years ago.

Meanwhile, it has been learnt that health equipment of the hospital are being
stolen. Police confiscated a vehicle full of equipment belonging to the hospital
being smuggled to Kathmandu in Kailali on Monday. Superintendent of Police Ghan
Shyam Aryal said some staffers of the hospital were found to be ferrying the
equipment.

A hospital employee said some health equipment have been kept at Biththada in
Bajhang for smuggling.

Local political parties accused the HDCS of deploying its staffers to smuggle
the hospital equipment. Published by HT Syndication with permission from
EKantipur.com. For any query with respect to this article or any other content
requirement, please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2013 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


