                              457 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                            April 25, 1990 Wednesday

STA refuses Ashford sign

BYLINE: BARRY HAILSTONE

LENGTH: 455 words


The State Transport Authority (STA) has refused bus advertising by Ashford
Community Hospital in its campaign to have a cardiac surgery unit because it is
"too political".

The move has brought an angry response from the chairman of the hospital board,
Unley mayor Mr David McLeod, who describes the decision as "outrageous
censorship".

A bid by Ashford to establish the State's first private open heart and bypass
surgery unit was refused earlier this month by the South Australian Health
Commission.

The hospital refuses to accept the decision as final and is pushing to have it
reversed. Mr McLeod said that, as part of the campaign, Ashford had contracted
to have space on the rear of 55 buses through Buspak, STA's bus advertising
agency.

However, the 2m by 1m panel signs saying "Have a Heart Dr Hopgood - cardiac unit
for Ashford" were knocked back yesterday because Buspak and the STA said they
were "too political".

"Of course they are political - that's the sort of fight we have got on our
hands," Mr McLeod said.

"The biggest thing that concerns me as a private citizen is that you have one
government authority censoring on behalf of another government department
private advertising material.

"As a lawyer, that smacks of gross infringement of freedom of private speech. If
the Government wants to have a monopoly on the STA then it has got to permit
freedom of speech on its buses.

"For them to knock out such an innocuous statement as political seems to me to
be completely outrageous and a government authority censoring on behalf of the
Government - unbelievable."

Mr McLeod said Ashford would run with another sign "Who does your heart belong
to? - Ashford offers choice".

But he was less happy with it than the one which drew attention to Dr Hopgood.

The STA's customer services manager, Mr Rick Teague, said the decision to reject
the advertisement was taken by Buspak, a private company which leases the sides
of STA buses for advertising.

"The company has an agreement with STA that it will not accept advertising of a
political nature," he said. "The decision was supported by the STA which also
deemed it to be a political statement and contrary to its policy."

He said the Buspak contract stipulated that there would be "no advertising of
political or religious statements or any tobacco ads".

Ashford's chief executive officer, Mr Geoff Sam, said South Australian health
authorities could not acknowledge that cardiac surgery could be carried out in
the private sector and not be restricted to public teaching hospitals.

He said that in NSW the Health Department had just approached the Adventist
Hospital to contract to provide bypass surgery on public patients.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo: ashford sign; The Ashford sign which will not be seen on
Adelaide's buses.

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


