                              461 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Free Press Journal (India)

                                 August 9, 2017

Health Condition of Nba Chief Stable, Kept Under Observation: Cong leaders,
activists clash with cops after stopped from meeting Patkar

BYLINE: Our Staff Reporter

LENGTH: 467  words


INDORE: Amid chaos due to clashes between police and visitors from a spectrum of
political parties and social organisations, Bombay Hospital administration on
Tuesday claimed that health conditions of NBA chief Medha Patkar have improved
and she is recovering well.



However, the hospital administration refused to comment on her hunger strike and
said that they were providing all the necessary medical treatments to Patkar.

Patkar was forcibly removed from the dharna site at Chikhalda village and
admitted to the Bombay Hospital on Monday after her health condition
deteriorated on the 12th day of hunger strike, demanding proper rehabilitation
of Sardar Sarovar Dam oustees from the government.

Meanwhile, government has deployed a heavy police force at the hospital, which
didn't allow any visitor, activist or political party leader to meet Patkar in
her room and faced their ire throughout the day.

Large number of NBA activists and Congress leaders, including Sajjan Singh Verma
and Pramod Tondon and Paras Saklecha were stopped by the police from meeting the
fiery NBA leader.

A chaos ensued, when Kukshi MLA Surendra Singh Baghel was not allowed to meet
Patkar by the police. After heated exchange of words for quite a long time,
Baghel and CSP Vijay Nagar, Jayant Rathore involved into a brawl with each
other, in which the MLA was manhandled by other cops.

I was manhandled by the cops when I was requesting them to let me meet the NBA
chief. Later, cops took me to the gate of ICU, but didn't allow me to enter
despite Patkar calling me inside," he said.

Baghel alleged that "Though Patkar's health condition has improved the
government has illegally detained her in the hospital to restrain her from
leading the protest against their anti-people actions."

Apart from Baghel, the Congress leaders and other activists too clashed with the
cops in their attempt to meet the NBA chief.

Clearing the hospital's stand, general manager (administration) Rahul Parashar
said "We are not allowing anyone to meet Patkar except her two attendants, as
she is admitted in ICU and under observation. Let alone Patkar, we do not even
allow anyone to meet a normal patient in ICU."

Taking about her health, Parashar said that she is recovering well but still
under observation.

Activist detained for two hours

An activist of 'Ghar Bachao, Ghar Banao Andolan, Bilal Khan was detained for two
hours by cops deployed at Bombay Hospital. Activists of NBA alleged that Bilal
was kidnapped by the cops and was released after two hours. "I was detained by
the police in the hospital and later in Lasudia police station. Cops let me off
only after taking an undertaking from me. My fault was that I was requesting
them to allow me to meet Patkar, Bilal said. A large number of social activists
condemned the detention by police.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2017 Indian National Press Bombay Ltd, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


