                              454 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday

Burnham halts plan to close Whittington hospital services

BYLINE: Randeep Rameshguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 355 words

ABSTRACT

Campaigners claim dramatic victory as health secretary admits proposals never
had the support of staff

FULL TEXT

Andrew Burnham, the health secretary, has "completely halted" a proposed closure
of accident and emergency and maternity services in north London, a dramatic
victory for campaigners and a "major U-turn" according to his political
opponents.

Thousands marched to protest against health authority proposals to close
emergency services at the Whittingdon hospital in north London.

In an interview with the Guardian today, Burnham blamed political opponents for
"whipping up emotions".

"There was a political campaign that threatened destabilise NHS services... It's
been happening all over the country. The potential destabilisation of the A&E
service and the hospital in general becomes too much. It comes to a point where
it is damaging morale and affecting retention of staff in the NHS."

The health secretary admitted that the plans had not been supported by staff at
the hospital. "We cannot go forward without clinical support," he said. The
hospital's 100 consultants and the British Medical Association had opposed the
plan.

All of the main parties have now pledged to keep the services open at the
hospital, which is on the border of Islington and Highgate. The Conservative
shadow health secretary, Andrew Lansley, who will be in charge of the NHS if the
Tories win next week's election, and the Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg have
already vowed not to lose the hospital.

Ministers had argued that new specialist units, centres of excellence and
24-hour urgent care facilities would provide better health care for patients and
help avoid a potential London NHS budget deficit of up to £860m by 2015.

Now political opponents claim Labour has acted to save local marginal seats -
especially Islington south, which is being targeted by both the Tories and the
Lib Dems.

Lansley said: "This is a welcome U-turn by Andy Burnham. I and many others
called for a stop to the flawed plans by NHS London to shut down local hospital
units months ago, and he accused me of resisting change. He has now completely
caved in.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved


