                              452 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              South Coast Register

                                 June 27, 2016

Letters to the editor

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 617  words


A month or so ago I wrote in the South Coast Register about the appalling
service my nephew, who had cancer, received in the emergency ward. The man was
in massive pain yet had to wait four hours to be seen. That was after he had
been bought in by ambulance. He was still in the hospital two weeks later.

Following my letter in the SCR, I received a phone call from the hospital
administration staff asking me if I was going to put in an official complaint.
My answer was "not at this time". A sigh of relief came through the phone and I
was told, "I will check to see how busy the ER was and get back to you". I would
have thought checking your facts before you phoned the person in question would
have been mandatory. I'm still waiting for that phone call.

I went on to explain, that if they wanted to check how bad my nephew was all
they had to do was check their records as he was still in their hospital....the
phone went silent for a second or two and that's when they stated that they
would get back to me.

No more than 10 minutes after I had got off the phone from the administration
department I received a phone call from my nephew telling me that he needed to
be picked up as they were, in his words, "kicking him out".

This was at 3pm. I picked him up and a couple of days later moved him to Sydney
where once again he was rushed into hospital. On July 14 he passed away. I'm not
having a go at the nursing staff or doctors as they were terrific. It is the
admin department and management that needs a good kick in the backside.

To send a man in that condition home was ridiculous and now there will be an
official complaint put in.

Could they have done anything else for him at Shoalhaven Hospital is something
we will never know.

However, I am hearing of more cases where patients and their families are
unhappy with what is happening at that hospital.

On July 2 we have a federal election (council elections in September) and I am
what is known as a swinging voter. I have no idea who to vote for because I have
lost faith in our local council, political parties, including their leaders, and
the state and local representatives. I am disillusioned by all the broken
promises, the political rhetoric, the accusations our political parties hurl at
each and the never ending political and bureaucratic hyperbole we are supposed
to swallow and believe.

I live in Sussex Inlet but we have some serious employment and lack of
development problems. The latest appears to be that our local waste depot is
going to be closed by Shoalhaven City Council. SCC sent surveys to some
ratepayers regarding the waste depot, no surveys were sent to any small
businesses, and anyone who lives in Sussex Inlet knows small businesses are the
backbone of our community.

The residents and small business owners of Sussex Inlet are disgusted by this.
What does the SCC want to do to Sussex Inlet? Do they want to make Sussex Inlet
one big rubbish dumping ground at holiday times? Does council want to see the
slow death of our lovely town?

Council lacks any sensible vision for the future of Sussex Inlet. Recently it
gave approval for some housing development in Sussex Inlet (after years and
years of the developer jumping through hoops), and now council wants to close
the Sussex Inlet waste depot. It begrudgingly approved a much needed residential
development, happily accepted the increased rate revenue, but does not want to
continue to provide waste services despite the increase in population.

Will council reduce rates when our tip is closed? No it won't, but more likely
will continue to increase our rates, for more rangers and clean-up crews and to
make their "fit for the future" annual report look better.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


