                              455 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                   September 11, 2003 Thursday Final Edition

It's a different campaign at the door

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

BYLINE: Charles Gordon

SECTION: City; Charles Gordon; Pg. F4

LENGTH: 753 words

With everybody paying attention to the new political TV commercials, it is easy
to lose sight of the fact that elections are won and lost locally.

What the candidate says at the door matters. Ability to apply the party platform
to the local situation is one of the things that impresses voters. Not every
voter thinks about the candidate and the local issues, but enough of them do.

It helps when the leader has a feel for the local situation. Ottawa Liberals are
clearly helped by the fact that their leader, Dalton McGuinty, can speak from
the heart about his native city.

At an Ottawa West-Nepean rally on Saturday, McGuinty took effective aim at
provincial interference in local affairs. "They didn't like the way we ran our
hospitals, so they took over our hospitals," McGuinty said. "They didn't like
the way we ran our schools, so they took over our school board." He also
mentioned the closing of the Montfort Hospital and the closing of the CHEO
cardiac surgery units. Ottawa people, he said, "are capable of making their own
decisions."

His first act upon becoming premier, McGuinty said, would be to ensure that the
CHEO cardiac unit would remain open. (He later told a media scrum that his first
act would be to cut class sizes down to 20 up to Grade 3, so he may have a busy
day.)

The parties give a lot of thought to the individual ridings, and what kind of
people live in them. Just before the election was announced, telephone callers
on behalf of Ottawa West Tory MPP Garry Guzzo were stressing two planks out of
the party platform: mortgage interest deductibility and banning teachers'
strikes.

Well, the riding has a high percentage of home owners. Also, Ottawa West-Nepean
has a higher-than-normal concentration of seniors so another plank, the
property-tax rebate to seniors -- in effect, a rebate of education tax -- could
play well too.

The Liberal candidate, Jim Watson, hopes not. It is his view that seniors may
not have kids in school, but they have grandchildren and will resent the
inference that they don't want to pay for education. The seniors' attitude,
according to Watson, will be: "We're not going to be bought off for a couple of
hundred bucks."

Ottawa Centre candidates, visiting the Citizen editorial board this week, were
divided on the impact of the Tory property-tax breaks and deductible mortgage
interest on the voters of their riding. The incumbent, Richard Patten of the
Liberals, said it depends on which part of the riding you canvass, whether you
hear about it at the door. The comments of his two opponents seemed to bear this
out.

"I get it quite often," said the Conservative candidate, Joe Varner. "It's a
good way to give property owners a break."

NDP candidate Jeff Atkinson said he never hears about it. "Most people see it
for what it is. It's a gift that came down just before election time."

Part of that difference would have to do with the Tory mentioning the issue at
the door and the New Democrat pushing some other issue. Part of it would have to
do with another election phenomenon, that there are ridings within ridings.
Dealing with a somewhat related issue of high rents and the shortage of
affordable housing, Varner said he never heard that issue at the door. Atkinson
said he heard it all the time. Varner had been campaigning in Westboro and
around Prince of Wales, Atkinson was talking about downtown. These are all parts
of the same riding.

When the leading candidate is a city councillor, as in Ottawa-Vanier, where
Madeleine Meilleur is the Liberal, city council can become an issue. Yesterday,
when the candidates for Ottawa-Vanier spoke to the editorial board, the Tory
candidate, Maurice Lamirande, made a point of placing the blame for a
prostitution problem in the riding on the city government.

"We see violence in Ottawa- Vanier like we've never seen before," he said.

Similarly with official bilingualism, a whispered-about sleeper issue in other
ridings, but an out-front topic in the 40-per-cent francophone Ottawa- Vanier.
It's "the job of the municipalities," to make bilingualism official, Lamirande
said. (Both the city and the province should make the designation, Meilleur
said. Her NDP opponent, Joseph Zebrowski, said the NDP would be glad to
designate Ottawa bilingual.)

The ability to talk about local issues says more about the candidates than their
ability to recite the party platforms. Try it out on the candidates when they
hit your door.

The Citizen's Charles Gordon writes here on Thursdays.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Column

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


