                              458 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            Belfast Telegraph Online

                     September 21, 2015 Monday 12:11 AM GMT

Peter Robinson discharged from hospital ahead of Stormont talks

SECTION: NORTHERN IRELAND

LENGTH: 478 words


Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) leader has been discharged
from hospital.

Peter Robinson, 66, was admitted to Belfast's Royal Victoria Hospital on
Saturday after suffering an adverse reaction to prescribed medication.

A DUP spokesman confirmed Mr Robinson would be fit enough to attend crucial
talks to resolve the political crisis engulfing the powersharing political
institutions at Stormont today.

He said last night: "Mr Robinson was discharged from the Royal Victoria Hospital
earlier this evening. The DUP leader will be at Stormont tomorrow morning where
he will meet party colleagues regarding the talks process.

"Mr Robinson expresses his gratitude to the medical staff who treated him so
professionally during his short stay in hospital and the ambulance staff who
were the first responders."

In May, Mr Robinson spent four nights at the RVH after suffering a suspected
heart attack and had three stents fitted to help the flow of blood.

At the time, he blamed his illness on a diet of fast food and lack of exercise
rather than the stress of his job.

Mr Robinson has endured a punishing schedule since the devolved Assembly was
plunged into crisis following the murder of a man by Provisional IRA members
last month.

He temporarily stood aside as First Minister and pulled all but one of his
ministers out of the five party Executive.

The DUP said his overnight hospital stint had been a precaution.

Political rivals had expressed concern and wished him a speedy recovery.

Sinn Fein's Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness said on Twitter: "Concerned
that Peter Robinson admitted to hospital but pleased that he is comfortable &
doing well. Wishing him the best for recovery."

Ulster Unionist Party (UUP) leader Mike Nesbitt said: "It is concerning to hear
that Peter has been admitted to hospital. I hope that it is not serious and that
he will be back on his feet again as soon as possible."

The political institutions have been rocked following a police assessment that
Provisional IRA members were involved in the shooting of Kevin McGuigan in
August in a suspected revenge attack for the murder of former PIRA commander
Gerard "Jock" Davison three months earlier.

Round table negotiations aimed at resolving the difficulties were scheduled to
start last week but were stalled after unionists demanded UK Government action
on paramilitaries before the talks could begin.

On Friday, Northern Ireland Secretary Theresa Villiers' proposal for an
independent examination of the role, structures and purpose of paramilitaries
was accepted by the DUP and UUP who committed to being at the negotiating table.

Also on the agenda at Stormont House will be the full implementation of the
Stormont House Agreement which aimed to tackle legacy issues relating to
Northern Ireland's Troubles, the budget and controversial welfare reforms.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBBELT


           Copyright 2015 Independent News & Media (Northern Ireland)
                              All Rights Reserved


