                              453 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                              July 19, 2010 Monday

Amid dozens of dead & scores of injured, the political circus goes on...

BYLINE: Shiv Sahay Singh

LENGTH: 475  words

DATELINE: Sainthia (Birbhum)


Even after the horrific train accident at Sainthia, Birbhum district, where
victims' bodies were being extricated from mangled railway bogies early on
Monday morning, rival political parties refused to conduct themselves with the
sobriety and dignity that the occasion demanded. Both at the accident site and
at the hospitals where the injured, many in critical condition, had been sent,
political muscle flexing was on in full swing and groups of party activists
accompanied by district leaders were involved in a no-holds-barred slanging
match.

Senior CPM leader Gokul Bairagi reached the Sainthia spot along with 20
supporters when the rescue operations were in full swing. Other leaders like
Rebati Chaterjee of the All India Forward Block and Anubrata Mondal reached the
site with hordes of supporters. As the accident had occurred at platform number
4, the crowd of political activists created a situation where the Railway
Protection Force (RPF) and police could not control the mob even in the presence
of Railway Minister Mamata Banerjee. "Mamata Banerjee Jindabad, Rail Mantri
Jindabad" slogans greeted the Railway minister as she landed at Sainthia station
at 12.50 pm.

But the minister strictly ordered her supporters not to indulge in sloganeering.
The crowd that had gathered at the station tried to reach out to the leader who,
however, avoided them and, within minutes after arriving at the accident spot,
again took a train to Suri. At Suri Hospital, too, Trinamool supporters in
hundreds gushed with their party supremo in the different wards she visited.
Banerjee tried hard to contain her supporters but the crowd was huge and could
not be controlled.

CPM supporters too were present at Suri hospital and were trying to reach out to
Left Front MP Ramchandra Dom. The Trinamool chief avoided the Left MP but chose
to speak to BJP MP from Bhagalpur, Shahnawaz Hussain, who too visited the
hospital.

Early in the morning at the hospital, both the Students Federation of India
(SFI) and the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI),  the student and
youth wings respectively of the CPM, set up a stall and put up flags, festoons
and banners at various places.

The Trinamool Congress Chhatra Parishad, too, set up a camp in the hospital.
During her visit there Banerjee paused at the stall, snatched a mike and asked
the people to donate more blood.

"We have been here since 5 am to help the people. Most of our supporters are
here and have been camping since morning. We are trying to help the people ,"
said DYFI District Committee Member Ranadeep Mitra.

With the political divide starkly evident both at the accident site at Sainthia
and the hospitals in nearby Suri, Birbhum district, which has become a political
hotspot with incidents like the recent murder of former Nanur MLA Ananda Das,
presented a sorry figure on a tragic Monday.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2010 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


