                              470 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                       Copyright (c) 1985 Yale University
                           Yale Journal on Regulation

                                  SPRING, 1985

                             2 Yale J. on Reg. 263

LENGTH: 13810 words

ARTICLE: Slouching Towards National Health Insurance: The New Health Care
Politics

NAME: James A. Morone * and Andrew B. Dunham **

BIO:



   * Assistant Professor of Political Science, Brown University.


   ** Assistant Professor of Political Science, The Colorado College.  The
authors are listed in random order.  We would like to thank the editorial staff
of the Yale Journal on Regulation for its many valuable and sensitive
contributions to this article; we are particularly grateful to Jon Neiditz and
David Shapiro.  In addition, we would like to thank the following colleagues who
have commented on earlier drafts: Lawrence Mead, William Glaser, Theodore
Marmor, Roger Cobb, Thomas Anton, Deborah Stone, Frank Thompson, and Harvey
Sapolsky.  Versions of this paper were presented at the American Political
Science Convention, the Southern Political Science Convention, Columbia
University, Brown University, and The Colorado College.

 TEXT:
 [*263]  The politics of health care are undergoing a quiet transformation.
Relentless inflation in medical costs  n1 has prompted a succession of
government cost control programs.  Each has been widely evaluated for economic
ramifications and medical effects; this paper is about their political
consequences.

   The most recent government attempt to control costs is a change in the way
Medicare  n2 pays hospitals.  The reform, known as Diagnosis-Related Groups
(DRGs),  n3 was originally sponsored by bureaucrats in the Health Care Financing
Administration (HCFA).  DRGs passed through Congress at the legislative
equivalent of the speed of light: unveiled in late December  [*264]  1982,  n4
introduced as legislation in late January,  n5 passed in March,  n6 signed by
the President in April;  n7 by October 1983, Medicare began to use the
extraordinarily complex DRG system to pay hospitals.

   The introduction of DRGs is a technical change in Medicare payment procedures
that seems trivial compared to comprehensive reform proposals like universal
national health insurance or price competition in a restructured health care
marketplace.  Furthermore, a review of the DRG system's predecessor in New
Jersey suggests that the new federal program will not sufficiently reduce
inflation in Medicare costs and that it may bankrupt many hospitals.  Yet, this
scarcely noticed, swiftly legislated change in Medicare reimbursement may
establish the political conditions for a national health system.  Ronald Reagan
may inadvertently produce what Harry Truman and Lyndon Johnson could not: a
government-centered hospital system providing universal coverage.

   This article suggests how.  We begin with the politics of hospital rate
regulation in New Jersey, analyzing its development from industry domination
through a regulatory mechanism which resembles the current Medicare, to the
state-centered system that uses DRGs to set prices for all payors in all
hospitals.  We then turn to the adoption of DRGs on the national level, applying
the political lessons we drew from New Jersey's experience and analyzing the
consequences of DRGs on national health politics.  Finally, we suggest that the
traditional model of hospital regulation -- powerful interest groups dominating
a pliant government -- should be replaced by a model in which the groups are
dependent on largely autonomous government officials: the evolution of interest
group liberalism into state autonomy.

   I.  New Jersey Discovers DRGs  n8

   In the late 1960's, New Jersey faced dilemmas typical of the American health
care economy: alarming inflation, inadequate care for the poor,  [*265]
pressure on the state Medicaid  n9 budget, insurers who were uneasy over rising
hospital charges, and hospitals that were beginning to jockey for competitive
advantage.  Two powerful interests began to lobby the legislature for
assistance.

   Blue Cross,  n10 the largest private insurer in the state,  n11 was caught
between politics and inflation.  Its premiums were subject to the approval of
the Insurance Commissioner,  n12 assuring media attention and public resistance
to every increase.  State officials kept Blue Cross premiums down while rising
hospital prices forced its payments up.  By 1969 it reported a $ 13 million
deficit.  n13 Blue Cross sought legislative relief, arguing that if government
were to restrict its income, government should also limit its payments;
regulated premiums should be matched by regulated hospital rates.

   The hospitals, led by the New Jersey Hospital Association, vigorously
resisted government interference with their billing.  Like health care providers
throughout the United States, they had long insisted on their autonomy.  n14
However, in order to mollify Blue Cross, stave off government intervention, and
relieve individual hospitals from billing disputes with Blue Cross, the Hospital
Association established a voluntary review of hospital budgets.  Predictably, a
non-binding review directed by hospital officials did not appreciably reduce the
inflation in hospital costs.

   The hospitals had their own political agenda: They sought certificate of need
legislation.  n15 This program seeks to limit overall health care costs by
[*266]  prohibiting the construction of unnecessary health care facilities.  The
New Jersey hospitals seized on certificate of need as a form of franchise
monopoly which could protect them from the competition of new or expanding
institutions.  They were anxious for the authority to proscribe new facilities
but, as with rate review, they sought to regulate themselves rather than
relinquish authority to the government.

   In 1971, after three years of negotiation and compromise, legislation gave
hospitals their certificate of need program -- nominally administered by the
government -- and Blue Cross its rate regulation.  n16 The law empowered the
Commissioners of Health and Insurance to set the rates that Blue Cross and
Medicaid paid for hospital services.  n17 In practice, however, the Hospital
Association simply continued to operate its own review,  n18 now cloaked in the
legitimacy of public law.  The commissioners relied entirely on the
recommendations of Hospital Association reviewers and routinely accepted their
findings.  n19

   Both the legislative process and its outcome fit traditional models of
political behavior.  The most interested and influential private parties pressed
their interests before the legislature, bargained with each other, received a
small benefit, and appeared to lose nothing significant.  The result seemed to
be an incremental change in policy.  Once the bargain was struck, public
authority was ceded to the hospital industry itself.  Hospital officials
dominated both planning and rate setting.  Public power was simply used to
enforce private choices.  Regulation was "acquired by the industry and . . .
operated primarily for its benefit."  n20

   However, despite appearances, the politics of regulation were changing in a
profound fashion.  The new law gave the state the power to inspect and judge
individual budget lines in each hospital.  This power was immediately returned
to the hospital industry, but that merely obscured the fact  [*267]  that the
Department of Health now had formal authority over what hospitals did and how
efficiently they did it.  The state had quietly penetrated the private world of
the New Jersey hospitals.

   Three years later, in 1974, a public interest group reported the shocking
news: The Hospital Association was conducting government rate reviews -- the
regulated were regulating themselves.  n21 In the atmosphere immediately
following Watergate, the report -- Bureaucratic Malpractice -- set off a
sensation.  Newly elected Governor Brendan Byrne made it his health policy
guide.  His Commissioner of Health, Joanne Finley, sat through her confirmation
hearings with the expose conspicuous at her side.  Following one recommendation
in the report, the Department of Health took control of hospital rate review,
though it had to borrow the forms from the Hospital Association to do so.  n22

   State bureaucrats now had a mechanism with which to try to contain Blue Cross
and Medicaid costs.  They began to employ it immediately, proposing only a 2.5%
increase in 1975 hospital rates.  In contrast, hospital-administered rate review
had permitted increases averaging more than ten percent.  n23 After considerable
conflict with angry hospital administrators, state officials relented somewhat,
approving rate increases that averaged seven percent -- still a low figure by
prior standards.  n24 The New Jersey hospitals had passed out of loose,
industry-dominated regulation into stringent state control over part of the
system (Blue Cross and Medicaid).  In Section II we will describe a similar
evolution in federal health care regulation, which is now seeking to limit
hospital costs by controlling just one payor, Medicare.

   In New Jersey, the consequences of regulating some payors and not others were
swift and dramatic.  Partial regulation produced partial results and
unanticipated difficulties.  Blue Cross and Medicaid benefited; their costs
increased less rapidly.  However, their gain was achieved at the expense of
others.  Most hospitals maintained their income by simply shifting costs to the
commercial payors.  The results were widely compared to squeezing one end of a
balloon; all the air merely rushes to the other end.  The tighter the controls
on Blue Cross and Medicaid, the more the other insurers paid.  Within five
years, the commercial insurers were paying hospitals roughly thirty percent more
than Blue Cross.  n25 The state was also protecting its Medicaid Program at the
expense of the private insurers  [*268]  and patients without insurance.  The
commercial insurers began to call for change.

   Urban hospitals found themselves in growing financial trouble due to their
mix of patients.  They treated a disproportionate number of patients on Blue
Cross and Medicaid,  n26 which paid less than the commercial insurers.  In
addition, many of their other patients paid none or only part of their bills.
n27 Twenty percent of urban hospital patients had no health insurance, and many
more had inadequate coverage.  n28 The hospitals had traditionally apportioned
these bad debts among the other payors.  However, the patients with private
coverage lived in the suburbs, and Blue Cross and Medicaid payments were now
tightly controlled.  The urban hospitals were unable to shift their losses and
bad debts; they had no one to shift them to.  As many as fifteen large hospitals
appeared to be near bankruptcy.  The only hospital that remained in Paterson,
for instance, reported that it could not afford new mops; one in Newark claimed
that it could not make its Social Security contributions.

   Even hospitals which could maintain their revenues found the new system
burdensome.  It was highly bureaucratic and inefficient, involving long rounds
of negotiation between each hospital and the Department of Health.  As late as
May 1979, more than a third of the hospitals had not received their 1978 billing
rates for Medicaid and Blue Cross patients, and rate appeals were still pending
from as early as 1975, the first year of government-managed rate review.  n29
The Hospital Association responded by filing a series of lawsuits  n30 and
publishing pamphlets with titles such as Son of Gobbledegook.

   In short, the new system of regulation was widely unpopular, marked by highly
visible losers and few winners.  Some hospitals approached bankruptcy,
commercial health insurers suffered a severe competitive disadvantage, and, for
all the difficulties, medical inflation persisted because of cost shifting.
Despite the widespread dissatisfaction, none of the affected interests devised a
solution.  In the past, troubled private organizations had often designed public
programs to assist themselves.  Blue Cross had first put rate review on the
public agenda.  Now that the consequences  [*269]  were proving difficult for a
wide range of interests, many called for relief, but none put forward a proposal
to secure it.

   Politically viable solutions had become difficult to find.  It was now clear
that the fates of numerous interests were linked together, that assisting one
was apt to worsen conditions for others.  For instance, regulatory relief for
Blue Cross had come at the expense of other insurance companies, inner city
hospitals, and patients who paid their bills out of pocket.  Adjustments that
favored some of these interests were, in turn, likely to harm others.  Extending
the benefits of rate regulation to the commercial insurers would set back both
the hospitals and Blue Cross; paying for indigent care would benefit hospitals
but increase Medicaid costs.  Many of the affected interests were well-organized
and conscious of the threats posed by the others.  The political setting made it
difficult for one interest group to sponsor a solution that did not alarm other
interests.

   This unstable policy environment presented an opportunity for governmental
entrepreneurs to restructure the hospital system.  The Department of Health
sought to extend its rate-setting authority to all payors in order to prevent
cost shifting and control overall hospital cost inflation.  n31

   In addition, the Department proposed a bold change in rate-setting methods.
In the past, most payors had paid hospitals the "usual, customary and
reasonable" charges for whatever treatment the hospital provided.  This payment
method created a perverse financial incentive to increase the cost of health
care: because hospitals were paid for the care they actually delivered, they
made more money by providing more services.  Because rate-setting by the state
was also based on the services provided by the hospital,  n32 rate regulation
had not solved the problem.  In addition, in setting per diem rates for
individual hospitals, the existing regulation had resulted in long negotiations,
delays, and arbitrary rates.

   The Department of Health moved to solve these problems by proposing
legislation that pegged payments in advance to the type of case treated rather
than the number of days spent in the hospital.  n33 The reimbursement mechanism
it proposed was based on DRGs.  Put simply, DRGs classify all illnesses into 467
categories or "diagnostic groups." A single price is set for each DRG, based on
the average hospital bill for patients in that DRG among roughly similar
hospitals.  Hospitals receive only a  [*270]  fixed price per patient, set by
the DRG appropriate for that patient's diagnosis.  Payment is not affected by
what services are actually provided or what they cost the hospital.  Hospitals
that deliver care for less than the DRG amount keep the difference.  Those with
costs above the price are forced to seek economies -- fewer tests, shorter
hospital stays, better management -- or lose money.  In theory, then, hospitals
are driven to become more efficient by cutting their costs.

   The proposal would give state bureaucrats a powerful role in hospital
finance.  They would set the prices charged for all patients in all hospitals.
Hospital income would be completely controlled by the state.  Even hospital
endowments -- long an emblem of success and community support -- would be
swallowed into a state fund.

   The hospitals vociferously opposed this threat to their autonomy and to their
cost-shifting escape valve.  They had found government regulation of part of
their income burdensome and they lobbied hard to block its extension.  The
hospitals were assisted by Blue Cross, which sought to maintain its advantage
over the unregulated insurers.  New Jersey legislators, facing a controversial
proposal that was vigorously opposed by the entire hospital industry as well as
Blue Cross, did not report the bill out of committee.  n34

   Although the bill was defeated in New Jersey, it caught the attention of
federal officials in Washington.  HCFA, which oversees Medicare and Medicaid,
had been seeking state experiments in controlling hospital costs.  It granted
the New Jersey Department of Health $ 3 million with which to design an
all-payor DRG program.  n35 In the meantime, the difficulties of partial
regulation as well as the demands for reform persisted.

   Two years later, the Department of Health tried again.  n36 This time
Department officials added a provision to the bill designed to gain political
support: the cost of patients who did not fully pay their bills -- uncompensated
care -- would be split among all payors and factored into the rates.  n37 For
the first time, treating an uninsured patient would pay a hospital as much as
treating one covered by a commercial carrier.

   The new proposal significantly altered the political coalitions.  It was an
unambiguous reprieve for the urban hospitals, which embraced the new plan.  n38
Their administrators -- the most outspoken were extremely articulate nuns --
gave gripping legislative testimony.  Motivated by the cost-shifting,  [*271]
the private insurance companies joined the coalition, their actuarial tables
forming a somber counterpoint to the dramatic stories about ghetto hospitals.
HCFA provided further support by promising to waive the normal Medicare payment
procedure so that state officials could set rates for all payors, including
Medicare.  Crucially, the Medicare waiver was expected to be worth an extra $ 60
million in federal funds, since Medicare would assume a share of the
uncompensated care.  n39 Opponents of the proposal were put in the politically
difficult position of arguing against added federal funds for urban hospitals
that unquestionably needed assistance in providing health care for the poor.

   Many hospital administrators continued to oppose this government encroachment
on their institutions.  However, opposing the proposed legislation would have
split the Hospital Association.  n40 A united hospital industry had defeated a
similar bill; a divided one could only bargain over its terms.  n41 Blue Cross
officials also understood the new political realities and, extracting what they
could, acquiesced.  n42

   The law passed easily.  n43 A system in which DRGs set hospital prices for
all payors would be implemented in three phases between 1980 and 1982.  n44
Hospitals anxious to participate were included in the first group.  The tactical
consequence was a fresh opportunity for political opponents.  The most adamant
advocates of the all-payor DRG system were included immediately; others were
then free to oppose further implementation.

   The Hospital Association returned to the legislature arguing that so radical
an innovation should proceed more slowly.  It proposed suspending  [*272]
implementation after the first year and waiting until the system could be
appraised.  It also charged that the Department of Health was exceeding its
statutory authority: Neither the legislation nor the testimony that preceded it
had ever mentioned DRGs.  Though the Department of Health, funded by HCFA, had
been preparing a DRG system for two years, the term did not appear in the
tersely worded bill that the Department had submitted.  Even the general notion
of paying hospitals on the basis of the cases they treated was mentioned only
elliptically.  n45

   The legislators were annoyed by the controversy.  They had not heard of DRGs
and had only a vague understanding of the bill they had passed.  Legislative
hearings were scheduled.  Before they could be held, however, a letter arrived
from HCFA: the federal government wanted a DRG experiment.  n46 Without it, HCFA
would not grant a Medicare waiver; New Jersey would lose its estimated $ 60
million, the opportunity to set rates for all payors, and its plan for covering
uncompensated care.  Extraordinarily, a coalition of federal and state
bureaucrats were forbidding the New Jersey Legislature from tampering with the
implementation of a law that it had passed.  The legislature meekly complied.
One branch, the Assembly, passed a resolution merely condemning the
implementation process.  The legislators had neither the political incentives
nor the technical expertise to seek alternatives to the all-payor DRG system
that was already partly in place.

   The Assembly resolution symbolizes a lesson that DRG opponents swiftly
learned: Once the program began to operate, it became difficult for interest
groups to shape policy.  n47 The free flow of legislative politics, dominated by
elected representatives who prefer compromise to conflict, had ended.  The
traditional pattern of bureaucratic politics, in which industry dominates
administrators, never emerged.  Instead, the industry found itself confronting
government officials intent on controlling costs.  n47

    [*273]  For physicians the new program was a sharp departure.  Despite all
the worry over inflation, medical judgment had remained largely beyond the reach
of public policy.  Now DRGs denied hospitals full reimbursement when physicians
prescribed more services than their colleagues.  Hospital administrators knew
exactly which physicians were losing money for their institutions.  The extra
test or the additional hospital day was no longer a simple matter of individual
professional judgment;  n48 hospitals would now make more by pressuring their
physicians to do less.  State officials were using their new role in hospital
finance to reshape the patterns of medical practice.

   The hospitals of New Jersey were suddenly thrust into a system dominated by
bureaucrats working for the Department of Health.  One incident illustrates the
point.  When DRGs were implemented, officials were immediately confronted with a
public relations debacle over an anomalous case: A finger broken in a softball
game led to a $ 6,000 bill for one night in a hospital.  The incident received
widespread publicity.  The media had been hard-pressed to explain the all-payor
DRG system, but it was simple to understand a government cost control effort
that resulted in $ 6,000 fingers.  In fact, a pin had been inserted in a joint,
placing the patient in a DRG dominated by costly hip operations.  The incident
may have comforted opponents of the program, but in reality it only demonstrated
the extent of the state's new authority.  Government officials made adjustments
while hospital officials, powerless and embarrassed by the publicity, could only
exhort them to act swiftly.

   The New Jersey hospital system had evolved from one dominated by providers
and marked by indifferent state efforts to control costs, to one in which the
state exerted stringent regulation over part of the system.  n49 That situation
proved enormously unstable.  Marked by insolvent urban hospitals, widespread
cost shifting, and continued inflation, it lasted less than five years.  In the
following section we argue that the federal system has now reached a very
similar point.  In New Jersey, partial regulation quickly created the political
conditions that led to a government-dominated hospital system.  Is the national
experience with partial regulation likely to be any different than New Jersey's?
In Section II we argue that the problems, the politics, and the policy outcomes
are likely to be very similar.

    [*274]  II.  DRGs and the Politics of Medicare

   The passage and implementation of Medicare in 1965  n50 fit the traditional
pattern of American medical politics: industry domination.  The law begins by
forbidding government intrusion into the practice of medicine  n51 -- an
affirmation of professional autonomy that precedes any statement of entitlement
or broader purpose.  The implementation of the Act was even more clearly
dominated by the industry.  Reimbursement standards were loose and extremely
generous; Medicare paid the "current costs" of services, including "all
necessary and proper expenses."  n52 Partly as a consequence,  n53 Medicare
outlays soared, exacerbating a general medical inflation.

   The same political dynamic that created the problem confounded its solution.
A succession of strategies designed to contain costs was unsuccessful, at least
in part because each was dominated by health care providers.  Voluntary health
planning agencies, established in 1966,  n54 were directed largely by local
hospital administrators  n55 and proved ineffectual.  n56 Six  [*275]  years
later, Congress established review boards designed to identify and limit
excessive use of Medicare services.  n57 However, deferring to medical power and
expertise, Congress vested judgments about appropriate use in physician boards
which were generally reluctant to criticize colleagues.  n58 The certificate of
need agencies, mandated nationally in 1974, were given highly circumscribed
authority and often served the interests of local providers.  n59 In 1979,
Congress turned aside the Carter Administration's cost containment proposal
partly in deference to the industry's "Voluntary Effort" at controlling health
care costs.  n60

   A.  The Adoption of DRGs by Medicare

   In the absence of more powerful measures, costs continued to rise.  n61
Between 1967 and 1982, Medicare expenditures for inpatient hospital services
grew at an average annual rate of 19.2%.  n62 In the four years that followed
the industry's "Voluntary Effort," Medicare and Medicaid outlays grew from $ 51
billion to $ 83 billion.  n63 Even with the stringent limits mandated by
Congress in 1982,  n64 Medicare threatened to bankrupt its trust fund by 1988
and exacerbate the federal deficit.  n65 The mounting costs generated strong
political pressures for a solution.

    [*276]  In September 1982, Congress ordered the Department of Health and
Human Services to propose a reform in Medicare reimbursement.  n66 HCFA (which
is within the Department of Health and Human Services) had been supporting
research, development, demonstrations, and evaluations in cost control since the
early 1970's.  n67 The New Jersey DRG system was one of its demonstration
projects.  In December 1982, HCFA proposed to Congress a nationwide DRG system
for Medicare.  n68 Congress, anxious for a remedy, quickly approved the plan.
n69

   Federal officials finally had an effective mechanism with which to try to
control Medicare costs.  To that end, they could use DRGs in two analytically
separate ways.  By providing a fixed rate, set in advance, DRGs may promote
efficiency in the long run by giving hospitals an incentive to deliver less
expensive care.  However, DRGs can also be used to reduce program costs
immediately; officials can employ them as a price control device, directly
reducing the amount Medicare pays for hospital services.  Like the New Jersey
Department of Health in 1975, federal officials immediately began to use their
rate-setting mechanism to press down hospital prices.  Originally, the statute
mandated that 1985 DRG prices would rise by the inflation rate in the "market
basket" of goods and services that hospitals buy, plus an additional one percent
for advances in technology.  n70 Before Congress took action, the Reagan
Administration reversed itself and pressed for elimination of the one percent.
In the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984, Congress reduced the technology allowance
to 0.25%.  n71

   That reduction was just the start of the squeeze.  The Secretary of Health
and Human Services announced that the 1985 rise in Medicare DRG prices would be
5.6%  n72 -- extremely low by past standards.  In the 1986 budget, the Reagan
Administration is pressing still further, proposing  [*277]  to freeze DRG
prices in 1986 at their 1985 levels.  n73 What is striking is how quickly
federal officials began squeezing DRG payments to hospitals.

   Industry resistance may occasionally moderate cuts in Medicare prices.  For
instance, the Administration relented somewhat from the prices that it had
proposed for 1985, in part because it was facing an election.  However, the
political setting has changed.  Hospital officials must now contend with HCFA
over prices that they once set themselves with only loose federal supervision.
Rate determinations are being made in bureaucratic arenas by administrators who
are more concerned with inflation and deficits than with pacifying medical
constituents.

   Nevertheless, there has been no broad antipathy to bureaucrats, complex
regulations, or the squeeze on Medicare rates.  Rather, the new system is
invoking the rhetoric and symbols of market competition.  Forbes introduced the
stringent regulation of Medicare prices with a headline that trumpeted,
"[H]ospitals have finally been pushed off the dole and into competition. . . .
Some may not survive. . . ."  n74

   The new Medicare is designed in a way that makes marketplace rhetoric
plausible.  Since payments for each DRG are based on the industry's average
costs, hospitals are pitted in a form of indirect competition with one another.
In theory, the more efficient hospitals will provide care for less than the
industry average and turn a profit on their Medicare patients.

   B.  The Instability of Medicare DRGs

   Partly because the symbols of market competition make DRG price regulation
widely acceptable, officials have been able to seek short-term Medicare cost
savings by limiting reimbursement levels.  However, attempting to reduce costs
in this manner inevitably establishes the conditions that will undermine the
Medicare DRG system: insolvency of urban hospitals, cost shifting, and
ultimately persistent inflation.

   Precisely the same dynamic that threatened to crush the urban hospitals in
New Jersey is now set into motion across the United States.  Even before DRGs,
Medicare payments did not fully cover hospitals' costs.  n75 The  [*278]
present Medicare squeeze will worsen the disparity.  Inner city and rural
hospitals with many Medicare patients will experience large losses on these
patients.  Typically, these hospitals also have a large number of indigent
patients.  As in New Jersey, they cannot shift their uncompensated costs; they
do not have enough paying customers to shift them to.

   Many of these hospitals will be pushed toward ruin.  n76 While DRGs
ostensibly thrust hospitals into competition, the real world of DRGs is a good
deal more Calvinist -- redemption and perdition turn on a number of factors
entirely beyond a hospital's control.  The competition of the new Medicare DRGs
will be the same competition that was induced by partial rate regulation in New
Jersey: the competition for the right mix of patients.  n77 Winning and losing
will be less a consequence of efficiency than of who -- if anyone -- is paying
the bills.  n78

   Hospitals with fewer Medicare recipients will have the same incentive as
their New Jersey predecessors did in a partially regulated system: to shift
their excess costs to the payors.  n79 Prices for the unregulated payors will
swiftly balloon.  The differential between regulated and unregulated payors in
New Jersey reached thirty percent in six years; the same forces are now at work
across the nation.  Congress is already hearing the balloon metaphors.  n80 Once
again the commercial insurers will be paying  [*279]  for a government attempt
to control its program costs while failing to address the underlying problem of
general medical inflation.

   Commercial insurers will pass on the costs, largely to corporations which pay
insurance premiums for their employees.  Corporations and labor unions are
already troubled by rising health care costs;  n81 soaring rates will
substantially increase their concern.  Many will demand action.  n82 Some may
seek other ways to reduce the cost of health benefits, such as reducing coverage
or self-insuring.  These moves, in turn, will increase the alarm of the
hospitals and commercial insurers, respectively.

   With many costs simply shifted, medical inflation will continue.  Although
DRGs reduce the incentives to be profligate with Medicare funds, there is no
change in the hospitals' incentives regarding other payors.  To the extent that
hospitals continue to buy excessive and expensive goods and services for their
other patients, the "market basket" cost of hospital care will continue to rise
and Medicare will remain under the steady pressure of rising hospital costs.
n83 In addition, although DRGs give government officials considerable leverage
over price, they provide no control over volume.  As the population ages and
intensity of treatment for the elderly increases, Medicare costs will continue
to rise.  n84 Even with DRGs, Medicare is still projected to be the fastest
growing major federal domestic program.  n85

   In short, Medicare DRGs are likely to be devastating for hospitals that treat
mainly Medicare beneficiaries and patients who cannot fully pay their bills.
The Medicare DRG program will threaten the commercial health insurers and
constitute a growing problem to the corporations that pay the insurance
premiums.  For all the problems it creates, the program will prove insufficient
to balance the Medicare trust fund or to ease the  [*280]  federal deficit.  The
present DRG system will generate pressure for its reform.

   C.  The New Politics of National Health Insurance

   The present DRG system is unstable: Both the number of politically powerful
losers and the New Jersey precedent suggest that a wide array of interests will
press Congress for action.  This coalition will include influential constituents
of even a conservative Republican Administration, most notably large business
corporations.  The public sector is likely to join private interests in seeking
comprehensive reform: state governments troubled by Medicaid costs, local
officials alarmed about the survival of urban hospitals, HCFA administrators
concerned about Medicare costs (and not averse to enhancing their role and
power), and a Congress and President concerned about the federal deficit.
Inaction will exacerbate the difficulties and demands for reform.

   When a future Congress or blue-ribbon Presidential Commission confronts these
problems, where can it turn?  There will continue to be few plausible
alternatives, even fewer politically expedient ones.  However, there may now be
a health policy option that conforms to the peculiar requirements of American
political reform.  The most likely reform is what occurred in New Jersey: an
extension of DRGs to cover all payors, factoring into the rates the cost of
uncompensated care.  Whatever the substantive merits of the program, its
politics will make it compelling.  It can plausibly promise two desirable
outcomes that will generate the political support necessary for its adoption:
medical cost control and financial relief for hospitals that serve the poor.

   Setting uniform prices for all payors would eliminate the cost shifting that
undermines current efforts to control medical inflation.  In addition, the
incentives for efficiency built into a prospective DRG system would apply fully
to treatment of all patients, not just publicly supported ones.  Public
officials would wield a type of monopsony power, balancing the traditional power
of the medical industry over both prices and demand for service.  n86 Regulators
would finally have a mechanism with which to constrain inflation.

   In contrast to most quick solutions offered amidst cost crises, an allpayor
DRG system which factors in the cost of uncompensated care combines an effort to
reduce inflation with assistance to the institutions that serve the poor.
Routinely reimbursing hospitals for bad debts and charity  [*281]  care would
have sweeping ramifications.  For the first time, hospitals throughout the
United States would be paid equally for all patients, regardless of their wealth
or insurance.  For the unsponsored poor and the hospitals that treat them, this
provision would roughly approximate a universal national health insurance.

   Unlike previous public health insurance schemes,  n87 this one would not look
like welfare or socialized medicine.  In fact, it would not directly help the
poor, only the hospitals that serve them -- a politically crucial difference
which is likely to diffuse challenges grounded in antipathy to welfare.  More
important, it is part of a program that is widely perceived not as welfare but
as the symbolic reverse: an effort to thrust free market competition into the
hospital sector.  Largely for these reasons, the reform occurred in New Jersey
with little reference to poverty and none to welfare.  A program that appears to
seek cost control through competition is not apt to trigger the politics of
redistribution -- the broad coalitions that generally mobilize to dispute
welfare proposals in the United States.  n88

   In further contrast to traditional welfare programs, this program requires
little visible extension of public taxes.  An all-payor DRG system imposes a
hidden tax, divided among all insurance premiums, private and public, to pay
hospitals for serving the uninsured.  An occasional academician may argue that
indirect taxes are taxes all the same, but the politics that attend them are
radically different.  The broad antipathy to new taxes is not aroused.

   Equally important, both the extension to all payors and the inclusion of the
cost of uncompensated care could be introduced without legislating sweeping new
health plans.  American politics is far better geared for small adjustments to
existing programs than for large programmatic transformations.  n89 Extending
DRGs would have precisely that unexciting, incremental, technical look.  It
merely extends a method of computing insurance payments that is already in use
for more than a third of hospital revenue.  Past reform proposals have failed in
part because of their sweeping non-incremental appearance.  "Removing the
financial barrier to medicien" -- watchwords of the New Deal and Great Society
-- connotes  [*282]  welfare and big government.  n90 Seeking genuine markets in
the hospital sector employs the correct political symbols but would require bold
new forms of organizational behavior and ambitious, uncertain, long-term changes
throughout the medical economy.  n91 By contrast, extending DRGs to all payors
and including the cost of uncompensated care would sound less like a radical new
program than like a technical adjustment to an existing one.  It differs from
past reform proposals by conforming to the incremental bias of the American
political process.

   But what of the hospital industry?  Is it not likely to present a powerful
political obstacle?  In the past, the hospitals have presented a united
political front, articulated by vigorous trade associations in a relatively
unambiguous voice.  Both the programs they helped design and those they fought
to defeat reinforced their solidarity by distributing benefits and burdens more
or less uniformly across the industry.  n92 Over the past decade, however, their
political unity has begun to decay as the industry has grown more competitive.
The new Medicare system will rapidly erode it further: this payment mechanism is
designed to have an impact that varies across institutions.  Different hospitals
face different economic conditions and consequently have different political
interests.

   The new Medicare will provoke financial crisis for hospitals with many
indigent patients and a limited capacity to shift costs.  These hospitals -- and
the public officials who are concerned about keeping them open -- will welcome
whatever assistance is offered.  Occasional grants may at times provide
temporary relief, but they are not likely to survive federal budget cutting
efforts for long.  n93 In contrast, the most solvent hospitals -- shifting costs
and turning away indigents as they boast about their  [*283]  efficiency -- will
fight further federal encroachment on their revenues.  There will be prestigious
medical centers in each camp.

   Aggressive hospital administrators may even welcome a system in which all
hospital prices are set by DRGs, or at least prefer it to other forms of
government intervention.  An "efficient" hospital that treats patients at lower
than average costs might do quite well.  Health planners may view the outcome as
systems rationalization; in the more traditional rhetoric of American politics,
it is the result of competition in the hospital sector.  Under either label, the
political fissures that have already begun to appear in the hospital industry
are likely to be exacerbated, neutralizing a major political barrier to
government price setting for all payors -- precisely as it did in New Jersey.

   In short, extension of DRGs is likely not for its inherent merits but for its
political advantages.  There will be widespread calls for action in the nation's
health system: government officials, insurers, business corporations, unions,
and some hospitals will seek relief from the current system.  HCFA will have a
solution that extends its power, solves some problems, and is already
administratively in place.  The change appears conservative, merely extending a
mechanism that is in widespread use.  It does not involve visible new taxes,
"untested" new legislation, or the appearance of income redistribution or
welfare.  On the contrary, it is a technical adjustment that is more likely to
mobilize the symbolism of competition and capitalism that of welfare and
socialized medicine.  These features are apt to deflect broad public notice,
much less widespread criticism.  Moreover, it is likely to generate the same
bureaucratic support that propelled it forward, both in New Jersey and into
Medicare.

   Timid, incremental measures are likely to precede the changes we predict.
Refinements in DRG methodology could introduce further technical complexities
(and perhaps a new set of acronyms).  A recurring federal impulse to send the
problem to the state level  n94 will continue to appear, providing the mirage of
a solution that is painless in Washington.  However, the stubborn realities of
medical inflation, rooted deep in the structure and financing of the industry --
and all the consequent political dilemmas that we have noted -- will remain
until comparatively radical action is undertaken.

   Despite the relatively quiescent politics that would accompany the change,
extending DRGs and factoring in the cost of uncompensated care would establish a
national health system of sorts.  Government officials would set rates for all
payors in all hospitals.  These changes would  [*284]  amount to an
unprecedented public intervention into the practice of medicine, and a broad
subsidy for hospital care to the poor.  This outcome approximates the bargaining
systems characteristic of Western European health policies.  n95 Whatever the
effects on American hospitals -- the problems that are cured, the unforeseen
ones that are caused -- the ensuing health care politics are likely to revolve
around government administrators: setting prices, solving problems, reshaping
American medical practice.

   After a half century of political thunder over the socialized medicine
implicit in programs such as Medicare or national health insurance,  n96 the
state is poised to assume a role at the center of the American health care
system.  And yet, in the American fashion, proponents will insist that the state
is not bargaining and setting rates so much as tending a complex formula that
promotes competition and revitalizes health care markets.  Ironically, national
health insurance may arrive quietly, with scarcely an interest demurring.

   III.  The New Health Care Politics: A Dense Environment and the Autonomy of
the State

   We have told the same story in both of the preceding sections.  A series of
apparently incremental reforms -- each responding to immediate problems, each
inadvertently setting the conditions for further change -- have recast the
politics of health care.  In New Jersey, an industry that was powerful and
autonomous in 1970 is now dominated by state officials.  On the federal level, a
similar process is underway.  Health providers with enough political influence
to shape Medicare to their own purposes in 1965 now find that public officials
are using the program to pressure their industry -- the latest step, we have
argued, in an evolution toward the national health insurance that providers have
long battled to avert.  n97

   These are not simply new details of health policy but a change in the
political rules by which it is fashioned.  An entirely new model of politics is
emerging.  The traditional pattern -- powerful private interests dominating a
pliant state -- is now less evident than its reverse -- interests reliant on an
increasingly powerful political center.

    [*285]  A.  The Traditional Model: Industry Dominance

   Private interest groups generally dominated health politics.  They often
initiated political action, setting the public agenda with programs that they
designed  n98 or blocking proposals they perceived as threats.  Their influence
over government officials was predictable.

   Legislators are rewarded for developing allies and avoiding enmity; their
incentives are to shun controversy while distributing benefits to constituents
who are sufficiently organized to remember until the next election.  n99
Hospital and medical associations were well-organized, well-financed, and
attentive to political issues.  Other groups participated in health politics:
liberal reformers battled long and hard to pass Medicare; public interest groups
like the one that disseminated Bureaucratic Malpractice mobilized public
sympathy for reform causes.  In the end, however, the sustained interest of the
health care professionals generally dominated health care legislation.

   The industry's dominance was still more pronounced in bureaucratic arenas.
With its livelihood on the agenda, the industry actively participated in the
time-consuming and arcane politics of administration; the groups that had
mobilized to oppose them in legislative settings rarely pursued issues to the
regulatory agencies.  Industry power was bolstered by expertise; matters of
political administration were routinely turned into technical questions that
only members of the profession seemed equipped to resolve.  n100 The most
interested private parties often dominate or "capture" the public agencies that
oversee them.  n101 In the health system, that dominance was systematic and
pervasive.

   The traditional dynamics of health care politics were rooted in the skewed
representation of American policy-making.  Each group unabashedly pursued its
own self interest, though not all interests were organized or active.  n102 The
most interested parties -- for health issues, health providers -- sustained
their attention and concentrated their resources on the programs that most
affected them.  In addition, the health providers were able to evoke deference
from many other groups.  The political outcome was not mere professional
dominance but a broad ceding of public authority directly to the profession.

    [*286]  This political pattern appeared repeatedly in the preceding
sections.  In New Jersey, for example, Blue Cross proposed rate regulation to
ameliorate its own market position.  The program that emerged was promptly
turned over to the hospitals.  They implemented it by simply continuing their
old rate review under the imprimatur of the Commissioner of Health.  On the
federal level, the Hill-Burton Act financed hospital construction where and when
hospital administrators sought funds for it.  The one burden imposed on
hospitals by the legislation -- a specified amount of charity care -- was simply
left to the discretion of the hospitals.  Regulations implementing charity care
provisions were not written until pressure from litigation made such regulations
valuable to the industry, twenty-five years later.  n103 Though hospitals and
physicians initially opposed the passage of Medicare, they dominated its
implementation.  When, partly as a consequence of their dominance, rising costs
became a public problem, the solutions that were attempted were placed in the
hands of health care providers -- voluntary planning councils,  n104 voluntary
cost controls,  n105 boards of physicians identifying Medicare abuse.  n106

   Insofar as this traditional model is still operating, the prospects for new
programs are clear: the all-payor system in New Jersey, Medicare DRGs, even the
form of national health insurance we predict, will come under steady pressure
from the industry.  Administrative officials will increasingly cater to its
wishes, rates will be set more loosely, and, with time, the programs will be
captured by the industry.  n107 Eventually, the DRG "solution" will be replaced
by another scheme and the cycle will begin again.  n108

   Our expectation is different.  Industry dominance over medical programs is
increasingly difficult to achieve.  Instead, a new model of politics has begun
to appear.  Both sides of the political equation are different; the behavior of
both private interest groups and public officials has begun to change.

    [*287]  B.  The New Interest Group Politics: A Dense Environment

   Programs are captured when interests mobilize to grab benefits while the
costs are diffused over broad populations.  Since those who bear the costs are
not organized around the issue, they are not likely to resist.  n109 Few
political interests concerned themselves, in 1966, over how Medicare would pay
hospitals or, in 1971, over how rate regulation would actually operate in New
Jersey.

   In the new political context -- what we call a dense environment -- groups
find themselves in a network of large, well-organized corporate interests whose
destinies have become visibly linked.  When one jockeys for advantage, there are
clear, often immediate consequences for the others.  Political groups have sharp
incentives to attend to one another's political behavior.  As a result, it is
more difficult for a single interest to dominate even its own regulation.

   A dense interest group environment has three major characteristics.  First,
the most important political actors are large.  Even the small actions of large
organizations can have sweeping effects.  The regulation of Blue Cross payments
in New Jersey quickly pushed the urban hospitals toward insolvency and
threatened corporate insurers.  The sheer size of Blue Cross makes its behavior
consequential for a large number of interests.  Its political victories can
induce widespread losses.

   Second, the interests are well organized.  They have the capacity to acquire
necessary information, improve their strategic position, and oppose the
political demands of other groups.  They are primed for political action.

   In the traditional politics, these first two characteristics -- size and
organization -- lead to capture.  The third dimension of the new politics makes
capture unlikely: the fates of the large organizations are interpenetrated.  The
actions of one affect numerous others.  For instance, the capture of rate
regulation by hospitals would now affect an enormous array of public and private
interests.  State budgets would feel additional pressure from Medicaid.
Medicare costs would rise; the threat to the Medicare trust fund would be
exacerbated; the federal deficit would worsen.  Private insurers, their
marketing decisions complicated by the uncertainty of uncontrolled inflation,
would pass the higher hospital costs on to their corporate clients.
Corporations, in turn, could self-insure or cut employee benefits.  When
corporations self-insure, insurers lose business; when corporations cut
benefits, they risk conflict with unions, and hospitals face  [*288]  more
patients with less insurance.  In a dense environment even capture may rebound
to the hospitals' disadvantage.

   In short, a dense political environment replaces the relationship between
interests seeking benefits and the state distributing them with a far more
intricate system of interaction.  Different organizations -- some in apparently
different sectors of the economy -- are visibly linked.  The narrow pursuit of
individual self interest -- the mainspring of traditional American politics
n110 -- becomes less effective; a narrowly focused distribution of benefits to
mobilized interests becomes more difficult to effect.  In the new political
setting, benefits cannot be allocated to one claimant without regard to others.
Different actors cannot be dealt with in a series of separate transactions.  The
traditional mechanisms of American politics -- interest groups mobilizing for
benefits, seeking to capture government agencies, lobbying for political pork --
now result in stalemate.

   C.  State Autonomy: Bureaucrats at the Political Center

   A dense political environment is unstable.  Groups check each other
politically, but continue to take private actions that send ripples of
undesirable consequences through the interconnected system.  Public problems
such as medical inflation or financing indigent care affect a wide range of
private interests.  Yet solutions are difficult to devise.  Political choices
are full of potential losers cognizant of the potential threats.  Interest
groups face intricate problems while they block one another's policy proposals.

   This setting breaks the traditional politics of industry capture.  Private
interests continue to place issues on the political agenda, lobby for programs
they favor, and assail those that cause them harm.  However, the problems they
face require coordinated, even "counterintuitive" action.  n111

   Though numerous interests were harmed by the partial regulation in New
Jersey, none hit upon a program that would further its own interests without
offending other organized groups.  Many demanded assistance; none developed a
solution.  As their problems mounted, the pressure for action increased.  With
private interests blocking one another, public officials became a likely source
of reform.  Rather than merely responding to private interests, they began to
look for, design and implement new policies that responded to the systemic
difficulties.  In the process, they enhanced their power and advanced their
careers.  They became policy entrepreneurs,  [*289]  identified with the
programs they had sponsored.  "Capture" no longer described their behavior.

   Administrative agencies rather than legislatures are likely to be the crucial
actors in a dense environment.  Politics which demand technical expertise, a
capacity to devise comprehensive programs, and a disposition to deny narrow,
self-interested claims is more apt to be bureaucratic than legislative.
Legislators typically have neither the time, the incentives, nor the expertise
to design complex programs that take account of the intricate interactions of a
dense environment.  The toothless Assembly resolution in New Jersey, condemning
a DRG plan that the legislature would not revoke, demonstrates both the wish to
distribute benefits to a mobilized constituency and the difficulty of doing so
in a dense policy environment.  Although some legislators, relying on expert
staff, may try to play a more active role, most prefer the more traditional one
pressed upon them by their electoral incentives: responding to the narrow
constituent demands that are set before them.  n112 Insofar as they pursue this
role in a dense policy environment, they defer substantive policy choices to the
bureaucracy.  n113

   The result is growing administrative authority over the health care industry.
Public administrators devise new policies, induce legislators to enact them, and
then implement the programs.  Federal officials assist their local counterparts:
recall that DRGs were developed in New Jersey with an HCFA grant, enacted with
HCFA's promise of a Medicare waiver, and fully implemented for all payors when
HCFA insisted on an all-payor experiment.  State and local officials form
associations and open Washington offices in order to influence federal
administrators and lobby Congress.  They behave almost like the private interest
groups of the traditional model, organizing to lobby federal administrators and
legislators for relief from their difficulties.  n114

   The contours of an increasingly autonomous bureaucratic establishment are
unclear.  If the traditional pattern of political deference to mobilized
interests continues, public problems are not likely to be solved.  A growing
[*290]  body of pessimistic commentary postulates continued stalemate,
punctuated by crisis.  n115

   However, in the DRG cases that we described above, administrators seized
their opportunities.  In New Jersey, an extremely technical program was designed
by a loose coalition of federal administrators, state bureaucrats, and policy
researchers both in and out of government.  Taken together, they formed an
"issue network" of specialists searching for solutions to public problems.  n116
There was a steady rotation of these individuals: academic specialists joined
the Department of Health, bringing their former colleagues into public
deliberations; members of the Department of Health moved to jobs with HCFA and
other state governments, extending the network of shared perceptions grounded in
technical training.  In both Trenton and Washington there was a sustained
attention to new proposals from policy entrepreneurs.  n117

   This is in no way to suggest the triumph of expertise over politics,  n118
only that the locus of health care politics has changed to the bureaucracy.
n119 Administrators who shake off the old politics and devise new programs will
not routinely succeed.  However, in the new politics, their failures and partial
successes are likely to result in further penetration of the health industry by
the state.  Public officials will be charged with righting the consequences --
both predictable and unanticipated -- of their own interventions.  n120 In New
Jersey, state responsibility for setting Blue Cross premiums led to increasingly
stringent efforts at partial rate regulation which -- after widespread problems
-- led to state control over all payors for all hospitals.  In Washington, the
financing of health benefits for the elderly contributed to general health care
inflation which led, in turn, to a series of programs culminating in the
stringent regulation of Medicare.  We have predicted that the new Medicare will
result in widespread distress and, eventually, the same type of powerful
intervention that occurred in New Jersey.

    [*291]  The irony of the DRG story is that it emerges from an Administration
that arrived in Washington full of free market rhetoric and promises of relief
from bureaucratic meddling.  Four years later, its major health initiative --
widely pronounced competitive -- thrusts public administrators into the center
of the hospital system.  The bureaucrats' role in the DRG program does not fit
the traditional models of American politics.  Private interests are increasingly
caught in the stalemate of a dense policy environment; they are more and more
reliant on the public officials whom they once dominated.  This new political
configuration, and the instability of the Medicare DRG system it has produced,
set the conditions for the next development: the politically untroubled passage
of a national health insurance system.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Public Health & Welfare LawSocial SecurityMedicaidProvidersPayments &
ReimbursementsHospitalsPublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
SecurityMedicareProvidersReimbursementGeneral OverviewPublic Health & Welfare
LawSocial SecurityMedicareProvidersTypesHospitals

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  Between 1965 and 1983, national health care expenditures increased from $
43 billion to $ 355 billion.  Gibson, Levit, Lazenby & Waldo, National Health
Expenditures, 1983, HEALTH CARE FINANCING REV., Winter 1984, at 1, 1.  Hospital
prices outpaced the Consumer Price Index 460% to 188% in that period.
Prospective Reimbursement for Hospitals: Hearings Before the Subcomm. on Health
of the House Comm. on Energy and Commerce, 97th Cong., 2d Sess. 5 (1982)
(statement of Carolyne Davis, Administrator, Health Care Financing
Administration) [hereinafter cited as Hearings].




n2.  Medicare is composed of two separate programs: Part A and Part B.  Part A
is a program of hospital insurance for persons over age 65 which pays for
inpatient hospital care, stays in skilled nursing facilities, and home health
services.  The sole source of funds for Part A is a trust fund financed by a
portion of the Social Security payroll tax; general federal revenues cannot be
used to supplement the trust fund.  Medicare Part B provides optional
supplemental medical insurance which largely pays for physicians' services.
Part B revenues are provided by premiums paid by the enrollees, and by general
federal revenues.  CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE, PROSPECTS FOR MEDICARE'S
HOSPITAL INSURANCE TRUST FUND: AN INFORMATION PAPER PREPARED FOR USE BY THE
SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING, 98TH CONG., 1ST SESS. 1 (1983).  Though we
focus on Medicare Part A, our analysis is relevant to Part B as well.




n3.  Briefly, a DRG system classifies each patient by his or her diagnosis into
one of more than 400 categories, or diagnosis-related groups.  Payment is based
on a price set in advance for each group (DRG) rather than on the nature of the
services provided or on the cost of treatment.




n4.  R. SCHWEIKER, REPORT TO CONGRESS: HOSPITAL PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT SYSTEM FOR
MEDICARE (1982).




n5.  S.1, 98th Cong., 1st Sess., 129 CONG. REC. S89 (1983) (introduced Jan.
26); H.R. 1900, 98th Cong., 1st Sess., 129 CONG. REC. H878 (1983) (introduced
March 3).




n6.  129 CONG. REC. H1787, S4104 (1983) (approved conference version reprinted
in 129 CONG.  REC. H1724-56 (1983)).




n7.  Social Security Amendments of 1983, Pub. L. No. 98-21, §§ 601-07, 97 Stat.
65, 149-72 (1983) (codified at 42 U.S.C.A. § 1395 (West 1983)).




n8.  Section I draws heavily on our research into the politics of hospital
regulation in New Jersey, reported more fully in A. DUNHAM & J. MORONE, THE
POLITICS OF INNOVATION: THE EVOLUTION OF REGULATION IN NEW JERSEY (Health
Research & Education Trust of New Jersey, DRG Evaluation vol. IV-A, 1983)
[hereinafter cited as POLITICS OF INNOVATION]; Morone & Dunham, The Waning of
Professional Dominance: DRGs and the Hospitals, 3 HEALTH AFF. 74 (1984)
[hereinafter cited as DRGs and the Hospitals].  The confidentiality of
interviews conducted at that time precludes their full citation here.  We also
provide no specific citation for certain events described more thoroughly in
POLITICS OF INNOVATION.




n9.  Medicaid is a joint state and federal program that finances medical care
for certain low-income people.  Social Security Act §§ 1901-18, 42 U.S.C. § 1396
(1982). The program is state-administered and varies considerably from state to
state.  All Medicaid programs, however, pay providers directly for general
inpatient and outpatient medical care.  Medicaid is funded jointly by the
federal and state governments.  See HEALTH CARE FINANCING ADMINISTRATION, PUB.
NO. 03156, THE MEDICARE AND MEDICAID DATA BOOK, 1983, at 2-3.




n10.  Each Blue Cross plan is a private health insurer created by special state
enabling legislation, which typically exempts the plan from the general
insurance laws of the state (including the obligation to maintain the reserve
required of commercial insurers) and designates the plan a charitable
organization.  Blue Cross plans are exempt from federal income taxation.  I.R.C.
§ 501(c)(4) (1984).  Such benefits may be based on an image of social reform and
utility that does not seem to correspond to the actual characteristics of Blue
Cross plans.  S. LAW, BLUE CROSS: WHAT WENT WRONG?  9 (1976).




n11.  The relative contributions of payors to hospital care in New Jersey were
recently estimated as: Medicare 40%; Blue Cross 22%; Medicaid 9%; commercial
insurers 15%; others (including self-funded groups, self-paying patients, and
health maintenance organizations (HMOs)) 14%.  HEALTH CARE FINANCING
ADMINISTRATION, PUB. NO. 03170, DIAGNOSIS-RELATED GROUPS: THE EFFECT IN NEW
JERSEY; THE POTENTIAL FOR THE NATION 135 (1984) (Pierce, The Impact of DRGs on
Payers) [hereinafter cited as DIAGNOSIS-RELATED GROUPS].




n12.  N.J. STAT. ANN. § 17:48-9 (West 1963).




n13.  DRGs and the Hospitals, supra note 8, at 75.




n14.  See, e.g., P. STARR, THE SOCIAL TRANSFORMATION OF AMERICAN MEDICINE 347-51
(1982).




n15.  Certificate of need laws prohibit construction or expansion of new health
care facilities, or in some cases the provision of new services, unless such
facilities or services are first approved by the state or an organization such
as a Health Systems Agency, acting pursuant to a state health plan.  In the late
1960's and early 1970's, many states adopted or considered adopting such laws.
Under the National Health Planning and Resources Development Act of 1974, 42
U.S.C. §§ 300k-300t (1982), certificate of need programs have been administered
by the states but regulated by federal law.  For useful general discussions of
certificate of need programs, see Altman, The Politics of Health Care
Regulation: The Case of the National Health Planning and Resources Development
Act, 2 J.  HEALTH POL. POL'Y & L. 560 (1978); D. SALKEVER & R. BICE, HOSPITAL
CERTIFICATE OF NEED CONTROLS (1979); REGULATING HEALTH FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION
(Havighurst ed.  1974).




n16.  Health Care Facilities Planning Act, ch. 136, 138, 1971 N.J. Laws 300, 339
(codified at N.J.  STAT. ANN. §§ 17:48, 26:2H (West 1984)).




n17.  Id., § 18, 1971 N.J. Laws 300, 310-11 (codified as amended at N.J.  STAT.
ANN. § 26:2H-18 (West 1984)).




n18.  See HEALTH CARE FINANCE ADMINISTRATION, PUB. NO. 03034, HEALTH CARE
FINANCING GRANTS AND CONTRACTS REPORT: CASE STUDY OF PROSPECTIVE REIMBURSEMENT
IN NEW JERSEY 7, 58 (1980) [hereinafter cited as CASE STUDY].




n19.  Id. at 5-7.




n20.  Stigler, The Theory of Economic Regulation, 2 BELL J. ECON. & MGMT. SCI.
3,3 (1971).




n21.  R. POWELL, BUREAUCRATIC MALPRACTICE (1974).




n22.  CASE STUDY, supra note 18, at 7.




n23.  POLITICS OF INNOVATION, supra note 8, at 21-22.




n24.  CASE STUDY, supra note 18, at 7.




n25.  POLITICS OF INNOVATION, supra note 8, at 32-33.




n26.  J. KELLY & J. O'BRIEN, CHARACTERISTICS OF FINANCIALLY DISTRESSED HOSPITALS
2 (National Center for Health Services Research, Hospital Cost and Utilization
Project, Research Note 3, vol. VI, 1983).




n27.  Id.




n28.  STAFF OF SUBCOMM. ON HEALTH OF THE HOUSE COMM. ON WAYS AND MEANS, 98TH
CONG., 2D SESS., CONFERENCE ON THE FUTURE OF MEDICARE 92 (Comm. Print 1984)
(Lave, Hospital Reimbursement Under Medicare).




n29.  CASE STUDY, supra note 18, at 41.




n30.  See N.J.H.A. Political Strategy Committee, Historical Perspective of [sic]
Hospital Rate-Setting in New Jersey (1975) (hospital industry's description of
pending and recent litigation) (on file with the Yale Journal on Regulation).




n31.  Hospital inflation in New Jersey was 11.7% in 1977.  Medicare Hospital
Prospective Payment System: Hearings Before the Subcomm. on Health of the House
Comm. on Ways and Means, 98th Cong., 1st Sess. 112 (1983) (statement of Charles
Pierce, Jr., Deputy Commissioner, New Jersey State Dept. of Health) [hereinafter
cited as Hearings].




n32.  For a description of the complex rate-setting system then in use in New
Jersey, known as SHARE, see POLITICS OF INNOVATION, supra note 8, at 26-29.




n33.  Hearing, supra note 1, at 95 (statement of Dorothy Powers, Chairman, New
Jersey Hospital Rate Setting Commission).




n34.  See S. 1454, 196th Leg., 1st Sess. (1976) (on file with the Yale Journal
on Regulation); CASE STUDY, supra note 18, at 47.




n35.  See CASE STUDY, supra note 18, at 47.




n36.  See S. 446, 198th Leg., 1st Sess. (1978).




n37.  Id., § 10, enacted as Act of July 20, 1978, ch. 83, sec. 10, § 18.d, 1978
N.J. Laws 445, 456 (codified at N.J. STAT. ANN. § 26:2H-18.d (West 1984)).




n38.  See Where Fixed Hospital Rates are Easting the Pain, BUS. WK., July 25,
1983, at 44, 48.




n39.  It was expected that Medicare and Medicaid would pay shares of the cost of
uncompensated care proportionate to their overall shares of hospital
reimbursement.  The New Jersey Commissioner of Health noted in 1983 that
Medicare was in fact bearing $ 65 million of the $ 170 million uncompensated
care burden during that year.  New Jersey's Hospital Reimbursement System:
Hearing Before the House Select Comm. on Aging, 98th Cong., 1st Sess. 5 (1983)
(statement of J. Richard Goldstein, M.D., Commissioner, New Jersey Dept. of
Health) [hereinafter cited as Hearing].




n40.  See CASE STUDY, supra note 18, at 58-59.




n41.  See id. at 59.  For example, the Hospital Association succeeded in
dissuading the Department of Health from expropriating hospital endowments.




n42.  Blue Cross was able to obtain in S. 446 a provision preserving to some
extent its rate differential.  S.  446, § 10, enacted as Act of July 20, 1978,
ch. 83, sec. 10, § 18.b., 1978 N.J. Laws 445, 455 (codified at N.J. STAT. ANN. §
26:2H-18.b (West 1984)).  Blue Cross also received a series of concessions in a
companion bill, S. 419, enacted as Act of Aug. 2, 1978, ch. 94, 1978 N.J.  Laws
478 (codified at N.J. STAT. ANN. §§ 17:48-1, :48-6.9, :48-10 (West 1984)).  S.
419 allowed Blue Cross to "experience-rate" groups of insureds which increased
its ability to compete with private insurers.  Id., § 2, 1978 N.J. Laws 478,
479-80 (codified at N.J. STAT. ANN. § 17:48-6.9 (West 1984)).  S. 419 also
allowed Blue Cross to collect a reserve of 2.5% to cover unexpected payments.
Id., § 3, 1978 N.J.  Laws 478, 480-81 (codified at N.J. STAT. ANN. § 17:48-10
(West 1984)).  See POLITICS OF INNOVATION, supra note 8, at 58-59; CASE STUDY,
supra note 18, at 48, 53.




n43.  Act of July 20, 1978, ch. 83, 1978 N.J. Laws 445 (codified in scattered
sections of N.J. STAT.  ANN. § 26:2H (West 1984)).




n44.  Twenty-six hospitals entered the system in 1980, thirty-five more in 1981,
and the remaining thirty-seven in 1982.  Hearing, supra note 39, at 3 (statement
of J.  Richard Goldstein, M.D., Commissioner, New Jersey Dept. of Health).




n45.  The bill required the rate schedule to provide each hospital with enough
revenue to treat adequately its particular "mix of patients," Act of July 20,
1978, ch. 83, §§ 2.k, 2.1, 5.b, 1978 N.J.  Laws 445, 447, 450 (codified at N.J.
STAT. ANN. §§ 26:2H-2.k, :2H-2.1, :2H-4.1.b (West 1984)), and "case-mix" was
included as a factor in determining periodic adjustments to the cost base
(rates) for each hospital.  Id., § 11.b, 1978 N.J. Laws 445, 457 (codified at
N.J.  STAT. ANN. § 26:2H-18.1.b (West 1984)).




n46.  Letter from Stephen Pelovitz, HCFA Project Officer, to Bruce Vladeck,
Assistant Commissioner of Health in New Jersey (July 11, 1978), described in
POLITICS OF INNOVATION, supra note 8, at 80-81.




n47.  Although group lobbying was no longer effective, some commentators argue
that individual hospitals in New Jersey still were able to effect favorable and
unique DRG rates for themselves.  Weiner, Greene & Sapolsky, The Theory and
Practice of DRG Implementation (Oct. 1984) (unpublished draft on file with the
Yale Journal on Regulation).  These authors believe that the same pressures for
individualization of DRG rates for specific hospitals will exist in the national
Medicare DRG system recently enacted, despite its present structure which
permits few individualizing adjustments.  Id.




n48.  See Vladeck, Medicare Hospital Payment by Diagnosis-Related Groups, 100
ANN. INT. MED.  576, 585 (1984).




n49.  I.e., state regulation of Blue Cross and Medicaid reimbursement rates from
1974 to 1978.




n50.  Health Insurance for the Aged Act, Pub. L. No. 89-97, Stat. 286 (1965)
(codified as amended at 42 U.S.C. § 1395 (1982)).




n51.  Social Security Act § 1801, 42 U.S.C. § 1395 (1982).




n52.  When Medicare was first enacted, it paid hospitals (under Part A) the
"reasonable cost" of their services.  Health Insurance for the Aged Act, Pub. L.
No. 89-97, sec.  102(a), § 1314(b), 79 Stat.  286 (1965) (codified as amended at
42 U.S.C. § 1395f(b)(1) (1982)).  Regulations soon defined "reasonable cost" as
"current costs" including "all necessary and proper expenses." 42 C.F.R. §
405.402 (1966).  In 1972, Congress changed hospital reimbursement to the lesser
of "reasonable cost" and "customary charges," and defined "reasonable cost" as
"the cost actually incurred, excluding . . . any part . . . found to be
unnecessary in the efficient delivery of needed health services. . . ." Social
Security Amendments of 1972, Pub. L. No. 92-603, §§ 223(a), 233(a), 86 Stat.
1329, 1393, 1411 (codified at 42 U.S.C. §§ 1395f(b)(1), 1395x(v)(1)(A) (1982)).




n53.  Medicare reimbursement was at first purely retrospective: payments were
for actual costs incurred.  See supra note 52.  The Social Security Amendments
of 1972 authorized the Secretary of HEW to set prospective limits on
reimbursement of such costs, based on "estimates of the costs necessary in the
efficient delivery of needed health services. . . ." Pub. L. No.  92-603, §
223(b), 86 Stat.  1329, 1393, (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1395x(v)(1)(A) (1982)).
Since 1974 the Secretary set prospective limits annually, allowing adjustments
for different types of hospitals.  When a hospital's routine per diem charges
for its Medicare patients were above the limit, the excess was not reimbursed;
however, if the charges fell below the limit, the hospital was reimbursed only
in the amount of the charges.  "Section 223" limits thus offered no incentive to
cut costs below the reimbursement limit.  Because the limit was set at a certain
percentage over the mean costs of similar hospitals, the result was to drive up
the mean cost of hospital care.  See Lundy, Hospital Cost Containment 2, 4-5
(Cong. Research Serv., Issue Brief No. IB82072, Jan. 10, 1983), reprinted in [3
1983 Transfer Binder] BIOETHICS REP. (UPA), at Literature 176, 184.




n54.  Comprehensive Health Planning and Public Services Amendments of 1966, Pub.
L. No. 89-749, 80 Stat. 1180 (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 246 (1982)).




n55.  B. EHRENREICH & J. EHRENREICH, THE AMERICAN HEALTH EMPIRE 211 (1970);
Rosenblatt, Health Care Reform and Administrative Law: A Structural Approach, 88
YALE L.J. 243, 306 (1978). See West & Stevens, Comparative Analysis of Community
Health Planning: Transition from CHPs to HSAs, 1 J. HEALTH POL. POL'Y AND L.
173, 177 (1976); see also O'Connor, Comprehensive Health Planning: Dreams and
Realities, 52 MILLBANK MEMORIAL FUND Q. 391, 404 (1974) (study showing that
consumers on comprehensive health planning boards developed affiliation with and
sympathy for health care providers).




n56.  S. REP. NO. 1285, 93d Cong., 2d Sess. (1974), reprinted in 1974 U.S. CODE
CONG. & AD.  NEWS 7842, 7879.




n57.  Social Security Amendments of 1972, Pub. L. No. 92-603, § 249F(b), 86
Stat. 1329, 1429-45, repealed by Peer Review Improvement Act of 1982, Pub. L.
No. 97-248, § 143, 96 Stat. 381, 382-93 (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1320c (1982)).




n58.  See P. STARR, supra note 14, at 400-04; Turner, HEW Begins Medical Review;
AMA, Hospitals Mount Opposition, NAT. J. REP., Jan. 19, 1974, at 90.




n59.  National Health Planning and Resources Development Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C.
§§ 300k-300t (1982).  See supra note 15 and accompanying text.




n60.  In December 1977, a "Voluntary Effort" to control health care cost
increases was launched by a number of medical professional organizations,
including the American Hospital Association, the American Medical Association,
the Blue Cross/Blue Shield Associations, the Federation of American Hospitals,
the Health Industry Manufacturers Association, the Health Insurance Association
of America, the National Association of Counties, a consumer affairs
organization and a business representative.  Lundy, supra note 53, at 8.  In
place of the Carter Administration's hospital cost control bill, H.R. 2626, 96th
Cong., 1st Sess. (1979), which would have established mandatory cost controls if
certain voluntary limits were exceeded, the House of Representatives substituted
and passed a bill which merely would have established a commission to monitor
and encourage the "Voluntary Effort." H.R.  5635, 96th Cong., 1st Sess., 125
CONG. REC. 32,716, 32,750, 32,752 (1979) (not enacted into law).




n61.  See supra note 1.




n62.  OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY AND COSTS OF THE
MEDICARE PROGRAM 93 (1984); Hearings, supra note 1, at 4 (statement of Carolyne
Davis, Administrator, Health Care Financing Administration).




n63.  Davis, Health Care's Soaring Costs, N.Y. Times, Aug. 26, 1983, at D2, col.
1.




n64.  See Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982, Pub. L. No.  97-248,
§ 101, 96 Stat.  324, 331-36 (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1395 (1982)); S. REP. NO.
494, 97th Cong., 2d Sess. 24, 26, reprinted in 1982 U.S. CODE CONG. & AD. NEWS
781, 800, 802 (reimbursement limits were a short-term step pending reimbursement
system reform).




n65.  CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE, CHANGING THE STRUCTURE OF MEDICARE BENEFITS:
ISSUES AND OPTIONS, at xi-xii, 66 (1983); Controlling Health Care Costs: State,
Local, and Private Sector Initiatives: Hearing before the Senate Special Comm.
on Aging, 98th Cong., 1st Sess. 2 (1983) (statement of Sen. John Heinz,
Chairman) [hereinafter cited as Hearing].




n66.  Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982, Pub. L. No. 97-248, sec.
101(b)(3), § 1135(c), 96 Stat. 324, 335 (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1320b-5
(1982)).




n67.  Lundy, supra note 53, at 6-7.  See Esposito, Medicare's Prospective
Payment Demonstration Program, in DIAGNOSIS-RELATED GROUPS, supra note 11, at
18, 19.




n68.  Statement of Policy, 47 Fed. Reg. 4612, 4613 (1982); R. SCHWEIKER, supra
note 4.




n69.  Social Security Amendments of 1983, Pub. L. No. 98-21, § 601-07, 97 Stat.
65, 149-72 (codified at 42 U.S.C.A. § 1395 (West 1983)). See supra notes 5-7.




n70.  Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982, Pub. L. No. 97-248, sec.
101(a)(1), § 1886(b)(3)(B), 96 Stat. 324, 333 (codified at 42 U.S.C. § 1395ww
(b)(3)(B) (1982)).  HCFA actuaries estimated that the 1983 rate of increase in
the cost per Medicare discharge was 10.9%, while the market basket increase plus
one percent for the same period was estimated at 6.9%.  49 Fed. Reg. 252, 338
(1984).




n71.  Pub. L. No. 98-369, § 2310(a)(1), 98 Stat. 494, 1075 (codified at 42
U.S.C.A. § 1395ww(b)(3)(B) (West Supp. 1984)).




n72.  49 Fed. Reg. 27,422, 27,433 (1984) (rate increase held to 5.6% despite
estimated "market basket plus one" of 7.4%, because of the budget neutrality
requirement of § 1886(e)(1) of the Social Security Act, and "other
adjustments").




n73.  OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET, BUDGET OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT FY86, H.R.
DOC. NO. 17, 99TH CONG., 1ST SESS. 2-6 (1985).




n74.  Teitelman, Taking the Cure, FORBES, June 4, 1984, at 82.  Interestingly,
the free market rhetoric has not abated in the face of the extensive price
controls involved in a DRG system.  It would seem that DRGs are not generally
understood to be price controls.  In a recent survey of various lay and
professional groups, health care price controls were deemed unacceptable but
DRGs were widely approved.  Hearing, supra note 65, at 10, 15, 20 (statement of
Humphrey Taylor, President, Louis Harris & Associates, Inc.).




n75.  Hearings, supra note 31, at 161 (statement of Kevin P. Rowland,
Continental Association of Resolute Employers).




n76.  Already, "[b]etween one-quarter and one-third of the nation's voluntary
hospitals cannot generate sufficient revenue to pay expenses." J. KELLY & J.
O'BRIEN, supra note 26, at 1.




n77. " Competition" for self-financing patients may take many forms: simply
refusing to admit uninsured indigents, Medicare patients and Medicaid patients;
closing emergency rooms (the sole source of treatment for many indigents);
relocating to wealthier areas; establishing ambulatory care branches and merging
with hospitals in such areas; refusing to provide less lucrative services and
providing instead either services more lucrative in themselves or more likely to
attract wealthier patients (e.g., "wellness centers").  Hospitals have been
"dumping" poor patients not only by refusing to admit them, but by transferring
them or refusing them treatment even when such actions result in serious injury
or death.  Wall St. J., Mar. 8, 1985, at 33, col. 4.  Such incidents will not
disappear without structural reform; the number of hospitals offering free care
will continue to dwindle as the ranks of the uninsured indigents swell.  Id.




n78.  Capital Financing Under Medicare Program: Hearing Before the Subcomm. on
Health of the Senate Comm. on Finance, 98th Cong., 2d Sess. 104 (1984)
(statement of Robert Sillen, Administrator, Santa Clara County Medical Center).




n79.  Medicare reimbursement has already resulted in cost shifting of $ 6
billion in 1982.  Hearings, supra note 31, at 161 (statement of Kevin P.
Rowland, Continental Association of Resolute Employers); Hearings, supra note 1,
at 212 (statement of John F. Troy, Health Insurance Association of America)
(cost shifting equalled $ 5.8 billion in 1982); see also Ginsburg & Sloan,
Hospital Cost Shifting, 310 NEW ENG. J. MED. 893, 893 (1984) (cost shifting in
1981 estimated by the Health Insurance Association of America to be $ 4.8
billion); J. MEYER, PASSING THE HEALTH CARE BUCK; WHO PAYS THE HIDDEN COST?  7
(1983) (independent researchers found cost shifting in 1981 to be about $ 3.8
billion).  Further Medicare budget tightening will result in more cost shifting.
Hearings, supra note 1, at 212 (statement of John F. Troy, Health Insurance
Association of America).




n80.  See supra p. 267; see, e.g., Hearing, supra note 65, at 1 (statement of
Sen. John Heinz, Chairman); Hearings, supra note 1, at 213 (statement of John F.
Troy, Health Insurance Association of America).




n81.  See, e.g., Kempner, Employer Commitment Seen in Controlling Benefit Costs,
HOSPITALS, May 1, 1984, at 18.  See generally Hearing, supra note 65, at 97-103
(statement of Deborah Chollet, Employee Benefit Research Institute) (describing
employers' efforts to control health care costs).




n82.  See Hearings, supra note 31, at 157 (statement of Willis B.  Goldbeck,
President, Washington Business Group on Health) (cost shifting will cause
business to support an all-payor system).  Business interests pushed through the
extension of Massachusetts' prospective reimbursement system to all payors.
Iglehart, The New Era of Prospective Payment for Hospitals, 307 NEW ENG. J. MED.
1288, 1291 (1982).




n83.  Currently, DRG prices are required to rise by the same percentage as the
"market basket" of goods that hospitals buy.  Social Security Act §
1886(b)(3)(B), 42 U.S.C. § 1395(b)(3)(B) (1982).  However, the link to market
basket prices is not likely to survive budget cutting efforts for long;
apparently, the Reagan Administration has already effectively abandoned it.  See
supra note 72 and text accompanying note 73.




n84.  See CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE, supra note 65, at 5 (aging of population
plus greater intensity of medical care for elderly will increase Medicare
program costs 2.2% annually).




n85.  See CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE, AN ANALYSIS OF THE PRESIDENT'S BUDGETARY
PROPOSALS FOR FISCAL YEAR 1985, at 84 (1984); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE,
BASELINE BUDGET PROJECTIONS FOR FISCAL YEARS 1985-1989, at 20, 24 (1984).




n86.  See Marmor, Wittman & Heagy, The Politics of Medical Inflation, 1 J.
HEALTH POL. POL'Y & L. 69 (1976).




n87.  Recent examples include S. 3, 94th Cong., 2d Sess. (1976) (Kennedy-Corman
bill) and H.R.  5191, 96th Cong., 1st Sess. (1979) (Kennedy-Waxman bill).  See
J. FEDER, T.  HOLAHAN & T.  MARMOR, NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE: CONFLICTING GOALS
AND POLICY CHOICES 686-704 (1980); T. MARMOR, POLITICAL ANALYSIS AND AMERICAN
MEDICAL CARE 155-261 (1983).  For a discussion of the original universal health
insurance proposals in the New Deal/Fair Deal, see T.  MARMOR, THE POLITICS OF
MEDICARE 9-14 (1973) [hereinafter cited as POLITICS OF MEDICARE].




n88.  See Lowi, American Business, Public Policy, Case-Studies, and Political
Theory, 16 WORLD POL. 677 (1964).




n89.  See, e.g., Lindblom, The Science of "Muddling Through", 19 PUB. AD. REV.
79 (1959); A.  WILDAVSKY, THE POLITICS OF THE BUDGETARY PROCESS 108-26 (2d ed.
1974).




n90.  See POLITICS OF MEDICARE, supra note 87, at 5-28.




n91.  See Dunham, Morone & White, Restoring Medical Markets: Implications for
the Poor, 7 J.  HEALTH POL. POL'Y & L. 488 (1982).




n92.  For example, the Hill-Burton program, Hospital Survey and Construction
Act, Pub. L. No.  79-725, 60 Stat. 1040 (1946) (current version at 42 U.S.C. §§
291-291o (1982)), provided grants for the construction of new facilities; it
helped many hospitals and harmed virtually none.  See Rosenblatt, supra note 55,
at 265-76.  The industry fought Medicare through the early 1960's and then,
switching sides at the last moment, enjoyed the financial bonanza that followed;
this too was a broad benefit to the industry as a whole.  See POLITICS OF
MEDICARE, supra note 87, at 29-81; see also Rosenblatt, supra note 55, at
264-86.  Hospitals viewed the regulatory schemes of the Carter years as harmful
and easily defeated them despite increasing public concern about rising costs.
See Lundy, supra note 53, at 7-8.




n93.  The teaching hospital subsidy is a good illustration.  Teaching hospitals
receive an additional payment for the indirect costs of medical education.
Social Security Act § 1886(d)(5)(B), 42 U.S.C.A. § 1395ww(d)(5)(B) (West 1983);
42 C.F.R. § 405.477(d)(2) (1984).  This is an important subsidy to the many
urban hospitals which are also teaching hospitals.  However, the Reagan
Administration's new budget would reduce the teaching hospital subsidy by half,
illustrating the vulnerability of such special accommodations.  See Demkovich,
Administration Taking Aim at Subsidies for Hospitals' Medical Education Costs,
17 NAT. J. 309 (1985).




n94.  See, e.g., National Health Planning and Resources Development Act of 1974,
42 U.S.C. §§ 300k-t (1982); S. 2424, 98th Cong., 2d Sess. § 2101 (1984)
(Kennedy-Gephart bill).




n95.  See generally W. GLASER, HEALTH INSURANCE BARGAINING (1978) (discussing
European systems).




n96.  M. SKIDMORE, MEDICARE AND THE AMERICAN RHETORIC OF RECONCILIATION (1970).




n97.  See F. PERKINS, THE ROOSEVELT I KNEW 289 (1946).




n98.  On the concept of a political agenda, see R. COBB & C. ELDER,
PARTICIPATION IN AMERICAN POLITICS (1972); J. KINGDON, AGENDAS, ALTERNATIVES,
AND PUBLIC POLICIES (1984).




n99.  M. FIORINA, CONGRESS: KEYSTONE OF THE WASHINGTON ESTABLISHMENT 40 (1977).




n100.  Cf. E. FREIDSON, PROFESSION OF MEDICINE 373 (1970) (discussing
physicians' "technical" autonomy in defining "content" of their work).




n101.  See, e.g., B. MITNICK, THE POLITICAL ECONOMY OF REGULATION 38 (1980);
Stigler, supra note 20, at 3.




n102.  See G. MCCONNELL, PRIVATE POWER AND AMERICAN DEMOCRACY 107-18 (1966); M.
OLSEN, THE LOGIC OF COLLECTIVE ACTION 5-22 (2d ed. 1971).




n103.  See 42 C.F.R. § 53.111(h) (1984); see also Rosenblatt, supra note 55, at
276-78; Rose, Federal Regulation of Services to the Poor Under the Hill-Burton
Act: Realities and Pitfalls, 70 NW.  U.L. REV. 168, 169, 174-78 (1975).




n104.  See supra notes 54-56.




n105.  See supra note 60.




n106.  See supra notes 57-58.




n107.  See, e.g., Hearing, supra note 65, at 51 (statement of Frank A.  Sloan,
Executive Director, Health Policy Center, Vanderbilt University) (all-payor
system eventually would evolve to offer price protection for the benefit of
individual hospitals and insurers); see also Rose, supra note 103, at 168.




n108.  This model informs Frank Thompson's review of our book, POLITICS OF
INNOVATION, supra note 8.  Thompson, The Politics of DRGs (Review Essay), 9 J.
HEALTH POL.  POL'Y & L. 717 (1985).




n109.  J. WILSON, POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS 327-46 (1973).




n110.  See, e.g., D. TRUMAN, THE GOVERNMENTAL PROCESS: POLITICAL INTERESTS AND
PUBLIC OPINION (2d ed. 1971); R. DAHL, A PREFACE TO DEMOCRATIC THEORY (1956);
Greenstone, Group Theories, in 2 HANDBOOK OF POLITICAL SCIENCE 243 (F.
Greenstein & N. Polsby eds. 1975); THE FEDERALIST No. 10 (J. Madison).




n111.  See D. BELL, THE COMING OF POST-INDUSTRIAL SOCIETY: A VENTURE IN SOCIAL
FORECASTING 31-32 (1973).




n112.  Cf. R. ARNOLD, CONGRESS AND THE BUREAUCRACY: A THEORY OF INFLUENCE 26-30
(1979).




n113.  National health bills almost always have been associated with individual
members of Congress: The Hill-Burton Act is known by the names of the
Congressmen who sponsored it; Medicare was fundamentally shaped by Rep. Wilbur
Mills, see POLITICS OF MEDICARE, supra note 87, at 62-70.  By contrast, the
Medicare DRG system, like its New Jersey predecessor, is a bureaucratic
initiative, not identified with any particular legislators.




n114.  See Beer, Federalism, Nationalism and Democracy in America, 72 AM. POL.
SCI. REV. 9, 17-19 (1978) (discussing the concept of a public sector lobby); see
also Beer, The Adoption of General Revenue Sharing: A Case Study in Public
Sector Politics, 24 PUB. POL. 127 (1976).




n115.  See, e.g., R. DAHL & C. LINDBLOM, POLITICS, ECONOMICS & WELFARE, at xxii
(2d ed.  1976); L. BROWN, NEW POLICIES, NEW POLITICS: GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE TO
GOVERNMENT'S GROWTH 1-8 (1983).




n116.  See Heclo, Issue Networks and the Executive Establishment, in THE NEW
AMERICAN SYSTEM 87, 102 (A. King ed. 1978).




n117.  Cf. Etheredge, Government and Health Care Costs: The Influence of
Research on Policy 4 (Nov. 1984) (paper delivered at Pews Fellows Conference and
on file with the Yale Journal on Regulation).




N118.  See G. MCCONNELL, supra note 102 at 43-48; see also Morone, The Citizen
Role in Health Politics: Democratic Wishes and Sensible Reforms, in HEALTH
POLITICS AND POLICY 243, 244, 248 (T. Litman & L. Robins ed. 1984).




n119.  Cf. G. ALLISON, ESSENCE OF DECISION: EXPLAINING THE CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS
169-70 (1971) (discussing action channels for public decisions).




n120.  See F. HAYEK, THE ROAD TO SERFDOM (1944) (government intervention
inevitably leads to further government intervention); L. BROWN, supra note 115,
at 1-8.


