                              462 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       BBC Monitoring Africa - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             March 17, 2015 Tuesday

Nigeria's Rivers State raps escalation of political violence

LENGTH: 477 words


Text of report by Nigerian privately-owned newspaper The Neighbourhood
(www.theneighbourhoodonline on 16 March

The Rivers State government has lamented the sudden escalation of political
violence in the state, which it claims are politically motivated, mostly by the
opposition main political party, Peoples Democratic Party [PDP].

It would be recalled that the state has witnessed an upsurge in politically
motivated violence since January, leading to the death of party members and
supporters of the two leading political parties in the state, PDP and the All
Progressives Congress [APC].

The state Commissioner for Health, Dr Sampson Parker, raised the alarm at a
press conference, in Port Harcourt on Saturday.

He said that he and his colleagues at the ministry "toil daily to ensure that we
provide services, given available resources in health care delivery because of
an increase in the number of victims of politically motivated violence".

Parker stated: "We have built some of the best health centres, hospitals and
other medical institutions. However, daily, our people are confronted with
danger as they go about their normal and lawful businesses.

"Fellow citizens, an orgy of political violence have been unleashed on the
people of Rivers State and we are seeing an abnormal increase in deaths and
injuries as elections approach".

Parker gave the statistics from the Braithwaite Memorial Specialist Hospital
[BMSH] and Kelsey Harrison Hospital from January to March 12 as 41 gunshot
injuries and 26 assaults, including machete injuries.

"Be mindful of the fact that we have not stated figures for deaths arising from
this new epidemic. The reason is that the dead were not brought to the
hospitals. However, we as reported in the news recently, there have been
killings at Oroworukwo, Okrika, Omoku and numerous others around the state", he
said.

"There is no doubt in my mind that there are cases which were neither reported
to the police nor government health facilities. Therefore, the figures given to
you here do not reflect the true index of political violence in our state.
Indeed, they may just be the tip of the iceberg.

"Let us note here that the Ebola scourge for which the country and our state
rose up as one to combat only accounted for 10 deaths in Nigeria, out of which
two were in Rivers State. Today, we go about our lives as if we have accepted
this ominous situation".

Parker said that he has decided to raise the alarm because the duty of those in
the Ministry of Health is to save lives, adding, "we are also using this
opportunity to warn our people and make them aware of the danger to our way of
life.

"Election period should be a time for debates, exchange of ideas, mobilization
of the people, exhibition of ambitions and greater gainful activities for our
teeming youths".

Source: The Neighbourhood, Port Harcourt, in English 16 Mar 15

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2015 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


