                              467 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring Middle East - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 12, 2011 Tuesday

Thousands said turned away from hospital during Bahrain anti-government protests

LENGTH: 489 words


Excerpt from report by Alicia De Haldevang entitled "SMC chaos revealed"
published in English by Bahrain newspaper Gulf Daily News website on 12 April

Hundreds of surgeries were postponed and thousands of patients were turned away
from Bahrain's biggest hospital due to the occupation by anti-government
protesters, it has emerged.

A total of 700 surgeries at Salmaniya Medical Complex (SMC) had to be called off
and 5,000 patients were stopped from entering the complex, acting Health
Minister Dr Fatima Al-Balushi revealed yesterday.

The hospital became a key base for anti-government protesters between 17
February and 17March, causing major disruption to the country's health service.
Dr Al-Balushi revealed security forces even found machine guns abandoned by
protesters inside the hospital during a government operation to reclaim it last
month.

She is now urging anyone who witnessed abuses at the hospital during that time
to come forward to help with ongoing investigations. "We ask witnesses to come
forward with photographs and video footage as evidence, so that the (probe)
committee can carry out a full investigation of actions carried out by doctors
and nurses who neglected their duties," she told a press conference yesterday
attended by local and international media.

"If a person is innocent then they will be allowed to go back to work as normal.

"However, if it is proven that they played a part in the takeover of SMC, their
medical licence will be taken away."

The ministry has already suspended the medical licences of 30 doctors and
nurses, while another 150 are under investigation for their alleged role in
causing chaos at the facility.

Dr Al-Balushi revealed two anti-government protesters died at SMC after medical
staff actually made their existing wounds worse to exaggerate their injuries for
news cameras. She said doctors and nurses deliberately harmed patients who had
been admitted for emergency treatment, but declined to provide details of the
victims.

The acting minister, who is also Bahrain's social development minister, said
protesters had turned the hospital into a political headquarters - depriving
treatment to thousands of people.

"This group controlled SMC and transformed it into a political centre in line
with their political views, using political slogans in the hospital," she told a
press conference at the Information Affairs Authority, Isa Town, yesterday.
"They deprived people, Bahrainis and (foreign) residents, of medical care and
threatened patients' lives.

"The hospital was also turned into a media studio, with certain television
channels operating from SMC wards -fabricating stories to influence public and
international opinion."

Although the hospital remains under tight security, Dr Al Al-Balushi said its
services -as well as those at all other healthcare facilities - had now returned
to normal. [Passage omitted]

Source: Gulf Daily News website, Manama, in English 12 Apr 11

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2011 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


