                              48 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Malta Today

                             July 15, 2014 Tuesday

A bipartisan policy on health

LENGTH: 1150  words


The two political parties that allowed themselves to be swayed by the doctors'
lobby working in its own interest also used the project and the hospital to gain
other brownie points in their short-sighted electoral wrestling matches.


Michael Falzon

he editorial of last Sunday's issue of the Labour Party's weekly paper
Kul[#x126]add deserves a prize for the most misleading half-truth ever to grace
a leader in that paper. The editorial dwelt on the health sector and had the
temerity to boast that it was a Labour government that decided to enlarge Mater
Dei Hospital - implying that had it not done so, the bed shortage problems there
would have been worse.



This implication is nonsense, as the precursor of what today is 'Mater Dei'
hospital was not originally intended to be a general hospital to replace St
Luke's, a decision taken by the Alfred Sant administration. It was this decision
that necessitated the increase in beds and the enlargement of the hospital.

The story of how this switch was made is, unfortunately, a tale that should give
all political parties a lesson not to let lobbies use the eternal political
tussle to their benefit and to the disadvantage of the common good.

The hospital at Tal-Qroqq was intended to be a specialised hospital that would
reduce the load on St Luke's in particular areas of medical treatment and would
complement St Luke's, not replace it. This was what the 1987-96 Fenech Adami
administrations had planned and started implementing. The idea was also for the
state to have a hospital with a different management system than the one
prevalent at St Luke's - a system that would eventually be adapted in other
hospitals.

Immediately, the doctors' lobby smelled an imaginary rat. They objected to the
idea, saying that there was no need of another hospital. They objected to the
involvement of an Italian hospital group (San Raffaele) because in our medical
confraternity anything that is not British is frowned upon... and because they
realised that in this new hospital they would not be able to call the shots.

From the opposition, then Labour leader Alfred Sant seized on the widening crack
between the PN and the doctors' lobby and immediately adopted their line. He
started referring to the new hospital as a useless Fenech Adami whim (kapricc
ta' Fenech Adami) while promising to dump the project.

When he assumed power in October 1996, Alfred Sant stopped the project and took
quite some time until he got technical advice on what the building, in its
advanced stage, could be used for - as well as legal advice on the commitments
that the government had entered into with the main contractor. He also consulted
the doctors' lobby, with whom he probably had some pre-electoral deal. I say
'probably' because there is no proof to what, in effect, is a hunch of mine.


The end result was that, with the connivance of the doctors' union, Alfred Sant
decided to switch the half-built hospital project at Tal-Qroqq into a much
larger one: a general hospital replacing St Luke's. That is how Labour
'enlarged' the hospital that was afterwards baptised 'Mater Dei' by a later
Fenech Adami administration.



To this day, I do not know why the subsequent 1998 Fenech Adami administration -
elected just 22 months into the Alfred Sant government - did not reverse the
decision and revert to the original plan. My hunch, again, is that it did not
want to rock the boat again with the doctors' lobby. So it continued on the
Alfred Sant plan and invested a record sum in what became the most expensive
'state of the art' hospital in Malta's history, a hospital that is now
considered to be inadequate as far as the number of available beds is concerned.




There lies the tale of woe that is the history of 'Mater Dei'. The two political
parties that allowed themselves to be swayed by the doctors' lobby working in
its own interest also used the project and the hospital to gain other brownie
points in their short-sighted electoral wrestling matches.



During its construction, Labour had a field day with unproven allegations of
imaginary corruption lurking behind every contract and then, when the hospital
was functioning, it had another field day with its bed shortage problems. Now in
government, it is the PN's turn to have a field day on the bed shortage problem!




Most of this problem is a management problem: the management of St Luke's was
practically transferred to Mater Dei together with work practices that benefit
doctors and nurses to the detriment of good management.



Subsequently we have had uncosted deals in the form of agreements with unions
that lead to the agreed salary increases but not to the promised improvement in
efficiency - usually signed on the eve of elections. Add political interference
and you get a rough idea of the mess that former Labour Minister Godfrey
Farrugia could not sort out and that the incumbent Konrad Mizzi is grappling
with.



The mess is simply a management problem because the medical treatment has always
been, and still is, first class. Our doctors and nurses deserve maximum points
for this but they get zilch for using their clout to emasculate attempts at
efficient and cost-effective hospital management, to their advantage.



In the meantime St Luke's hospital has been left underutilised with most of it
abandoned while the politicians (of both parties) cannot think what to do with
it.


Considering this retrospective of the Mater Dei tale in mind, the PN spokesman
on health, Claudio Grech, should be congratulated for proposing that the two
political parties should agree on a bipartisan policy and approach on health.
Such an approach has never been arrived at because the party in opposition has
always sought short term advantages in the electoral tussle, rather than
cooperation with the government for long term efficiency in health services. As
a result, they have fallen victims of the doctors', nurses' and other lobbies
that have historically excelled in using the rivalry between the political
parties to their advantage.



In Opposition, the PN has the opportunity to emulate Labour in opposition and
take the sides of the various lobbies that push for their interests and then
denigrate the government for not delivering the promised results.



Instead it has looked at the matter with a wider and saner perspective: it has
suggested that a consensus should be found on health issues with an agreed
bipartisan policy. In doing so it is consciously ditching the opportunity to use
problems in the health service as short-term electoral ploys.



Rather than publishing editorials that talk of health policy in terms of the
permanent confrontation between Labour and the PN, Kul[#x126]add should have
given us the official Labour reaction to Claudio Grech's proposal.



This is an opportunity not to be missed.



Michael Falzon is a former government minister who served under several
Nationalist admini...

More from Michael Falzon


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1592


                       Copyright 2014 MediaToday Co. Ltd
               Provided by Syndigate.info,an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


