                              465 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            The Daily Star (Lebanon)

                             March 7, 2015 Saturday

Political interference behind Sidon's hospital resignations

BYLINE: Mohammed Zaatari

LENGTH: 472 words


Endless administrative problems and ongoing political interference were behind
the mass resignation of the board of Sidon's Governmental Hospital this week,
sources from the medical center told The Daily Star.

SIDON, Lebanon: Endless administrative problems and ongoing political
interference were behind the mass resignation of the board of Sidon's
Governmental Hospital this week, sources from the medical center told The Daily
Star. "[Thursday's] resignations came as a result of obstacles to administrative
and routine [daily] work, which the hospital has struggled with for years," the
sources explained.

Following a unified decision made at an urgent meeting of the board, Chairman
Ali Abdul-Jawad presented the group's resignation.

Sources also cited political interference as a factor in the move, pointing to
rumors that the board had been pressured to resign.

"Some local politicians have been trying to hinder the board's work with
malicious attempts to marginalize the institution, despite it being a university
hospital," a source told The Daily Star.

The hospital provides care for patients not just from Sidon but from neighboring
areas as well. The range of its services may have brought it into competition
with other health care institutions.

Despite facing financial difficulties, the hospital has continued to pay
employees. But like other medical institutions in Lebanon, the hospital faces a
number of financial and logistical problems.

"These are related to the failure of ... private bodies to pay financial
obligations owed to the hospital," claimed one of the sources. "This is in
addition to ... a lack of support for the hospital among members of civil
society."

Health Minister Wael Abu Faour was accused by Popular Nasserite Organization
head, former Sidon MP Osama Saad, of being unreachable during the crisis.

"If you are able to get hold of Minister Abu Faour, let me know," Saad told
reporters at a press conference held in response to the news.

Saad blamed the failure of consecutive governments to provide Sidon's
Governmental Hospital with the resources it needs to operate effectively.

"Despite this [neglect], over the past couple of years the hospital has been
able to do important work," Saad said. "It has succeeded in providing health and
medical services for numerous patients, without burdening them with high
financial costs."

The facility has sought funding from other sources in efforts to improve
services and efficiency. With the benefit of a Spanish grant, the hospital has
used solar energy to heat its water.

Chairman Abdul-Jawad also recently signed an agreement with the Japanese Embassy
to provide a critical care unit for newborns, a facility unavailable even at
many private hospitals in Sidon. Sidon's Governmental Hospital has the highest
birth rate among medical centers in the south.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 23


             Copyright 2015 The Daily Star - The Daily Star FZ LLC.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


