                              471 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 26, 2002 Monday
                                 Final Edition

The Silent Treatment From Beijing;
Mental Hospitals Allegedly Used to Quiet Dissidents, Falun Gong

BYLINE: Philip P. Pan, Washington Post Foreign Service

SECTION: A SECTION; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1784 words

DATELINE: BEIJING


The police officer was on the run. Like others in the banned Falun Gong
spiritual movement, Fang Lihong had been fired, imprisoned and forced to attend
months of intense "deprogramming" classes. Unlike most, he was then committed to
a psychiatric hospital -- but he escaped.

"I was terrified," Fang said last year during an interview at a seedy tavern in
central China. "I'm not mentally ill, but I was trapped with the other patients
for 16 months."

At first, he said, doctors at the Kangning Psychiatric Hospital in the northern
city of Anshan forced him to take medication. Later, they let him take the pills
to his room and discard them, Fang said. The doctors told him they knew he was
sane but were under orders from his superiors in the police department to
"treat" him anyway, he said.

During the 45-minute interview, Fang spoke clearly and appeared rational.
Afterward, he slipped out a side door and went back into hiding. In February,
according to Falun Gong officials in the United States, police caught him in
southern Fujian province and he died in their custody, apparently from physical
abuse. A doctor at Kangning confirmed the mental hospital had treated Fang and
had been informed of his death, but he declined to discuss the case further.

Stories such as Fang's and others alleging psychiatric abuse of dissidents have
prompted an increasingly contentious debate over whether the Chinese government
is systematically confining people in mental hospitals for political reasons as
the Soviet Union did in the 1970s and '80s.

The issue is high on the agenda of this week's congress of the World Psychiatric
Association in the Japanese city of Yokohama, where delegates are expected to
vote today on a resolution demanding that China open its mental hospitals to an
independent investigation. If a probe found evidence of abuse, China could be
expelled from the world body.

That would be an embarrassing defeat for China's ruling Communist Party, which
has denied the allegations of psychiatric abuse and labored to defend its human
rights record in the run-up to the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing. No major
member of the World Psychiatric Association has been forced out since the Soviet
Union, which withdrew in 1983 under threat of expulsion.

Whether Chinese psychiatrists will meet the same condemnation is uncertain, both
because there is little evidence that Chinese mental hospitals have been used to
silence prominent dissidents and because China has launched an aggressive
defense focusing on Falun Gong members they say are truly mentally ill.

The campaign to expose psychiatric abuse in China began last year with the
publication of a detailed report on the subject by Robin Munro, a British
academic who served as the chief China researcher for Human Rights Watch during
the 1990s.

The report relied primarily on articles discovered in Chinese psychiatric
textbooks and medical journals that describe a system in which forensic
psychiatrists diagnose "political criminals" with mental illnesses just as
routinely as they do other criminals. These criminals are spared prison terms or
execution and instead are sent to police-run institutes for the criminally
insane, known as Ankang hospitals.

Based on statistics reported in the Chinese documents, Munro estimated that at
least 3,000 people charged with some kind of political crime in the past two
decades were referred for psychiatric evaluation by police, and that most of
them were deemed mentally ill and confined in the Ankang system.

The finding was startling because China was widely believed to have abandoned
the systematic abuse of psychiatry after the end of Mao Zedong's destructive
Cultural Revolution in 1976, and many Western experts had praised Chinese
psychiatrists for making significant advances toward international standards.

In addition, Munro's estimate exceeds the number of political dissidents
confirmed to have been wrongly diagnosed and locked up in Soviet mental
hospitals during the 1970s and '80s.

"There were only ever about 200 to 300 named cases of Soviet dissidents and
others who were sent to mental asylums, though there are unconfirmed ballpark
estimates that the numbers may have run into the several thousands," Munro said.
"In China's case, by contrast, we have a wealth of official statistics showing
that the absolute minimum number of political psychiatric detentions since the
early 1980s is about 3,000."

But the evidence available against China is different in important ways from
what critics mustered against the Soviet Union.

In the Soviet case, there were two types of victims of psychiatric abuse, a
group of political dissidents who criticized the government, and a larger group
of people -- deemed "troublemakers" -- with grievances against their employers
or local officials. The West focused its attention on the political dissidents.

But the only evidence against Soviet psychiatrists at the time were numerous
anecdotal reports about individual cases, said Richard J. Bonnie, a law
professor at the University of Virginia who participated in two investigations
of psychiatric abuse in the Soviet Union.

"We had allegations, and we had names," Bonnie said. "There was no documentation
or any systematic statistical information of the kind that Robin has identified
in China."

On the other hand, Munro has been unable to put names behind the numbers. He
said the Ankang system is highly secretive, and the authorities generally use it
against lesser-known "political criminals."

Only two political dissidents inside the Ankang system are known to the outside
world. One is Wang Miaogen, who helped found the Shanghai Workers Autonomous
Federation in May 1989 and reportedly was committed to the Shanghai Ankang
Hospital in 1993.

The other is Wang Wanxing, a worker who unfurled a banner in Tiananmen Square in
1992 to commemorate the third anniversary of the military crackdown on
student-led protests there. His wife, Wang Junying, said police at the time
tricked her into signing papers indicating her husband was mentally ill by
saying he would be released in a few months.

But 10 years later, at the age of 52, he remains confined in the Beijing Ankang
Hospital on the outskirts of the city.

Wang said she has never been given an official diagnosis of her husband's
illness. In 1997, in response to a State Department report that mentioned the
case, the Chinese government said doctors had found Wang to be "suffering from
paranoid delusions."

A few months ago, Wang said, authorities offered to release her husband into her
custody if she agreed that he is mentally ill and took responsibility for his
actions. She said she and her husband refused, and in response the hospital
moved him to a ward holding violent inmates.

"How can they do this to a healthy person?" she said. "They couldn't charge him
with a crime, so they put him in a hospital. It's just an excuse to persecute
him."

Besides the two cases in the Ankang system, there have been many reports of
individuals -- including labor activists -- who have been committed to other
psychiatric hospitals for shorter periods, often without being charged with a
crime and usually by order of local officials who consider them troublemakers.

In the past year, state-run newspapers have reported on at least six cases of
people who were unjustly committed to mental hospitals, including a 60-year-old
teacher who was confined for 300 days after repeatedly complaining about
housing, and a 42-year-old peasant confined for more than 200 days after a land
dispute with local officials.

"They took an innocent, normal person who challenged authority and illegally
forced me into a mental hospital," said Zhong Huayuan, 63, a professor in
Guangzhou who was committed four times between 1972 and 1992 in disputes with
his bosses. "Some of the doctors don't realize what is happening, and they make
you take medicine or get electroshock therapy."

Chinese legal scholars and psychiatrists blame the problem on poor training of
psychiatrists and a weak legal system that does not protect patients' rights.
There is no clear standard for when a person who has not committed a crime can
be forcibly hospitalized, nor is it clear whether courts or doctors should make
that decision.

Arthur Kleinman, a leading expert on Chinese psychiatry at Harvard University,
argued that these cases do not amount to systematic political abuse. "We have
evidence of a small number of psychiatrists and a small number of hospitals that
seem to participate in political misuse of psychiatry," he said. "Even in these
cases, there is reason to believe the problem is poor training, poor standards
and poor practice."

Privately, Chinese psychiatrists asked why the authorities would bother putting
dissidents in mental hospitals when they can so easily send them to labor camps
or prisons. Munro said the government may find it more convenient to silence
some critics by hospitalizing them than by putting them on trial.

He emphasized that most Chinese psychiatrists are ethical, and noted that
official statistics show a steady decline in political psychiatric cases during
the 1980s and '90s. But he said that progress was threatened when the government
declared war in 1999 against Falun Gong, the Buddhist-like spiritual movement it
labeled an evil cult after the group appeared to endanger the Communist Party's
monopoly on power.

Falun Gong says 1,000 of its members have been forcibly committed. Chinese
psychiatrists have provided information about more than 200 Falun Gong cases to
the World Psychiatric Association, arguing that many of the people were
suffering from mental illnesses. Association President Juan Lopez-Ibor said the
material was under review.

The Chinese psychiatrists also argue that the forced hospitalization of mentally
ill Falun Gong members is justified because they pose a danger to themselves and
others. They noted that five purported Falun Gong practitioners set themselves
on fire in Tiananmen Square last year.

"We only treat those practitioners who have mental disorders, and only with the
consent of family members," said Zhou Dongfeng, vice chairwoman of the Chinese
Society of Psychiatry. Given that estimates of the number of people who practice
Falun Gong sometimes exceed 1 million, it is reasonable to expect several
hundred to suffer from mental illnesses, she said.

But Fang and three other Falun Gong members who asked not to be identified said
they were placed in mental hospitals only because they refused to renounce their
beliefs. "They couldn't change my mind in the brainwashing classes," Fang said,
"so they came up with a more vicious method."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2002 The Washington Post


