                              469 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                      May 22, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

Defiant board stands by its man: 'Levine's a doer and we should give him a
chance,' trustees insist

BYLINE: MARK GOLLOM; WITH FILES FROM DAWN WALTON; THE OTTAWA CITIZEN; CANADIAN
PRESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / Front


The board of trustees is standing by its man.

With a public apology for "inadvertently opening wounds" in the unity debate and
a promise that David Levine won't espouse his political views, the Ottawa
Hospital Board of Trustees unanimously reaffirmed his appointment as chief of
the amalgamated Civic and General hospitals.

At a press conference at the Civic site of the Ottawa Hospital, chairman Nick
Mulder said the board had "agreed to stand firm in its decision" to appoint Mr.
Levine, insisting his political affiliation is irrelevant.

The hiring of Mr. Levine, who ran unsuccessfully as a candidate for the Parti
Quebecois in 1979, has drawn widespread criticism from the community.

For the past year, the experienced Montreal hospital administrator has been
serving as delegate general for the government of Quebec in New York City. He
will begin his $ 330,000-a-year job on June 15, six weeks earlier than
originally scheduled, to allow him time to ease his transition into the
position.

Hundreds of people have threatened to stop donating money to the hospital if an
alleged separatist retains the job. A Citizen poll indicated 52 per cent of
respondents want Mr. Levine to resign.

"The board will not discriminate against Mr. Levine on the basis of his
political affiliation," Mr. Mulder said, adding the board had not anticipated
the anger over Mr. Levine's hiring.

"We apologize to the community for inadvertently opening wounds on the serious
issue of Canadian unity. We commit to you that we will work diligently to earn
your trust and respect."

The board has received "overwhelming community support" to stick to its
decision, Mr. Mulder said. He explained that the board had received hundreds of
calls of support, including promises of financial contributions from people who
have never donated before.

"A lot of people want to work with us to make it happen. Although there may be
people who do not want to work with us, and I may understand that, a lot of
people support what we're doing," he said.

The decision to continue supporting Mr. Levine was made during a private meeting
attended by 28 of the 32 board members Wednesday night.

"We went through what we heard (at a public meeting) on Tuesday night,
considered the implication of what would happen if we dismissed him," said board
member Sol Shinder.

He said the board was more worried about finding a new chief administrator than
it was about coming up with financial compensation for Mr. Levine if he was
fired.

"If we turned around and dismissed him at this point, we'd have to start this
process all over again and it would set this hospital back at least one year,
and that would be horrendous in terms of patient care in this community," he
said.

He said Mr. Levine, who did not attend yesterday's press conference, had
indicated he would not resign.

"We discussed other options, but the people in the board always kept coming back
(to the question): 'What was wrong with the decision we made?' We (were) looking
for the best person for the job and we found the best person for the job," Mr.
Mulder said.

He added that if those who oppose Mr. Levine's appointment met him, their fears
would be alleviated.

"Everybody who has met him is aware that this is a very capable and dynamic
person. He's articulate and thoughtful and he's a doer and we should give him a
chance."

He strongly argued that credentials should be the first and most important
criterion in hiring an administrator.

"If we're going to become ... one of the best health-care facilities in Canada,
we have to start off with the first criteria of competence. ... We wanted the
best person. If we settle for second best, we are going to have lousy
health-care service."

He said he didn't know Mr. Levine's political affiliation and claimed it was
irrelevant.

"It doesn't matter. I don't think the guy is there to wreck the country, not at
all. But why does it matter?"

However, Mr. Mulder said Mr. Levine agreed with the board's insistence that he
not use his position to promote his political views, a condition that had been
imposed when he was originally hired.

"We would do that no matter what. If you worked for me and you got involved in
politics I'd say, 'Get out.' " he said.

Mr. Shinder called Mr. Levine a "soft sovereigntist" whose political views will
not affect his work for the hospital.

"He will not engage in any political activity in this job or he's gone. I have
said that clearly to him."

Mr. Mulder refused to comment on what people have called a McCarthy-like
atmosphere surrounding the appointment of Mr. Levine. Nor would he comment on
Premier Mike Harris's comment that the board would be better off hiring a
foreigner than a separatist.

Board member Peter Clark blamed the furore over Mr. Levine's hiring on the
pressure to quickly hire a solid administrator. "Quite frankly, this was not
handled as neatly as one would ask.

"In hindsight, it was wrong."

He acknowledged that anger is still out there but added that a lot of people are
intentionally stirring things up. "There are some people out there organizing
the anger and that's unfortunate, unpleasant and unCanadian."

Sharon Sutherland, a professor of political science at Carleton University, said
she is saddened by the controversy surrounding Mr. Levine's appointment.

"Generally, a political science perspective on it would be that the political
affiliation of a hospital administrator wouldn't matter," she said. "These are
very odd circumstances, ... where people feel so strongly about the Quebec
connection."

The debate is unprecedented, she said.

"He ran in an election 20 years ago for a political party that wasn't an
outlawed political party.

"He didn't break any laws. It's an accepted form of political expression. ... If
I run for the NDP in my youth, does that mean I can't administer a hospital or
that that I'm going to give all the money away and I can't be in charge of a
welfare program?" asked Ms. Sutherland.

Mr. Shinder said the board never considered resigning over the controversy.

"I'm not going to be pressured into resigning," he said.

"Do I look like a guy who is going to quit?" said Mr. Mulder.


LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1998

LENGTH: 1042 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Color Photo: David Levine refused to resign after the controversy
erupted.

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


