                              466 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          February 7, 2007, Wednesday

Flag days and jam sales obscure a sticky political problem

BYLINE: Nigel Hawkes

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 482 words


Community hospitals are a great place to be if there is nothing much wrong with
you.

Local people love them, especially as they grow older. More jam has been sold
and more flag days organised to support "your local hospital" than is entirely
sensible. In retirement towns, every second will includes a bequest to the
cottage hospital. Such a close attachment should not be dismissed. Patients have
a right to the healthcare that has been paid for by their taxes. Local support
for community hospitals is almost the last vestige of the voluntary tradition
that created British hospitals before it was crushed beneath the boot of the
NHS.

Yet it has to be said that on strictly medical grounds the evidence for
community hospitals is weak or non-existent. A University of Aberdeen team
recently concluded from the medical literature on the subject (in BMC Medicine)
that it was "long on opinion but short on robust studies".

Community hospitals are largely used by the elderly who have been treated
elsewhere and need a few weeks of rehabilitation: admission is based on age
rather than condition.

Such studies as do exist fail to show that spending time in a community hospital
makes much difference. The alternative, staying a bit longer in a district
general hospital and then going straight home, seems to be just as
cost-effective.

But community hospitals are local, a word that currently carries weight with NHS
planners. The White Paper Our Health, Our Care, Our Say was full of exhortations
to make services more local and more accessible.

It is this conflict between localism and effectiveness that explains the
Government's equivocation over community hospitals. It would like to see lots of
local clinics run by GPs and nurses, delivering care promptly and efficiently
and keeping patients out of district general hospitals.

Unfortunately most of today's community hospitals are not like that at all. They
are often elderly buildings left over from an earlier era, full of elderly
patients who are not necessarily getting the best possible treatment.

They also tend to be in county towns or rural areas where proximity counts for
more than it does in the cities. Such areas are Conservative or Liberal
Democrat, and are deemed undeserving because the local population is not
disadvantaged, except by political affiliation.

So while the Government declares that it is in favour of community hospitals, it
is not talking about the jam and flag-day type. Nor is it even talking about
building its new-style community hospitals in the same places as the old ones,
or (in most cases) converting the old into the new.

But the confusion, quite possibly deliberate, has served its political purposes
by reducing controversy. Nobody wants to stand up in a crowded town hall and say
that the hospital the locals so highly prize is medically obsolete, even if it
is. So obfuscation is the order of the day.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


