                              463 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Daily Telegraph (Australia)

                           September 28, 2007 Friday
                             Extended Metro Edition

Abbott rebukes prissy Rudd - HEALTH DISGRACE

BYLINE: By MALCOLM FARR, National Political Editor

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 379  words


HEALTH Minister Tony Abbott last night accused Labor of a prissy response to his
hardline political comments on the Royal North Shore Hospital tragedy.

Opposition Leader Kevin Rudd was critical of Mr Abbott for trying to score
political points from the tragedy and directed him to the ''decent'' remarks of
Prime Minister John Howard.

''I'd ask Mr Howard to look very carefully at what Mr Abbott has said and form
his own judgment about whether those remarks are appropriate,'' Mr Rudd said.

Mr Abbott fought back, telling The Daily Telegraph: ''For Rudd to try to get all
precious about this just goes to show yet again he's got a glass jaw, yet again
he's got a really prissy tendency to overreact when people say things that get
under his skin.''

In direct reference to Jana Horska's ordeal of miscarrying in a toilet at RNS
Hospital, Mr Abbott had earlier said: ''In the end it's not whether the Federal
Government or State Government run these hospitals.

''The question is: Are they well managed? And I think that our public hospitals
would be much better run if we had decision makers closer to the people whom
their decisions will affect.''

Mr Abbott's keenness to make a general political point got caught up in the
hospital incident and his criticisms of some hospital administrators.

And he left the distinction blurred. The minister said his first point was
public hospitals were not easy to run and that even with the best will in the
world mistakes happen.

''The second point I want to make is that at least in some hospitals in NSW we
do seem to have systemic problems and I can fully understand why, faced with
what looks to be systemic issues in some hospitals, people look to the Federal
Government and say, 'Please, can you save us from these mistakes?''' he said.

''But I have one message for those people: If you don't like what's happening in
public hospitals now, don't vote Labor because state Labor has created this
problem and I think Federal Labor would just make the problem worse.''

Mr Howard had said he would comment carefully because of the inquiry.

He said the ''distressing story'' was ''a product of poor administration as much
as anything''.

''But no matter what government runs a hospital ... there can be administrative
mistakes and human error occurs.''

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


