                              464 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 19, 2005

Howard slams health chiefs over Vicky ban;
Tory leader furious after being refused entry to city hospital

BYLINE: By BRIAN CURRIE Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 398 words



HIGHLIGHT: Michael Howard campaigning for the September 29 Cathcart by-election
today with Scots Tory leader David McLetchie, left, and candidate Richard Cook,
right Picture:

Kieran Dodds


TORY leader Michael Howard today slammed Glasgow health bosses after they
refused to let him tour the Victoria Infirmary.

Heclaimed they told him a 'purdah' had been declared on political visits to the
hospital while the Cathcart by-election was being fought.

Mr Howard said both he and Labour leader Tony Blair had visited hospitals during
the General Election campaign earlier this year.

He added: "It's an outrage the health board has said we are not allowed into the
hospital."

Earlier, he called for the A&E services at the Victoria to stay open. He said:
"The people of Glasgow should not have to face these Labour cuts to such a
vital, life-saving service."

Tory candidate Richard Cook said clinicians were keen to speak to Mr Howard over
their fears about plans which will see the hospital lose its acute beds and
accident and emergency unit.

Mr Howard said under the proposed changes, backed by the Labour LibDem
executive, the number of people on the south side of Glasgow able to access A&E
services within 15 minutes would be cut from 80-per cent to 17-per cent. He
said: "This is wrong."

Labour candidate Charles Gordon arrived at the site of the proposed new hospital
minutes after Mr Howard had left but he did not attempt to visit the Victoria.

Carrying a giant cheque for GBP103million, the cost of the new investment, Mr
Gordon defended the new set up.

He was accompanied by Health Minister Andy Kerr, who said 82-per cent of
services currently at the Victoria would still be available and there would be
other new services there.

Mr Kerr claimed by voting for Mr Gordon people "know they will be electing
someone who will defend healthcare".

Meanwhile, the SNP accused Labour of having a "couldn't care less" attitude to
the fate of ScottishPower.

SNP candidate Maire Whitehead and the party's Holyrood leader Nicola Sturgeon
met staff at the energy company who face a possible takeover bid from German
utility firm E. on.

Ms Sturgeon told workers the SNP would give them its full backing. She said: "We
recognise the strategic importance of ScottishPower to the economy of Cathcart.

"I find it bizarre that so far the First Minister has been unable to offer any
support."

Chancellor Gordon Brown today said no decision will be taken on raising the
pension age until there has been a "national debate" as he campaigned for the
Livingston by-election.

brian. currie@ eveningtimes. co. uk

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: NEWSPAPER

JOURNAL-CODE: EVETMS


                      Copyright 2005 Newsquest Media Group
                              All rights reserved


