                              472 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         Morning Star (Wilmington, NC)

                             March 3, 1997, Monday

POLITICAL NOTES / WOULD-BE REPRESENTATIVE IS JUST TRYING TO FIND A HOME; THAT'S
ONE WAY TO PUT A DENT IN THE CASH FLOW

BYLINE: From staff reports

SECTION: Local/Regional; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 435 words


Self profit: During a teleconference last week, members of the New Hanover
County Hospital Study Committee asked Halifax Memorial Hospital President Rick
Gilstrap if his hospital's profit varied much from year to year.

With a straight face, Mr. Gilstrap matter-of-factly related an incident that
made a big dent in the hospital's bottom line one year.

"My chief financial officer embezzled $ 750,000," Mr. Gilstrap said. "He's
currently serving 63 years, courtesy of the state."

Halifax Memorial in Roanoke Rapids is a community general hospital, which
operates as a private corporation. New Hanover Regional Medical Center wants to
become a community general hospital. The study committee is looking at that
option and a variety of others, including remaining public and selling to a
for-profit company.

The County Commissioners will have the final say on the issue.

* * *

The ABCs of finding a lawyer: Todd Boggess, a 21-year-old drifter, confessed the
night of his August 1995 arrest that he and a co-defendant kidnapped Wilmington
teen-ager Danny Pence, stole his Ford Mustang and bludgeoned him to death in
northern Durham County.

Mr. Boggess isn't exactly the defendant lawyers would clamor to represent, but
Brian Aus and Fred Battaglia agreed to accept the job. Mr. Aus is No. 1 and Mr.
Battaglia No. 2 on their district's alphabetical list of lawyers who will
represent needy clients in capital murder cases.

Mr. Battaglia was vacationing at Sunset Beach when he got the call from Mr.
Boggess seeking his counsel. When Mr. Battaglia took the case, he had just
finished seven murder cases in 13 months. Mr. Boggess' trial has lasted seven
weeks, five of them for jury selection.

"I think I'll get off the list," Mr. Battaglia said Friday. "This is the longest
trial I've ever been involved in."

* * *

Political confusion? Last year, Jack White ran for county commissioner in the
Democratic primary and lost. He switched to the Libertarian Party and ran for
the position again in the general election. He lost again.

Thursday, Mr. White switched to the Republican Party and attended the party's
precinct meetings, which were held to elect precinct officers and delegates to
the county convention. He lost again.

Party chairman Thom Goolsby told the estimated 300 people who attended that they
couldn't participate unless they had registered at least 30 days before the
meeting.

* * *

Political tidbits: The New Hanover Democratic Party precinct meetings will be at
7 p.m. March 20 at precinct polling places, unless precinct chairmen make other
arrangements.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 Wilmington Star-News, Inc.


