                              475 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday

Doctors demand arrest of 'activists' in 24 hours

SECTION: JAIPUR

LENGTH: 283 words


JAIPUR: A day after BJP Yuva Morcha activists barged into SMS hospital
superintendent LC Sharma's office and held him captive, doctors on Wednesday
asked political parties to refrain from using hospital premises to gain mileage.

"There is a limit. Today activists of one party barged into the hospital,
tomorrow some other party workers would do the same. This is not a method of
protest," said Dr R C Yadav, president, All Rajasthan Medical College Teachers
Association.

Following the unruly scene at the hospital on Tuesday, the doctors held a gate
meeting to demand arrest of all the 'activists' involved in the incident with 24
hours.

They threatened to hold another gate meeting on Thursday morning if the police
failed to make arrests.

Dr Yadav said, "We are not giving the medical superintendent a clean chit on the
charges of negligence. We are not opposing any kind of inquiry into the case the
matter. However, we are opposing the manner in which people of a certain party
entered the office and mistreated Sharma."

Doctors have decided to write to the political party to identify the accused and
expel them from the party. At a time when the hospital is facing shortage of
staff and resources, such unruly incidents will only add to the stress level of
the doctors.

Jaipur Association of Resident Doctors (JARD) president Dr Ashok Jhajharia
condemned the incident, and said, "In such an environment, how can a doctor can
treat his patient properly? This is a dangerous trend."

SMS hospital nursing superintendent Surajmal Paliwal said, "There are many ways
of protest. They could have staged a dharna, raised slogans or used any other
peaceful way of protest."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


