                              473 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Cyprus Mail

                             March 11, 2016 Friday

Hospital autonomy bill 'in union hands'

LENGTH: 613 words


UNDERSECRETARY to the President Constantinos Petrides said on Friday that health
professionals have been given the hospital autonomy bill which the government
would like to table to parliament before it is dissolved ahead of the May
elections.

The much awaited bill comes after a six-month delay as the government had
stopped last summer its tabling to parliament at the eleventh hour, to give more
time for dialogue with stakeholders until September.

Hospital autonomy is the first step towards the implementation of the National
Health Scheme (NHS). It aims to make state hospitals administratively and
financially independent and able to compete with private hospitals.

Speaking to state broadcaster CyBC, Petrides said the bill satisfies those
demands of the health professionals that "we deem as fair demands".

"The intention of the government is to proceed promptly and table the legal
amendments that safeguard what we have agreed to, before the current legislative
body," Petrides said.

He added that as regards pay increases, as per the demands of nurses' union
PASYNO that would like to move up their current pay scale after having their
qualification made equal to a university degree, "if such a thing took place
now, it would sink any attempt for hospital autonomy".

He also called claims of health professionals on the increasing workload in
state hospitals, as "unfounded", because in 2015, he said, 50,000 fewer patient
visits were recorded in state hospitals than 2012.

President Nicos Anastasiades too, said in a televised interview on CybC on
Thursday that according to the hospital autonomy study that all political
parties adhere to, there is a surplus of 400 nurses, and a surplus in doctors,
too.

"Should I proceed with firing people?" he asked. He said that instead, a road
map should be drawn toward the gradual implementation of hospital autonomy as
provided by relevant studies, "not with layoffs, but with the way it should be
made so that (state hospitals) become truly independent and competitive units".

He added that he is overseeing the process towards hospital autonomy personally,
and he reiterated that obstacles to introduce the NHS do not lie with interest
groups opposing it, but rather the cost of funding it.

He hoped that the relevant administration software will be ready by June 2017,
and that he will arrange a meeting with the heads of all the political parties
"to address effectively this great issue".

Unsure if the project will be implemented during his term, Anastasiades said
that what is important is to follow the roadmap and materialise "those which
will be announced", and solve the problems the health sector faces.

Union representatives told the Cyprus Mail they were asked to submit their
suggestions as regards the bill next week, but they expressed reservations as to
whether such an important issue is to be discussed by MPs and voted by the
plenum in such a short notice, days before the parliament is dissolved.

The bill comes a few weeks after the government agreed with civil servants'
union PASYDY to satisfy a number of demands put forth by nurses, in exchange for
the union to engage in a constructive dialogue on hospital autonomy.

The deal was badly received by nurses union PASYNO though, whose members
constitute around half the state hospitals' nursing staff. They said they were
not invited to participate in the dialogue and their demands were not
considered. PASYNO already staged a two-day 12-hour strike last month, while it
announced it would go on an indefinite strike as of March 15.

The post Hospital autonomy bill 'in union hands' appeared first on Cyprus Mail.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/41/70/11/145772867478.jpg



LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 70


               Copyright 2016 Cyprus Mail - Cyprus Mail Co. Ltd.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


