                              477 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Edmonton Journal (Alberta)

                           February 7, 2008 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Why did Capital Health roll over for Tories?; Troubling that a public body would
so quickly change a long-standing, sensible policy

BYLINE: Graham Thomson, The Edmonton Journal

SECTION: OPINION; Graham Thomson; Pg. A14

LENGTH: 832  words


Well, his campaign slogan does promise "change that works for Alberta."

But this is probably not the kind of change anyone had in mind.

Conservative Leader Ed Stelmach has prompted -- some might say coerced --
Capital Health to change its ban against partisan political events inside
Edmonton hospitals.

Up until Tuesday, Capital Health had a sensible policy that forbade political
parties from using hospital property to stage rallies or even hold news
conferences.

The buildings, said Capital Health officials, were publicly funded and should be
free from partisan politics. Over the years, both the Liberals and NDP had asked
to hold events on Capital Health property and both had been flatly refused.

Then a few days ago the Conservative party called and asked to use the
University of Alberta Hospital for a campaign event. And, just like that,
Capital Health changed its policy and said yes.

So, for 30 minutes on Tuesday morning the lobby of the Walter C. MacKenzie
Centre at the University Hospital became party central for the Conservatives.

Campaign workers set up a podium with microphone and speakers in front of a
large blue Conservative campaign backdrop.

For journalists, watching a hospital lobby being transformed into a political
setting was just the start of the surprises. The event, that had been billed
simply as a campaign stop for Stelmach to make an announcement, turned into a
mini-rally when out of the Capital Health board room walked Stelmach trailing
his entire coterie of Edmonton-area candidates. It was like watching the
emptying of a circus clown car. They just kept coming -- more than two dozen of
them.

They gathered around Stelmach for a photo-op and cheered as he announced the
Conservatives' plan to train more health-care professionals.

It was all a bit unseemly having the Conservatives applauding themselves while
members of the public wheeled grandpa through the lobby. It certainly explains
why Capital Health didn't want partisan political events sullying its hallways.

But it doesn't explain why Capital Health changed its policy the moment the
Conservatives called.

Tory campaign officials said they asked to use the hospital because it was a
logical location for an announcement on health care. Later, they tried to
diffuse any controversy by saying the Alberta Liberals had done the very same
thing last week by using the University of Alberta to launch their campaign
platform.

However, there is a big difference. The Liberals paid to rent a lecture room at
the university. They hadn't used the lobby of the hospital, a place specifically
denied to political parties.

Why did Capital Health roll over for the Conservatives?

"I was just notified late last night that they were coming here to put on this
press announcement so I don't know any more than that," said Capital Health's
chairman, Neil Wilkinson, after Tuesday's event.

"It's a public place paid for by the public purse so if people want to do things
here, provided we have the appropriate notice and so on, it's open to the
public."

So, suddenly an area out of bounds to partisan events has apparently become
Speaker's Corner.

"It's open to, if we have the proper notice and the time, it's open to
everybody," said Wilkinson, who added, "provided it's appropriate to our mission
and our purpose."

Perplexed reporters pressed Wilkinson to explain how a Tory event was promoting
Capital Health's mission.

"You'd have to ask them that. I didn't see this as a political rally. I saw a
press release that said that 'We're helping health care.' So that's good news
for me."

Wilkinson, it should be noted, is a long-time Conservative supporter who was
appointed to his position at Capital Health by the Conservative government.

But it's not clear who actually approved the policy change to allow the
Conservatives to hold their mini-rally on Tuesday.

"Our practice up until this request had always been that we did not allow them,"
said Capital Health spokesman Steve Buick. "Just in general all public bodies
try to avoid partisan political activity on public property during a campaign."

Who made the decision to change the policy and why?

Buick was vague, saying only that unnamed staff in CEO Sheila Weatherill's
office had made the decision.

"There wasn't an elaborate rationale," said Buick. "We simply had a request and
said 'yes.' And it seemed to us the main two considerations were that the
request was to use a public area and that we would feel free to offer the same
terms to the opposition as well."

So, now the hospital lobby is open to all political parties -- even though
Capital Health has yet to tell the opposition about the change in policy. But
that's not the main point here. The troubling issue is that a public body
changed a long-standing and sensible policy at the drop of a hat. Or should I
say the drop of a writ.

The result is that Capital Health has made itself look like an extension of the
Conservative party. That is not a change that works for Alberta.

gthomson@thejournal.canwest.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

