                              478 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                      May 22, 1998, Friday, METRO EDITION

Ottawa hospital chief uniting Quebecers David Levine's right to the job defended
by all

BYLINE: By Sandro Contenta Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 787 words

DATELINE: MONTREAL


   MONTREAL - What David Levine failed to do as a Parti Quebecois candidate 19
years ago, he seems to have achieved today: build bridges between anglophones
and francophones in Quebec.

The controversy surrounding his appointment as head of an amalgamated Ottawa
hospital has seen Quebecers of all political stripes defend his right to a job
no matter what his beliefs on Quebec sovereignty.

It's the kind of consensus that rarely occurs in a province where public debate
often splits along sovereignist and federalist lines.

Those divisions were sharper than ever when Levine, 50, decided to run as the PQ
candidate in the 1979 by-election in D'Arcy-McGee, a federalist bastion in
Montreal.

Quebec's anglophone community had yet to absorb the shock of the first PQ
election victory in 1976 and the province was only a year away from the 1980
referendum.

Ed Bantey, who ran Levine's campaign, recalls that PQ canvassers "were
physically kicked out of apartment buildings" when they tried to drop off
flyers.

Even Levine's father, a sock salesman who emigrated from eastern Europe, had a
hard time accepting his son's sovereignist stripes and politics was off limits
around the dinner table.

After a civil engineering degree from McGill University and a masters degree in
health administration from the University of Montreal, Levine ran a community
clinic before joining the staff of PQ MNA Bernard Landry, who happened to be his
neighbour at the time and is now Quebec's deputy premier.

When the D'Arcy-McGee by-election was called, then premier Rene Levesque wanted
to ease fears the Jewish community had about the rise of nationalism in the
province, said Henry Milner, a former PQ candidate and party executive.

No one in the PQ - starting with Levine - thought they had any chance of winning
the riding.

"It certainly wasn't a political career he was embarking on, that's for sure,"
said Milner, a Queen's University political scientist who worked on Levine's
campaign.

PQ MNA David Payne, who also worked on Levine's campaign, said Levine tried to
assure anglophones "that separatists did not grow horns."

Bantey, now a newspaper columnist, says he can't recall Levine ever trying to
sell sovereignty in a campaign speech.

"I don't know what kind of sovereignist he is. I would never swear by his
convictions," he said.

As expected, Levine was trounced by Liberal candidate Herbert Marx 22,293 votes
to 813.

He left the PQ in 1981, complaining that it had lost touch with the Socialist
roots that attracted him.

He became chief executive of the Verdun General Hospital - where he implemented
an innovative home-care program - before landing the same job with Notre-Dame
hospital in 1992. An anglophone Jew landing the top job at Quebec's largest
hospital - a francophone and Catholic institution - was no small feat.

"He was appointed without a whimper and with open arms. Contrast that with
what's happening in Ottawa," said Payne, referring to the current strident
resistance to Levine because of his PQ past.

In 1995, Levine accepted then-premier Jacques Parizeau's invitation to sit on
the Montreal commission on Quebec's future.

Its report, released seven months before that year's referendum, warned the
government that Quebecers would not opt for sovereignty unless the PQ first
explained what an independent Quebec would look like.

During his stay at Notre-Dame, Payne had to implement massive cuts that saw the
800 beds at his hospital reduced by 300. He cut the average hospital stay by
adopting the "ambulatory" approach to medicine - setting a timetable for a
patient's exit the moment he or she enters the hospital by co-ordinating lab
services, diagnosis, surgery and home care.

The upheaval from the forced budget cuts was great, but Levine went out of his
way to make it as painless as possible for patients and workers, said Claude
Arseneault, head of Notre-Dame's User Committee, which the government has set up
in all hospitals to help patients.

"He's an excellent administrator," Arseneault said.

When three downtown hospitals, including Notre-Dame, were amalgamated, Levine
was touted as the obvious candidate for the top job.

But health minister Jean Rochon made it clear that he preferred a different
candidate and, on the backing of friend Bernard Landry, a disappointed Levine
settled for the job of Quebec's delegate-general in New York.

Levine grabbed the offer from the Ottawa hospital without first informing the
PQ, a source says. That miffed Premier Lucien Bouchard's government and that
explains why it took a week before Landry and Bouchard publicly denounced the
resistance to his Ottawa appointment, the source said.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1998 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


