                              479 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                   TELEGRAPH

                            October 28, 1986 Tuesday

DR QUITS IN 'CRONY' ROW

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: BUTTON D

LENGTH: 331 words


Hospital job "tied to Nats' DR QUITS IN "CRONY' ROW By DOUG BUTTON The deputy
chairman of one of the State's largest hospital boards has resigned suddenly,
claiming cronyism by the State Government over a major appointment.

Dr Bob McLaughlin has quit in a row over the appointment of the chairman of the
Gold Coast Hospitals Board.

Dr McLaughlin has a private practice.

He said today the Government had installed Mr Earl Lever, a former oil company
executive, in the top position, because of his political affiliations with the
National Party.

Immediate past chairman, Mr Roy Shepherd, retired at the weekend when he turned
70.

Mr Shepherd was the chairman of the Southport branch of the National Party.

Mr Lever had admitted he had no experience in hospital administration, Dr
McLaughlin said.

Dr McLaughlin said: ""This sort of thing (appointment through political
affiliation) has been going on for years.

""This is why hospitals across the State are in such a crisis.

""Often in the State's major hospitals there are people at the top with very
little experience.

""There have been two attempts in the past to oust me from the board because I
was a Liberal.

""These attempts were strongly resisted when the Liberals were in Government.

""Board members and chairmen should be appointed to their positions on merit and
because of their ability not because of their political mateship."

Dr McLaughlin, a Liberal Party zone area chairman, had been on the board 11
years and the deputy chairman 18 months.

Hospital Board appointments are made by the Governor-in-Council.

The Health Minister, Mr Austin, who is campaigning in the electorate of Nicklin,
was unavailable for comment today.

The National Party Member for Southport, Mr Doug Jennings, said today
allegations by Dr McLaughlin were ""ludicrous".

""Mr Lever has had considerable experience in many areas, is well respected in
the community and a former president of Legacy and other public organisations."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: TEL

                   Copyright 1986 Nationwide News Pty Limited


