                              476 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Yukon News (Yukon)

                           October 7, 2009 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Mortgaging our future

BYLINE: Yukon News

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 540  words


It may make political sense to hide public expenditures, but it doesn't make
financial sense.

Dennis Fentie's Yukon Party government has offloaded at least $67 million in
capital spending to the Yukon Hospital Corporation, which will now build a new
residence and two hospitals, one in Watson Lake and another in Dawson City.

This allows Fentie to create the illusion the territory's economy is stronger
than it is.

He can, for a short time, bolster construction in the territory, fueling the
labour market. And he does so without sapping the territory's capital budget -
essentially, he's keeping his cash reserves for other projects.

If you're looking at short-term political benefits, that's clever. If you're
looking at the long-term interests of the territory, it's irresponsible.

Eventually, bills must be paid. In this case, he's offloading the bill on future
generations, which will have less because of Fentie's off-book accounting.

The Yukon Hospital Corp. hasn't got cash reserves. It can only build the
hospitals and residences by borrowing money from commercial lenders. So it's
going to have to pay interest on the money.

And that interest will be slightly higher than the rates the government itself
can secure.

So, for the next 15 years, the hospital corporation will pay interest on money
it borrowed. Those interest payments are going to add up to millions.

It's a senseless waste - the hospital corporation is funded by the Yukon
government.

Essentially, fast-tracking the hospital contracts will prevent the territory
from building other multimillion-dollar capital projects in the future.

The Yukon government is, needlessly, going to be paying interest to a bank
through the hospital corporation. Worse, had it borrowed the money directly for
the projects, it probably would have paid less interest than the hospital
corporation.

We say probably because it's not clear what interest the hospital corporation is
paying. It won't say - the details are not finalized yet. And the hospital
corporation is suggesting it might not be willing to reveal the details once
they are nailed down, citing possible confidentiality clauses.

If it won't volunteer the information, the public is out of luck. The hospital
corporation is exempt from access-to-information legislation.

Which brings up another political benefit to having the hospital corporation
handle the projects.

The Watson Lake and Dawson hospital schemes have been controversial. The need
for a hospital in Watson Lake, a town of fewer than 1,000 residents, has been
questionable, at best. And its initial construction, which resulted in a mouldy,
half-finished shell, has been a political liability for the Fentie government.

Now, the whole thing has been offloaded to a Crown corporation immune from
access requests by the public and the media.

It is now well shielded from public view.

And thanks to the government's use of off-book accounting, the territory will
now be paying for these projects, through the hospital corporation, for 15
years.

As noted, that will suck millions from the territory's coffers, which could have
been used for future capital projects.

Rather than mortgage the future, we'd all be better off if territorial
government pays as it goes. (Richard Mostyn)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

