                              487 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                     April 15, 1996, Monday, FINAL EDITION

Bomb kills six in hospital in Pakistan

BYLINE: NEW YORK TIMES NEWS SERVICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A8

LENGTH: 412 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, India


A bomb exploded in Pakistan's only cancer hospital on Sunday, killing at least
six people, injuring more than 30 and adding a grim twist to a personal and
political feud that many Pakistanis believe could have a profound impact on the
country's future.

The bomb detonated in the city of Lahore at the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer
Centre, opened 16 months ago and dedicated to the memory of the mother of
Pakistan's former cricket captain, Imran Khan. Khan, 43, has said in recent days
that he is on the verge of starting a political movement to topple Prime
Minister Benazir Bhutto, who was a fellow student of Khan's at Oxford University
20 years ago.

The blast occurred shortly after noon on Sunday, a normal working day in
Pakistan, when about 150 patients and relatives were gathered at the sprawling
hospital complex. Officials said that the dead included two children who were
patients and that 10 of the injured were in critical condition.

The incident came amid intensifying political violence in Pakistan. Khan, who
gained widespread popularity among Pakistan's 130 million people when his team
won cricket's world championship for the first time in 1992, has been critical
of the country's feuding political class, which he has called "a culture of
corruption and injustice."

Many of his criticisms have been aimed particularly at Bhutto, whom Khan has
accused of leading a government obsessed with political vendettas and
self-enrichment. Bhutto has responded by targeting Khan with income-tax
investigations, a ban on fund-raising events for the cancer hospital in schools
and other government-run institutions, and a blackout on reports about the
hospital on the state-run broadcasting network.

Bhutto, 42, called the blast "a deplorable attack" and hinted that it might have
been the work of loyalists of Pakistan's main Opposition leader, Nawaz Sharif.
Sharif, who has tried and failed to recruit Khan as an ally, denied the
allegation.

Khan declined to say who he thought might have set the bomb. But he said the
blast would not deter him from his political plans.

Khan has stirred controversy for describing the country's political elite as
"brown Sahibs" -- meaning that their attitudes and lifestyles, in a Muslim
country, mimicked those of the British rulers of colonial India.

Last summer, Khan stunned many Pakistanis by marrying Jemima Goldsmith, the
daughter of James Goldsmith, an Anglo-French business tycoon.



LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


