                              483 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    October 17, 1994, Monday, Final Edition

Not Much Life in Kelly's Plan To Revive D.C. General Hospital

Cindy Loose

SECTION: METRO; PAGE D3; UPDATE ON THE NEWS

LENGTH: 279 words


Mayor Sharon Pratt Kelly's $ 600,000 plan to resuscitate D.C. General Hospital
was looking moribund before the September primary. Kelly's defeat in the primary
seems to have stripped the plan of any remaining life.

Neither Democratic nominee Marion Barry nor Republican choice Carol Schwartz
considers Kelly's "fiscal viability plan" viable, and both say another solution
must be found. Neither candidate offered specific ideas.

Asked what he thinks should be done about D.C. General and his opinion of the
mayor's plan, Barry responded: "Oh God. We're going to have to find a better way
to do it. Maybe marrying D.C. General to another health facility. And we've got
to get more paying patients. We've got to."

Schwartz said she wants to "consider a lot of options."

In the fiscal year that ended Oct. 1, D.C. General had an operating deficit of
about $ 26 million, despite a city subsidy of about $ 59 million.

The mayor this year spent more than $ 600,000 for a consultanting firm, Kurron
Shares of America Inc., to come up with ideas for turning the hospital around.
Kurron said the hospital desperately needed restructuring so it could operate
free of political interference and bureaucratic strictures, and the firm
recommended that the hospital become a quasi-public corporation.

The unions, fearing the loss of civil service protections, protested the plan,
and Kelly found that she had very little backing from the D.C. Council. The
latest list of "expense reduction initiatives," released last week by the
hospital's director, Dennis Gowie, makes no mention of restructuring.

The $ 600,000 paid to Kurron has become part of the hospital's deficit.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Occasional

TYPE: DC NEWS

                       Copyright 1994 The Washington Post


