                              482 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Zimbabwe Standard (Harare)

                                 March 09, 2014

Political Interference At Chinhoyi Hospital

BYLINE: Nunurai Jena

LENGTH: 407 words


Political interference in the recruitment of staff and trainee nurses is
affecting service provision and the general operation of Chinhoyi General
Hospital, Mashonaland West's provincial health centre.

Chinhoyi hospital superintendent, Collet Mawire said lack of discipline was now
a major concern at the health centre, especially from people referred to the
institution by top government officials and politicians.

Mawire divulged this during a tour of the hospital by Minister of Health and
Child Care David Parirenyatwa, his deputy Paul Chimedza, permanent secretary
Gerald Gwinji and Makonde MP, Kindness Paradza.

Mawire said some of the members of staff had become "untouchables", thereby
disrupting the smooth functioning of the hospital, including service delivery.

"Management has found it difficult to control some members of staff because of
their supposed affiliation [to politics and individuals] and untouchable
nature," said Mawire.

He gave an example of a nurse with military background whom he said no longer
wore the complete uniform, putting on military badges instead of his normal
epaulettes.

Mawire also talked about political interference in recruitment after Paradza
blasted the hospital officials over recruitment of student nurses. He was not
happy that most of the student nurses came from outside the province.

Paradza took delegates by surprise when during the tour he asked a class of
about 25 student nurses how many were from Makonde district.

The students said they were mostly from Masvingo and Harare and all hell broke
loose with the outspoken journalist-turned-politician accusing the health
authorities of neglecting his constituency.

"For Chinhoyi provincial hospital the catchment area is Mashonaland West and
more so Makonde because this hospital is in Makonde so I don't see any reason
why we shouldn't have more students from Makonde," said Paradza.

"We have so many potential students with good 'O' and 'A' levels from Makonde
but they are not getting places here and these places are filled by people from
as far as Harare and Masvingo. I'm saying this is wrong."

Parirenyatwa promised to institute an enquiry to look into "various allegations
of mismanagement, political interference and stagnation of development at the
hospital."

The hospital is facing a critical shortage of beds. The Standard news crew saw
some patients sleeping on the floor.

Mawire said the hospital had only about 250 beds instead of 430.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 AllAfrica Global Media.
                              All Rights Reserved


