                              484 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              May 30, 2014 Friday

Call to remove political parties banners, flags from NICH

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 508

LENGTH: 413  words


Medical wings of political parties have converted the Sindh's largest children
healthcare National Institute of Child Health (NICH) Karachi into political
pitch by installing huge banners, party flags and posters of their leaders in
the premises of institution while administration seemed to be hapless in front
of powerful activists.

A reliable source in the hospital on condition of anonymity said medical wings
of different political parties had totally changed the atmosphere of NICH and
had turned it into political arena rather than healthcare.

He said activists of medical wings of political parties installed huge banners,
posters and party flags of Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), Pakistan Muslim League
(Nawaz), Pakistan Muslim League (Functional) and Islami Jamiat-e-Talaba (IJT) in
different wards and entrances or exit of hospital.

He said wall chalking were also visible in wards and institution had turned into
party secretariat. Sources said no any place of NICH was spared from these
banners and posters. He said this malpractices had been seen in all other
hospitals of Karachi city, but situation in NICH was worst as compared to other
hospitals of city. He said institution atmosphere had badly been disturbed due
to cold attitude of relevant authorities.

He informed that 700 to 800 patient visits different Outpatient Department of
NICH for treatment on daily basis and 18,000 children get treatment every month
in institution. He said whenever administration takes a step to remove the
politically installed banners the activists start hue and cry against
administration.

He demanded of Health Minister Sindh and Executive Director NICH to take action
against staff members damaging the institution reputation in public eyes.
Central leader of Pakistan Medical Association (PMA) Dr SM Qaisar Sajjad said
health institutors and dispensaries should be freed from politics as they
provide treatment to all segments of society without any discrimination.

He said PMA had clear stance on issue that the health institutions should be
spared from all kind of political interferences. He said health institutions
should be utilized for health facilities.

He appealed to the medical wings of political parties to voluntarily remove all
the party flags, posters, banners and wall chalking in better interest of public
health and revival of institution atmosphere. Executive Director NICH Prof Jamal
Raza was not available on phone despite repeated attempts and text messages.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


