                              50 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                            March 26, 2016 Saturday

Public unease: Response sought in case of VIP visits to hospitals

LENGTH: 432  words


The Peshawar High Court sought comments on Friday from the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa
government through the chief secretary, health secretary and health director
general on political leaders' visits to hospitals with their protocol during
emergency situations.

VIP visits at times of emergencies such as blasts or large accidents hinder
doctors and paramedics who are trying to treat victims, said lawyer Saifullah
Kakakhel. He was addressing the division bench of Justice Waqar Ahmed Seth and
Justice Irshad Qaiser who issued the notices on a petition filed by Pakistan
Medical Association (PMA) through its K-P president, Dr Hussain Ahmad Haroon.
Political leaders visit the hospitals along with dozens of their supporters to
enquire about those injured in major incidents like blasts. [To convenience the
VIPs], all roads leading to hospitals are closed as a security measure.

Saifullah added the closure of roads causes serious problems to visiting
patients. These patients then also refused entry into the hospital as security
is heighted for VIPs. He asked the bench to ban VIP visits to hospitals.

Mohibullah Kakakhel, was another counsel for the petitioner, along with
Saifullah.

After hearing the arguments, the bench issued notices to the respondents,
directing them to file comments within seven days.

Request for space

In its petition, PMA said leaders of various political parties visit hospitals
along with dozens of party workers who after enquiring [about the health of] few
injured make speeches and leave. It said their visits make it difficult for
doctors and nursing staff to handle those injured during blasts and other major
incidents. The petition said several persons have lost their lives due to such
visits.

A notice ignored

The petition went on to say the provincial government issued a notification on
December 26, 2015, banning unnecessary protocol for any leader [at hospitals].

However, after the blast in Shabqadar courts on March 7, Lady Reading Hospital
in Peshawar was surrounded by security personnel ahead of the health minister's
visit - in violation of the notification.

The example of Britain was also quoted where a surgeon prevented Prime Minister
David Cameron's visit to the hospital. The petition mentioned Jamaat-e-Islami
chief Sirajul Haq along with dozens of his supporters, stating these political
leaders visit hospitals and leave after speeches and photo sessions.

The petition asked the bench to ban the visits of political leaders as well as
officials of NGOs to hospital on such occasions so doctors and paramedics could
treat the injured during emergencies.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


