                              489 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Right Vision News

                             April 28, 2013 Sunday

Pakistan: ANP corner meeting blast death toll mounts to 10, over 40 injured

LENGTH: 477 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, April 28 -- The death toll of a powerful blast in Awami National Party
(ANP) corner meeting has mounted to 10 while over 40 injured have been confirmed
now.

Earlier last night, a powerful blast wreck havoc in a corner meeting of the
Awami National Party (ANP) at Mominabad area of Orangi Town in Karachi, leaving
several killed and scores of others injured.

A powerful blast occurred exactly at that time when a prominent leader of the
ANP, Bashir Jan, reached to attend the corner meeting in Mominabad. Bashir Jan
is also contesting in upcoming polls as his party's candidate from this area.

The sources present at blast site confirmed that over four dozen people
sustained injuries and at least six persons expired on the spot.

The powerful and lethal blast was extremely loud and it had been heard in
faraway places of the metropolis including Tower, Defense, Gulshan-e-Iqbal,
North Nazimabad, and SITE areas.

The rescue teams and heavy contingents of police and rangers rushed towards the
blast site immediately after the bang, started moving the bodies, and injured to
hospitals without any delay. Many children were also included in the blast
victims.

The injured and dead bodies were quickly moved to Abbassi Shaheed Hospital,
Civil Hospital, and Jinnah Hospital for medical assistance where few blast
victims are still in very critical condition.

Three bodies and 19 injured had been moved to Abbassi Shaheed Hospital, three
more dead bodies and at least eight injured to Civil Hospital and 17 injured to
Jinnah Hospital. Few slightly injured persons preferred to take medical
assistance from the local clinics.

Later on, two more blast victims succumbed to injuries in hospital. Now another
blast victim has succumbed to injuries in hospital and death toll has mounted to
9.

The death toll can mount further as at least eight injured are still in very
serious condition, informed hospital sources.

Many cars, parked near the blast site, sustained heavy damages and many
neighboring buildings also damaged badly in the lethal blast.

President Zardari, Caretaker PM Khoso and Caretaker Interior Minister condemned
the blast and issued orders for best possible medical assistance to the blast
victims.

Mutahida Qaumi Movement Chief Altaf Hussain and other political leaders
condemned the blast sternly.

ANP Chief Asfandyar Wali has also condemned the blast and vowed to take part in
the polls, saying the terrorists are trying to harass liberal political parties
and leaders with these attacks to keep away from the upcoming elections.

We will not be intimidated and would definitely take part in upcoming general
elections despite all odds, added the ANP chief Published by HT Syndication with
permission from Right Vision News. For any query with respect to this article or
any other content requirement, please contact Editor at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


