                              51 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                             March 18, 2016 Friday

Unnecessary protocol: PHC requested to ban VIP visits at hospitals during
emergencies

LENGTH: 315  words


Pakistan Medical Association approached the Peshawar High Court on Thursday to
ban political leaders from visiting hospitals to see victims of major terrorism
incidents and catastrophes.

A writ petition was filed by Dr Hussain Ahmad Haroon through his lawyer, Mian
Mohibullah Kakakhel. The petitioner said leaders of various political parties
visit hospitals along with dozens of their workers.

As per the petition, all roads and gates leading to hospitals are closed due to
these visits. This not only causes problems for patients but also makes it
difficult for doctors and nurses to attend to the needs of those who have been
injured in blasts and other major incidents.

The petition stated that several people have lost their lives because these VIP
visits have interfered with their treatment. It added a six-year-old minor lost
his life in Karachi as he could not be taken to the hospital. According to the
petition, the road to the hospital was closed because Pakistan Peoples Party
Co-Chairperson Bilawal Bhutto Zardari was visiting the facility.

The provincial government issued a notification on December 26, 2015 banning
unnecessary protocol for a [politician] or leader [at hospitals], it stated.

However, after an attack on a court complex in Shabqadar on March 7, Lady
Reading Hospital was surrounded by security personnel before Minister for Health
Shahram Khan Tarakai visited the premises. As per the petition, the visit
violated the notification.

The petition stated political leaders visit the hospital to make speeches and
ensure they appear on television.

Haroon made the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa chief secretary, health secretary and the
health DGs respondents in the case. The petitioner requested the bench to ban
the visit of political leaders and NGO officials at hospitals.

Following a bus explosion on Sunehri Masjid Road on March 17, a large number of
politicians arrived at LRH.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2016 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


