                              498 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                 Ottawa Citizen

                     March 27, 2003 Thursday Final Edition

Outaouais hospital joins political fray: Board to press provincial parties for
solutions to health care problems at private one-hour meetings

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

BYLINE: Paul Gessell

SECTION: City; Pg. C1

LENGTH: 750 words

The Outaouais Regional Hospital has thrust itself forcefully into the Quebec
election campaign by pressuring the province's three main political parties to
state explicitly how they would tackle the institution's many problems,
including the chronic nursing shortage.

With public opinion polls showing health as the No. 1 issue for Outaouais voters
in the campaign for the April 14 election, the hospital is organizing separate
meetings with area candidates for the Liberals on April 4, Action democratique
du Quebec on April 8 and Parti Quebecois on April 11.

Each one-hour, private meeting with 12 members of the hospital board will be
followed by a news conference at which details of the meeting will be revealed,
Ginette Leblanc, a hospital spokeswoman, said in an interview yesterday.

The provincially owned hospital will not endorse specific candidates or parties.
But after the election, the hospital will be reminding the winning party about
its promises.

"The thing we want to know is what exactly they intend to do and after that we
can say, 'But you promised that during the campaign'," Ms. Leblanc said.

The election candidates will be asked how they would solve problems in four
specific areas: the shortage of nurses and doctors; the proximity to higher-wage
hospitals in Ontario; hospital financing; and infrastructure issues, including
buildings and equipment.

Outaouais health officials said yesterday they believe this to be the first time
a provincially owned hospital in the region has taken such a bold step to hold
politicians' feet to the fire.

A recent public opinion poll showed health is the No. 1 election issue for
Outaouais voters.

The poll, conducted for Radio-Canada and Le Droit March 13-19 among 600
residents of the Outaouais, showed 57 per cent of respondents felt the
recruitment of new doctors and nurses was the most pressing election issue.

Other issues cited as a top priority: Construction of social housing units (13
per cent), reduced income tax (13 per cent), completion of Highway 50 to
Montreal (12 per cent) and construction of a new bridge to Ottawa (six per
cent).

The Liberal party has tried to make health the top issue province-wide, in the
belief that is where the government is most vulnerable. The Liberals hold all
five Outaouais ridings and are expected to retain most, if not all.

The Outaouais Regional Hospital, with campuses in the Hull sector and in old
Gatineau, is the area's largest medical facility. It has suffered for years from
a nursing shortage and currently claims it needs 120 more.

The region also lacks doctors. The Outaouais Regional Health and Social Services
Board, a provincial government agency, released a report in February saying 127
more physicians are needed, to increase the number of general practitioners to
325 from 275 and specialists to 246 from 169.

The lack of medical personnel has caused long waiting lists for surgery and
periodic shutdowns of emergency services, forcing sick people to deal with
walk-in clinics or Ottawa hospitals, which often have their own crowding and
staff shortage problems.

Ontario hospitals, however, have one advantage: Higher wages for nurses. A
general duty registered nurse earns a maximum of $49,255 in Quebec and $63,784
in Ontario. The gap increases for more specialized nurses, with the annual
difference up to $20,000.

The problem is further complicated by the fact that many Quebec nurses are
bilingual and can easily take those higher paying jobs in Ontario, while most
Ontario nurses cannot speak French and cannot deal with francophone patients in
Quebec hospitals.

Martin St. Louis, a spokesman for the regional health board, says the real
problem is in retaining nurses. He said the reasons most nurses give for
quitting their jobs centre on working conditions and excessive overtime rather
than job opportunities in Ontario.

The hospital is trying to tackle the retention problem through a combination of
increased hiring and workload reorganization.

As for the doctor shortage, Mr. St. Louis said: "There is no special recruitment
campaign on because there is always a special recruitment campaign on."

The PQ government has tried various schemes, with mixed success, to increase the
supply of nurses and doctors to the hardest hit areas outside Montreal, but has
refused to tackle the pay disparity issue, saying if higher wages were given to
Outaouais nurses, nurses in other parts of the province would demand parity.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


