                              495 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             May 23, 1998 Saturday

The man who loved hospitals

BYLINE: Lysiane Gagnon

SECTION: FOCUS COLUMN; Inside Quebec; Pg. D3

LENGTH: 801 words

DATELINE: in Montreal


THE good times are rollin' again for the sovereigntists. They've had a field day
with the Levine affair, and there are interesting developments on other fronts
as well.

Next week, Alliance Quebec, the English rights' lobby group, is electing a new
board, and William Johnson, a hardliner fondly known as "the pit bull" because
he sticks to his ideas with such blind fervour, is running for president.

Even if he loses to the incumbent, Constance Middleton-Hope, a conciliatory lady
widely seen as a moderate, Mr. Johnson's strong fight for the leadership and
high-profile public performances will make him a major player in Alliance Quebec
and help to polarize the political climate in the province. The Parti Québécois
hardliners have their fingers crossed, hoping he'll win. On both sides of the
political barrier, uncompromising crusaders are close cousins and they always
feed on each other.

But the real bonanza was the Levine affair. According to pollster Claude
Gauthier, this could give two or three more points to the PQ's support, just
when it needs it so badly. (Since Jean Charest came on the scene, the Quebec
Liberal Party has surged ahead of the PQ by several points.)

For years, the separatists have been waiting for a replay of the famous
trampling of the Quebec flag in Brockville, Ont. This incident greatly helped
stoke the flames of visceral nationalism. Silly behaviour is easy to exploit. It
makes for great visuals, it stirs basic emotions and it requires no explanation:
It's them versus us, and "here is the proof that they hate us and that we have
no place in Canada."

From a separatist point of view, the Levine affair was much juicier than the
Brockville incident. It had the potential of a full-fledged political crisis.

Here was a highly competent Quebecker who was about to be thrown out of a job
that had his name on it, and why? Because he was a PQ candidate in a by-election
20 years ago and had recently been appointed by a sovereigntist government to a
politically sensitive civil-service job in New York. Considering that Mr. Levine
was a career hospital administrator, his possible rejection smacked of
discrimination.

The Brockville villains were a tiny group of elderly people. In the Levine
affair, the intolerance came from sophisticated circles: respectable daily
newspapers, educated protesters, well-off donors, town mayors. All this in the
heart of the national capital! The hysteria culminated in a horrible televised
meeting, with a lynch-mob-like crowd denouncing Mr. Levine as a traitor, making
him a scapegoat for the country's woes (a particularly repugnant coincidence was
that the scapegoat is Jewish).

Trampling a flag is rude, but trampling a basic right -- the right to one's
political beliefs -- is despicable. Still, this could have been dismissed as a
red-neck type of reaction. After all, having a white-collar job does not
preclude being a redneck. But then the crisis took a distinctly political turn.
Not only the health minister, but Ontario's Premier himself, publicly agreed
with the protesters. This was the real scandal. Mr. Harris's infamous comment (a
non-Canadian would have been preferable to a Quebec separatist) will certainly
affect the unity dossier.

Even from a non-political point of view, the uproar against Mr. Levine was
incredibly stupid, for Montreal's loss is Ottawa's gain.

As we are currently seeing in Montreal, where several large hospitals are going
through painful mergers, it's extremely difficult to find qualified CEOs to
preside over hospital mergers. Mr. Levine was highly praised as head of Notre
Dame, Quebec's largest hospital. He was poised to become the CEO for the new
mega-hospital formed by the merger of Notre-Dame and two other hospitals, but
severe infighting between the establishments of the three institutions made the
nomination impossible. The solution was to look for an outsider. As a
consolation prize, Mr. Levine was sent to New York as Quebec's agent-general.

Quebec is filled with people who have voted for the PQ for one reason or another
at one time or another. Excluding them means excluding half the population.
Quebec is also filled with people who have been, at widely varying degrees, in
favour of sovereignty. Some still harbour those views, some have changed their
minds and some just don't care any more. It would be undignified for Mr. Levine
to talk about his present political beliefs. All we know is that he hasn't been
involved in active politics for two decades, and that all that was required in
his New York job was that he did not campaign against the sovereigntist stand of
the government. I interviewed him three years ago on health issues and he didn't
seem interested in politics. He was passionate about his job, though.
Lysiane Gagnon is a political columnist for La Presse.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


