                              493 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 1, 2003, Thursday

WARD ZONE;
 BROWN IN SWIPE AT BLAIR PLAN

BYLINE: PAUL GILFEATHER WHITEHALL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 402 words

HIGHLIGHT: UNHEALTHY DEBATE: Blair and Brown sit together yesterday at Prime
Minister's Question Time. Left: Alan Milburn


GORDON Brown squared up for a battle with Tony Blair yesterday by putting the
boot into the PM's flagship foundation hospitals scheme.

The Chancellor broke ranks to fuel fears that the new super-trusts would create
a two-tier health care system.

And he refused to deny that non-foundation hospitals would lose out on money.

Under Mr Blair's scheme, trusts selected as foundation hospitals will be able to
opt-out of Whitehall control to set their own financial priorities.

But Mr Brown's outburst at the Commons Treasury Select Committee is sure to
bolster a rebellion among Labour MPs due to culminate next week during a Commons
debate.

Some 130 backbenchers have signed a Commons motion opposing foundation
hospitals.

And, Mr Blair faced hostile questioning at a meeting of the Parliamentary Labour
Party yesterday - which means he will be even more infuriated by Mr Brown's
comments.

The Chancellor told the Treasury committee that foundation hospitals had to stay
within the NHS budget he has set out to 2008.

When pressed on whether this would mean hospitals which stayed under Whitehall
control would suffer because they would not have the same fundraising powers, he
said: "I am not going to get into this."

Mr Brown also appeared to contradict Health Secretary Alan Milburn, who expects
that in time all hospitals will become foundation trusts.

He said: "I don't know how many hospitals will become foundation hospitals. I
don't know at what rate. They have got to meet certain tests.

"We have got to work within a very generous settlement that takes us to 2008."

He added: "The hospitals cannot borrow off the balance sheet. Additional
investment that hospitals make, whether foundation hospitals or not, has got to
be kept within the NHS budget. There is no question of that."

Labour committee member George Mudie said: "This is going to be the hottest
issue in Parliament since Iraq."

And its Labour chairman, John McFall, told the Chancellor he must convey the
anger felt by MPs to Mr Blair.

He said: "Your comments, however valiant they may be, have not persuaded our
committee. You better have good answers for George Mudie et al." But, Mr Milburn
attacked those fighting the changes. He said: "Now is not the time to back off
reform.

"I freely admit that this is a very controversial policy but I believe it is
absolutely the right policy."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2003 MGN Ltd.


