                              496 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                          February 25, 2009 Wednesday
                              N - Canberra Edition

Photo ruled out of order - QUEENSLAND DECIDES

BYLINE: Sean Parnell, Queensland political reporter

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 315 words


A QUEENSLAND Health staffer has sparked a mini-furore after taking photos of LNP
leader Lawrence Springborg while he made an announcement at the Royal Children's
Hospital yesterday.

Rosemary Desmond, the media manager at the hospital and a former journalist,
snapped Mr Springborg during a visit to the hospital where he announced an LNP
government would reverse Labor's decision to downgrade paediatric services.

The LNP has previously claimed Queensland Health is hiding the true state of the
public hospital system, and seeking to manage information flow and influence
public opinion.

But Mr Springborg was welcomed onto the site yesterday, even if he was left
puzzled and somewhat alarmed by Ms Desmond's attention.

It is understood Ms Desmond, a former AAP reporter in Brisbane, had intended to
use the photos in the hospital newsletter.

Queensland Health director-general Mick Reid, the former chief of staff to
federal Health Minister Nicola Roxon, last night said it was inappropriate for
Ms Desmond to be taking photos of a political leader during an election
campaign.

``The officer was immediately counselled by their supervisor and is now aware
that during caretaker mode there are to be no photographs of any political party
members,'' Mr Reid said.

``I have sent an email today to all public affairs staff reminding them to act
professionally and appropriately at all times.''

Doug Brown, acting chief operations manager at the hospital, had earlier sought
to downplay Ms Desmond's behaviour.

``It is standard practice for our public affairs staff at the Royal Children's
Hospital to take photographs of any style of media event that is taking place at
their facility,'' he said.

While the Bligh Government wants to consolidate paediatric services at a new
Queensland Children's Hospital at the Mater site, across the river, the LNP
wants to upgrade both the Royal Children's and the Mater.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2009 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


