                              491 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Niagara This Week

                              May 8, 2012 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

WLMH project in limbo

BYLINE: Pieter van Hiel, staff, pvanhiel@niagarathisweek.com

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744  words


In the wake of the public rally that attracted an estimated 12,000 people to
demand a new West Lincoln Memorial Hospital (WLMH), Ontario's health minister
has promised that the project will "move forward." However, the project will be
held in limbo for at least five years before coming up for consideration. The
province withdrew $136.8 million in funding for the long-awaited new facility in
last month's provincial budget.

"We have a five year capital plan. The WLMH was on the plan. We had to review
that plan in light of our fiscal circumstances and that hospital did come off
the five year plan. We're not planning to do the redevelopment in the next five
years. However, we are planning to continue revitalizing our hospitals and we'll
be doing a rolling new capital plan. This is a hospital that we know needs to be
done. It will be considered as part of future capital plans," Deb Matthews,
Minister of Health, said in an interview on May 8.

Dr. Ken Southward, co-chair of the rally and the ongoing "Make a Difference"
campaign, said the campaign would continue putting pressure on the government.

"Our focus is still (Ontario premier) Dalton McGuinty here. What the health
minister says is interesting, but our focus is still Dalton McGuinty. He is our
target," said Southward.

Tim Hudak, local MPP for Niagara West-Glanbrook and Ontario's Tory leader, also
seems to have the McGuinty government in his target sights. Hudak, who attended
the rally wearing a "Make a Difference" T-shirt provided by organizers, stressed
his involvement in the 1997 rally to keep the hospital open. At that time, he
was parliamentary secretary to the minister of health in a Tory government that
closed 28 hospitals and laid off 6,000 nurses. WLMH was on the chopping block,
but was one of a handful of rural hospitals that remained open after
negotiations with the government. Last week, Hudak hammered the health minister
at Queen's Park over the WLMH project.

"All 10,000 strong in Grimsby last night heard how worthy a project the West
Lincoln Memorial Hospital is. I fear that the decision by Dalton McGuinty had
everything to do with politics, and nothing to do with ensuring high quality
patient care," said Hudak in a debate at Queen's Park. However, Hudak has also
said the province needs to balance the books before considering the WLMH
project.

Locally, campaign organizers have worked hard to prevent politicizing the
hospital project, to the point of asking local parliamentarians not to
participate in the formal portions of the rally.

"It wasn't a political rally. We really appreciate their support, but it was a
rally to give everybody a better understanding of the hospital, and that's not
political," said Southward. He said the campaign would continue to seek support
from residents of all political affiliations and make the case for the hospital
project. Southward said the rally was a great example of this cooperation.

"The rally was superb from all aspects, both from the burst of the support from
the community, the message from our health care providers, chambers and mayors
that everybody was on side. I think it was a good chance for maternity to meet
geriatrics to meet emergency. We were just thrilled with the rally and with the
response," he said.

With the rally complete, the Make a Difference campaign is now moving on to a
petition and letter writing phase. The official petition was launched at the May
2 rally and had already collected more than 5,000 signatures as of press time.
Southward noted that a previously launched online petition, while helpful in
raising awareness, could not be formally recognized or received by Queen's Park.

"We launched the petition at the rally and have well over 5,000 signatures on
that. You will see a lot of push over the next weeks to sign the petition. It is
important we do that, because that is the support we can give to our local
politicians to take the message to Queen's Park at the end of the month," said
Southward. "The second thing we're doing is the letters to Dalton campaign.
These are the letters that we collected, well over 5,000 too, at the rally.
We're going to make sure each one of those is mailed to Queen's Park. In our
opinion, it's a way of getting right through security and getting it to the
person we want to hear it."

Copies of the petition are available at the chamber of commerce offices in
Grimsby, Lincoln and West Lincoln, as well as at many public buildings and
businesses.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


