                              492 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            October 22, 2006 Sunday

NHS cuts twice as likely in Tory and Lib Dem areas

BYLINE: KARYN MILLER and TOM HARPER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 431 words


HOSPITALS IN Conservative and Liberal Democrat constituencies are more than
twice as likely to suffer from NHS cuts as hospitals in Labour seats, an
investigation by The Sunday Telegraph has found.

Thirty-four per cent of Tory and 37 per cent of Lib Dem seats in England and
Wales have been affected by cuts that have been either announced or proposed.
Only 14 per cent of Labour areas are affected. The cuts range from the closure
of single wards to the axing of entire hospitals.

The findings follow news that Patricia Hewitt, the Health Secretary,
commissioned "heat maps'' to show the potential political effects of proposed
hospital closures, and figures showing that seven times as many cottage
hospitals have closed or are under threat in Opposition-held areas than in
Labour ones.

In response, the Government has denied that it is "playing politics'' with the
health service.

However, this newspaper's findings, calculated by analysing hospital cuts that
have been publicly announced or proposed, will re-ignite the debate about the
handling of the Government's much-trumpeted NHS reform plans.

Last night, Andrew Lansley, the shadow health secretary, said: "It's bad enough
that there are nationwide cuts to frontline NHS services, but it adds insult to
injury that Labour are manipulating cuts to save their own political skin.
Patients and healthcare professionals must come first, but Labour can no longer
be trusted to do this.

Steve Webb, the Lib Dems' health spokesman, said: "The way the dice seem to fall
is very suspicious. It would be outrageous if decisions about cuts and closures
were manipulated for one party's political advantage, but this, I believe, is
what's happening.''

Michael Summers, of the Patients' Association, said: "If political
considerations are driving the changes, it is completely unacceptable.''

A Department of Health spokesman denied that opposition constituencies were
being unfairly targeted, and insisted that individual NHS organisations were
best-placed to explain reasons for "reconfigurations'' in their areas.

He said: "This survey doesn't take into account the fact that the NHS is working
to provide more services closer to home. The change of services within a
hospital can be due to that service being moved into a community setting, making
it more convenient for patients.''

A spokesman for Ms Hewitt said: "We're shifting services to areas where the
health needs are greatest, which are commonly in urban areas,'' he said. "These
happen to be mostly Labour seats. Decisions are driven by clinical needs. There
is no political meddling.''

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


