                              52 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Redditch Advertiser

                             July 14, 2012 Saturday

Kidderminster joins fight for survival

SECTION: LATETS (REDD NEWS LATEST)

LENGTH: 345 words


KIDDERMINSTER Hospital could be "fire fighting" if people leave it too late to
come together and fight plans that could see it closed, according to political
leaders.

Protest group, The Kidderminster Hospital Alliance, is being set up with a view
to uniting political parties, interest groups and residents and put forward a
petition to save the town's hospital.

It comes almost a month after clinicians released six options for the future of
Worcestershire's acute hospital services as part of the county's NHS joint
services review.

Redditch's Alexandra Hospital faces the possible closure of its A&E department
and the Save The Alex petition has already received more than 25,000 signatures.

It has raised concerns Kidderminster has fallen too far behind Redditch in its
campaign and although political leaders have warned against a "battle" between
the towns, one model would see either Redditch or Kidderminster closed.

In a joint statement, Labour's Howard Martin, Green Party spokesman Stephen
Brown, UKIP's Michael Wrench and Liberal Democrat Neville Farmer said they would
facilitate the setting up of the Alliance and support it to become self-reliant.

Mr Martin said: "We need to move quicker and we need to be broader. We are
trying to set up something which represents all political views and community
groups.

"If we do not talk about the options we cannot put together a rational argument
for why Kidderminster must not suffer before it is cast in stone.

"Some seem to be waiting for more details but if we leave it too long we will
just be fire fighting. We need to work now to minimise the effect on
Kidderminster Hospital."

Mr Martin said he wanted the campaign to include all political parties, groups
such as Diabetes UK and Disability Action Wyre Forest and all residents.

Wyre Forest MP, Conservative Mark Garnier, added: "With all organisations
involved this will show good unity in the efforts to preserve hospital services
at Kidderminster."

The next step for the Alliance will be to rally groups as well as put together a
petition and public awareness events.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2012 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


