                              53 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Wales on Sunday

                             April 22, 2007, Sunday
                                 North Edition

March for hospital

BYLINE: Catherine Evans Wales on Sunday

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 399 words


Hundreds marched through Llandudno yesterday in protest at plans to strip their
local hospital of services.

Health chiefs have proposed the transfer of acute medical units at Llandudno
Hospital - including coronary care - to other areas of North Wales.

But campaigners say they want hospital services 'upgraded, not downgraded',
insisting it would not be viable to travel to other hospitals in the area for
treatment.

In September, campaigners won a battle to preserve the hospital's cancer unit,
but other services remain under threat.

The local health board said it was working to make the best use of the hospital
in the future.

Around 300 people marched through Llandudno's high street to the town hall,
where candidates for the forthcoming Assembly Election spoke at the rally to
voice their concerns.

Linda Groom, from the Hospital Action Group said: 'We've thrown down the
gauntlet to the political parties to tell us what they will do - and tell the
public what they will do to the hospital - if they are elected.'

Speaking before the rally, Conservative candidate Dylan Jones-Evans said: 'We
are still very, very worried here.

'People are worried about the slicing of services. Llandudno Hospital's general
role will diminish and the threat to the coronary care unit could mean that
people's lives will be at risk.

'All the political parties have backed the hospital action support group. It's
easy for politicians to say we will do this and that, but it's been a
community-led campaign

.'

But Labour's Denise Idris Jones, the area's current AM, said: 'The main issues
are that the hospital has always been safe and never under threat.

'As a risk associated with breast cancer is osteoporosis, we have just put a
new, very expensive dexa scanner - a bone scanner - into the hospital, which is
very good news, and the intention is to create a centre of breast cancer
excellence.

'The action group are doing a wonderful job - it shows just how much us women
can do.'

And Plaid Cymru candidate Gareth Jones said: 'The proposals which I started
campaigning against are still very much on the table. No decision has been made
and they have not been withdrawn.

'My personal view as a resident who has had the benefit of this hospital is that
this strategy is flawed - they haven't considered the patients' needs first.'

A Labour spokesman said: 'Labour has committed itself to the future of Llandudno
Hospital.

'

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 Western Mail and Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


