                              54 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Financial Post (Pakistan)

                             June 17, 2014 Tuesday

Call to remove political parties flags from major healthcares

LENGTH: 459 words

DATELINE: KARACHI


KARACHI, June 17 -- Medical wings of political parties have converted the city's
major healthcares into political pitch by installing huge banners, party flags
and posters of their leaders in the premises of health institutions while
administrations seemed to be hapless in front of polticaly backed powerful
activists.

Sources said the breach of medical ethics in public hospitals visible in every
hospital of Karachi. Quoting example medical wings of different political
parties had totally changed the atmosphere of National Institute of Child Health
(NICH) and had turned it into political arena rather than healthcare.He said
activists of medical wings of political parties installed huge banners, posters
and party flags of Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz),
Pakistan Muslim League (Functional) and Islmi Jamiat-e-Talaba (IJT) in different
wards and entrances or exit of hospital. He said wall chalking were also visible
in wards and institution had turned into party secretariat. Sources said no any
place of NICH was spared from these banners and posters. He said this
malpractice had been seen in all other hospitals of Karachi city including
Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Center, Civil Hospital Karachi, Abbasi Shaheed
Hospital and other healthcares but situation in NICH was worst as compared to
other hospitals of city. He said institution atmosphere had badly been disturbed
due to cold attitude of relevant authorities.

He said whenever administration takes a step to remove the politically installed
banners he activists start hue and cry against administration. He informed that
700 to 800 patient visits different Outpatient Department of NICH for treatment
on daily basis and 18,000 children get treatment every month in institution.

He demanded of Health Minister Sindh and Executive Director NICH to take action
against staff members damaging the institution reputation in public eyes.

Central leader of Pakistan Medical Association (PMA) Dr SM Qaisar Sajjad said
health institutors and dispensaries should be freed from politics as they
provide treatment to all segments of society without any discrimination. He said
PMA had clear stance on issue that the health institutions should be spared from
all kind of political interferences.

He said health institutions should be utilized for health facilities. He
appealed to the medical wings of political parties to voluntarily remove all the
party flags, posters, banners and wall chalking in better interest of public
health and revival of institution atmosphere.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Financial Post. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Daily Financial Post
                              All Rights Reserved


