                              55 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    February 27, 1995, Monday, City Edition

Delay setting hospital vote draws heat

BYLINE: DEANNA BELLANDI

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 851 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



If this is the start of a trend, then Mayor Anita Protos is getting worried
about next month's election.

She said a handful of people already have told her they won't be voting for  her
on Election Day because she voted Tuesday to postpone setting a referendum  date
on Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital's proposed partnership deal with the  nation's
largest health-care chain.

Protos, who led a three-vote majority, said she needed more information.  Others
have accused the commissioners of stalling on the hottest issue in  Tarpon
Springs in years.

"If they judge me on this one issue it's sad," Protos said.

But it could happen.

Protos and other incumbents have seen signs that this issue could become a
900-pound political gorilla, dominating the March 21 election in which three
commission seats - including the mayor's - are up for grabs.

"Any time you have an emotional issue, people tend to take that to the  polls,"
said Commissioner Cindy Domino, who is up for re-election.

The debate over whether the hospital should merge with Columbia/HCA  Healthcare
Corp. has divided sentiment in the community and sent residents and
commissioners alike grasping for more information.

Those opposed to the partnership have said they fear losing local control  of
Helen Ellis Memorial to a corporate giant, while those in favor of the deal  say
it means the hospital will be able to survive in these changing  health-care
times.

While the debate now is over when to set a referendum, the lease referendum  is
the linchpin of the partnership deal.

The hospital and Columbia/HCA need a new 30-year lease with the city if  they
are to pull off the proposed affiliation. The hospital's current lease  isn't
transferable because the new partnership would make Helen Ellis Memorial  a
for-profit hospital.

"I was just thinking the hospital is so important no one would turn it  into a
political issue, but that illusion was shattered Tuesday night,"  Commissioner
Dudley Salley said.

Before a packed audience, Tuesday's commission meeting saw the two mayoral
candidates - Protos and Commissioner Blaine LeCouris - take opposite sides on
whether to set a May or June referendum, or wait for more information and
decide after next month's election on a date.

Protos, Salley and Commissioner Karen Brayboy wanted to wait; LeCouris and
Domino didn't.

"What does politics have to do with it?" LeCouris said. "If you don't  have the
guts to make a decision, you shouldn't be sitting on that board. I'm  willing to
take my stand on it."

Former Commissioner John Tarapani said politics had a lot to do with  Tuesday's
decision.

"I think Blaine and Cindy used it as a political tool, they saw a lot of  votes
out there in the audience," Tarapani said.

Both LeCouris and Domino said their votes on the hospital aren't swayed by  the
upcoming election.

"If I had to play on the hospital issue to try and get votes so I could  get
elected, then I'm not good for this town and I would rather get  defeated,"
LeCouris said.

A referendum would let voters decide whether the city should okay a new  lease
for the hospital if it becomes partners with Columbia/HCA and changes to  a
for-profit hospital.

The hospital has pushed for a referendum date to be set for May or June,
because as Columbia/HCA begins to negotiate new managed care contracts, the
company needs to know whether Helen Ellis Memorial will be included in its
chain of hospitals.

While Protos said she agrees a referendum date needs to be set, she wasn't
ready to do it Tuesday night. She wants to wait for more information from the
lawyers hired by the commission to advise them on the deal.

"It should not be a political issue," she said. "If people make it  political,
they're hurting the hospital - it's a business decision to be made.  We need to
have time to gather more information."

While some say the hospital affiliation hasn't yet turned into a political  hot
potato, many concede that it could.

"We don't want it to become political," hospital administrator Joseph  Kiefer
said. But "some of the people who are running don't want to have to  take a
position one way or another because they feel they will lose votes or  lose
financial support."

Hospital officials have said they want to affiliate with Columbia/HCA to  ensure
Helen Ellis Memorial's future viability. Joining a chain will stop  Helen Ellis,
now an independent hospital, from being excluded from some  managed care
networks and making it unavailable to some patients.

Columbia/HCA, based in Louisville, Ky., owns or is affiliated with 195
hospitals and 125 outpatient centers in 34 states and in Europe.

City Manager Costa Vatikiotis warned there is a danger to candidates using
their stand on the hospital deal as a way to get votes.

"Politics is the science of compromise for the benefit of society, but  usually
it doesn't involve business decisions," Vatikiotis said. "If the  cloud of
politics parks itself over this issue, the right information may not  be
conveyed."

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Anita Protos

                    Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company


