                              56 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             April 30, 2013 Tuesday

Ironic politics in Maine hospital debt debate

LENGTH: 675 words


Maine's continuing hospital debt dispute demonstrates the often befuddling,
contradictory political process of creating legislation. But the latest twist
might just provide the political cover Gov. Paul LePage needs to allow Medicaid
expansion to go forward.


Think of what could have been accomplished if it had been politically possible
for Democratic and Republican lawmakers to meet with LePage months ago and
negotiate a plan to repay the hospital debt, issue a new liquor contract and
expand Medicaid. It may have looked like what the Democrats are now proposing:
Pay the hospitals the debt they are owed by issuing revenue bonds backed by the
state's future liquor revenue (LePage's idea) and agree to expand Medicaid under
the Affordable Care Act (mostly supported publicly by Democrats).


Yet the resistance has been fierce. LePage called the Democrats ' proposal an
"ultimatum," "a sin" and "criminal." House Minority Leader Ken Fredette,
R-Newport, called it an "irresponsible, last-minute stunt." The House Republican
Office issued a press release detailing times in the last two months when
Democratic legislators complained about tying one legislative initiative to
another.


Political irony abounds. Democrats initially resisted tying together the liquor
contract and hospital payback plan -- until they put together a plan to do just
that. Their proposal at first, though, required a large upfront payment from the
winning liquor vendor to pay the hospitals rather than a revenue bond. Now --
after an independent analysis revealed the upfront payment would cost the state
more in the long term -- Democratic leaders are putting together a new bill. It
would have revenue bonds pay off the hospital debt, just as LePage wants, and
require the state to expand Medicaid access by raising income eligibility
limits, just as a majority of polled Maine residents want.


Meanwhile, Republicans encountered their own political irony. Fredette on Monday
issued a statement to say the hospital payback plan "deserves a clean,
up-or-down vote," even though the plan has never been solely about paying off
the hospital debt. LePage has also tied in voter-approved bonds, saying he will
not release them until the Legislature approves a hospital-repayment plan. The
state's hospitals are owed $484 million, dating back to 2009, because they
provided services to Medicaid patients but were not reimbursed.


Ideally, LePage and other Republicans would agree to Medicaid expansion based on
its own merits: providing all Maine residents access to health care. Analyses
have shown Maine is likely to get a good deal in terms of federal funding,
especially in comparison to other states. But if LePage has so far not agreed to
expand Medicaid, what would have to change for him to do so?


The Democrats may have finally hit the political sore spot: Will LePage veto a
bill that does exactly what he has been requesting for months -- pay back the
hospitals -- if it includes Medicaid expansion? The politics may have been
convoluted until this point, but the intention is clear: The odds are greater
that he'll approve an omnibus bill that includes the hospital payback plan than
a bill that only addresses Medicaid expansion.


The Democrats' bill may give LePage the opportunity to expand Medicaid and
simultaneously appease his base. He can say Democrats forced the issue, and he
took the high road to pay the hospitals. Or, he could finally come around to
Medicaid expansion, as other Republican governors have done, and recognize that
he would be supporting the hospitals by expanding Medicaid.


After all, the Maine Hospital Association, which represents the state's 39
hospitals, supports both getting the money they are owed and expanding coverage
for Maine's low-income residents.


Members of each party face their own political ironies. The ultimate question is
whether the GOP will be willing to bend as Democrats have, acknowledge their
contradictions, and move on. In the end, the policy, not the politics, will have
the longest-lasting impact on Maine people.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2013 Bangor Daily News


