                              57 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             August 4, 1991, Sunday

Hospital trusts to spread

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE, Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS PAGE; Page 2

LENGTH: 342 words


WILLIAM Waldegrave, the Secretary of State for Health, will shrug off criticism
of the Government's health policies this week and promise to press ahead with a
second tranche of hospital trusts.

Mr Waldegrave is expected to make explicit that the Government expects most
major hospitals to ''opt out'' eventually, and to announce the number of
hospitals which have asked to be included in the second wave. More than 110 will
be listed.

Mr Waldegrave will also begin the push for a third tranche of hospital trusts
and state that several expressions of interest have been made. Results of these
applications could be made before the general election if John Major waits until
1992 to go to the country.

Although the tone of Mr Waldegrave's comments will be measured, he will
underline that there is no question of the Government softening or delaying its
implementation of the internal market in the NHS in the face of electoral
pressures.

The move on health is a high- risk strategy, with some Conservatives arguing
that it will move the political agenda back to Labour's strongest area. The
Tories' opinion poll set-back after the Monmouth by-election was widely seen as
being linked to the political row over health which dominated campaigning.

Some Tory strategists believe that with health now lower on the public's list of
concerns, Mr Waldegrave is ill-advised to raise the trust issue again. However,
with health changes gaining their own momentum, ministers feel obliged to press
ahead with the timetable.

The hospitals which have put their names forward for the second tranche include
Royal Victoria Infirmary and Dental Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne; St Mary's
Hospital, Paddington, London; Bournemouth and Christchurch acute unit and
Walsgrave Hospital, Coventry.

Mr Waldegrave may be able to announce that a number of hospitals have won
approval when he makes his speech at the Conservative Party Conference at
Blackpool in October. Applications will be screened to try to eliminate cases
which result in bad publicity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1991 Independent Print Ltd


