                              58 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                               walesonline.co.uk

                      January 25, 2016 Monday 3:19 PM GMT

Conservatives accused of 'underhand tactics' after political leaflets are found
in South Wales hospital;
But a spokesman for the Welsh Conservatives said it was 'a mystery' how the
leaflets made their way into the Princess of Wales Hospital

BYLINE: By Mark Smith

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 507 words


An Assembly Member has accused the Welsh Conservatives of "underhand tactics"
after a batch of political leaflets were found in the visitor information area
of a South Wales hospital.

Plaid Cymru AM Bethan Jenkins says leaflets promoting the Welsh Conservatives'
plans for a designated cancer patients fund were discovered in the Princess of
Wales Hospital in Bridgend.

She claims Abertawe Bro Morgannwg University (ABMU) Health Board would never
have authorised such political leaflets to be placed in the hospital.

She said: "A colleague of mine was visiting a relative at the Princess of Wales
Hospital over the Christmas recess and discovered a batch of Conservative Party
leaflets in the visitor information area. Naturally, he removed them.

"I can't imagine for one minute that they were authorised by the health board.

Read more: Two Welsh health boards 'likely to overspend' this financial year,
says Health Minister

"But with an election just a few months away, health boards need to be vigilant
and carry out regular checks to ensure that political parties are not trying to
push their agendas inside hospitals.

"Perhaps being charitable an over-enthusiastic Tory supporter may have left
these leaflets without the knowledge of the Conservative hierarchy.

"But the Tory leader in Wales needs to distance himself from such underhand
tactics. I would not expect this behaviour from any political party."

Plaid Cymru has announced its own national cancer plan for Wales, with action to
improve diagnosis rates and offer more support for patients during and after
treatment.

Bethan Jenkins added: "But Plaid Cymru won't be targeting hospital patients and
visitors by leaving leaflets inside hospitals.

"We'll use the normal channels such as speaking to people on the streets, in
their homes and through the media."

A spokesman for the Welsh Conservatives said it was "a mystery" how the leaflets
made their way into the Princess of Wales Hospital.

He said: "We will remind all of our supporters that public places such as these
are not appropriate places to campaign.

"Having said that, the nationalists have highlighted an important issue about
access to cancer treatments in Wales.

"Perhaps Bethan Jenkins can explain why her party has supported Welsh Labour
budgets which have decimated the Welsh NHS, and left Welsh patients facing an
unacceptable postcode lottery in regards to access to drugs?

"The Welsh Conservatives are the only party committed to introducing a dedicated
Cancer Patients Fund to improve access to life-prolonging treatments for Welsh
patients."

ABMU Health Board said it conforms to Welsh Government policy on political
campaigning.

"We do not allow political activity of this nature and any requests by
politicians to visit our premises have to be agreed through the Chief
Executive's office.

Read more: The 12 AMs who will receive payoffs of up to £65k each when they
stand down in May

"These leaflets were not left at the Princess of Wales hospital with our
permission.

"We check regularly for and remove unauthorised literature."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBWM


                         Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


