                              59 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                           Daily News (South Africa)

                            July 19, 2017 Wednesday
                                   E1 Edition

Protocol is required for state hospital visits

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 266 words


With reference to the article "DA barred from state hospitals" (Daily News, July
11), one can only describe the actions of the DA as political opportunism.

Members of political parties know that they cannot just show up at a hospital or
clinic and purport to be there for oversight reasons.

This is highly disruptive as it means that the hospital or clinic management
must stop attending to patients and entertain the honourable members.

If one were to visit any government institutions, whether it be hospitals,
clinics, schools, a police station or a court, there are protocols to be
followed.

Visits are arranged and organised through the respective portfolio committees.

In the case of health facilities, this is so that arrangements can be made for
minimal disruptions to patients and to ensure that such visits do not interfere
with the doctors' routine rounds and consultations.

The problems plaguing our provincial state hospitals are not new.

There has been a progressive decline in standards and conditions over the years,
which, if a political party like the DA was truly interested, it would have
noticed and created an uproar.

While political expediency trumps good intentions more often than not, I believe
Imraan Keeka and his coterie of DA colleagues are trying to milk the situation
in an attempt to show their "deep concern".

How many oversight visits has he made to state hospitals in the past in which
such furore was caused?

Political capital is a very transactable commodity as we approach 2019.

Make no mistake, the DA will squeeze as much as it can, when it can.

Ramesh Sukdeo

Sydenham

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ND


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


