                              60 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            November 12, 2006 Sunday

70% of new hospitals have been built in Labour heartlands

BYLINE: KARYN MILLER AND TOM HARPER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 413 words


SEVEN out of 10 new hospitals open in Labour areas, an investigation by The
Sunday Telegraph has revealed.

In England, 123 constituencies will benefit from schemes, 83 of which - nearly
70 per cent - are Labour seats. Just 24 per cent are held by the Conservatives
and seven per cent by the Lib-Dems.

At the Labour Party Conference in the autumn, Tony Blair boasted that his
Government's hospital-building programme was the "largest ever''. However, the
latest findings will add to fears about political interference in the NHS.

Last week, the Department of Health was forced to publish a series of "heat
maps'' after claims that Patricia Hewitt, the Health Secretary, had ordered
officials to ensure hospital closures did not hit Labour marginals.

Responding to the findings, Andrew Lansley, the shadow health secretary, said:
"Such evidence of ministers trying to gain political advantage from the NHS is
an outrage at a time when services are under pressure from Labour's
mismanagement.''

Steve Webb, the Liberal Democrat health spokesman, said that the percentage of
hospital schemes dedicated to Labour areas, which make up only 54 per cent of
constituencies in England, was disproportionate. "This is evidence of political
bias. It has Patricia Hewitt's fingerprints all over it.''

A spokesman for the Department of Health denied that any political meddling had
taken place. "Patient need, not party politics, drives the building of new NHS
hospitals,'' the spokesman said. "The local NHS, not ministers, puts forward
proposals for new hospitals based on the requirements of local patients.''

Since 1997, the health department has given the go-ahead to 142 hospital
schemes, with a total capital value of more than pounds 18 billion. The majority
are being funded through the much-criticised Private Finance Initiative.

Prominent schemes include the pounds 697 million Birmingham Super Hospital, with
"world-class'' facilities including 1,200 beds and private rooms for half its
patients, in the Labour Edgbaston constituency.

The pounds 422 million University College Hospital, in the Holborn & St Pancras
seat of Frank Dobson, the former health secretary, opened its doors last year.

In Leicester, the city in which Ms Hewitt's seat is located, a pounds 550
million project involving three hospitals is planned.

A pounds 312 million hospital is being built in Margaret Beckett's Derby South
seat, and a pounds 113 million hospital has opened in the Blackburn constituency
of Jack Straw.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


