                              61 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The Nation (Thailand)

                            March 5, 2014 Wednesday

Phyathai Hospital puts new investment on hold

BYLINE: The Nation

LENGTH: 337 words


The Nation

Phyathai Hospital Group has decided to delay its investment plans and hiring for
this year until the political situation improves, as its hospitals have been
significantly affected by the anti-government protests and the emergency decree.

The political turmoil has reduced the #124number of patients to as much as 20
per cent of the normal level, Att Thongthang, chief executive officer of
Phyathai Hospital Group and Paolo Memorial Hospital Group, said yesterday.

The two companies comprise a Bangkok-based hospital group with five Phyathai
Hospital locations and three Paolo Memorial locations.

He said that that if the situation improved this month, the number of patients
could climb back to about 80 per cent.

The typical annual investment plan of Phyathai Hospital Group is about Bt800
million, mostly for medical equipment, marketing campaigns and the opening of
new treatment centres.

The group, which usually generates annual revenue of about Bt12 billion, will
likely achieve growth of 8 per cent this year, compared to the initial
10-per-cent target, he said.

Phyathai Hospital Group has no merger-and-acquisition plan at this time, due to
the political uncertainty, he added.

To reduce operating costs, it has transferred some staff at locations affected
by the political rallies â[#x20ac]" for example, at Phyathai 1, 2 and 3
hospitals â[#x20ac]" to unaffected hospitals in the group, the CEO said.

As for the projects in which Phyathai Hospital Group has already commenced
investment, it will proceed with its plans, such as construction of the 150-bed
Paolo Memorial (Rangsit), which will be the ninth hospital in the group.

The energy-efficient Paolo Memorial (Rangsit) will be built on 7-8 rai
(1.12-1.28 hectares) of land leased from Future Park Rangsit for 30 years. The
first phase is expected to provide services to clinics and outpatients by the
middle of next year.

Phyathai Hospital Group's patients are 90 per cent Thais, with a rising
proportion of foreigners. In the past, the group catered almost solely to Thais.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 Nation News Network Co., Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


