                              63 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        The Balochistan Times (AsiaNet)

                             August 27, 2017 Sunday

PML-N targeting Shaukat Khanum for political interests: Imran Khan

SECTION: Vol. 40 No. 237

LENGTH: 352  words


Expressing dismay over allegations of embezzlement in funds of Shaukat Khanum
Hospital, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) chairman Imran Khan said that hospitals
are spared and exempted from attack even during war like situation but his
political opponents do not miss a chance to make unnecessary criticism.

Addressing an award distribution ceremony held under Shaukat Khanum Hospital,
Khan said those levelling baseless allegations should rather call for
investigation and send him to prison if allegations proved true.

He said that Pakistan Mulsim League-Nawaz (PML-N) couldn't make a single cancer
hospital in its 30 year rule in Punjab.

'My prayers are with Kulsoom Nawaz, may Allah give her a speedy recovery,' Khan
said. He said that the wife of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif went overseas
for treatment but how many people can afford that. 'Political opponents
shouldn't target Shaukat Khanum for political interests,' he said.

Lauding efforts of various artists, Khan said the artists have contributed a lot
for establishing the hospital where 75 per cent of cancer patients get free
medical treatment.

'After Peshawar and Lahore, we are building a cancer hospital in Karachi,' he
said, adding that the hospital has served its patients in an exemplary way. 'No
hospital around the world provide such facilities free of cost,' he added.

He said criticism on Shaukat Khanum hospital is beyond his understanding since
there is no other cancer hospital in the country while urging his opponents to
restrain making unnecessary criticism for their political rivalry with him.

Khan accused Lahore Development Authority (LDA) for impeding development work
within the hospital premises by raising unwarranted objections on building maps,
adding, similar kind of hindrances are faced for acquiring electricity
connections.

Later, he distributed awards among corporate donors.

'They [Punjab government] created hurdles for a social welfare institute,' he
said. He said that if they had found any financial embezzlement in Shaukat
Khanum, they should act against it but they shouldn't use it for their political
interests.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2017 The Balochistan Times
                              All Rights Reserved


