                              66 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Himalayan Times

                            February 23, 2015 Monday

BP Koirala Memorial Cancer Hospital in dire straits

BYLINE: HIMALAYAN NEWS SERVICE

LENGTH: 319  words


CHITWAN: BP Koirala Memorial Cancer Hospital of Bharatpur, Chitwan, set up with
the plan of developing it as a model hospital for Asia, has had to cope with
heavy budget cuts, reportedly due to political reasons.

"The hospital's main source of income is the fund it receives from tax collected
from tobacco-related items. However, in recent years, the Health as well as
Finance ministries, under the influence of different parties, has slashed the
budget," said a staff at the hospital.

"If the head of the hospital is close to a certain party, people aligned to some
other parties lobby against the head and thus against the whole hospital," said
the staff, adding, "It's due to political tussle between the ministries that the
hospital has been facing a slump in its fund in the past four years."

According to Dr Chin Bahadur Pun, executive director of the hospital, the
hospital had received around Rs 334 million in fiscal year 2012/13 which went
down to 295 million rupees in the fiscal of 2013/14 and further slumped to 245
and 240 million rupees in the following fiscal years respectively.

"Though the hospital has an internal income of around 90 million rupees
annually, we have to spend around 260 million rupees on remunerations. On top of
that, a huge amount is spent on repair and maintenance of machines," he said,
adding they owe around 280 million rupees to the gratuity fund.

A number of defunct machines are being run in the hospital for want of money to
repair them. Hospital board committee member Ram Prasad Neupane, however, said
something could still be done to peg the fund.

"According to the act, 75 per cent of the amount collected from tobacco-related
items used to be donated to the hospital, but later the fund was reduced by an
amendment in the concerned regulation," he said, adding, "The fund could still
be hiked if political parties in the district came together and called for the
same."

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Himalayan Times, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


