                              67 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                       Sarasota Herald Tribune (Florida)

                             July 17, 2014 Thursday

HCA DENIES PUSH TO PRIVATIZE SMH

BYLINE: JEREMY WALLACE H-T Political Writer

SECTION: A; ARCHIVES; Pg. A01

LENGTH: 1039 words


HEALTH: Long candidate list for hospital board has fueled rampant speculation

Despite rampant rumors to the contrary, one of the state's largest for-profit
hospital chains declared it has no intention of trying to privatize the publicly
owned Sarasota Memorial Hospital.

An HCA West Florida spokeswoman said rumors were "absolutely untrue" that the
company is recruiting candidates to run for the Sarasota Memorial board in a
plan to take the hospital private.

"There is no effort on our part to privatize SMH," said JC Sadler, vice
president of marketing for HCA Florida West, which runs Sarasota's Doctors
Hospital and 15 other hospitals in the state.

Still, supporters of Sarasota Memorial are taking no chances, creating a
political action committee to oppose any privatization effort. Attorney Morgan
Bentley, who is helping lead "Save Our Commmunity Hospital" with former Sarasota
Republican Party chairman Eric Robinson, said the group hopes to have $150,000
to $200,000 by the primary elections on Aug. 26 for a potential campaign. Within
about one week, the group has raised almost $20,000.

Sarasota Memorial, founded in 1925, is one of more than 30 nonprofit community
hospitals in Florida. It is governed by an unpaid nine-member board, with five
seats up for election in August. All nine current board members are Republicans.

All five of the incumbents up for election face Republican primary challengers,
a rare level of competition for the typically low-key board.

Because there are no general election opponents, all voters in the county,
regardless of party, will be able to vote in the primary.

The rumor mill

The privatization rumors exploded last month, when an unusual surge of
candidates appeared during the final days of qualifying.

One of the challengers -- Republican Jack Brill -- told others that a political
consultant in Tampa who tried to recruit him as a client told him he was going
to create a political action committee to support candidates who would help HCA
change the hospital board to favor SMH privatization.

But the consultant, Anthony Pedicini, gave a different account of the
conversation with Brill. He said he reached out to Brill to help only him in his
campaign for the board, because he knows Brill from GOP political circles.
Pedicini said nothing was said about HCA, or about him working for the hospital
company in any way.

"I have nothing to do with any of the hospital board candidates," Pedicini said.

Brill, who is running against incumbent Robert Strasser, said he adamantly
opposes privatizing the hospital and has since signed a pledge never to support
the idea. Brill said he is running because he thought Strasser might retire
soon, and being on the hospital board would be a good way to get involved in the
community.

Other challengers -- Stefan Butz, who is battling incumbent Richard Merritt, and
Lydia Tower, who is taking on incumbent Gregory Carter -- do not seem ready to
push for privatization, either. Butz said he is against turning the hospital
private, and Tower has said she doesn't see why the hospital should change to a
for-profit model.

The only challenger who has publicly supported privatization is Michael Sutphin,
who was fired from his security job at Sarasota Memorial in 2012. Sutphin, who
is running against Joseph J. DeVirgilio, said the hospital needs to be
privatized because it has incurred too much debt through expansion projects over
the last 10 years.

Former North Port city commissioner David Garafalo -- who is running against
incumbent Darryl Henry -- did not return calls seeking comment.

A vote in opposition

The privatization rumors come just a year after the hospital board voted
emphatically against privatizing.

In 2012, Gov. Rick Scott pushed all public hospitals to justify remaining public
or come up with a list of possible buyers to go private. That prompted the
Sarasota hospital board to vote unanimously in 2013 to keep the hospital a
public nonprofit.

Scott is former CEO of what was then Columbia/HCA, and has long questioned the
value of government-run hospitals.

If the hospital board ever decides to privatize Sarasota Memorial, it will have
to put the issue to a countywide vote.

So far, HCA has not donated money to any of the current candidates running for
the hospital board. In fact, of the five candidates challenging the incumbents,
four have raised no money at all for their campaigns.

While HCA is adamant in saying it does not want to privatize Sarasota Memorial,
the company does have a financial interest in the hospital board elections.

Sadler said HCA West Florida would like to support candidates who are looking
out for the "needs of all of the taxpayers." Sadler did not specify which of the
candidates running it might support.

More directly, HCA and other for-profit hospitals have long been frustrated that
they pay property taxes, yet do not share in the more than $40 million Sarasota
Memorial raises annually through property taxes.

In 2011, three for-profit hospitals in Sarasota County, including HCA West
Florida facilities, sued the county for a share of the property tax money.

The for-profits lost that case last year, but are appealing the decision.

Current hospital board member Gregory Carter says he knows the for-profits want
a share of that money, but it is hard to justify giving taxpayer dollars to
for-profit hospitals that don't provide anywhere close to the services Sarasota
Memorial is taking on. Sarasota Memorial is the only hospital that provides
maternity care, pediatrics, neonatal intensive care and psychiatric care for
patients, as well as a significant amount of indigent care.

"The taxpayers don't really want to see their tax money sent to a corporate
headquarters in Tennessee," Carter said, referencing the headquarters of HCA
Florida West's parent company, HCA Inc.

HCA Florida West has 16 hospitals in Florida, including Doctors Hospital of
Sarasota, Blake Medical Center in Bradenton and Englewood Community Hospital.

Carter said he has heard the rumors of a new privatization bid, too. He said
when all of the candidates started filing, it ignited that talk.

"It was kind of a shock to see all of these people running," Carter said.

Staff Writer Barbara Peters Smith contributed to this report.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: There are contests over five seats on the board at Sarasota Memorial
Hospital. An HCA representative says the company has not been recruiting
candidates to help take the hospital private.H-T ARCHVIE / 2013 SMH offers a
range of services for patients in this area. One is maternity care, including
neonatal intensive care in its new tower. H-T ARCHIVE / 2013

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Sarasota Herald-Tribune Co.
                              All Rights Reserved


