                              68 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                    BBC Monitoring Asia Pacific - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                               May 3, 2010 Monday

Staff at Thai hospital stormed by red shirts declare neutrality

LENGTH: 274 words


Text of report in English by Thai newspaper Bangkok Post website on 3 May

[Report by Online Reporters: "Hospital Staff Rally, Deny Taking Sides"]

More than 500 medical staff and students gathered in front of Chulalonglongkorn
Hospital on Monday morning, declaring their independence from politics.

"Medical personnel are afraid of the current political situation and some nurses
have cried. We're not the red-shirt protesters' enemy, but we don't know who to
depend on.

"We're like living in a divided country," Chulalongkorn Hospital deputy director
Somrat Charulaksananan said.

He said traffic congestion caused by the red-shirt rally was not the hospital's
main concern. The prolonged anti-government rally at Ratchaprasong made it
difficult for medical staff to do their job properly.

Protesters were shining lights into the hospital building, or making threatening
comments over loudspeakers on some nights.

"Chulalongkorn Hospital is under the Thai Red Cross Society, not the Public
Health Ministry, and we have to be careful that the Geneva Treaty is not be
violated," Dr Somrat said.

He called on all sides in the political conflict to stop pulling Chulalongkorn
Hospital into the political ring.

"We have never separated ourselves from the protesters. They can use our
toilets, sleep and walk in the hospital," he added.

Red-shirt leaders have accused the hospital of taking sides by evacuating its
patients to other hospitals after protesters raided the premises last week in a
futile search for soldiers, and demanding that Ratchadamri Road, its main
entranceway, be reopened to traffic.

Source: Bangkok Post website, Bangkok, in English 3 May 10

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2010 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


