                              69 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               The Frontier Post

                            March 12, 2016 Saturday

Tehsil Headquarters Hospital Bara inaugurated

BYLINE: Jehanzeb Afridi

SECTION: Vol. 31 No. 72

LENGTH: 315  words


A senior official of the political administration of Khyber Agency inaugurated
Tehsil Headquarters Hospital after the interval of seven years on Friday.

A formal inauguration ceremony held in Dogra in Bara tehsil organized where
political agent of Khyber Agency Khalid Mahmood announced the reopening of
Agency Headquarters Hospital in Dogra.

Speaking to the gathering of elders and doctors the political agent said
although the tribesmen were suffered badly owing to closure of Tehsil Agency
Hospital and other local hospitals in militancy hit areas. He added the people
belonging to the tribal would resume their life and business in Bara subdivision
after the government writ has been restored in Khyber Agency particularly in
Bara sub-division.

He administered polio drops to the children in the hospital to launch anti-polio
drive from 14th March to 16th in this month.

The official visited to the several departments in the hospital and directed the
concerned officials to fulfill the requirements inside the hospital.

"Nobody allows including doctors and other staff to negligence during their duty
time but the political administration will take stern action against them," he
warned. Also, political agent visited to the stadium in Bara, which announced by
the Chief of Army Staff General Raheel Sharif during the Governor Sports
Festival in Qayyum Sports Complex two months ago.

To a question, Khalid Mahmood stated CCTV-Cameras would be installed on various
entry and exit points soon in Bara to keep a close eye on the civilians.

Later, Khalid Mahmood visited to the Levies centre in Shahkas to meet the peace
body members of the several tribes belonging to the Bara Khyber Agency. The
peace bod members told the political agent that the peace body members had been
faced in many problems. They informed that the political agent should call the
meeting of the peace body during a week.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Frontier Post
                              All Rights Reserved


