                              70 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                              May 6, 2005, Friday

ELECTION 2005: HOSPITAL DEBATE STILL RAGES

BYLINE: BY EMMA BRADY Dr Richard Taylor; The first of the ballot boxes arrives
for the count at Redditch Town Hall

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 552 words


With health being one of the key battlegrounds for this election, the
downgrading of Kidderminster Hospital is still fuelling fierce debate in Wyre
Forest.

In 2001, retired GP Dr Richard Taylor scored the most dramatic result in ousting
Labour junior Minister David Lock by an overwhelming majority of 17,630.

Buoyed by the exceptionally high turnout in the constituency - 68 per cent
compared with 59 per cent across Britain - the 70-year-old's single-issue
campaign showed what independent candidates could achieve.

Dr Taylor stood under the Health Concern banner in protest at proposed cuts to
services at Kidderminster District Hospital, which first emerged in 1997.

This sparked fierce opposition among the community, who saw Kidderminster as a
'sacrificial lamb' in the transformation of Worcestershire's health services.

It was the second time the once-safe Conservative seat had changed hands since
Labour's landslide victory in 1997.

While the Tories supported Dr Taylor by offering him one of their three seats on
the Commons Health Committee, it was the Liberal Democrats who backed him in
this year's election.'

Since 2001, both Conservative and Labour candidates have accused Dr Taylor of
being a Liberal Democrat in disguise.

But since he was elected on May 17, 2001, Dr Taylor had been taking sage advice
from former BBC journalist turned campaigner Martin Bell.

Dr Taylor said: 'When I was first elected Martin Bell said I should never tell
anyone what I was going to do'I never said I would only stand for one election,
what I did say I would reconsider my position nearer the time.'

Campaigners claimed the new hospital in Worcester, which was built under a
Private Finance Initiative, was running over-budget and saw the downgrading of
Kidderminster as a way of clawing back that shortfall.

The hospital's A&E was closed in September 2000 after the Worcestershire Acute
NHS Trust - which had struggled to recruit enough doctors - claimed it was
unsafe to maintain emergency services at Kidderminster.

Instead, an urgent treatment centre was opened, which is run mainly by nurses
with one doctor operating an out-of-hours service.

But Dr Taylor claims casualty departments at Worcester Royal Infirmary and the
Alexandra Hospital, in Redditch, are buckling under the increased pressure.

'As services are only starting to trickle back into use at Kidderminster and
hospital staff at Redditch and Worcester have realised they can't cope with the
extra demand, I still need to be here to make sure these issues are resolved,'
he said.

'I want to be around so I can keep an eye on these changes Conservative
candidate Mark Garnier, and Labour man Mark Bayliss have been fighting hard to
win back the seat.

Other candidates included former television chef Rustie Lee, who stood for UKIP,
and Fran Oborski, the Liberal candidate. Bert Priest represented the Monster
Raving Loony Party.

Speaking before the polls closed last night, Dr Taylor said: 'The main challenge
will probably be from the Tories as this has traditionally been one of their
seats.

'Although I did have one of their three places on the Commons Health Committee,
my views on health are more closely aligned to Labour's policies than theirs, so
I'm not surprised by this

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2005 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


