                              71 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Business Recorder

                              June 17, 2011 Friday

Poor patients facing problems at government hospitals due to pilferage of
medicines

BYLINE:  RECORDER REPORT

SECTION: Vol. XLVII No. 167

LENGTH: 711  words


Due to the theft of medicines at government hospitals poor patients are
suffering badly as they have to either purchase medicines from private medical
stores or discontinue their treatment. The government spends huge amount on
purchase of medicines every year, but medicines are actually not delivered to
the patients, while bulk is sold by the corrupt officials to the private medical
stores.

Medical superintendents of government hospitals deny the allegation of the theft
of medicines, however, drug inspectors say the theft of medicines in state-run
hospitals is a roaring business and large quantities of such stolen drugs have
been recovered during raids on private medical stores.

Drug Inspector Karachi, Idrees Shaikh told Business Recorder that the theft of
medicines from our government hospitals could not be denied. He said there were
several cases in which drug inspectors had recovered stolen medicines from the
private medical stores. He said drug inspectors recover stolen medicine from
private medical stores and lodge cases against the accused. He informed that the
courts were dealing with many cases of medicine theft.

According to the sources, medicines were being stolen from Civil Hospital
Karachi (CHK), Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH), National Institute of
Cardiovascular Diseases (NICVD), Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Center (JPMC),
National Institute of Child Health (NICH), Qatar Hospital Orangi and other big
and small hospitals. They said patients were supplied only cheap medicines;
however, they were asked to buy costly injections, capsules and tablets from the
private stores. They said the administrations of these hospitals were fully
aware about the issue but they did not pay any heed to the problem due to their
own vested interests.

They said mostly paramedics including dispensers; technicians and storekeepers
are involved in the theft of medicines. However, in some cases doctors were also
found involved in this crime, they added. It was also learnt that the majority
of paramedical staff, especially dispensers, run their own private medical
stores and sell the stolen drugs on discount.

Sources said mostly those paramedics were involved in this crime who they have
support of various political parties. They said paramedic and medical wings of
various political parties working in the government hospitals.

They said corrupt staff shows entry of provision of medicines to patients in the
hospital register; however, actually they were not supplied these medicines, or
supplied only some of them. They said such paramedics often ask patients to buy
the prescribed drugs from private medical stores, as the medicines were not
available at the hospital.

They said many NGOs and philanthropists donate life-saving medicines in bulk to
the emergency wards of the government but such drugs are also sold in open
market by the corrupt hospital staff. The patients in the surgical ward of the
Civil Hospital Karachi, says sometime patients have to buy syringes and cannula
for themselves. They alleged that medicines were provided to some patients who
have political affiliation or they have any relations with some doctors, nurses
or paramedics.

Dr Qaiser Sajjad, Ex Secretary General of Pakistan Medical Association (PMA)
Karachi said usually low paid staff in the government hospitals is involved in
the drug theft. When this scribe asked him about the involvement of doctors in
medicine thefts, he agreed and said that PMA has always discouraged such type
malpractices from doctor's ends.

He said these people sell the stolen drugs to private medical stores on
throwaway prices, as a result poor patients suffer badly. Qaiser suggested the
medicines supplied to the government hospitals must have different colours,
packaging, and labels, so that they could not be sold at the private medical
stores. He said millions of poor people could not afford to buy medicines, and
the theft of drugs from the government hospitals directly affects them.

He said the theft of medicines is an immoral act and also a severe crime against
the ailing humanity, therefore the government should make serious efforts to
check this malpractice. This scribe tried to contact Secretary Health Sindh,
Syed Hashim Raza for his comments but he was not available.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2011 Business Recorder
                              All Rights Reserved


