                              72 of 998 DOCUMENTS



                                  Nationalist

                          February 20, 2013 Wednesday

New threat to maternity services could have huge impact on hospital South Tipp
suffering from political interference' claim

LENGTH: 894  words


Maternity and acute services at South Tipperary General Hospital face an
almighty battle for survival as the campaign to save the hospital is to be
re-activated after the emergence of a major threat to the hospital.

The public has been placed on red alert as the hospital faces its biggest ever
threat to its status. Fears are mounting that Clonmel's maternity services will
be selected as the one to close out of the four maternity services in the south
east which will have a huge knock on effect for paediatric services, twenty four
hour anaesthetic services, emergency department and in-patient general surgical
services.

The new threat to the maternity services has arisen after Health Minister James
Reilly briefed backbench TDs on the Higgins report on restructuring of hospital
groups in the country and informed them that one of the four maternity units in
the south east would close. There is a proposal that both Clonmel and Waterford
will be downgraded and linked to Cork while the hospitals in the constituencies
of Minister Phil Hogan in Kilkenny and Brendan Howlin in Wexford are to be
grouped with the prestigious teaching hospitals in Dublin.

The Save Our Acute Hospital Services action group office in Clonmel is to
re-open this week and arrangements are being made for the members of the
hospital action group to meet Minister Reilly.

Said action group Chairman Seamus Healy TD - "Closure of our hospital will
simply not be allowed happen. The campaign which culminated in 20,0000 people
taking to the streets in Clonmel three years ago will be re-activated. The
public will have to stand up to this threat, people power can stop this. South
Tipperary has a commitment from the current Health Minister, the Taoiseach and
Tanaiste and their two parties that acute services in South Tipperary will be
retained. The people of South Tipperary will not stand for the loss of the
maternity services or the downgrading of the hospital,"

Independent TD Mattie McGrath has slammed the move as naked political
interference" from Ministers Hogan and Howlin.

"This is a political decision. We are losing out because Minister Hogan is
looking after Kilkenny and Minister Howlin looking after Wexford. This decision
has nothing to do with the delivery of a better health service, it's a political
game and we don't have a government TD to stand up to them and protect South
Tipperary," said Deputy McGrath.

The cabinet met on Tuesday to discuss the Higgins report but according to Fine
Gael Deputy Tom Hayes no decision would be taken on the restructuring of the
hospital groups because there was no medical consensus. He said he would oppose
any attempt by Minister Reilly to close the maternity services in Clonmel.

On Monday might a meeting of the hospital action committee was held in Clonmel
which was attended by hospital consultant Peter Murchan and former consultants
Paud O'Regan and Alan Moore. It was also attended by Mayor of Clonmel Billy
Shoer, elected representatives from throughout South Tipperary, hospital patient
groups and hospital staff and retired staff.

Chairman Seamus Healy said  the committee would meet head on any attempt to
close maternity services in Clonmel and would fight against the break up of the
existing south east hospital structure which South Tipperary wanted to remain
part of .

He said that Deputy Hayes had undertaken to arrange a meeting with Minister
Reilly with the three South Tipp TDs as well as a meeting with the hospital
action group.

"Losing your maternity services would amount to the nuclear situation because it
would have such a devastating effect on other vital services. If maternity goes
then you face asset stripping of a major scale and Clonmel could very soon
become a day hospital with a minor injury unit," warned Deputy Healy.

Deputy Tom Hayes said he was very concerned about the maternity services which
he said could be one out of the four to go if the south east hospital structure
stays as it is.

"If the south east structure  as it is stays together one of the four maternity
units will not survive. I have no intention of allowing Minister Reilly close
down maternity in Clonmel and it will have to be fought," he said.

Deputy Mattie McGrath said that capital funding for both hospitals in Kilkenny
and Wexford had been accelerated by Minister Reilly for Minsiters Hogan and
Howlin. That combined with Minister Reillys' involvement in the prioritisation
of primary health care centres established a pattern of political interference
in the health system and it now appeared as if the hospital system was going to
be restructured to accommodate the political interests of some ministers.

"Our maternity is under threat because we are the weakest link. We do not  have
anybody in government strong enough to protect our interests," said Deputy
McGrath.

He said he was concerned that the delivery of a better health service was not
the priority anymore as significant changes were being made because the
political picture had changed so much.

"Not that long ago Waterford was to be a centre of excellence with South
Tipperary, Kilkenny and Wexford feeding into that. Now it looks like Waterford
is going to be downgraded along with South Tipperary, and Kilkenny and Wexford
are upgraded. It's purely political. This is the biggest threat our maternity
services and the hospital has ever faced," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: INAC


                       Copyright 2013 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


