                              73 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 April 19, 2005

Town hospital

SECTION: Features; General; Letters; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 511 words


Since the review of Bristol hospitals began three years ago, Keynsham's Labour
councillors have taken the lead in the campaign to secure the future of Keynsham
Hospital.  Our concern has been to ensure that the hospital and its services are
retained for the benefit of the local community.

I note that the Conservative candidate for Wansdyke is now using this issue for
his own political purposes.  If he had spoken to his colleagues he would have
discovered that the campaign to save Keynsham Hospital has the support of all
political parties.  It is, however, the Labour councillors who first raised
awareness of this issue and who have been fighting to ensure that the views of
Keynsham people are considered in the ongoing hospital reviews.

CLLR ADRIAN INKER Lab, Keynsham South Holmoak Road, Keynsham ONE in four people
will experience a mental illness in their lifetime, and the Government's plans
to reform mental health law could lead to many more people being treated against
their will.

Now an all-party parliamentary committee scrutinising the Draft Mental Health
Bill has said that these proposals are "fundamentally flawed". It has endorsed
the view of Maca, and the nearly 70 other organisations in the Mental Health
Alliance, that the Draft Bill is unethical and unworkable.

Anyone who cares about better mental health law should join us in asking all
election candidates whether they will support the draft Mental Health Bill as it
stands.

MARTIN BALL Maca High Holborn, London TWENTY million voters in the UK are over
the age of 50. We are more likely to vote than younger age groups.

We are as diverse as any other age group. We are looking to the next government
to ensure that everyone has an adequate income to lead a fulfilling life, to end
age discrimination and to build effective public services.

I hope that your party is listening to older people and has the policies to
prove it.

To do otherwise may cost you at the ballot box.

MARGARET HOTSON Camden Crescent, Bath THE writer of the letter you recently
published under the heading "Speed cameras are not for safety" successfully shot
himself in the foot by stating, correctly, that there had been no accidents on
the Batheaston bypass. If this is not safety, what is?  Admittedly there are
other local roads, such as Sally in the Wood which could be considered more
appropriate for a speed limit but the fact remains that, according to a more
talented mathematical person than I am, someone driving the length of the
Batheaston bypass at 70mph, rather than the legal limit of 50mph, would save
himself just 90 seconds. To what purpose?  MD RAHILLY Upper Westwood Bradford on
Avon SPEED is measurable and easy to enforce and make money from. In my opinion,
they should be looking at the distance people leave when driving. In my
experience on the road accidents occur more when people don't leave a good
distance between cars. With a safe distance the speed is a more minor issue.

GREG SMITH Mead End, Biggleswade

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005 1904BATHCHE1townho

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                      Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press


