                              75 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 15, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Hospital Blast In Pakistan; Political Feud Is Heating Up

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 7;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 680 words

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, April 14


A bomb exploded in Pakistan's only cancer hospital today, killing at least 6
people, wounding more than 30 and adding a grim twist to a personal and
political feud that many Pakistanis say could have a profound impact on the
country's future.

The bomb detonated in the city of Lahore at the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer
Center, opened 16 months ago and dedicated to the memory of the mother of
Pakistan's former cricket captain, Imran Khan. Mr. Khan, 43, has said in recent
days that he is on the verge of starting a political movement to topple Prime
Minister Benazir Bhutto, who was a fellow student with Mr. Khan at Oxford
University 20 years ago.

The blast occurred shortly after noon today, a normal working day in Pakistan,
when about 150 patients and relatives were gathered at the sprawling hospital
complex. A correspondent for the BBC who reached the scene said the explosion
left dead and wounded lying in pools of blood, with one outer wall of the
hospital blown away. Hospital officials said that the dead included 2 children
who were patients and that 10 of the wounded were in critical condition.

The incident came amid intensifying political violence in Pakistan. Mr. Khan,
who gained widespread popularity among Pakistan's 130 million people when his
team won cricket's world championship for the first time in 1992, has been
sharply critical of the country's feuding political class, which he has
described as "a culture of corruption and injustice."

Many of his criticisms have been aimed particularly at Prime Minister Bhutto,
who Mr. Khan has accused of leading a Government obsessed with political
vendettas and self-enrichment. Ms. Bhutto has responded by targeting Mr. Khan
with income tax investigations, a ban on fund-raising events for the cancer
hospital in schools and other Government-run institutions, and a blackout on
reports about the hospital on the state-run broadcasting network.

After the explosion today, the 42-year-old Ms. Bhutto made her first visit to
the hospital, calling the blast "a deplorable attack" and hinting that it might
have been the work of loyalists of Pakistan's main opposition leader, Nawaz
Sharif. Mr. Sharif, who has tried and failed to recruit Mr. Khan as an ally,
denied the allegation.

Mr. Khan, who reached the hospital from his home in Lahore shortly after the
attack, declined to say who he thought might have set the bomb. But he said the
blast would not deter him from his political plans. "I want to tell those who
want to scare me that neither will I be scared, nor will I turn back," he said.
"I will move forward with greater determination."

Mr. Khan has stirred controversy in Pakistan for what his critics call
hypocrisy. He has described the country's political elite as "brown Sahibs" --
meaning that their attitudes and life styles, in a Muslim country, mimicked
those of the British rulers of colonial India. Opponents responded that Mr.
Khan, during his cricket career, was one of the most photographed "playboys" of
London's West End.

Last summer, Mr. Khan stunned many Pakistanis by marrying Jemima Goldsmith, now
22, who is the daughter of James Goldsmith, an Anglo-French business tycoon.
After Muslim ceremonies in Paris and a civil wedding in London, Mrs. Khan, who
adopted the Muslim name Haiqa and converted to Islam, made a home with Mr. Khan
in Lahore.

But criticism of Mr. Khan seems to have made little impact. The $22 million
needed to build the cancer hospital was raised in part on a tour in which Mr.
Khan walked through Pakistan's slums and villages, accepting donations of a few
rupees.

When Mr. Khan showed a visitor around the hospital two weeks ago, patients and
relatives, some of whom had traveled hundreds of miles to the hospital, greeted
him with cries of "Long Live the Great Khan!" A 28-year-old woman named Farzana,
mother of a five-year-old boy undergoing chemotherapy for lymphoma, said she was
illiterate and had never voted, but would if Mr. Khan were a candidate. "He
might be our next Prime Minister," she said. "We all adore him."


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map shows the location of Lahore, Pakistan.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


