                              76 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                             The News International

                            December 21, 2015 Monday

Doctors' forum asks politicians to stop interfering in hospitals

SECTION: No. 296

LENGTH: 345  words


The Insaf Doctors Forum (IDF) has demanded leaders of all the political parties
to stop interference in administrative matters of the public sector hospitals.
The IDF is an association of the public sector doctors affiliated with the
Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI).

Talking to reporters on Sunday, IDF general secretary Dr Mudir Khan said all the
institutions should function within limits and jurisdictions determined by the
law. He complained that some elected members of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Assembly,
especially the recently elected members of local government, were constantly
interfering in routine administrative affairs of the hospitals.

Dr Mudir said that doctors, paramedics and nursing staff of the three tertiary
care hospitals had been complaining about unnecessary interference and undue
favour by some MPAs, nazims and councillors.

Besides them, he said majority of the non-elected political workers were also
visiting the hospitals using references of their higher officials and demanding
protocol and special attention. The IDF leader said some of the people come to
the hospital with their armed men with an aim of showing power and spreading
terror among the doctors and other supporting staff of the hospitals.

We also received complaints about threats and abusive language by such elements
against the doctors and other supporting staff during such visits. Most of these
complaints have been received from the Hayatabad Medical Complex and Khyber
Teaching Hospital, Dr Mudir said.

He said the hospitals had been built for providing health services to patients
in a professional and sympathetic manner, care based on dignity and equality. He
said the care and treatment given to patients is based on the critical nature of
the disease and not on their financial and social status.

The doctor said that majority of the recently-elected local government members
belonging to all political parties were unaware of their responsibilities and
jurisdictions and usually indulge in baseless arguments with doctors and
threaten them with suspension from services.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The News International
                              All Rights Reserved


