                              77 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                     BBC Monitoring South Asia - Political
                      Supplied by BBC Worldwide Monitoring

                             April 27, 2009 Monday

Protests over patient death disrupt work of Maldives hospital

LENGTH: 382 words


Excerpt from report by Maldives pro-government newspaper Miadhu News website on
26 April

ADK Hospital [in Male] is facing severe difficulties due to recent protests
staged in front of the hospital, according to chairman of ADK Hospital Ahmed
Nashid. Nashid said that the protests have caused difficulties for the public
and foreigners seeking medical care from the hospital. He asserted that the
regulations on freedom of assembly and holding demonstrations do not permit such
activities in front of such of such institutions such as hospitals. He also
noted that pertinent authorities have failed in taking action against those who
violate the country's laws and regulations.

Briefing the media, ADK chairman Nashid, who is also MP for Dhaal Atoll and
deputy leader of Jumhoory Party (JP), said due the protests many patients
admitted at the hospital are psychologically affected. Many who came for
consultations were forced to turn back, he said.

MP Nashid said ADK Hospital is a favourite and a trusted hospital by foreigners.
He noted with dismay that some Italians and Germans who came to seek medical
care went back due to what they saw. He said as such protests are not staged in
front of hospital in other parts of the world, such actions will not only affect
the hospital but will also affect the country's image.

JP deputy leader Nashid said he was aware that some political parties do support
his political view and thinking. He said regardless of what other may think, he
would always support what was best for the people and the country.

Protests broke out at ADK Hospital on [Thursday] 23 April when 37-year-old
pre-school teacher Aisthah Shaheen Mohamed and her baby died during a caesarean
section on Tuesday. More than 50 people protested for the closure of ADK
Hospital, alleging that the mother Shaheen and her baby died due to negligence.

Carrying placards, protesters demand change the management of the hospital. They
also called for the resignation of chairman Nashid and for the government to
terminate the hospital's contract. [passage omitted] Protests also continued on
24 April.

However, Shaheen's husband has told the media that the protests had nothing to
do with the family and that it is not the wish of the family.

Source: Miadhu News website, Male, in English 26 Apr 09

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Transcript


                Copyright 2009 British Broadcasting Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


