                              78 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                            October 4, 1993, Monday

WORLD IN BRIEF Muslims battle Muslims in Bosnia

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Section A; Page 12

LENGTH: 774 words


Muslim-led government troops clashed with Muslim separatists Sunday in
northwestern Bosnia, and Bosnian Croats and Muslims signed a new cease- fire for
embattled Mostar that was quickly reported broken.

A man was killed and two people were wounded in Velika Kladusa, in the Bihac
region, when supporters of Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic stormed the local
radio station, said Col. Thierry Boutillier, commander of a French battalion of
U.N. peacekeepers.

He said police loyal to Bihac rebel leader Fikret Abdic restored order, and the
station remained in the hands of Abdic backers.

Lawmakers in Bihac, a Muslim pocket in northwestern Bosnia, declared regional
autonomy last Monday. Abdic has good relations with neighboring Croats and Serbs
and is credited with sparing the enclave from Bosnia's war.

-IRMA NOT EXPECTED TO WALK: Irma Hadzimuratovic, the 5-year-old Bosnian girl
evacuated to Britain after international publicity about her plight, is not
expected to walk again, a hospital spokeswoman said. Irma, who sustained serious
shrapnel wounds to her spine and abdomen, also will probably remain on a
ventilator, which makes it possible for her to breathe, "for the foreseeable
future," said a spokeswoman for London's Great Ormond Street Hospital for Sick
Children, where Irma is staying. She has made a "remarkable" recovery from the
meningitis she contracted in Sarajevo, but she remains in an intensive care
unit, the spokeswoman said Saturday, speaking on condition of anonymity.

-IRISH PARTY LEADER SEES CHANCE FOR PEACE: The leader of the political party
that supports the Irish Republican Army said that talks under way could mean
peace in Northern Ireland for the first time since fighting broke out there over
British rule, a London newspaper reported. "This is one of the best
opportunities for peace since what are now called 'the troubles' began in 1968,"
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams was quoted as saying. "The onus is on the British
government not to be blinkered and to try to move forward on this," the
Independent quoted him as saying.

-WAVE INJURES SHIP PASSENGERS: Fifty passengers aboard the Queen Elizabeth II
were injured when a 30-foot wave like "a big hill" sent the ship into a deep
roll off the southern coast of Britain. The wave struck the luxury liner Friday
afternoon in heavy seas off Cornwall as it neared the end of a five-day cruise
from New York, said the owner, Cunard Steam- Ship Co. PLC.

-DINOSAUR EGGS BY THE THOUSAND: Thousands of 100-million-year-old fossilized
dinosaur eggs have been found in central China, an official report said.
Residents of Nanyang prefecture, in Henan province, began finding small numbers
of the eggs in 1974, but last December a farmer digging an irrigation ditch
discovered a large group, the Xinhua News Agency reported. Xinhua gave no
further details, including what type of dinosaur scientists believe laid the
eggs. Since then, archaeologists have found seven sites containing several
thousand dinosaur eggs, ranging in size from 1.6 inches to 20 inches. Xinhua
said experts believe there are tens of thousands of the fossils.

-SECURITY TIGHTENED FOR VOTE: The Egyptian government canceled police leaves and
tightened security in Muslim fundamentalist hot spots in preparation for a
nationwide referendum on a third term for President Hosni Mubarak. Violent
clashes between police and militants fighting to unseat Mubarak's government,
meanwhile, left one police officer dead and seven militants wounded, officials
said. Mubarak, 65, was virtually certain to win another six-year term in today's
yes-or-no vote.

-PERONISTS LEAD: Argentina's Peronist Party appeared to win key congressional
elections, boosting President Carlos Menem's drive to run for a second term. The
Peronists will gain nine seats in the Chamber of Deputies and defeat the
opposition Civic Radical Union by 13 percentage points nationwide, Menem
predicted at a news conference. Early official returns, based on 38.8 percent of
precincts, gave the Peronists 39.5 percent of the vote compared to 32.4 percent
for the Radicals. MODIN, a right-wing nationalist party, was third with 4.5
percent. Voters went to the polls to elect half of the 257-seat Chamber of
Deputies, nearly 400 members of provincial legislatures and more than 3,000
other local officials. Polls closed at 6 p.m. (5 p.m. EDT). The campaign focused
on Menem's efforts to reform the 140-year-old constitution to allow him to run
for re-election in 1995. The charter limits presidents to one six- year term,
but can be amended by a two-thirds vote in both houses of congr ess.

-From our news services

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH932790118

                    Copyright 1993 The Atlanta Constitution


