                              79 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Weekend Australian

                            October 6, 2007 Saturday
                           All-round Country Edition

HOSPITAL PASS

BYLINE: PAUL KELLY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1244  words


JOHN HOWARD'S 11-YEAR PURSUIT OF NATIONALISM HAS LEFT THE FEDERAL COALITION
CLEANING UP STATE PROBLEMS, WRITES EDITOR-AT-LARGE PAUL KELLY


THE abject failure of state Labor governments -- over the hospital system in NSW
and due process for the pulp mill in Tasmania -- deepens the political burden on
John Howard, the aspirational nationalist.

This week federal Health Minister Tony Abbott was forced to respond to the NSW
crisis with a strangely inadequate plan to make local hospital boards a
condition of future funding while Environment Minister Malcolm Turnbull tried to
salvage proper process by imposing on the pulp mill a set of world-best
environmental conditions.

The impact on election eve is undisguised. Public hospital policy and the
federal Government's environmental credentials are in the spotlight courtesy of
inept state governments. Howard wants to lock ALP leader Kevin Rudd into
political responsibility for state Labor blunders, but he struggles to get this
traction.

While buck-passing in the federation is an old story, the political consequences
are new: the reality of 2007 politics is the growing conviction that the buck
stops with the federal government.

Howard knows this. Witness his record as the most nationalistic prime minister
in the history of non-Labor politics. His governance ideology is entrenched:
that the two great political forces today are nationalism and localism; that the
''old, rigid state monopoly models'' for education, health, employment and
welfare services are becoming obsolete; that the people look to the federal
government to solve their problems; and that Canberra needs to fashion more
partnerships at the local level.

It sounds good. But these are radical ideas that are dangerous in
implementation. Their defect is that the states, for better or worse, must
remain the agencies for core service delivery and unless the Howard Coalition,
via policy and financial leadership, can improve state services, then it will
pay a severe political price. For Howard, this point is reached.

Abbott's proposal for local hospital boards is a classic in Howard's localism
philosophy. But how adequate is it? Opposition health spokeswoman Nicola Roxon
argued it was to conceal the Government's failure to provide proper funding and
reform of the hospital system during a decade.

Figures from the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare show that, under
Howard, federal funding of public hospitals has fallen from 45 per cent to 41
per cent during the past decade (partly offset by the private health insurance
rebate that helps to fund private hospitals). Rudd has a single political
message on hospitals: he knows the buck stops with the federal government and he
will accept such political responsibility. It is true that Rudd's extra funds
for the system are only $500 million a year for four years. It is true his
initial position is to work with the states to achieve reforms. But make no
mistake: Rudd is ready to assume full financial responsibility for the entire
hospital system if co-operative federalism does not work. Hospital policy is an
area of distinct difference between Howard and Rudd.

Labor pledges that within the first 100 days of any election victory a national
health and hospital reform commission will be established to draft its agenda.

Health is a template for the political and policy lessons that flow from
Australia's federal system. There are three conclusions.

First, the states (with the exception of Victoria) are failing as agents of
reform and effective service delivery, thereby putting a new onus on the federal
government.

Second, neither Howard nor Rudd will return meaningful tax powers to the states,
so any notion of a state revival via new financial powers is a daydream.

Third, one of the federal government's reform tasks, therefore, is to use its
financial and policy leadership to secure new productivity-boosting agreements
with the states across a range of policy areas.

Frankly, there is no alternative.

Rudd plays into this situation. He has outmanoeuvred Howard with his pledge to
reform federalism and inject new life into the Council of Australian Governments
process that Howard has run in recent years with few hard results. Rudd's stress
on federalism has won him kudos with business where the Business Council of
Australia and other lobbies see federalism as the priority instrument for
economic improvements.

Witness this week's infrastructure reform road map for the BCA written by former
federal government adviser Rod Sims that calls for a deeper commitment to boost
Australia's infrastructure competitiveness.

''Reform is not possible unless we have a much more effective working
relationship between the commonwealth and state governments,'' Sims says.
''Rivers, rail lines and roads and electricity networks all cross state
boundaries, yet historically both policy and service delivery have been purely
state-based. We are moving beyond this but we have a long way to go.

''Success will only come if the commonwealth and the states work together.''

Water, energy and transport have a new saliency in politics. Howard has
responded in a variety of ways: through his $10 billion Murray-Darling scheme, a
proposed national emissions trading regime, hefty increases in transport and
road funding, and a series of initiatives in COAG.

A longer-range judgment, however, is that in 11 years Howard has squandered too
many opportunities to establish a reform agenda based on new federal-state
arrangements.

Indeed, for the first part of his prime ministership, Howard displayed scant
interest in the idea.

Reviewing the more recent period, Sims says: ''COAG meets infrequently, there is
little current focus on timelines for concrete action and there is insufficient
emphasis on outcomes. With the end of competition policy payments to the states,
the commonwealth has lost a practical mechanism to drive reform.''

Consider the uncompleted agenda. Australia lacks an effective national
electricity market. Confusion remains in NSW over the source of the new energy
generation and investment needed out to 2030.

Until recently, the states made no new supply-side investment in urban water.
Urban water remains a government monopoly impeded by the absence of market
pricing and competition. The Murray-Darling scheme remains flawed without
Victoria's participation.

The economic costs of urban congestion are set to double by 2020. Freight
bottlenecks are caused by inadequate port capacity, poor roads, under-investment
in rail and lack of national transport markets.

The Howard Government is proficient at new spending on roads or the regions. But
progress overall in COAG is too slow and without enough commitment to policy
principles: market pricing, effective competition, privatisation of
infrastructure. This will come only from a federal government prepared to use
its financial powers to persuade or compel state reforms.

Nobody has a clue whether Rudd would do better. But he is focused on the issue.
This week he slammed Howard for holding only 14 meetings of COAG in 11 years.
Complaining that this revealed a lack of ''commitment and leadership'', Rudd
affirmed his pledge to a national reform agenda via COAG as part of his pledge
to ''fixing our federation''.

That will happen only if Rudd confronts and defeats that vast array of special
Labor interests, union privileges and regulatory inertia that defines so many
state governments.

More election reports -- Pages 24-28

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


