                              80 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                           January 27, 2016 Wednesday

Removal of political parties offices echoes in NA body

BYLINE: IKRAM JUNAIDI

SECTION: Vol. 70 No. 27

LENGTH: 439  words


Action taken by the Capital Development Authority (CDA) against offices of
political parties set up in residential areas on Tuesday echoed in the National
Assembly standing committee on cabinet secretariat.

The chairman of the committee, Asad Umar of the PTI, blamed the civic agency for
the closure of the offices. However, Minister for Capital Administration and
Development Division (CADD) Tariq Fazal Chaudhry shifted the responsibility to
the Supreme Court.

Last week, the CDA decided to close the offices of political parties in
residential areas. The ruling PML-N voluntarily shifted its central secretariat
from Sector F-8 while the PPP stopped non-conforming use of Zardari House in
Sector F-8.

During the meeting of the standing committee, Syed Ali Raza Abidi said if the
CDA was taking action against commercial activities in residential houses, why
the office of Safe Blood Transfusion Service Project (SBTSP) still functioned in
a house.

Asad Umar said the CDA had even declared political parties as commercial
entities and directed them to shift their offices from houses.

But the state minister, who controls the CDA, said the civic agency had nothing
to do with it.

The fact is during the hearing of a case, the Supreme Court ordered the CDA to
close even offices of political parties established in residential houses and
the order is being implemented, he said.

Dr Amir Maqbool, a representative of SBTSP, said the project was launched
through the German funding and the house rent was also being paid timely.
However, Asad Umar rejected the excuse.

Additional Secretary CADD Qaiser Majeed Malik assured the members that the
office of SBTSP would also be shifted from the residential area.

New hospitals

Members of the committee stressed the establishment of new hospitals in the city
but the state minister said though there was a need for new hospitals, the
existing facilities should be upgraded.

We have finally acquired the land of Argentina Park for the extension of
Polyclinic.

Moreover, another plot is available in Sector G-13 and a hospital will be
constructed there, he said.

Asad Umar said: Steps should be taken to provide health facilities to the
citizens from Basic Health Units to tertiary care centres.

Mohammad Rehan Hashmi of the MQM said the condition of Pims can be determined by
a simple example that a doctor of hospital, Dr Shahid Sohail, was shot on the
hospital premises but he was shifted to another hospital due to the lack of
facilities.

Proper facilities should be provided in the hospital, he said. Malik Ibrar Ahmed
of the PML-N said because of bureaucratic hurdles, the issues could not be
resolved.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2016 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


