                              81 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                  thespec.com

                           January 26, 2008 Saturday
                                 Final Edition

Home-care crisis had a familiar ring to it

BYLINE: Terry Cooke, The Hamilton Spectator

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. A21

LENGTH: 756 words


"It's like déjà vu all over again."

-- Yogi Berra

In an act of political contrition, Health Minister George Smitherman pronounced
this week that he "feels our pain." So much so that he's come to the rescue of
beleaguered Liberal MPPs Ted McMeekin and "sleepless" Sophia Aggelonitis by
suspending the Hamilton home-care bidding fiasco.

If the executives and volunteer board of the local Community Care Access Centre
have any remaining self-respect after their authority was neutered by the
minister, they will resign immediately because they've been played as political
patsies in this entire mess.

What happened this week was as predictable as it was eerily reminiscent for me.
I still bear the scars from my experience as a volunteer member of the Hamilton
Health Sciences Corporation board of directors that was fired en masse in 2000
by a previous health minister for failing to play nicely with the province on
the proposed closure of Henderson hospital.

The Harris Conservatives were bound and determined to get better control of
hospital expenditures in Hamilton. They decided that the best way to do so was
to close two of the existing four acute-care hospitals in the heart of the city
and build a single larger new hospital on the south Mountain.

In theory the plan made perfect sense, but the government wanted the political
upside of building the new hospital without taking responsibility for the
headaches involved in forcing the closures. So the health minister privately
directed the HHSC board to "show leadership by getting out in front" of the
issue.

Despite my caution to the hospital board, a group comprised mostly of committed
and well-intentioned community volunteers, they failed to recognize the
political trap being set by the health minister. The HHSC board proceeded to
recommend the hospital closures without any public assurance from the province
that it was onside. The affected patients, doctors, unions and local politicians
erupted in immediate volcanic intensity.

Then, in an act of breathtaking cynicism, the government announced with great
fanfare that it was determined to stop the threatened hospital closures and
affectively assigned blame for the political problem by removing the hospital
board and replacing us with a provincially appointed supervisor. Starting to
sound familiar?

In the recent Hamilton home-care controversy, the McGuinty government clearly
understood and supported the competitive bidding process. Given the volatility
of the situation, Smitherman almost certainly would have been briefed in advance
about the disqualifications of the Victorian Order of Nurses and St. Joseph's
Health Care. And yet he allowed the CCAC to proceed right over a political cliff
with public notification to the disqualified agencies.

The Henderson Hospital and home-care debacles have been about more than just
political duplicity. The underlying cause of the conflict is an inadequate
health-care governance model and a shortage of cash. First a Conservative and
now a Liberal government has attempted to gain control of exploding health-care
costs by delegating responsibility for both spending decisions and awarding
local service contracts to quasi-independent local bodies, initially to hospital
and non-profit agency boards and now to something called the Local Health
Integration Network (LHIN).

The flaw in this governance structure is self-evident. There are inevitably
winners and losers when it comes to making the hard decisions around scarce
resources and everybody in the system knows that ultimately if the political
heat gets turned up the health minister will intervene and overrule the local
decision-making authority.

So unfortunately, while Smitherman may have averted a short-term political
crisis for McMeekin and Aggelonitis, he hasn't provided any certainty around the
future of home-care service in Hamilton. Smitherman has also failed to fix the
fundamental governance problems that will surely continue to plague the system.

As a result, the minister has painted himself into a corner. He has only two
real remaining options. He can abolish the LHIN and the CCAC and have the
provincial government directly take direct control of local health-care
delivery. Or he must create a truly independent and democratically accountable
regional health authority that takes responsibility for making the hard
decisions about what's best for local patients, as opposed to just whatever
provides pain relief to provincial politicians.

Terry Cooke is a former Hamilton-Wentworth regional chair.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

