                              83 of 998 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                       May 1, 1998, Friday, FINAL EDITION

PQ's envoy to head hospital: Ottawa Hospital chief once ran as candidate for
separatist party

BYLINE: MARIA BOHUSLAWSKY; THE OTTAWA CITIZEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A1 / Front


A former political candidate for the Parti Quebecois is poised to become the
president of the new amalgamated Ottawa Hospital.

The 32-member board of trustees is expected to approve the appointment of David
Levine, a 49-year-old hospital administrator, this morning for the $
300,000-a-year job, to start July 31. The Ottawa Hospital is a merger of the
former Ottawa General, Ottawa Civic and Riverside hospitals.

Mr. Levine was a member of the separatist Parti Quebecois from 1975 to 1981. He
was the party's candidate in a 1979 byelection, which he lost.

"I was hired by the Ottawa Hospital for my competency and ability as a
health-care administrator and that's what I plan to do," said Mr. Levine, who
refuses to disclose whether he continues to hold separatist views: "My political
affiliations, political opinions don't need to play a role in this."

For the past year, he has been the delegate general of Quebec Government House
in New York City. He was appointed by the Quebec government to foster trade ties
between Quebec and the United States.

Mr. Levine served as chief executive officer of Notre Dame Hospital in Montreal
from 1992 to 1997. During his tenure, the hospital amalgamated with two others.
Before that, he served as chief executive officer of the Verdun General Hospital
for 10 years. He is a past president of the Quebec Association of Hospital
Directors and has taught health administration at Concordia University.

Mr. Levine, who is bilingual, was recruited by a headhunting company, along with
eight or nine other candidates. He was recently selected by a subcommittee of
the hospital board.

The board's short list included Michel Bilodeau, president of the Sisters of
Charity health services, which runs the Elisabeth-Bruyere Health Centre and
Saint Vincent Hospital, and Ottawa management consultant Bob Bell. (A fourth
candidate bowed out before his interview.)

"The search committee found (Mr. Levine) to be very strong in his leadership and
management skills," said Agnes Jaouich, vice-chairwoman of the nine-member
search committee.

"There was a lot of initiative and a lot of creativity. )he is) a
result-oriented visionary. It was easy for him to relate how he was going to
take us forward based on the fact that he had significant experience," said Ms.
Jaouich.

"I think his political affiliations are not of concern to the board," she said.
"The board wanted to find the most qualified individual. We all have political
affiliations, but that was not the criteria.

"It's going to be a tough job but he knew what he was getting into and was quite
excited about it," she said. "He's had similar experience when he was in
Montreal with some of the restructuring that took place there."

Peter Burns, who also served on the search committee, said the members were
satisfied by Mr. Levine's response to questions about his political past. "He
had an answer. That was the closest party to what his outlook was on life. Sort
of a social democratic party. In our minds we felt we were looking at job
skills."

Mr. Burns added that the board has asked that Mr. Levine to live in
Ottawa-Carleton rather than in Quebec. "We feel that the person must be
accessible."

Mr. Levine has a B.A in civil engineering from McGill University, a master's
degree in biomedical engineering from the Imperial College of Science and
Technology in Britain and a master's degree in health administration from the
Universite de Montreal.

In 1995, Mr. Levine was appointed by then-Quebec premier Jacques Parizeau to sit
on a Montreal-area commission set up to examine the PQ government's draft
sovereignty bill. Members of the commission represented a spectrum of political
leanings.

"I have not been involved in politics for well over 17 years now," Mr. Levine
said this week. "I have no link to politics, no involvement in politics. I have
no intention of doing anything like that at all."

He said that he was asked to run in the 1979 byelection by then-Quebec premier
Rene Levesque to explain to the English and Jewish communities some of the
issues of sovereignty and to alleviate some of their concerns. He said he
received less than one per cent of the vote.

"I was young. It was a very dynamic, exciting time and the ideas that were
brought forth at that time captured my imagination," he recalled. "I think that
maintaining the culture and language and identity of a people are very
important. That's why in Ottawa I'm very committed to ensuring the francophone
community has all the services in their language."

Ottawa-Rideau MPP Gary Guzzo said that he plans to write to Health Minister
Elizabeth Witmer about Mr. Levine. He noted that the province pays for health
care and that Ontario taxpayers will pay Mr. Levine's salary.

"I'd want the board to be satisfied that his loyalties lie with Canada, and to
the government that's paying his salary and not to a government whose goal the
breakup of this country," said Mr. Guzzo.

"The concern is that people who are trying to break up our country will continue
to be of that mind and will use whatever position they have to continue that
fight."

Regional Coun. Betty Hill called the selection of Mr. Levine "dangerous.

"Surely to God they could have found someone who was not associated with that
group," said Mrs. Hill, who helped found the consumers group, Patients First.
"We need someone with a good, healthy attitude towards unity during
restructuring," she said. "We saw what happened when they brought Bouchard back
from Paris and put him in the House of Commons."

Other members of the search committee that selected Mr. Levine included board
chairman Nick Mulder, Sol Shinder, Robert Giroux, Dr. Christina Hill, Dr. Denise
Alcock and Dr. Peter Walker.



LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1998

LENGTH: 964 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1998 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


