                              85 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                   Maribyrnong Leader (Melbourne, Australia)

                           November 18, 2014 Tuesday
                              Maribyrnong Edition

Mayor calls for ward aid

BYLINE: Neelima Choahan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 315  words


MARIBYRNONG Mayor Nam Quach said political parties needed to commit more funds
to Footscray Hospital otherwise several wards would close next year.

Last week, Labor -announced it will spend $200 million building the Western
Women's and Children's Hospital in Sunshine if -elected.

However, Cr Quach said the facilities at Footscray Hospital were ageing and the
community -deserved the highest standard of healthcare possible. "We urge all
political parties to make funding Footscray Hospital a priority," Cr Quach said.

"Wards at Footscray Hospital are planned to be closed down next year because the
building is so unserviceable, and hazardous." Cr Quach said the council was also
advocating for -improvements to facilities for the emergency department at
Footscray Hospital.

Maribyrnong had earlier lobbied both major parties for a $550 million
redevelopment of Western Health.

The council has thrown its support behind the health provider's plan for a new
emergency department and inpatient precinct at Western Hospital to meet future
demand by 2026.

Under the initial proposal, the emergency department would more than double in
size and be relocated.

The Greens have pledged to invest $550 million.

The Liberals are yet to make any commitments to the hospital. Western Health
chief executive -Associate Professor Alex Cockram said Labor's commitment was a
very significant "next step".

Professor Cockram acknowledged the Greens' earlier commitment to fund the
Women's and Children's Centre at Sunshine.

Is Western Hospital funding a top priority? themaribyrnongleader.com.au

AT A GLANCE Labor: Will spend $200 million building the Western Women's and
Children's Hospital in Sunshine Greens: Will invest $550 million to redevelop
and expand Footscray Hospital's Emergency and Inpatient buildings. It will also
construct a Women's and Children's Centre at Sunshine HospitalLiberals: No
committnment

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Maribyrnong Leader


                   Copyright 2014 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


