                              86 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday
                                 Mumbai Mirror

Caught spitting? Flex connections

BYLINE: Lata Mishra

LENGTH: 389 words


Here's a peek into the 'dirty' side of politics; rather into how flexing
political muscle helps dirty the city. Clean-up marshals posted at municipal
hospitals since a week, say those caught spitting or littering the premises
browbeat them into not paying a penalty by flexing their political connection to
not pay up. Since a week, many were caught for various offences but only 50 paid
the penalty.

"It's difficult for our boys to work," said zonal head for Central Investigation
Security Services, Anil Shrivastva. The agency, to which the municipal
corporation has outsourced the contract, provides clean-up marshals. The agency
is raised the issue with the medical director for civic hospitals. "Two boys
have already asked for transfers, fearing an assault by workers of political
parties," said Shrivastva. I know the boss Shrivastva cited a recent example of
clean-up marshal Sunil Kadam, posted at KEM Hospital Parel, pulled up a smoker
who was spitting on the premises. "When Kadam asked the man to pay up a fine, he
flatly refused, saying he was a Shiv Sena member, and works with Nana Ambole,
corporator from Parel," said Shrivastva. "When Kadam persisted, the offender
pulled out Ambole's visiting card, before hurling a few abuses at Kadam." Some
of the clean-up marshals have even asked for transfer from civic-run hospitals
Shrivastva said that the petrified clean-up marshal now refuses to work at KEM
Hospital. Shrivastva said other personnel have recounted similar accounts of
intimidation by workers of different political parties. "We have informed the
medical director who will now look into the matter," he said. The other side "I
want all the civic hospitals to maintain cleanliness, and am sure all political
parties will agree with me as the issue is in the larger interest of the
masses," said Medical Director Dr Sanjay Oak. "I have told the marshals that if
there's any political interference, they should report the matter to me." Dr Oak
said he had instructed the marshals not to be too harsh with those who cannot
afford the penalty, as most people visiting civic hospitals are not rich. Shiv
Sena corporator Nana Ambole refuted the allegation about his party workers using
his name to duck fines. "If anyone misuses my name, I want the clean-up marshal
to call me. Whoever the offender, he has to pay up."

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


