                              89 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                            November 2, 2012 Friday

They're all nuts

LENGTH: 943 words

DATELINE: KATHMANDU


KATHMANDU, Nov. 2 -- There is a general definition of madness, craziness or
insanity as a spectrum of behaviours characterised by certain abnormal mental or
behavioural patterns. The belief is that insanity may manifest itself as
violations of societal norms, including the sufferers becoming a danger to
themselves or others. The ever so famous Albert Einstein also had his own
definition, adding to the above-mentioned understanding: "Insanity is doing the
same thing over and over again and expecting different results." It is worth
noting that, in fact, words like madness, craziness or insanity are no longer
used to reflect the state of mental health or mental illness. Madness is a
miniscule component of mental illness and it is legally derogatory and
unscientific to call people who suffer from mental health problems or
psychosocial disabilities mad or crazy. Such acts are actually punishable under
law. Nonetheless, the essence of the definition deserves some scrutiny.

If we observe Nepal's political environment, it is worrisome because the country
is heading towards madness. No one can predict what is going to happen. But the
same things are being repeated in the national scenario over the years and they
are an unending series of dialogues between a handful of the same leaders with
the same agenda and the same perspective but expecting different results. When
mad, an individual who suffers becomes a victim of abuse, violence and neglect
from others. But when we speak of political madness, the whole country suffers
instead of the actors who created this national madness. Nepal has already
started showing symptoms of political madness, and its worst victims are public
institutions like health, education, transportation and employment, affecting
the lives of the poor and most vulnerable in society.

Our public institutions have suffered badly in the last decade. Their quality of
service is rapidly falling. The environment at the declining public institutions
is sufficient to upset all who rely on them. Whether we visit government
offices, public universities or health institutions, all of them are suffering
from the same fate-they are seemingly just waiting to die.

At every public institution, there is fierce competition to grab the top posts
and these posts are divided among the leading political parties. They're all
nuts over power. For instance, positions of dean, director, manager and
vice-chancellor have been political gifts where responsibility and
accountability towards the respective institutions are sacrificed. If the
appointee pays perfect loyalty to the political landlord, he or she is qualified
to hold any post in public institutions. This trend has been institutionalised
in every sector in the country. The result is that public services are no longer
usable, thus creating more chaos and stress in public life. The obsession with
power and positions at the top has a ripple effect on society, thereby creating
more kinds of obsessions and trauma among the general people.

Evidence of this state of affairs can be seen at university campuses, hospitals
and public transportation. As I live close to Teaching Hospital, Maharajgunj, I
am a frequent visitor there. Every time I visit the hospital, I can clearly
observe how terribly the hospital environment is disintegrating. The management
cares two hoots for service provision due to the political madness that hovers
over and around the hospital. As a result, the toilets cannot be used. The
floors stink. The walls and wall paintings are broken and faded. Infrastructure
is not being maintained. There is no drinkable water on hospital premises.

In the morning, visitors and patient caretakers sleep here and there, as if the
hospital was an open lodge. During the day, hordes of patients and haphazardly
parked vehicles give the impression that some festival is taking place in the
hospital.

This does not mean that there are no excellent minds in our public institutions
like the Teaching Hospital who can manage the problem. But it does mean that the
best minds have been neglected while improving the fate of our public
institutions. It signifies that the increasing political madness is gradually
dragging the country towards darkness.

If the vulnerable people are counted as citizens of the country, their life is
full of stress, despair and exclusion. If a person with a disability has to
travel from one part of the country to another or even within the city, the
public vehicles are not only inaccessible but transport operators openly
discourage such individuals from travelling. At the political level, popular
slogans are regularly coined, but no useful discussions are held about improving
the quality of public life and the quality of public institutions that fulfil
the needs of the poor and the vulnerable in the country.

It is shocking that, individually, all the political leaders are nice and seem
compassionate and are well informed about the situation, but collectively, they
are failing themselves and the country. They are obsessed with power and seem
blind to the rest of the world. They tirelessly banter on saying that the
ongoing political dialogue will ensure long-term peace, prosperity and
development of the country and the people. It is amazing how we can believe the
words of such leaders who have been repeating the same thing over the years. If
Einstein is to be believed, it appears our political leaders are becoming mad.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2012 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


