                              90 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                             August 25, 2006 Friday
                                  Main Edition

Torpedo for new;
hospital misfires

BYLINE: by Robyn Wuth

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 561  words


THE Gold Coast Medical Association campaign to torpedo the billion-dollar
Parklands superhospital ran into trouble yesterday when the group's counterplan
was unveiled by a former president of the Gold Coast Liberal Party.

Association president Dr David Lindsay and Dr Robert McLaughlin unveiled the
submission for the future direction of the Southport hospital as an 'unbiased
and non-political' solution to the health crisis.

The association's plan also came under fire from doctors working within the Gold
Coast Hospital, who said they supported the Parklands proposal.

The proposal calls for the state of the art superhospital to be ditched in
favour of upgrading and extending the current Southport hospital.

The plan would create an additional 200 beds - a proposal almost identical to
the plan released by Liberal leader Bruce Flegg last week.

Dr Lindsay dismissed any suggestion that the submission was politically
motivated.

''Our whole point has been to present an unbiased and non-political point of
view on the crisis in the Gold Coast Hospital,'' said Dr Lindsay.

Dr McLaughlin said he had not been involved in politics for years.

''I'm no longer a member of the Liberals. We have been anxious to keep this non-
political.''

Dr McLaughlin, however, admitted the proposal was 'similar' to the Liberal
position.

''We have made no secret of the fact that we are talking to all political
parties. A lot of the proposals put to the Liberals they have adopted.''

The proposal involves the development of several storeys comprising accident and
emergency, intensive care and other wards.

Dr Lindsay said the Gold Coast's health system was in crisis and could not
afford to wait for a new hospital to be completed in 2012.

''The essential aspect of this report is that the crisis for the Gold Coast is
now.

''This proposal will give the Gold Coast 200 beds in the next two years. We do
not believe the 500-bed Southport hospital should be written off for Parklands.

''It should be renovated and the area made into a hospital precinct.''

But the plan has come under fire from the doctors working within the Gold Coast
Hospital.

Full Time Senior Staff Specialists' Association president Dr John Gerrard said
senior doctors working full-time at the Gold Coast Hospital supported the
proposal for Parklands.

''We believe that the proposal to build the University Hospital at the Parklands
site is a visionary, once-in-a-generation opportunity which must not be
missed,'' he said.

''Such an environment would have the potential to attract health professionals
from throughout Australia and the around the world.

''In addition to promoting excellence in patient care, the co-location with the
university will create the ideal environment for research and training of future
doctors, nurses and the allied health professionals.''

Dr Gerrard said the hospital had already signed up five specialists on the
promise of the Parklands proposal.

''The Gold Coast should not accept a second best solution.

''Building on the existing site at Southport would be slower, more expensive and
more disruptive than building on a new site such as Parklands - the current 4
hectare site at Southport is already overcrowded.

''There is no free land . . . space is inadequate for beds, operating theatres,
outpatient clinics, X-ray, medical records and parking.

''The wards and Emergency Department are overcrowded.''

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GCB


                   Copyright 2006 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


