                              95 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                        Junction City Daily Union, Kan.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             March 24, 2017 Friday

GCH fights to provide for its patients in tough political times

BYLINE: Derek Smith, Junction City Daily Union, Kan.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 476 words


March 24--Healthcare is an essential need in any developed society. But it has
become a hot political issue in the last decade in America, and in Kansas.

With the passing of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) in 2009, healthcare became a
constant headline in the American political consciousness, and has remained so
since.

In Kansas, Medicaid cuts have caused issues for patients and hospitals, forcing
both to make tough financial decisions.

"There's a lot of uncontrollables going on with hospitals right now, and we have
to react to it," Geary Community Hospital CEO Joe Stratton said Thursday in a
speech at the Military Affairs Council Breakfast. "And it's really hard to
strategize with some of those things."

Stratton said in his speech that according to the Kansas Department of Health
and Environment, Geary Community Hospital lost an estimated $1.2 million last
year due to the failure to expand Medicaid at the state level. According to
Stratton, the hospital also stands to potentially lose $520,000 in yearly
federal funding through disproportionate share payments if the current proposed
healthcare plan passes through congress and replaces the ACA.

"When you get in a hurry, bad things happen," Stratton said of the federal plan.
"And they're in a hurry."

The federal bill has yet to hit the floor, so it's unknown whether
disproportionate share payments are on the way out. It's also hard to know what
will happen on the state level with Medicaid, but Stratton said he doesn't see
anything changing as long as Gov. Sam Brownback remains in office.

"That affects healthcare in your own local community, as well as the long-term
viability of hospitals," Stratton said in an interview after his speech. "You
have to sometimes take risks that otherwise you wouldn't take, because it's a
guessing game. You don't know what's going on on the political side."

But the situation isn't without its bright side. Along with the grim financial
situation, greater communication systems have grown between hospitals.

"Hospitals are figuring out how to work together more," Stratton said. "So from
that sense, for patients and families, I think that's a positive. We live in a
fluid society. What we can't do at Geary Community Hospital, maybe they can do
at Stormont Vail (in Topeka). We have some relationship with them. We talk with
the people in Salina. We talk with the people in Clay Center."

But as long as healthcare remains a hot-buttton issue on the political scene,
patients and hospitals will be left in limbo.

"It would be nice if healthcare reform would just get settled, and they would
decide," Stratton said. "So over the next 10 years we could just know how to
plan."

___ (c)2017 the Junction City Daily Union (Junction City, Kan.) Visit the
Junction City Daily Union (Junction City, Kan.) at http://www.yourdu.net/
Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170324-1JC-GCH-fights-to-provide-for-its-patients-in-tough-political
-times-0324-20170324

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1JC


                                 Copyright 2017


