                              96 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                               Beverley Guardian

                            February 13, 2009 Friday

Hospital is in wrong location

BYLINE: Staff Copy

LENGTH: 396 words


New hospital. Right idea, Wrong place. No consultation
The East Riding of Yorkshire Primary Care Trust, has chosen a site for a new
Beverley Hospital off Swinemoor Lane.It is not long ago that we were told by the
ERYPCT, that the services at Beverley Westwood Hospital were going to be
dramatically reduced,and the back part of the site was to be sold for a housing
estate, which made the remaining half look unviable.There was no talk of a new
hospital to replace it, or of a new site, or of any funding to build it.

As if by magic, some time after a lengthy and expensive 'consultation', all
these things suddenly appeared, despite the fact that the Trust never publicly
accepted any of the objectors' opinions, and claimed to be so short of funding,
that hospital services would have to be reduced.The objectors to the proposals
formed the Beverley Hospital Action Group, and subsequently, the East Riding
Hospital Action Group. The groups were apolitical, although local councillors of
all parties        attended. I attended all the Action Group meetings, and many
protest marches. It is not at all clear why there has been a magical U turn in
policy by the ERYPCT. Some local councillors worked hard, and others (from
various political parties) were only conspicuous by their political point
scoring when they did attend meetings,and later became conspicuous by their
absence. I don't recall meeting the prospective Labour Parliamentary candidate,
Ian Saunders, who wrote in your letters pages to criticise the efforts of local
Conservative MP, Graham Stuart.I do not have any political allegiances, and so
do not defend or criticise former Conservative government policy, but it is
undeniable that Graham Stuart has worked extremely hard on the hospital
campaign. He has led from the front all the time, been at many key meetings, and
appeared at protest marches in every town where services were under   threat. He
did a valuable job in helping to unite all the hospital action groups. Beverley
needs politicians who work hard on our behalf, whatever party they belong
to.After an expensive 'consultation' process, costing into millions of pounds,
the ERYPCT has nowdecided to do something completely different without proper
consultation. The site has been chosen, building contractors shortlisted, and a
planning application has already been lodged for site clearance.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BEVG


                       Copyright 2009 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


