                              97 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                          Australian Financial Review

                           September 27, 2004 Monday
                                 First Edition

States rule the roost in hospital spending

SECTION: NEWS; Letters; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 257 words


Would Mark Latham's offer of an additional $750 million a year of commonwealth
funding for public hospitals result in an increase in total expenditure by
public hospitals? When asked what would happen to public hospital spending by
the states he could say only that this would be a matter for "co-operation".

Latham obviously has a lot to learn about state premiers, even those of
supposedly similar political views.

The states fund 36 per cent of total public hospitals spending of about $20
billion a year. However, the states' share has been falling and increased
commonwealth funding on top of existing generous health grants arrangements
(which provide an additional 5 per cent a year) would almost certainly continue
that trend. In short, Latham's promise of a further $750 million a year of
commonwealth funding will not result in a commensurate increase in total
spending on public hospitals.

Neither of the major political parties will recognise publicly that the states
are the final determinants of how much is spent on hospitals (and, for that
matter, on schools). The reason is that, for political presentation purposes,
federal ministers want to be able to claim to be funding these specific areas
when they might just as effectively be providing (albeit less sexy) general
purpose grants. Indeed, such a reform in federal-state relations would be a
major improvement to the present mess in respective responsibilities and
overlaps in health and schools education.

Des Moore,

Director, Institute for Private Enterprise,

South Yarra, Vic.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARTOON: By Mark Cornwall

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2004 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


