                              98 of 998 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                             March 19, 2012 Monday

Nurses' strike gets political patronage

SECTION: KOCHI

LENGTH: 295 words


KOCHI: With the striking nurses of Lakeshore Hospital getting political
patronage, the strike will take a new dimension from Monday. Youth wings of
political parties such as DYFI, Yuvamorcha and SFI have come forward to support
the agitators. On Sunday, these activists conducted a march near Lakeshore
Hospital declaring their solidarity.

According to DYFI district president P Vasudevan, the organization would support
the striking nurses till the authorities accepted their demands.

"We are supporting the nurses' strike as they are fighting for a noble cause. We
are demanding that the government and hospital management should 0start giving
minimum wages to nurses as per the agreement," he said.

An action council headed by a municipal councillor was formed by the political
parties to support the striking nurses. The action council will also conduct a
mass protest march on Tuesday morning in front the hospital.

Meanwhile, nurses across the state observed Black Day on Sunday, , as per the
call by United Nurses Association (UNA),

in protest against the arrest of their colleagues by the police on Saturday. The
nurses wore a black badge while attending regular duties. Nurses from Lakeshore
Hospital who were arrested and released on Saturday continued their strike in
front of the hospital.

"We will continue our strike until authorities accept the terms of agreement
signed in the presence of labour minister. The state government should do
something immediately to find a solution to the issue," said Beljo Elias,
district president of United Nurses Association (UNA).

From Monday, nurses from all hospitals in the district have threatened to take
part in the protest declaring their solidarity with the striking nurses at
Lakeshore.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2012 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


