                               1 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                             April 22, 2013 Monday

Medico-legal centres across Sindh suffer from neglect

BYLINE:  Tehmina Qureshi and M.B. Kalhoro

SECTION: Vol. LXVII No. 111

LENGTH: 648  words


While government hospitals in only three police divisions in Sindh - Karachi,
Hyderabad and Larkana - have medico-legal centres, all the three posts of
medico-legal officers are lying vacant at the Chandka Medical College and
Hospital in Larkana, which is the largest medical facility in the upper part of
Sindh, it emerged on Sunday.

In all, there are four police divisions in the province - Karachi, Hyderabad,
Sukkur and Larkana.

Hospitals in districts other than Hyderabad and Karachi make do with their
medical officers who perform medico-legal formalities and issue the required
certificates.

Even though the presence of a medico-legal centre is mandatory for a teaching
hospital, such as the case in the Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre, Civil
Hospital Karachi and the Liaquat University Hospital in Hyderabad, there are no
sanctioned posts for medico-legal officers in Sukkur despite the fact that
Ghulam Mohammad Mahar College has been functioning for at least five years.

Currently there are two senior medical officers working under the additional
police surgeon of Sukkur Civil Hospital.

In urban divisions of Hyderabad and Karachi, 16 out of total 29 posts in
Hyderabad and around 20 out of a total of 71 posts in Karachi's medico-legal
section are vacant.

Unequal workload

Although there are a total of nine medico-legal centres in Karachi, only three
in major government hospitals are functioning round the clock.

Except for the medico-legal centres at the Abbasi Shaheed, the Civil and the
Jinnah hospitals, the rest of them lack adequate facilities or staff to deal
with the cases.

What is interesting is that the budget for the medico-legal department of
Hyderabad is higher than that of Karachi even though the department there has 42
less posts than Karachi and only two medico-legal centres.

"The annual budget for medico-legal department is between Rs450,000 and
Rs500,000," said Karachi Civil Surgeon Dr Aslam Pechuho while speaking to Dawn.

"When I came to office around three months ago there was not even enough money
to buy stationery. But the budget for Hyderabad is about 70 per cent higher than
that of Karachi's."

Last year, Karachi saw the highest number of targeted killings over the past two
decades. Around 2,000 people were killed on ethnic, political or sectarian
grounds.

According figures provided by the police surgeon's office, there were a total of
31,046 medico-legal cases in all centres across Karachi in 2012. The largest
number of these cases was attended at the Civil, Jinnah and Abbasi Shaheed
hospitals while the remaining centres dealt with only a smattering of them.

Out of the total cases, 12,704 were reported from the Jinnah hospital, 10,235
from the Abbasi Shaheed and 6,797 from the Civil hospital.

Around one-third of these cases, more than 10,000, were of women, hence only to
be taken care of by nine women medico-legal officers working in these three
hospitals.

Situation in upper Sindh

The Chandka Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) in Larkana is a 1,350-bed
institution catering for the needs of people from Larkana and Sukkur divisions,
as well as parts of Punjab and Balochistan.

Besides the dearth of medico-legal officers, there is also not enough space for
more than one body in the cold storage room of CMCH mortuary, said Larkana
police surgeon Saifullah Abbasi.

Besides, the post of additional police surgeon was also vacant, he added.

The district health officer of Larkana said that a number of medical officers,
including 14 female medical officers, had been deputed to work on rotation basis
in health centres and hospitals in Dokri, Ratodero and Naudero.

Meanwhile, sources told Dawn that the hospital lacked proper equipment for
performing autopsies while there were improper arrangements for sanitation,
lighting and security.

Even if autopsies were performed, there were no funds to buy jars for storing
viscera, the sources said.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2013 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


