                               2 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             Assam Tribune (India)

                            December 16, 2016 Friday

Legal aspects of hospital administration

LENGTH: 1157 words

DATELINE: Guwahati


Guwahati, Dec. 16 -- Hospitals are very complex organizations where the
beneficiaries are the patients. The providers of hospital service are still more
complex, ranging from highly skilled doctors to illiterate or just literate
people. Hospital is very peculiar organization in the sense that the output of
the organization is not the product but service which is not always possible to
be quantified, the same being difficult to measure. Hospitals are 'industries'
both in legal and professional context. As such, there is a need to examine and
analyse the legal aspects of hospital administration.

The term 'hospital administration' in the operational aspect refers to the body
of people responsible for the administration of a hospital which includes the
board of directors, director, medical superintendent and his team. Considering
the fact that hospitals are treated as industry because of its inclusion as an
industry within the meaning of the term as defined under the Industrial Disputes
Act, 1947, the health care providers and also the hospital and health
administrators have to be well versed with the prevailing judicial system,
judgement delivery system and also the legal rights of the hospital and its
administrators. It is pertinent to mention that it is precisely because of
long-standing practice of the medical profession to abide by the medical ethics
not getting strength and the ethical values deteriorating among health service
providers that prompted enactment of laws to set the things in order in so far
as the service of doctors and administration in a hospital is concerned.

The prime object of the medical profession is to render service to humanity.
Here reward or financial gain is a subordinate consideration. A hospital has
scarce resources and at times it is difficult to quantify the output and
proportionate the expenses incurred on services provided to the beneficiaries in
a hospital. Also, this is a fact that with increasing information, education and
communication, the beneficiaries have become aware about the quality of service
provided and their right as a consumer of service. It is, therefore, necessary
that the hospital administration should be well versed with the provisions of
the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. Many legal complications can be avoided if
all categories of staff, especially doctors, are made aware and acquainted with
the terms 'deficiency' and 'negligence' as defined under this Act. There is a
growing tendency amongst hospitals to differentiate between medico-legal and
general cases. However, in Premanand Katra vs. Union of India case (1989), the
Supreme Court held that no differentiation should be made between medico-legal
and general cases; immediate medical aid should be given to the injured patient
and that treatment should not wait in absence/delay of medico-legal formalities.
The Medical Council of India is of the opinion that there is no provision in the
law which prevents the doctor from attending to a seriously injured person and
accidental cases before the arrival of the police or registering the case and
completing other formalities.

It is also important for the hospital administration to have knowledge about the
provisions of the Law of Torts. 'Tort' refers to any wrongdoing to a person for
which a civil case can be lodged. The act of wrongful commission deliberately
doing something wrong, e.g., performing an operation without medical indication;
act of omission, i.e., doing something wrong without intention of so doing;
negligence like leaving a forceps or gauge piece inside abdomen during surgery;
invading the right to privacy; breach of professional secrecy; going beyond the
limit of patient's consent are acts which might invite legal action against the
hospital, the doctor concerned and the administration of the hospital.

It is essential that the hospital administration have sufficient knowledge about
the law of contracts which governs the contractual obligations of the doctor and
the patient after having entered into a written, verbal or implied contract for
medical advice or treatment. To avoid loss of money, reputation, time and to
avoid legal complications, it becomes necessary for the hospital administration
to keep themselves abreast of the provisions of the law of professional security
which forbids the doctors from disclosing any information about the patient,
except when required by a court of law or as a statutory duty or when necessary
in the larger public interest when it is regarded as a privileged communication.
For the small size, proprietor-owned or society-run hospitals where
administration is run solely by one or two persons who may not have enough of
administrative experience, it is suggestive that these persons must be given
sufficient exposure and knowledge about the Employees Provident Fund and
Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952, Maternity Benefit Act, 1961, Payment of
Gratuity Act, 1972, Minimum Wages Act, 1948, Payment of Wages Act, 1936, etc.,
since these Acts are directly connected to labour laws related to human resource
management in hospitals.

A significant factor about hospitals is that they are institutions which deal
not with machines and tools, but with human beings who have feelings and
emotions. The human beings with whom employees are brought into contact are of
four groups: management, medical staff, patients and visitors. It becomes
incumbent upon the hospital administration to note this. Legal provisions to
safeguard the interests of the patient and their bona fide visitors against all
kinds of hazards, such as unsafe procedures, medicines, equipment, buildings and
electrical fittings, etc., compel the hospital authorities to take all necessary
precautions in this regard. Hospitals under the law also require a legal
certification for running the services such as crystalloid production, blood
bank, pharmacy, radiological services, etc. The hospital administration should
be well versed with these legal provisions. In Assam, study has revealed that
for majority of hospitals, those taking up responsibilities of hospital
administration are senior doctors, and not persons holding a postgraduate or
similar degree in hospital administration. In contrast to the all-India health
institutions like the AIIMS, in Assam there is no compulsion or policy of
government where the medical superintendents or the person who heads the
administration should be doctors who have obtained a postgraduate or a doctoral
degree in hospital administration. To build up professionalism in health care
and to ensure the best service to patients, every hospital in Assam, both in
private and public sectors, must have persons who have good knowledge about
hospital administration.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from Assam Tribune. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2016 Assam Tribune (P) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


