                               3 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            February 2, 2014 Sunday

Six more Karachi hospitals to get MLOs in two weeks

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 391

LENGTH: 568  words


Six government-run hospitals of Karachi urgently need the services of Medico-
legal Officers (MLO) to handle the emergency and terrorism-related cases and
also to lessen the extra burden on three major government hospitals of the city.

According the official sources, three major hospitals of city having the
facility of Medico-legal Officers (MLOs) are Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH),
Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre (JPMC) and Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK),
while six other government hospitals lack this facility so far.

Due to prevailing law and order situation in Karachi, there is a dire need
posting MLOs in these hospitals to handle the emergency cases.

The sources said the MLO report, containing the cause of death, time of death,
nature of death, and other details compiled on an official form at the time of
autopsy, provides the basis for a court case, carrying an impact on the trial
and final decision.

They said MLOs could provide important information in handling autopsy of
terrorism-related cases, including the cases of bombing and targeted killings.

However, these important vaccines are laying vacant in some government hospitals
. The medico-legal department is not functional in six important hospitals of
Karachi including Sindh Government Lyari General Hospital, Sindh Government
Hospital New Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh Government
Hospital Saudabad, Sindh Government Qatar Hospital Orangi Town and Sindh
Government Hospital Karachi Korangi due to different reasons.

The non-functioning of medic-legal departments in these government runs
hospitals of city is putting the extra burden on the three big hospitals of
metropolis. According to the sources five MLO are deployed in JPMC, while two
seats are laying vacant there; two MLOs are working in CHK, where three posts
are laying vacant and three MLOs are discharging duties in ASH, where two
vaccines lay vacant.

According to a Health Department report around 3500 post-mortems are carried out
in the city every year, while in 30,000 other cases medico-legal certificates
are issued by the MLOs annually. Pakistan Medical Association (PMA) leader Dr SM
Qaisar Sajjad, when contacted, said that medico-legal department is an important
department of hospitals and government should deploy at least one MLO in each
town hospital. He said population of Karachi has crossed 20 million mark, but
unfortunately the healthcare facilities are yet to be up-graded accordingly.

He said health and education sectors are not on the priority of sitting
government as both sectors are in dilapidated condition. He urged the
authorities concerned to provide maximum healthcare facilities to public and
immediately appoints the MLOs in all government hospitals.

It may be noted that Secretary Health Sindh during meeting with group of media
men at his office recently has said that a plan is under way for appointment of
Medico-Legal Officers (MLO) in more hospitals to minimize the burden on three
major hospitals of Karachi; however, no action is taken in this as yet.
Secretary Health Sindh Iqbal Hussain Durrani, when contacted said deployment of
MLOs in six hospitals of Karachi would be done within two weeks.

He explained that there are a few requirements need to be fulfilled before the
deployment MLOs in hospitals. He hoped that medico-legal departments of these
remaining hospitals would start functioning within two weeks.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


