                               5 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            March 27, 2014 Thursday

22 seats of MLOs lying vacant in Karachi

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 444

LENGTH: 332  words


Around 22 posts of Medico- Legal Officers (MLOs) are lying vacant in different
government runs hospitals of Karachi from last two years adversely affecting
medico-legal department functioning at healthcares. This was informed by Police
Surgeon Karachi Dr Jalil Qadir while talking to the media men at his office. He
said about 22 seats MLOs of grade-17 are lying vacant in different teaching and
small hospitals of Karachi from last two years over variety of reasons. He
explained that pressure from heirs and harassment on MLOs by some politically
backed groups at government-run hospitals during duty are major factor behind
reluctance of doctors to join medico-legal department.

He said these vacant seats are hindering different government hospital
administrations to make properly functional their medico-legal departments. He
informed that medico-legal departments have been established in nine
government-run hospitals of Karachi to handle terrorism-related and emergency
cases, out of them only three major hospitals are handling such cases, while tow
-level hospitals are still not ready to conduct postmortems despite having such
facility due to security risk or shortage of trained staff. Dr Jalil Qadir said
there are five seats allocated for each hospital for medico-legal department
including one post for grade-19, two seats of grade-18 and three seats reserved
for grade-17 officers.

He said medico-legal department was established in nine hospitals including
Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH), Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Center (JPMC), Civil
Hospital Karachi (CHK), Sindh Government Hospital Qatar Orangi Town and other
hospitals. He said 22 MLOs posts of grade-17 have been lying vacant fort last
two years in Karachi including four women MLOs seats adversely affecting medico-
legal department functioning. He informed that provincial government had posted
some doctors on MLOs seats to meet the shortage but majority of doctors did not
join the duties over security risk or fear.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


