                               6 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                          September 7, 2016 Wednesday

MLO offices closed in four district hospitals

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 249

LENGTH: 283  words


The offices of Medico Legal Departments in four districts hospitals of Karachi
have been closed due to shortage of medico-legal officers, it was learned on
Tuesday.

The offices of medico-legal department in Sindh Government Lyari General
Hospital, Sindh Government Hospital New Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital
Liaquatabad, and Sindh Government Hospital Saudabad have been closed owing to
unavailability of MLOs, while only one MLO is available at Sindh Government
Hospital Qatar Orangi Town and Sindh Government Hospital Karachi Korangi in day
hours.

An official at health department Sindh told that Medico-Legal Department of
Karachi was facing acute shortage of male and female medico-legal officers since
last several months; therefore, the department has closed four offices in
district level hospitals, while two other offices were on the verge of closure.

He informed that three major hospitals of the city had the facility of Medico-
legal Officers (MLOs) like Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH), Jinnah Postgraduate
Medical Center (JPMC) and Civil Hospital Karachi, while six other hospitals' MLO
offices had been shutdown due to the shortage of MLOs.

He said MLO report show the cause of death, time of death, nature of death, and
other details compiled on an official form at the time of autopsy, provides the
basis for a court case, carrying an impact on the trial and final decision.

He further said MLOs could provide important information in handling autopsy of
terrorism-related cases, including the cases of bombing and targeted killings.
However, several posts are lying vacant in medico-legal department of Karachi.

Police Surgeon Karachi, Dr Ejaz Ahmed Khokhar was not available for comments.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


