                               8 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Canberra Times (Australia)

                            April 20, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Stanhope prepared for a fight;
Calvary legal threat

BYLINE: Bianca Hall and Peter Jean

SECTION: A; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 553  words


Stanhope prepared for a fight Calvary legal threat By Bianca Hall and Peter Jean
DISAPPOINTED: Jon Stanhope has responded to the threat to sue the ACT
Government.

Editorial Page 18 The ACT Government refused to be cowed by the threat of legal
action by the owners of Calvary Public Hospital, Chief Minister Jon Stanhope
said yesterday.

"I am deeply disappointed with the language used by Calvary, that they've
threatened to sue us," he said.

"The consequences would be awful. We won't be cowed by threats."

Cabinet is due to decide this week where to locate an additional 400 public
hospital beds as part of its long-term plans to expand the territory's hospital
services.

But its task has been complicated by Little Company of Mary Health Care, which
owns the Bruce hospital, indicating it could pursue legal action if the
Government alters its status as north Canberra's primary provider of acute
public health services.

The Government has examined a range of options for expanding health services,
including building a new acute hospital and turning Calvary Public Hospital into
a sub- acute facility, specialising in areas such as rehabilitation and psycho-
geriatric care.

Another option is to expand Calvary's acute services and build a new sub-acute
hospital.

Yesterday, LCM Health Care chairman John Watkins continued to deny the
organisation had threatened to sue if the Government pursued plans for a new
hospital.

Mr Watkins said both parties should respect the agreement under which Calvary
ran acute care health services.

"There's a legal agreement in place between the parties. My view is that of
course both the parties should respect that legal agreement as we always have
and we intend to," he said.

"Governments don't breach agreements like that in a cavalier fashion and I would
not expect that of the minister or the Government of the ACT."

Despite Mr Watkins' public denials of threatened legal action, Mr Stanhope said
he was "deeply disappointed" with the organisation's stance. "The last thing
that we want is to be involved in a legal fight," the Chief Minister said.

"If we were involved in a legal stoush we wouldn't be able to invest in our
health needs ... The consequences would be awful.

"We won't be cowed by threats but we will, as we always do, put the public
interests first."

This, he said, meant building a new acute or sub-acute hospital facility to care
for the territory's burgeoning health needs.

"Facing an ageing and growing population, we will need to construct a new
facility."

Calvary's submission to the Government on expanding hospital services in the ACT
maintained the hospital had a legally binding contract, under which it operates
acute- care services in north Canberra.

"There may be legal impediments to the Government's preferred position our
agreement to provide public health services on behalf of the ACT Government is a
legally binding contract that confirms our role as provider of acute public
health services," the submission said.

"It is likely that there are contractual obligations that are at odds with the
Government's consideration of changing Calvary's role."

Mr Watkins said the best outcome would be for Calvary to continue delivering the
services it provided.

"If that means a compromise position is reached, well I think that's the best
outcome for Canberra," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CT


       Copyright 2011 The Federal Capital Press of Australia PTY Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


