                              97 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                        Wyoming Tribune-Eagle (Cheyenne)

                              May 3, 2012 Thursday

Commissioners to hire lawyer to oversee hospital partnership

BYLINE: Becky Orr

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Main; Pg. 5-3 NEWS County comm., CRMC

LENGTH: 346 words


bkm

Commissioners to hire lawyer to oversee hospital partnership

At a glance

The local hospital board agreed Wednesday to pay for a lawyer for the Laramie
County Commission, who will advise the commission during efforts to form a
partnership between the Cheyenne and Casper hospitals.

By Becky Orr

borr@wyomingnews.com

CHEYENNE - Laramie County commissioners will hire a lawyer to advise them on a
proposed partnership between the local hospital and the one in Casper.

Cheyenne Regional Medical Center agreed Wednesday to reimburse the county for up
to $100,000 in legal fees.

Laramie County owns the Cheyenne hospital. Commissioners have the final say on
any changes in how it's governed.

They will not feel comfortable making some decisions without outside help,
Commissioner Gay Woodhouse said. She asked for legal help at a special hospital
board meeting early Wednesday morning.

"For us to fulfill our duties, we need special expertise," Woodhouse said after
the meeting.

Commissioners support the partnership, but want help from someone who
understands the legal principles involved, she said.

The hospital board voted 5-2 Wednesday in favor of helping the county hire a
lawyer.

Hospital board members Paul Howard and Bill Larson voted against.

"It seems like we're duplicating efforts," Howard said. Other board members
asked if the legal help is necessary.

The hospital board needed to know how much a lawyer would cost, Larson said.

Woodhouse didn't have a firm cost. She said it would be well below $100,000.

Commissioners will hire Wayne Dube from Chicago, Ill. He specializes in
health-care issues, she said.

Commissioners want to make sure the county doesn't lose control of the hospital,
she added.

In June, CRMC agreed to reimburse the county up to $300,000. The money was for
the commissioners to hire a consultant to do a hospital study.

The hospital hired its own consultant, too.

The study came in response to an offer from an outside company to buy the
hospital.

Commissioners spent $200,000 on the study. The money for new legal fees will
come from what's left of the $300,000.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2012 Cheyenne Newspapers, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


