                              102 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                     April 07, 1995, Friday, Final Edition

Death of 'Baby K' Leaves a Legacy of Legal Precedents

Marylou Tousignant; Bill Miller, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 596 words


She was known nationwide as "Baby K," a little girl born at Fairfax Hospital 2
1/2 years ago missing most of her brain. She lived in a pediatric nursing
facility nearby -- unable, doctors said, to think, hear or see -- while her
mother sat at her bedside and prayed for a miracle.

A groundbreaking legal case that eventually landed at the Supreme Court forced
Fairfax Hospital to keep the child alive whenever she had trouble breathing and
was rushed to its emergency room. And it was there this week that Stephanie
Keene, "Baby K," died of cardiac arrest.

"She's in heaven. She's in peace," the child's mother, Contrenia Harrell, said
yesterday from her home in Springfield. "Knowing that she's with God is a
comfort," added Harrell, a woman whose deep faith told her there was always hope
for her daughter, even as doctors insisted there was none.

Stephanie died Wednesday afternoon, 30 minutes after being rushed by ambulance
to Fairfax Hospital for the sixth -- and final -- time.

Harrell and a friend, Larry Bright, arrived shortly after and spent several
minutes alone with the child. "I said a prayer and Contrenia kinda, you know,
she was just kinda caught up," Bright said. "They did let her take a picture,
and that was nice. They didn't have to do that."

It was just a few months ago -- after the Supreme Court let stand a lower court
ruling ordering Fairfax Hospital to keep the baby alive as the mother wished --
that Harrell came forward publicly to talk about her daughter's rare condition.
She showed reporters several photographs of Stephanie, weighing 35 pounds and
wearing a knit hat on her flattened head, and said she felt exhausted and angry
over the protracted legal battle with the hospital.

Stephanie was born Oct. 13, 1992, with a congenital defect of unknown cause
called anencephaly, in which a major portion of the skull and brain are missing.
Between 1,000 and 2,000 such babies are born each year in the United States, but
most live only a few days, doctors say.

In Stephanie's case, the legal tussle between Harrell and Fairfax Hospital
triggered an emotional and far-reaching debate over what care should be provided
for the hopelessly ill and who should decide.

Stephanie, who appears to have made medical as well as legal history by living
as long as she did, had medical bills approaching $ 500,000, which were covered
by Harrell's insurance and Medicaid. Hospital officials have denied any
suggestion that money prompted their lawsuit, noting that Stephanie's hospital
bill before her death -- nearly $ 250,000 -- had been paid in full.

Stephanie's condition was diagnosed by ultrasound when her mother was 16 weeks
pregnant. Harrell declined to have an abortion, believing, she said, that "all
life is precious" and that God, not doctors and not herself, would guide
Stephanie's.

The baby's father, whose relationship with Harrell ended before he learned she
was pregnant, found out about his daughter's condition the day she was born.
Although he supported the hospital's position that extraordinary measures should
not be taken to keep her alive, he visited her several times, both in the
hospital and at the nursing facility.

As Harrell struggled yesterday with how she would pay for her daughter's
funeral, her attorney, Ellen Flannery, provided Stephanie with a legal epitaph:
"I think we established some legal principles that will benefit patients and
their families who are trying to make decisions [on medical treatment],"
Flannery said. "These legal principles will live on beyond 'Baby K.' "

LOAD-DATE: April 07, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1995 The Washington Post


