                              99 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                            December 14, 2007 Friday

Harney in legal bid to avert health 'nightmare'

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 628 words


THE Government is attempting to rush through emergency laws in a bid to avert
another constitutional crisis that could leave the State vulnerable to a raft of
major lawsuits.

Health Minister Mary Harney is bringing in the emergency legislation next week
after it emerged there is no legal basis for 19 key health bodies.

It is the latest in of a series of political blunders endured by the Government
since it was returned to power.

And there are major question marks over Ms Harney's handling of this latest
health debacle after it emerged the major flaws were spotted six months ago.

If Ms Harney does not succeed in pushing through the emergency laws it could
face the nightmare prospect of a wave of legal challenges. And they could put
the brakes on major health projects, including hospital co-location and the
proposed new national children's hospital.

The bodies include the Blood Transfusion Service Board, St James's Hospital and
Beaumont Hospital. These two hospitals are due to have co-located private
hospitals

But the list also includes bodies set up in recent years such as the National
Treatment Purchase and the National Cancer Screening Service, only established
in January of this year.

Further legislation will be required next year in this area and the emergence of
the loophole has also cast a doubt over six bodies set up in the local
government sector.

It is also unclear precisely when and how Ms Harney was alerted to the legal
loophole.

The minister was told on May 23, just the day before the general election, that
the law in question allowed her to set up a body to plan the new children's
hospital.

Ms Harney set up the National Paediatric Hospital Development Board.

At some point over the following weeks, her officials say a potential flaw was
identified in the law as the department examined how the body would be funded.

The precise date of this development is unknown.

The problem was subsequently referred to the Attorney-General's office, who
hired an external barrister to look into it.

Then on June 22, question marks emerged over the co-location aspects of the law,
but the minister's officials insist this was not the first time the problem was
identified.

Of foot of the examination, the Government's legal adviser, Attorney-General
Paul Gallagher, cast serious doubt on the legal status of bodies set up under
legislation dating from the 1960s and said the law might be found to be
unconstitutional.

This legal vulnerability needed to be tackled urgently, necessitating the
emergency legislation to be rushed through before the Dail breaks up next week
for Christmas.

But the A-G's advice was received on October 26 and the need for the emergency
legislation was only flagged later. Ms Harney's spokesman put this six-week
delay down to the complex nature of the legislation.

The Labour Party is planning to oppose aspects of the legislation as it says the
sections dealing with co-location are not urgent. Labour's Liz McManus is
objected to the law strengthening the legal rights of St James's and Beaumont
hospitals to enter co-location agreements to develop private hospitals on site.

Effectively, Ms Harney and several previous health ministers were overstepping
the line because the Oireachtas delegated law-making ability to a single
minister and that is not allowed under the Separation of Powers.

The bombshell revelation that a 46-year-old law that allowed a succession of
health ministers to establish various health agencies may be unconstitutional
was unveiled after external legal advice was received by Mr Gallagher.

The newly appointed A-G said the powers conferred on the Health Minister under
the 1961 Health (Corporate Bodies) Act were "so broad" that their
constitutionality was in jeopardy.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


