                              96 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Ottawa Citizen

                           November 28, 2013 Thursday
                                 Final Edition

Lawyers join health-care team; CHEO partners with legal aid group to help
low-income families

BYLINE: Zev Singer, Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: CITY; Pg. C9

LENGTH: 366 words


When a child becomes seriously ill, a parent's life can freeze in its tracks as
every resource of time, energy and money goes into caring for that son or
daughter. When those parents also have legal problems - another potentially
all-consuming challenge - the results can be disastrous.

To help address that problem, Pro Bono Law Ontario announced Wednesday that it
has formed a partnership with the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario to help
lowincome families resolve those legal problems and allow those parents to focus
on their kids.

Those legal issues could relate to employment, family law, immigration,
health-care coverage, tax law and beyond.

"CHEO's goal is to better connect care within our walls and beyond our walls to
help kids and families be their healthiest," said Alex Munter, CHEO's president
and chief executive officer.

The program is the first of a planned series of "Connected Care" initiatives by
the hospital to help families tap into other resources in areas that can impact
on health, such as housing, poverty and legal issues.

Pro Bono Law Ontario began a similar program at the Hospital for Sick Children
in Toronto four years ago, which now helps about 400 families a year. Programs
have followed at the Holland Bloorview Kids Rehabilitation Hospital, also in
Toronto, and the Children's Hospital in London, Ont.

Law firm Borden Ladner Gervais will be providing the free legal services for the
program at CHEO, with other firms potentially joining as needed.

Ottawa lawyer David Scott, cochair of Borden Ladner Gervais, said that to
encourage lawyers to do the pro bono work, his firm, like some others, allows
approved pro bono

work to count as billable hours.

"Once a project is approved, there's no pain, in terms of advancement for the
lawyer for doing it," Scott said.

"This is important because a lot of the work is done by younger lawyers and
otherwise it would be a disincentive."

Scott, who is on the board of Pro Bono Law Ontario, said the program at Sick
Kids showed how great the need is for such legal services.

He said he has no doubt that the CHEO pro bono program will soon be seen as
"essential" at the hospital.

zsinger@ottawacitizen.com twitter.com/zev_singer

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chris Mikula, Ottawa Citizen; Ottawa's David Scott, co-chair of Borden
Ladner Gervais, says the law firm makes it possible for young lawyers to take on
unpaid work on programs such as the one at CHEO , without their careers
suffering.;

