                              101 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             June 28, 2007 Thursday

Hospital's gripe does not wash

SECTION: OPINION; Opinion; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 832 words


It was one of the better examples of how appearances can deceive. Last week, it
emerged that the Health Service Executive underspent its capital budget by
almost EUR 100 million, and now has to give the money back. On the same day, it
was reported that the National Maternity Hospital (in Holles Street, Dublin) had
been turned down by the HSE for additional funding to enable it to clean its
facility more thoroughly, writes Mary Raftery.

Clearly another example of HSE incompetence, one might think, in this instance
potentially endangering babies and their mothers by refusing essential funding
to clean a busy maternity hospital, while at the same time handing money back
because it was incapable of spending it on a health service which remains
chronically underfunded.

However, while there is little excuse for the HSE's underspend, things are not
quite as clear when it comes to Holles Street.

The hospital was commendably frank in its recently published annual report for
2006 on its cleaning problems, particularly about the "urgent need" for more
frequent cleaning. As everyone is now well aware of the connection between dirty
hospitals and life-threatening infections, the allocation of sufficient funding
to hygiene should be a key priority for all health facilities. In the case of
Holles Street, however, there are other items of major expenditure that it is
not quite so frank about. These concern the substantial legal costs of its
battle to keep secret some of the records relating to the retention by the
hospital of the organs of deceased babies.

Holles Street was one of the more active hospitals in terms of retaining babies'
organs after postmortem examination, invariably without either the consent or
the knowledge of the infants' parents. These parents, through the organisation
Parents For Justice, sought the release of the relevant documentation from all
the maternity and paediatric hospitals involved in this practice throughout the
State. All but one eventually capitulated. Holles Street not only refused, but
then took a High Court action against the Information Commissioner, who had
ruled that the Holles Street records be released under the Freedom of
Information Act.

The documents in question relate to the material sent by Holles Street to the
Dunne inquiry, which had been established to examine the entire issue of organ
retention, and which was closed down by the government in 2005 without
publishing a full report.

In the absence of such a report, the parents are attempting to piece together
exactly what the various hospitals told the inquiry. In the case of Holles
Street, according to its legal representatives, these records contain "highly
confidential and sensitive information [providing] information on post mortem
practices and procedures".

Two months ago, the High Court dismissed the appeal by Holles Street against the
decision of the Information Commissioner that the records be released. It found
against the hospital on all six grounds quoted and ruled that the Information
Commissioner had been correct in each instance.

The hospital had 28 days from the date of this judgment to release the records
to Parents For Justice. This deadline ran out weeks ago, and still no documents
have been handed over.

In addition, Holles Street refuses to say how much the legal action has cost the
hospital. It will have to pay the costs of the other side in addition to its
own. At a rough and highly conservative estimate, these will amount to at least
EUR 250,000 - a figure which would buy quite a lot of cleaning materials.

Holles Street receives most of its funding from the taxpayer, through the HSE.
The State, however, does not own the hospital and it remains unclear what, if
any, sanctions can be applied in the context of a hospital spending exchequer
funds on futile legal battles rather than on, for instance, cleanliness and
infection control.

In terms of the hospital's governance, it is worth noting that the 2006 annual
report for Holles Street informs us that of the six ex-officio members of the
hospital's board of governors, no fewer than four are Roman Catholic priests.

The expenditure by Holles Street on its legal battles was firmly criticised by
the Information Commissioner, Emily O'Reilly. In her 2004 annual report, she
wrote that "the behaviour of the Hospital in this case amounted to obstruction
of my Office . . . In conducting its business with my Office in this manner, the
Hospital is likely to have incurred substantial and mostly unnecessary legal
costs which ultimately must be at the expense of the taxpayer."

Meanwhile, in the cleanliness stakes, Holles Street is the dirtiest of the three
large Dublin maternity hospitals. Although it did improve last year, its record
on general cleanliness in wards, toilets and kitchens, and on hand hygiene in
some areas, remains in the "poor" category.

The attempt by Holles Street to blame the HSE and its refusal to release funds
for this simply will not wash.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2007 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


