                              98 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                      October 12, 2015 Monday 4:01 PM GMT

Wythenshawe doctors officially launch legal action over hospital shake-up;
A group of consultants - backed by hundreds of medical staff - have filed
judicial review papers against plans to move surgery out of the hospital

BYLINE: By Jennifer Williams

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 596 words


A group of senior Wythenshawe doctors have officially launched legal action
against the NHS over 'catastrophic' plans to move surgery out of the hospital.

'Keep Wythenshawe Special' - a company set up for the purpose - has lodged court
papers aimed at triggering a judicial review of the decision, taken by clinical
commissioners over the summer.

NHS bosses say it could cost the system £500,000 in legal costs.

The doctors have launched their bid as a result of the Healthier Together
hospital shake-up, which aims to create four 'specialist' hospitals across the
region.

They would become the only sites to deal with emergency abdominal surgery - but
Wythenshawe, to the fury of doctors, MPs and some local councillors, was not one
of those chosen.

As a result a small group of consultants, with the backing of the hospital's
much larger medical staffing committee, has now launched legal action against
Greater Manchester's 12 clinical commissioning groups.

In a statement, the doctors - who are represented by lawyers Irwin Mitchell -
said the move would 'downgrade' the hospital.

Lawyer Mathieu Culverhouse said they believed the decision was 'unlawful' and
had not taken clinical outcomes into account, adding that the impact could be
'catastrophic'.

Healthier Together

Speaking on behalf of Keep Wythenshawe Special, consultant surgeon Andrew
Macdonald added: "It is with great regret that we feel we have been left with no
choice but to take formal legal action. We have not been given the assurances we
sought from the commissioning groups and have real concerns about how the plans
will affect patient safety in the Greater Manchester region."

But Healthier Together and the council leader in charge of health for the region
have both hit back.

Dr Nigel Guest, chief clinical officer of Trafford CCG and one of those who gave
Stepping Hill specialist status over Wythenshawe, said commissioners were
'extremely disappointed' with the move, which he claimed was not backed by the
hospital's board.

An initial £500,000 has been put on one side to defend the challenge, he said,
adding: "We have met with these individuals a number of times to understand
their concerns and tried to resolve the issue collaboratively, rather than going
through a legal process. However, the group have refused further meetings and
have formed a private company, Keep Wythenshawe Special, in order to sue the
NHS."

He also accused the doctors of scaremongering by writing to GPs earlier this
month claiming the hospital's A&E could close.

Lord Peter Smith, who leads on health devolution for the combined authority,
said the move could 'halt' the recruitment of 13 new A&E doctors and 22
surgeons, adding that the entire shake-up had been about improving all
hospitals.

A judge is expected to look at the bid in the next couple of months before
ruling whether or not the review can go ahead.

But is understood the Healthier Together shake-up will largely continue as
planned while the legal process rumbles on.

In a separate statement, the chief executive of University Hospitals South
Manchester NHS Trust, Attila Vegh, made no direct reference to the legal action.

He said the trust 'understood and shared the concerns' of the doctors about the
impact of the decision on the hospital, however, stressing that UHSM's board had
been working 'tirelessly' to 'keep Wythenshawe special'.

But he said a new clinical leadership board - proposed by Healthier Together to
'work through' the clinical concerns - was welcome.

Sources said the UHSM board wished to see the issues resolved outside of the
legal process.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


