                              100 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                       The Oklahoman (Oklahoma City, OK)

                            December 18, 2011 Sunday
                                  City Edition

DONATIONS ARE FOR MILITARY

BYLINE: STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

SECTION: NEWS; MEDICAL BRIEFS; Pg. 8A

LENGTH: 649 words


RSVP of Central Oklahoma seeks donations for the Airmen's Attic at Tinker Air
Force Base, which provides supplemental food and household items for local
military personnel and their families, and the Adopt-A-Unit program that sends
care packages to military personnel serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. Donations
of canned foods, especially meat, and nonperishable food items are needed. Items
will be distributed to military personnel and their families stationed at Tinker
Air Force Base. Small personal items, including lotions that are needed in dry
climates, will go to care packages distributed overseas by The Adopt-A-Unit
program, which also needs playing cards and beef jerky. RSVP now supports both
programs year-round. Bring donations from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through
Friday to RSVP of Central Oklahoma at 7401 NE 23. RSVP of Central Oklahoma
promotes volunteerism among people 55 and older. For information on RSVP
membership and activities call 605-3110, or use:  www.rsvpokc.org.

STUDY FINDS SLOW RESPONSE TIMES

In a new national study that included 117 Oklahomans, medical researchers
concluded that heart attack victims aren't taken quickly enough to hospitals
best suited for procedures to open narrowed or blocked coronary arteries. Early
treatment is associated with significant improvement in outcomes, including
reduced mortality, said Dr. Dale Bratzler, associate dean of the University
Oklahoma College of Public Health. Researchers found fewer than one in 10
patients was transferred from one hospital to another in the recommended time of
30 minutes or less. This is particularly relevant in a largely rural state like
Oklahoma, which has many small hospitals that must transfer patients from one
hospital to another for emergency cardiac care. The study notes that rural
hospitals may be limited by a lack of transportation, with delays waiting for
helicopter arrivals and greater distances to hospitals that have facilities for
balloon angioplasty or stent placement. Only one-fourth of acute-care hospitals
nationally can perform these procedures. In the study's small Oklahoma sample,
the average time to begin transfers between hospitals was 77 minutes - 11th
worst in the nation.

LEGAL HOTLINE IS FOR SENIORS

To give state seniors quick access to civil legal assistance on issues including
medical-bill debt, Legal Aid Services of Oklahoma now has a statewide telephone
hotline. It is the Sixty Plus Legal Aid Services Helpline, or SPLASH, and
provides free legal assistance to persons 60 and older in most Oklahoma
counties. Oklahomans 60 and over can call SPLASH at (855) 488-6814. SPLASH calls
will be answered by one of four application specialists from 8:30 a.m. to 5
p.m., Mondays through Fridays. The application is forwarded to the local Legal
Aid offices, and the senior will receive a return call within 19 business days.
Time-sensitive calls will be handled by the local office with priority. For
questions about SPLASH, call 488-6824.

OMRF SEEKS FLEMING SCHOLARS

The Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation is now accepting applications for its
2012 Fleming Scholar Program. The application deadline is Feb. 1. To qualify,
applicants must be at least age 16, and Oklahoma residents at the time of high
school graduation. High school seniors, as well as college freshmen, sophomores
and juniors, are eligible to apply. Students selected as Fleming Scholars work
for eight weeks with OMRF scientists on individual research projects. Projects
focus on a variety of research areas, such as cancer, lupus or heart disease. If
eligible, scholars are paid and also receive free housing. Named for Sir
Alexander Fleming, the Nobel-prize winning scientist who dedicated OMRF, the
scholarship program has provided summer research experiences to some 500
Oklahoma science students since 1956. For more information and application
forms, go to  www.omrf.org/fleming.


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2011 The Oklahoman, All Rights Reserved


