                              106 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 10, 2005

OFF OUR BEDS

BYLINE: John Scott

SECTION: MIGRANT MADNESS 1; EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 487 words


NHS in £20,000 legal fight over an 'illegal' who refuses to leave hospital

AN NHS Trust has had to fight a £20,000 legal battle to get a suspected illegal
immigrant OUT of hospital.

And even after the bed-blocker caved in and left the ward he got his legal
aid-funded lawyers to try and get him free housing.

Baljit Singh was admitted to the Walsgrave Hospital in Coventry, West Midlands,
with kidney problems after arriving from India.

But when doctors told him he was well enough to leave he called in lawyers. They
won a court injunction late last month BANNING his removal. The trust had to
brief their own legal team - also funded by taxpayers - in a bid to unblock the
bed.

A judge overturned the original ruling - but Singh's legal team appealed to the
High Court to have the injunction reinstated.

They only finally backed down earlier this week just before the case was due to
be heard in London. The bill was estimated to be costing taxpayers up to
£20,000.

Singh has now set his sights on Coventry City Council, claiming they should not
have rejected his bid for free housing after he left hospital.

The council had refused because they were unsure he was entitled to stay in
Britain.

Singh's lawyers won a judicial review of the case. The council are set to fight
any decision that goes against them, costing thousands more.

In the meantime they have been ordered to look after Mr Singh - again at the
taxpayers' expense. The legal wrangle comes amid growing fears at the
£200million-a-year cost to the NHS of "health tourism" where people come to the
UK just to get free treatment.

A source with knowledge of the case said: "His lawyers claim he is here legally
but his immigration status is, at best, uncertain. There are fears he may be
here illegally.

"It is a sorry state of affairs when the NHS has to waste money on this sort of
action which also raises the ugly spectre of health tourism."

Simon Williams, of the Patients' Association pressure group, said: "I have never
heard of anything like this before. It is quite bizarre because most patients
cannot wait to leave hospital when they get better."

Alice Casey, head of the NHS Trust that runs Walsgrave Hospital, said last
night: "We have done everything in our power to discharge Mr Singh without
resorting to legal action.

"He does not need a hospital bed and while he remained the bed he occupied could
not be used for emergency or other sick patients.

"We had no alternative."

Mr Singh asked for council accommodation - and free transport to get him back to
the hospital for dialysis treatment three times a week.

He has been kept at a secret address since he left hospital earlier this week
with the bill being picked up by social services.

The council and the Home Office refused to comment.

Sun GP Dr Carol Cooper said: "It's outrageous."

The Sun Says - Page Six


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD


