                              108 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Yorkshire Post

                               September 11, 2006

Woman in court battle to save hospital beds

LENGTH: 416 words


A former nurse will go to the High Court today in a legal action to save
hospital beds - and faces financial ruin if she loses her case.

Pensioner Pat Morris could be landed with a legal bill of £80,000 after heading
a campaign against cost-cutting moves by hospital bosses.

Mrs Morris, 65, has mounted the legal challenge against the closure of two
rehabilitation wards with 26 beds for older people at Altrincham General
Hospital near Manchester.

She hoped to be granted legal aid but has been told her application has been
turned down - so she must meet the legal bills herself.

She said that although she has a state pension of just £34, because her husband
has a pension she does not qualify for legal aid.

Despite an appeal to the Legal Services Commission, which administers Legal Aid,
it rejected the request by Health in Trafford (HIT) - a protest group headed by
Mrs Morris.

If the judge at the High Court in London rules in favour of the hospital bosses,
Mrs Morris will be landed with the £80,000 bill to pay for the legal costs of
the health trust and the court for staging the judicial review.

Mrs Morris said: "I will worry about the bill later, I can only deal with one
thing at a time. Think of the financial costs against the physical costs - the
hardship of those beds being closed to the elderly within Altrincham, the
hardship they have to go through when they become ill.

"How can you put financial costs against human costs?

"Obviously, it is frightening facing this legal bill but my barrister warned me
all along that it was a possibility.

"I don't know how I would pay that kind of money. If I lose then so do all the
people of Altrincham, especially the older people who need rehabilitation beds
close to home."

Mrs Morris will be at the High Court today to hear her barrister, acting for
free, argue that Trafford Healthcare Trust (THT) "unlawfully" closed the last
in-patient wards at Altrincham because they failed to carry out public
consultation.

At a preliminary hearing in June, Mr Justice Collins ruled the trust had an
"arguable" case to answer. He also advised Mrs Morris and her supporters to
apply for Legal Aid to avoid facing massive debts.

Hospital bosses closed the two wards in March, claiming they had no choice
because patient safety was at risk. The trust is £9m in debt.

Mrs Morris, from Altrincham, quit her job as a nurse at the hospital in 2003 to
campaign to keep the hospital open after the 16 beds were closed.

She has so far funded the campaign on her own.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 Johnston Press Plc
                              All Rights Reserved


