                              112 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 3, 2004

LEGAL BLOCK ON SICK TB PATIENT

BYLINE: Michael Devine

LENGTH: 408 words


A LEADING hospital turned away a highly infectious TB patient - because of a
legal wrangle.

The Eastern European refugee was acutely ill with the respiratory disease after
arriving at Dublin Port hiding in a CONTAINER.

Pals rushed him to accident and emergency at Mater Hospital fearing for his
health.

But when docs tried to TRANSFER him to Peamount Hospital - which advertises on
its website as having a specialist national TB service - bosses there BLOCKED
the move.

Senior Peamount medics, including the medical director and senior hospital
medical officer, had AGREED to treat the man.

It also emerged today that the hospital is not admitting new patients because of
legal action this week involving its former medical director Professor Luke
Clancy whose contract has been terminated. A hospital spokeswoman said: "In
light of the legal decision, Peamount will not be admitting any new patients."

The board is also axing TB treatment as part of a five-year plan published in
2003.

Acute

This follows recommendations from the Hospital Council, which said TB patients
should be treated in acute general hospitals instead.

A spokesman denied that Peamount was the national TB referral centre. He said:
"Peamount is not an appropriate location to transfer a TB patient in need of
acute treatment.

"The optimal care of patients with tuberculosis belongs now in acute general
hospitals".

But TDs slammed the move.

They called on Health Minister Micheal Martin to step in so the patient, who has
been isolated at the Mater Hospital, can get proper treatment.

Labour TD Liz McManus said: "It is quite unacceptable that decisions by medical
personnel should be overruled by hospital managements.

"This situation cannot be allowed to continue.

"An acutely ill patient urgently requires treatment in the most appropriate
location.

"All other issues, including medical politics or legal cases, should take second
place to need.

Disgrace

"The minister must now ensure that action is taken to deliver the treatment
required."

Sinn Fein TD Caoimhghin O Caolain said it was "a disgrace" and called on Mr
Martin to "intervene directly to ensure that the TB unit is fully operational
again".

A spokesman for Mr Martin said talks between the two hospitals and the Eastern
Health Authority were under way. He added that the Minister could not intervene
because of the "legalities" involved.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD


