                              105 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            January 31, 2011 Monday
                                 Mersey Edition

Anti-hospital campaigner is stripped of his legal aid;
health: Semoffwill appeal legal aid decision

BYLINE: MarcWaddington ;Liza Williams marc

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 626 words


THE campaigner who stood to derail hopes of the massive rebuild of the Royal
Liverpool Hospital has been stripped of the legal aid he intended to use to
fight his case in the High Court.

Sam Semoff, of the Keep Our NHS public pressure group which is opposed to
taxpayers money being used to fund the pounds 451m private finance deal, has
been told he will no longer be entitled to public funds to mount his case. The
decision is understood to have been made by the Legal Services Commission after
complaints from pro-rebuild campaigners who questioned why his fight should be
publicly funded.

American-born Mr Semoff has previously admitted that his name had been used to
launch the bid because an individual qualifies for Legal Aid where an
organisation doesn't The group is opposed to the rebuild on the basis it will
leave the taxpayer with crippling debts, and would have to honour them before
spending on patient care. But the protest generated a wave of anger among
residents and politicians who said the delays Mr Semoff stood to cause
threatened chances of improving facilities at the hospital. Mr Semoff will now
have the opportunity to appeal the withdrawal of legal aid. It is not known how
much the challenge is now likely to set Mr Semoff back.

When asked to confirm the funding had been halted, Mr Semoff refused to be drawn
but insisted the hearing would go ahead next month. But a Legal Services
Commission spokesman said: "Legal aid funding has been withdrawn and Mr Semoff
is appealing that decision." Last night Central ward Cllr Nick Small welcomed
the Commission's move, and said he would be probing them further as to why they
agreed to fund the challenge in the first place. He had written to the
regulatory body to complain before the decision to withdraw funding was made.
Cllr Small said: "I believe this should not have been funded through legal aid
in the first place. "

It was a slap in the face to ordinary taxpayers living in Kensington Fields and
across the city. "I will now be writing to the LSC to ask them to investigate
why legal aid was granted." Kensington Fields resident Tony Graham, 59, sat on
the stakeholders group which originally looked into the Royal bid. Mr Graham,
who has been back in the hospital recently for treatment for a heart condition,
said the rebuild was in desperate need. He added: "The care is fine, but it's
the environment that isn't. "The toilets are always damaged and not working, the
floors are rising because of what they call concrete cancer, and to keep it
clean seems virtually impossible.

"When you look at the way the Edge Lane scheme was delayed, that ended up
costing a lot of money and a lot of time.We need this new hospital." Mr Semoff
said: "We are awaiting a decision from the Legal Services Commission.We are
hopeful that they will continue to fund the case." Tony Bell, chief executive at
the Royal, said: "We have been made aware by our solicitors of the withdrawal of
legal aid funding for the Judicial Review claim against the new hospital.
However, we are also aware that an appeal has been made against this decision.
"We are cautiously optimistic that the previous ruling ofMr Justice Burnett will
be upheld in the for thcoming hearing, still to take place on February 11 . "The
legal challenge so far has proved both costly and time-consuming and we are
hopeful that we shall soon be able to move forward with our bidders on our plans
to build the new Royal. "Any further comment by the Trust at this stage would
not be helpful but we recognise that this has been a matter of serious concern
to local people and partners across the city." your views EMAIL us at letters
@dailypost.co.uk, or write to POBox 48, Old Hall Street, Liverpool L69 3EB
OPINION: Page 15

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SamSemoff who is fighting the Royal Liverpool Hospital's rebuild
project, has been stripped of his legal aid

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


