                              109 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              July 20, 2014 Sunday

Moving forward, Halifax Health board will take on greater role

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1003  words


DAYTONA BEACH -- A prominent businessman who led the Halifax Health Board of
Commissioners says he knew nothing of a whistleblower's concerns that would
later cost the public hospital system more than $110 million in settlement and
legal costs.

Mori Hosseini, who served on the seven-member panel from 2001 to January 2009,
says if he had been informed he would have acted.

"At theof the day, the board is representing the community," said Hosseini, CEO
of Daytona Beach-based ICI Homes, one of the area's leading home builders. "The
board has the responsibility of the welfare of the hospital. If the board were
aware, perhaps, there could have been a different outcome."

In the future, though, hospital commissioners, who are appointed by the
governor, will play a more active role in compliance issues. A five-year
corporate-integrity agreement gives the federal government greater oversight
into the hospital's operations and strengthens the board's role. The hospital
agreed to abide by its terms when settling some of the claims.

Elin Baklid-Kunz, a former compliance officer, filed the whistleblower suit in
June 2009, and it was unsealed a year later. In her deposition, Baklid-Kunz
testified she alerted the hospital's general counsel Dave Davidson about some of
her concerns in June 2008, when Hosseini was board chairman. At the time, the
compliance department reported to Davidson, who advised the board on legal
issues.

The suit accused the hospital of ignoring illegal contracts with six cancer
doctors and three neurosurgeons and overcharging Medicare for short hospital
stays. Baklid-Kunz is still employed by Halifax Health as director of physician
services.

In March, the hospital settled part of the case for $85 million, with
Baklid-Kunz and her legal team getting $20.8 million. Halifax Health reached a
tentative agreement earlier this month to settle the remaining claims involving
unnecessary Medicare admissions for $1 million. The board will meet at 5 p.m.
Monday in the hospital's France Tower to discuss litigation. A DIFFERENT
RECOLLECTION

Dr. Pam Carbiener, who also served on the board along with Hosseini, has a
different recollection of the board's involvement. She said she was aware of the
whistleblower's concerns, but she couldn't remember exactly how and when she
learned of them.

Carbiener has also served as chief of the medical staff at the hospital.

She felt satisfied the hospital's motives were pure, and it simply structured
the agreements to keep vital physicians in the community treating the poor and
indigent. She called the physicians involved in the agreements "some of the most
well respected, ethical people I have come to know."

"Because I knew the hospital's intentions were honorable, I didn't think it was
an issue," said Carbiener, an obstetrician- gynecologist with Halifax OBGYN
Associates. "I was not worried."

The board was not kept "in the dark," she said, disagreeing with Hosseini's
recollection.

In the end, the lawsuit ended up costing the hospital $86 million to settle,
$24.3 million in legal fees, and caused rating agencies to downgrade the
hospital's credit rating.

Halifax Health officials declined comment for this story, but in 2011, Ann
Martorano, who now serves as the hospital's chief operating officer, told The
News-Journal the lawsuit was never discussed during board meetings, which are
open to the public.

Although the matter was not discussed in open meetings, internal hospital
documents were drafted indicating potential problems.

In a Nov. 10, 2008, memo, the hospital's associate general counsel Audrey Pike
wrote that six contracts the hospital had with cancer doctors likely violated
the Stark Law, which prohibits compensating doctors based on referrals and
volume. She suggested self-reporting to the federal government.

A second legal opinion from McDermott Will & Emery requested later by the
hospital stated a "reasonable argument" existed that the contracts in question
could be defended in court, but it could not "provide any assurances" a judge or
the federal government would agree. That Chicago-based law firm later racked up
$17.7 million in legal fees defending the hospital in the whistleblower lawsuit.

Also, a Dec. 10, 2010, memo highlighted the chief compliance officer's concerns
about "medically unnecessary admissions of Medicare as inpatients" that could
carry a financial impact in "the millions of dollars."

MORE OVERSIGHT

Moving forward, the board will play a greater role in ensuring the hospital
complies with Medicare rules and regulations, said Bob Wade, a compliance expert
hired by the Board of Commissioners as required by the corporate integrity
agreement.

Wade said he, along with the hospital's chief compliance officer George Rousis,
will have "unfettered access" to the board and can only be fired by a majority
vote of the board. Changes in compliance personnel would have to be reported to
the Office of Inspector General.

The hospital also had to hire an independent legal reviewer to examine physician
contracts. The Baltimore firm Ober Kaler will review 75 physician arrangements
at random every year during the five-year agreement to ensure compliance.

Board members and hospital staff also had to complete training sessions, and the
hospital will file annual reports with the inspector general.

"I am very impressed with where they are at this point," said Wade, an Indiana
health care attorney who was in town Friday for a training session. "People
appear to be very focused on issues raised in the past few years. They are
taking this extremely seriously."

As to what happens next, board members have declined comment because the lawsuit
has not been finalized. Hosseini is confident they will untangle the matter.

"They have a very good board," Hosseini said. "I am sure the board will make a
good decision."

With the exception of board member Glenn Ritchey, who has served since 2000,
none of the current board members were in their positions when the issues that
led to the whistleblower lawsuit first surfaced.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

