                              107 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                            January 21, 2007 Sunday
                                 Final Edition

Supervisor Voted on Issue in Which Friend Had Interest

BYLINE: David S. Fallis and Michael Laris, Washington Post Staff Writers

SECTION: A Section; A11

LENGTH: 616 words


County Supervisor Bruce E. Tulloch and Leesburg lawyer Douglas L. Fleming Jr.
are close friends.

"I love the guy like a brother," Tulloch (R-Potomac) said, adding that Fleming
had encouraged him to run for office in 2003. When Tulloch won, he asked
Fleming, a substitute judge in Loudoun's General District Court, to swear him
in.

Since 2003, they have co-owned a rental house in Surfside Beach, S.C., that
earns tens of thousands of dollars in annual income, records show.

And on several occasions, Tulloch's public role has overlapped with Fleming's
professional world.

Tulloch cast votes four times in favor of Loudoun Hospital Center, which had
hired Fleming for legal advice. Tulloch voted twice for its expansion and twice
to block a planned competitor.

Health-care giant HCA Inc. had proposed building a hospital five miles southwest
of the long-established Loudoun Hospital, now called Inova Loudoun. State
officials had determined that a second hospital was needed, but Inova Loudoun
and its advocates, including Fleming, sought to thwart the competition. Some
said that it might jeopardize the existing hospital.

Fleming, 49, was one of several attorneys the hospital has retained for legal
advice, a hospital spokesman said. Fleming's two-member firm worked on land-use
and policy matters, according to court documents filed in a related lawsuit in
2005. He was also hired to represent residents opposed to the new hospital,
records show.

"This is an ill-conceived, half-baked application, and it should be denied,"
Fleming argued on behalf of the residents at a 2004 Planning Commission meeting.

In an interview, Tulloch said he did not know Fleming had done legal work for
the hospital. "We don't talk about his clients," Tulloch said. "We don't talk
about my voting. . . . It's not that type of relationship."

Had he known, Tulloch said, he would have disclosed it, but still voted.

"We've never discussed Loudoun Hospital," he said, adding that Fleming had not
appeared before him on the board.

Tulloch's appointment schedule, obtained through a public records request, notes
a meeting with Fleming and two senior hospital officials on Feb. 23, 2005, two
weeks before Tulloch voted for a health plan that helped sink the proposal for a
competing hospital. The appointment notation refers to "LHC," or Loudoun
Hospital Center.

Tulloch did not respond to questions last week about the meeting.

Fleming also represented the Islamic Saudi Academy Inc. in a zoning matter in
2003 before county officials, records show. The Saudi Academy benefited when the
county purchased 101 acres of its land at Tulloch's behest in 2004. Tulloch said
he had no idea that Fleming had done legal work for the company.

Tulloch said he sees no conflicts between his relationship with Fleming and his
public decisions. Fleming declined to answer written questions about his
relationship with Tulloch.

Tulloch, 46, has said he needs to supplement his salary as a food service
manager with Sodexho and the $22,400 he earns as a part-time county official, so
he has explored business opportunities in the county. He said he considered
opening an ice cream shop and a pizza franchise but decided against it. He is
still looking into opening a Harley-Davidson dealership, he said.

"I will also look at other ventures if they present themselves where I can make
money," Tulloch said. "My strength is getting things done. . . . People
recognize that, they see value in that and they invest in that. That's the best
way to put it. I mean, there's nothing insidious here. . . . You know, there's
no linkage," he said.

"I'm the cleanest form of government you're ever going to find."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post


