                              119 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            April 19, 2014 Saturday

Texas doctors say hospital revoked their privileges over abortions

LENGTH: 716  words


Two Texas doctors who had been performing abortions for more than three decades
lost their legal ability to do so at the end of March when their new hospital
revoked their privileges.
This week, a judge temporarily reinstated their positions. But the doctors face
an April 30 court hearing to see if that temporary order will remain in place.


The abortion case, like many others in Texas at the moment, was sparked by
legislation passed last year that placed significant limits on who can perform
abortions and where.
A U.S. appeals court judge ruled March 27 that the law did not violate the U.S.
Constitution. Abortion advocates have asked the full U.S. 5th Circuit Court of
Appeals to review the decision, but the law stands in the meantime.
As a result of the restrictions, the number of abortion providers in the state
of 26 million has fallen to about 25 from nearly 50 a few years ago. Abortion
advocates expect five to 10 to be left by year's end if their legal challenges
fail.
The newest case stems from University General Hospital Dallas' decision to sever
its ties to Lamar Robinson and Jasbir Ahluwalia.
"It has come to our attention that you perform 'voluntary interruption of
pregnancies' as a regular part of your medical practice," the hospital wrote in
a letter to each doctor. "As a matter of policy, UGHD does not perform these
procedures due to the fact that obstetric procedures are not within UGHD's scope
of services and that UGHD does not have the capacity to treat complications that
may arise from voluntary interruption of pregnancies."
The decision was significant because HB2, the new abortion law, requires
abortion providers to have admitting privileges at a nearby hospital - within 30
miles of their clinic - in case a patient needs hospitalization because of
complications.
Robinson and Ahluwalia received access to the hospital this winter, but when
that privilege was revoked, they could no longer legally perform abortions.
"There is no legitimate non-discriminatory reason" for the revocation of their
privileges, attorneys for the doctors wrote in a lawsuit filed Thursday in
Dallas County Court. They argue that Texas law states that it's illegal for
hospitals to discriminate against physicians because they perform or don't
perform abortions.
The attorneys say the hospital "caved" into demands of protesters who had
threatened to picket outside the hospital if Robinson and Ahluwalia were not let
go. The hospital's revocation letters - which cited the disruption caused to its
business by talk of abortions - arrived the day before the threatened protest.

The hospital has yet to respond to the lawsuit with its own legal filing.
Hospital President Donald Sapaugh said officials would comply with the temporary
order until the hearing April 30.
"It's the policy of University General Hospital Dallas to provide high-quality
patient care and comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including
those that prohibit discrimination with respect to admitting-privileges," Spaugh
said. "The temporary restraining issued by the court was entered into without
the hospital or its counsel present in court to present its side of the case."
The lawsuit states that hospital's excuses for their termination were "inept."
The doctors' abortion patients would be unlikely to be transferred to UGHD in an
emergency because several hospitals are closer, according to the suit.
To those who say that the doctors should choose another hospital, the attorneys
said that sifting through different hospitals' eligibly criteria is
time-consuming and that in any event, hospitals have up to 170 days to respond
to an application.
The attorneys for the doctors have asked for quick action by the court, noting
that the patients caught in the middle of this are in "time-sensitive
situations."
The New York-based Center for Reproductive Rights is leading another challenge
to the admitting privileges requirement through a separate lawsuit in U.S.
District Court in Austin.
"It is the woman - not a hospital mired in political biases or politicians who
presume to know better - who should decide the best reproductive health care
choice for herself and her family," the center's Chief Executive Nancy Northup
said in a statement this week.
© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


