                              115 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                           October 13, 2016 Thursday
                                  Pune Mirror

Legal aid clinic to help the mentally deficient

BYLINE: Vijay Chavan

SECTION: CIVIC

LENGTH: 392 words


Facility introduced after several reports from mental hospitals of patients'
properties being seized by their family or local goons

With an increase in cases of relatives or local goons trying to seize the
properties of mentally deficient patients, the Pune District Legal Service
Authority (PDLSA) and the sessions court have extended legal aid to fight for
their rights, for which a dedicated clinic will begin operations from Tuesday.
After a spate of such cases reported from Yerwada mental hospital and other such
facilities, the authorities constituted a legal aid clinic to help the mentally
deficient patients. A team of two advocates, paralegal volunteers and doctors
would deal with these cases and ensure proper rehabilitation of the patients.

A team of lawyers will be made available at the legal aid clinic located at
Regional Mental Hospital, Yerwada. The clinic -- to be inaugurated by principal
district judge Prithviraj Chavan -- will operate on two days in a week during
the out-patient hours of the hospital.

Talking to Pune Mirror, R V Kokare, district judge and PDLSA secretary, said,
"They should also avail the rights that every citizen of this country is
guaranteed by the Constitution. We will be in touch with the mental hospital to
get details of these cases. The friends and relatives of such patients can also
approach us for help. Fighting civil suits for them till they are finally
rehabilitated will be conducted through the legal aid clinic. To deal with such
cases, a guardian will also be appointed. Those who are victims of land grabbing
will also be helped out through this initiative. We will cross-check the mental
health of these people to make their claim legally strong."

A magistrate will personally speak with such patients to verify their mental
health and refer the case to the doctor at the legal clinic. One of the
paralegal volunteers said, "There are several issues that the mentally deficient
face. Firstly, the issue of acceptability among the family of patients that have
been cured. Secondly, rehabilitation is also problem; we will be handling both."

? Fighting civil suits for them till they are finally rehabilitated will be
conducted through the legal aid clinic. To deal with cases, a guardian will also
be appointed

- R V KOKARE, DISTRICT JUDGE AND PDLSA SECRETARY

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


