                              117 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                 March 23, 2014

Legal action anticipated in St Vincent's/HSE row

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 577 words


The high-profile dispute between St Vincent's Hospital and the HSE over
consultants' work practices is expected to result in legal action.

Well-placed sources said the Dublin hospital was not backing down in advance of
the March 31 deadline the HSE had set for it to comply with public pay policy.

Instead, the hospital has written to the HSE stating it believed its doctors'
contracts entitle them to work in both St Vincent's public and private hospitals
. The hospital has told doctors it has received legal advice to this effect.

The HSE has publicly rejected the hospital's interpretation of the consultants'
contracts, although a number of hospital consultants are understood to have
received similar legal advice to the hospital.

The HSE has warned the hospital that some 60 doctors with type B contracts have
to stop working in the private hospital by March 31.

Approximately 60 hospital consultants with contracts that do not allow them to
treat private patients off-site have been working in St Vincent's Private
Hospital.

St Vincent's Healthcare Group (SVHG) believes that as the private hospital is
co-located with the public hospital and is under the same ownership, it is in a
unique position that means its consultants can work across both hospitals on the
same campus.

This issue took centre stage after it was raised by Fine Gael TD Simon Harris,
when senior managers and board members of the hospital appeared before the Dail
Public Accounts Committee (PAC).

In a previous statement issued to The Sunday Business Post, the HSE said it
became aware that type B consultants were working in the private hospital after
it carried out an audit of the implementation of the Consultant's Contract at a
sample of hospitals in 2010.

The HSE said these issues were ''raised in formal correspondence with the
hospital board.

The HSE said it informed the board that the practice ''was not in line with the
contract or with provisions of its Service Agreement with the HSE.

''In its response the Board confirmed the findings of the audit and stated that
only five consultants had been permitted to work in the Private Hospital and
only in exceptional circumstances, the HSE said.

The hospital subsequently sought a process to agree a methodology that would
allow all type B consultants to work in the private hospital.

The HSE said it held meetings, but that ''no agreement was reached that allowed
type B consultants to practise in the private hospital.

''SVHG participation in these processes serves as practical confirmation of
their understanding that existing arrangements do not permit type B consultants
to practise in the private hospital, the HSE said.

The chief executives of other hospitals have argued that St Vincent's has a
competitive advantage over other public hospitals as consultants are more
attracted to public hospitals that offer greater scope for private practice.

A number of consultants employed on type B contracts at the Mater Misericordiae
University Hospital are working in the Mater Private Hospital, which is under
separate ownership.

**The contract**

Under the terms of the 2008 hospital consultants' contract, newly appointed
consultants can get public-only contracts (type A) that prevent them from
treating and earning money from private patients, or contracts that allow them
to treat a small percentage of private patients (type B) in the public hospital
where they work. Type B consultants are not allowed to treat private patients
off-site.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


