                              121 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                            August 27, 2016 Saturday

Karachi faces acute shortage of lady MLOs

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 238

LENGTH: 395  words


The medico-legal department of Karachi is facing acute shortage of woman medico-
legal officers, which has put extra-burden on existing female staff, as most
families do not allow a male officer to perform the post-mortem of their
deceased female relatives. A senior medico-legal officer told PPI that the major
public sector healthcare of Karachi including Civil Hospital Karachi, Abbasi
Shaheed Hospital and Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Center have been facing acute
shortage of female medico-legal officers as several post are lying vacant while
strength of lady MLOs is also not being increased with passage of time.

He informed that there should be at least four lady MLOs in every hospital but
lady doctors are reluctant to join the department due to the poor law  and
order situation of the city. He said that non-availability of women medico-legal
officers has also become a big issue as most of families do not allow a male
officer to perform the post-mortem of their deceased female relatives while the
apex court had also imposed ban on male medico-legal officer to conduct
postmortems of deceased females.

He said there were four sanctioned posts of senior women medico-legal officers
in medico-legal department and out of them one post is lying vacant while three
posts of woman medico-legal officers are lying vacant out of total five
sanctioned posts. He said due to shortage of woman MLOs the families of women
victims have to wait several hours to get the corpses of females examined in
hospitals.

He urged the authorities concerned to appoint woman MLOs through Sindh public
service commission and also increase the strength of female MLOs in Medico-Legal
Department to decrease workload on existing staff. He said only five female MLOs
are available in the Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Center, Civil Hospital Karachi
and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital in three shifts. He said MLO's report containing the
cause of death, time of death, nature of death, and other details compiled in an
official form at the time of autopsy provides the basis for a court's case. When
contacted, newly appointed Police Surgeon Karachi, Dr Ejaz Ahmed Khokhar, said
formal request has been sent of high ups of health department for appointment of
woman medico-legal officers on vacant posts. He said there is acute shortage of
lady MLOs in night shifts in major hospitals of Karachi.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


