                              113 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                           September 1, 2007 Saturday

Family seeks aid to sue hospital for negligence

BYLINE: Zoe Mak and Lilian Goh

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 346 words


The family of a 63-year-old woman who died two months after surgery to remove
gallstones sought legal aid yesterday to sue Tseung Kwan O Hospital.

The family, which has accused the hospital of negligence, alleged that Chu
Mak-tai's intestine was perforated during the May 8 operation.

Shing Chi-man,  whose mother died in July, arrived at the Legal Aid Department's
offices in Admiralty yesterday accompanied by his father and legislator Andrew
Cheng Kar-foo.  Mr Shing said the family was not seeking financial compensation
and simply wanted the hospital to take responsibility for the death.

Mr Shing's mother underwent surgery to remove gallstones on May 8, but her
condition did not improve and she underwent a second operation in June. When her
condition continued to deteriorate, the family requested a transfer to another
hospital. Chu was eventually transferred to Queen Mary Hospital, where she died
on July 18.

Mr Shing said  that after the first operation, he was told by a doctor that his
mother's duodenum had been perforated.  But he was later notified by the
hospital that the damage was caused by the movement of the stent - an
expandable wire or perforated tube  -  placed in her bile duct, after the
operation.

"They [the hospital] must be hiding something," he  said.

Mr Shing said he was unable to sleep after the hospital informed him of his
mother's condition.

"My mother was having fevers every day after the surgery, but the hospital said
there was no problem," he said. "My family and relatives on the mainland were so
worried,  they took the train to come  [to Hong Kong] immediately."

Mr Shing said his  father, Shing Kwok-chik, was still mentally and physically
exhausted and distressed by the death. "My mother's death has had a big  impact
on my father. He had to quit his job and now just needs some rest."

Mr Shing  urged the hospital to take responsibility. "For now,  legal action
seems to be the only way  to resolve this matter."

A spokeswoman for the Legal Aid Department said the Shings' application would be
processed as soon as possible.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Credit: Robert Ng; Lawmaker Andrew Cheng (right), Shing Chi-man
(centre) and his father, Shing Kwok-chik, apply for legal aid in Admiralty
yesterday.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2007 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


