                              118 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Bangor Daily News (Maine)

                             July 16, 2009 Thursday
                                  All Editions

No changes at hospital despite legal notice

BYLINE: SHARON KILEY MACK OF THE NEWS STAFF

SECTION: Pg. B5

LENGTH: 292 words

DATELINE: MACHIAS


A legal notice concerning Down East Community Hospital that has appeared
recently in the Bangor Daily News reflects only the well-publicized changes at
the hospital over the past month and no further changes, officials said
Wednesday.

There have been no new decisions or changes concerning the hospital, officials
said Wednesday, adding that the legal notice was simply a state requirement.

The notice confirms that an original agreement between the Maine Department of
Health and Human Services and the hospital was rescinded on July 10, when the
hospital was placed in receivership.

It references the new deadline for installing corrective measures for
compliance, which is Sept. 30.

"It did have some odd wording," said Suzanne Spruce of Eastern Maine Healthcare
Systems, which took over management of the hospital after it was placed in
receivership last month.

The notice partly states: "Notice is hereby given that the provider agreement
between Down East Community Hospital, and the Secretary of the Department of
Health and Human Services ... effective July 10, 2009 has been rescinded.
Termination of this facility as a Critical Access Hospital under Medicare will
be effective midnight September 30, 2009. The Centers for Medicare & Medical
Services has determined that Down East Community Hospital has failed to maintain
compliance with Medicare requirements."

All of that information, Spruce noted, has been reported by the BDN and other
media outlets and the notice says nothing new.

"This is merely a legal announcement that the state was required to post once
the July 10 agreement was rescinded," Spruce said.

She said EMHS expects to have all corrective measures and plans in place before
the Sept. 30 deadline.

bdnpittsfield@myfairpoint.net

255-0618

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2009 Bangor Daily News


