                              114 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         The Gazette (Montreal, Quebec)

                  September 26, 1996, Thursday, FINAL EDITION

Superhospital plans on track: official

BYLINE: THE GAZETTE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 283 words


The big plan to merge four English-language city hospitals into a "super-
hospital" is moving forward and should become a legal reality by the end of the
year.

"It's on track," said Elizabeth Hirst, director of communications for the McGill
University Health Centre, which aims to put the Royal Victoria, the Montreal
General, the Montreal Children's and the Montreal Neurological hospitals under
the same roof.

This month, the interim board of the MUHC ratified a legal structure for the new
entity which would streamline services, cut costs and bring the hospitals into
the 21st century as one unit.

"We hope to have (the legal status) done by the end of the year," Hirst said in
an interview yesterday. "In the meantime, we're planning and integrating."

Gaining legal status would replace the four hospital boards with one unified
board and speed up integration of hospital services and administration.

A final report on the nuts and bolts of the proposed health centre will be
submitted to the provincial government in about one year and the MUHC is setting
its sights on a new building for 2004.

Health Minister Jean Rochon signed an agreement Tuesday that will set up a
future Centre Hospitalier de l'Universite de Montreal, grouping Hotel Dieu,
Notre Dame and St. Luc hospitals.

Although the legal merger of those hospitals will take effect by the end of the
month, the sharing of resources and dovetailing of services is expected to take
several years and create a structure for 1,200 short-term beds.

The proposed English-language superhospital - to be located downtown - would
house about 1,600 beds.

Hirst said the integration process is already under way.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1996 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


