                              122 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              May 13, 2011 Friday
                               N-j Final Edition

Bert Fish board pursuing lawsuit

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION C; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 513  words

DATELINE: EDGEWATER


EDGEWATER -- A West Palm Beach lawyer was chosen Thursday to recover what could
be millions in damages to the Southeast Volusia Hospital District from its
former lawyer's faulty legal advice that resulted in a failed hospital merger --
and legal bills that have already topped $1 million.

In a 4-2 vote, hospital district board members picked L. Louis Mrachek of the
firm Page Mrachek Trial Lawyers over a Jacksonville firm and four Volusia County
firms.

Mrachek, whose experience in legal malpractice was cited in the decision, was
chosen after a failed motion to give the work to Ted Doran, the Volusia County
School Board's attorney and former Ponce Inlet mayor. "I was very impressed with
his presentation," said the Rev. John Marsh, an Edgewater hospital district
board member who made the motion to hire Mrachek.

The Southeast Volusia Hospital District's legal woes started after it merged the
hospital it oversees, public Bert Fish Medical Center, with nonprofit Adventist
Health System last May 27.

The Bert Fish Foundation, the philanthropic organization that originally built
the hospital and gave it to the district, sued shortly after to void the sale
because the lease-sale agreement was reached during meetings illegally closed to
the public.

In a five-day trial in circuit court in February, the hospital district's
longtime lawyer Jim Heekin admitted on the stand it was his advice to close
those merger meetings and that the district could have a malpractice claim
against him because of that advice.

Circuit Judge Richard Graham voided the sale on Feb. 24 and ordered a plan to
return Bert Fish back to its public ownership. The target date is June 30.

Attorney Jon Kaney, representing the Bert Fish Foundation, said he was glad to
hear of the board's choice Thursday.

I think that Mrachek is well qualified I think that's a good choice," Kaney
said. "The local resumes didn't show the kind of background experience that the
Terrell firm (in Jacksonville) and the Mrachek firm showed."

The district, overseen by a governor-appointed board, levies taxes on property
owners in Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak Hill and a portion of Port Orange to
support indigent health care at the New Smyrna Beach hospital. But legal bills,
already at $1.5 million, threaten the district's ability to pay for that care.

And that's before the district pays its portion of the legal fees that Judge
Graham is expected to award the Bert Fish Foundation.

The district also heard from its consultant Thursday that the hospital's letter
of credit is not in immediate jeopardy as had been feared. Bank of America holds
$12 million in hospital debt. Hospital officials feared the bank would call in
the debt and sought the merger, in part, because Adventist Health would
guarantee the debt.

But Michael Bowers, senior vice president of the Community Hospital Corporation,
which is overseeing the return of Bert Fish from Adventist, said Bank of America
recently offered more favorable terms -- and other banks were interested in
providing a letter of credit, too.

It's very positive news," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


