                              120 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                            January 17, 2014 Friday
                                 Mumbai Mirror

Hospital charges hit-&-run victims Rs 1,000 for filing police case

BYLINE: Aditya Anand

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 303 words


Two sisters, injured in a hit-andrun incident at Thane on Tuesday, have alleged
that a local hospital billed them Rs 1,000 as 'Medical Legal Charges', for a
police complaint they were made to lodge.

At 10:30 pm on Tuesday, Richa Verma, 22, and Sonia, 18, were crossing Pokhran
Road No 2 when a biker knocked them down and fell himself. While Richa, suffered
deep cuts on her head and was bleeding, Sonia was bruised on her leg. "The biker
got up and fled," said Richa.

After passersby hailed an autorickshaw, the sisters went to the nearby Bethany
Hospital, where Richa received nine stitches for the cuts on her head.

Their father Pawan Verma later told Mirror, "The hospital staff asked me to
lodge a police complaint, which I personally did at Vartak Nagar Police
Station."

According to Verma, police said they would visit the hospital to record
statements. "We waited 45 minutes, but nobody came. A friend then went to the
police station and brought a constable to the hospital. He recorded my
daughters' statements and left saying nothing could be done as the vehicle was
not seen. So, the statement was just a formality," he said.

To Verma's surprise, however, the hospital billed him Rs 1,000 as 'Medical Legal
Charges', and issued two receipts of Rs 500 each. Verma said that while he
normally would not have pursued the case, having to pay such a charge when it
was he who went to the police station is what disturbs him. "Curbing such
demands for cash is needed," he said.

Dr Lalit Kapoor, a medico-legal expert, told Mirror, "Charging a patient for a
medico-legal case is unusual. Hospitals do not normally charge under this
heading."

When Mirror contacted the hospital administration, officials sought time to
reply to queries. The billing section staff, however, said it was a policy to
levy medical legal charges.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2014 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


