                              130 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                 March 5, 2012

Hospitals try new tack: Refer injured patients to attorneys

BYLINE: By Alicia Gallegos, amednews staff. Posted March 5, 2012.

SECTION: PROFESSION Vol. 55 No. 10

LENGTH: 1246 words



HIGHLIGHT: Maryland hospitals that offer such referrals say patients save time
and expense. Skeptics caution about potential conflicts of interest and
physicians facing added liability risk.


MedStar Health, one of the largest health care systems in Maryland, prides
itself on being proactive when faced with accusations of medical negligence.

MedStar says it discusses with patients what happened during treatment, works
toward a resolution and, when appropriate, proposes a settlement. But if
patients decline to settle, the health system takes an unlikely next step: It
offers them the name and number of a lawyer.

Providing such referrals can resolve cases more quickly and keep complaints from
turning into long legal nightmares, MedStar officials say. The strategy also
saves health professionals and patients legal expenses. The vetted attorneys
agree to take patients' cases at a reduced rate.

"If the injury and the financial consequences of that injury are significant, we
are much more comfortable knowing that the patient and their family have
received independent outside legal counsel to help them make their decisions
regarding resolution," MedStar said in a statement. "To this end, we have
identified a small number of very seasoned, highly respected lawyers in the
community who have impeccable reputations for being fair and honest."

Other health systems in Maryland also are referring patients to lawyers after a
patient is injured. MedStar Health, LifeBridge Health and the University of
Maryland Medical System -- which collectively run about two dozen hospitals --
have used the strategy. The idea is drawing praise and skepticism as a way to
deal with potential medical liability.

Hospitals say the practice is good for patients, who often are unfamiliar with
the legal system and want compensation for their injuries as soon as possible.
But legal experts question whether patients are being misled by hospitals. They
also wonder if attorneys on the list may have conflicts of interest and if
doctors caught in the middle may end up paying a hefty legal cost.

"As a patient, why would you want that referral?" asked Karen M. McGovern, a
Colorado medical liability defense attorney and a nurse for more than 20 years.
"There's a reason these attorneys are being referred by the hospital. What I
suspect is that this is an attorney who doesn't push the cases to trial and
settles for lower amounts. Is that attorney going to make up the difference by
going after the doctor?"

A quick resolution?

MedStar has kept a list of attorney referrals for patients since 2005, said Jean
M. Hitchcock, a MedStar spokeswoman. The health system developed the list by
contacting about 25 attorneys in the community that the hospital had worked with
or knew to be highly respected.

The system does not keep track of how often the list is used. Hitchcock said
patients accept the hospitals' attorney recommendations "infrequently."

LifeBridge Health, a multihospital health system in Baltimore, does not keep a
formal directory like MedStar. Instead, it occasionally calls attorneys for
plaintiffs during legal negotiations with patients and families, said Teri
Kaufman Leonovich, associate general counsel for LifeBridge Health.

"A lot of times, in discussions with patients, they start asking you [for legal
advice] as if you're a friend or colleague," Leonovich said. "You get into an
ethical bind. Frankly, I've had family members or patients where I've said, 'I
can't give you legal advice,' and their response has been, 'And I can't afford
an attorney.' "

In such instances, Leonovich asks lawyers if they will represent the patient at
a lower fee.

"Plaintiffs' attorneys have been very responsive and happy and willing to work
with families," she said. "We have the same goal in trying to do right by
people. The only thing we need to really do is come to an agreement as to what
fair compensation is."

The attorney-referral idea could save legal costs for patients, hospitals and
health professionals, said S. Allan Adelman, a Maryland attorney and past
president of the American Health Lawyers Assn. But the move is risky, he added.
For instance, a patient could sue the lawyer after a resolution is reached,
alleging that the attorney was beholden to the hospital and did not fairly
represent the patient's interests.

"The patient could come back and file a claim against the attorney, saying he
sold them down the river because of a conflict of interest," Adelman said.

Susan A. Dennehy, a New York plaintiff attorney, questions whether patients
would be served by accepting a hospital's attorney referral. "The concern would
be if the patient didn't fully understand the extent of their injuries," she
said. "Attorneys are not allowed to solicit clients, and it seems as if the
hospital is kind of working with the plaintiffs' attorney to resolve the case in
a way that's unorthodox."

The strategy is a reasonable approach to resolving medical liability claims,
said Matthew Rice, MD, a Seattle emergency physician and attorney. He said
injured patients often turn to the legal system when they feel ignored by
medical staff. The attorney-referral strategy focuses on walking patients
through the situation and, if necessary, connecting them with the legal guidance
they deserve, he said.

"I can understand the patient or patient's family being reluctant" to accept the
help, Dr. Rice said. "A [sentinel] event suggests there's going to be difficult
feelings and frustration. By the same token, often patients are very trustful of
medicine and hospitals. They're looking for answers."

He knows that many doctors fear litigation. The majority of physicians probably
would be skeptical of an employer recommending an attorney to a patient who is
accusing the doctor of negligence. But doctors should consider the bigger
picture, he said.

"If you look at the way the medical malpractice system has traditionally worked,
it's a very adversarial approach," Dr. Rice said. "We need to be more creative
and constructive in how we resolve these disputes and find better ways of
getting these issues resolved, so we can go back to focusing on how to provide
health care to the many people who need it."

Idea could hurt doctors

McGovern, the Colorado defense attorney, worries that hospital-based doctors are
at risk for costlier lawsuits if patients accept the hospitals' attorney
referrals.

"If [an attorney] is taking the case at a reduced fee, then the attorney is
going to be looking to recoup the money that he could have made and looking to
get his clients the money he thinks they deserve," she said. "I think he would
go after the doctor. You go after the deepest pockets."

Maryland attorney Brian Nash doesn't see anything wrong with the health systems'
legal approach. He has represented plaintiffs and doctors in medical liability
cases and has been referred through MedStar's lawyer list.

"The lawyers may make less, as does the cottage industry associated with
litigation, but it truly is a loss that is well worth the price to get these
matters resolved fairly, economically and timely," Nash said in an email. "It is
perhaps a form of tort reform that works for not only the health care industry
but, more importantly, for the injured patients and families."

The Maryland State Medical Assn. does not see the attorney-referral idea as a
practical tort reform solution, said Gene M. Ransom, CEO of the medical
association.

"We have not had good experiences with trial attorneys, and we believe many of
the cases that are brought are questionable at best," Ransom said. "We're not
going to work with lawyers until they want to work on real reform. I'm not
holding my breath."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

