                              131 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           January 27, 1999 Wednesday

Olivieri reinstated in Sick Kids truce  Hospitals pays her $150,000 legal bill,
withdraws all complaints

BYLINE: KRISTA FOSS and PAUL TAYLOR The Globe and Mail

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS; Pg. A1

LENGTH: 893 words

DATELINE: Toronto


Dr. Nancy Olivieri has her job back today -- and even better, some vindication.

The Hospital for Sick Children and the University of Toronto have signed a deal
with Dr. Olivieri, who has been at the heart of a bitter drug-research
controversy for more than two years, that pays her legal fees and withdraws any
complaints against her.

The deal also lets her walk across the street to Toronto Hospital, taking with
her responsibility for a world-renowned blood-disorders program and her
leading-edge research.

The agreement was announced only 19 days after the Hospital for Sick Children
announced that it was removing Dr. Olivieri as head of the hospital's
hemoglobinopathy program for "personnel" reasons, including her insistence that
she bring a lawyer to routine operational meetings.

Dr. Olivieri's research into an experimental drug for patients with a rare blood
disorder was sponsored by the drug firm Apotex Inc. When she attempted to
publicize results showing that deferiprone was not as effective as predicted,
the drug firm threatened her with legal action to enforce a confidentiality
agreement she had signed.

In a battle waged for more than two years, Dr. Olivieri charged that neither the
Hospital for Sick Children nor the University of Toronto properly supported her,
either legally or morally, in her dispute with Apotex.

But today, Dr. Olivieri is celebrating a reversal of fortune, thanks to the
intervention of two international heroes of blood research, Oxford University's
Sir David Weatherall and Harvard University's Dr. David Nathan, and the
late-night brokering of University of Toronto president Robert Prichard.
    They said they came to her aid largely because they respect her
ground-breaking research in blood disorders. And they worried that if the
dispute between the hospital and Dr. Olivieri were not resolved, it would
cripple the program -- and valuable research opportunities would be lost.

"It was very important that the university help Dr. Olivieri and the hospital
find common ground and the courage to seize it," Mr. Prichard said in an
interview yesterday, "so Dr. Olivieri could continue her very important work and
the hospital would remain the magnificent institution that it is."

A 16-point resolution, crafted by Mr. Prichard and signed by Dr. Olivieri and
Michael Strofolino, chief executive officer of the Hospital for Sick Children,
in the wee hours of yesterday morning, essentially allows Dr. Olivieri to take
her office, her research and her responsibilities as head of the pediatric
hemoglobinopathy program and move them across the street to Toronto Hospital,
where she is director of the same program for adults.

As part of the agreement, the hospital will pay Dr. Olivieri $150,000 for her
legal expenses and be responsible for any future legal costs due to the drug
controversy.

What's more, the hospital has agreed to "clean the slate" by withdrawing all
letters and written complaints about Dr. Olivieri that piled up as the
escalating controversy caused internal rancour at the hospital. The hospital
will further reinstate the right of Dr. Olivieri and her supporters to use
hospital E-mail freely and talk to the media.

"I'm personally thrilled," Dr. Olivieri said yesterday. She credited Mr.
Prichard for "working his magic" to arrive at the agreement.

Yet despite the concessions, the hospital's administrators still insist the
agreement with Dr. Olivieri in no way signalled that they have accepted blame
for their role in the controversy.

"The spirit in which this was all conducted is that we would avoid blame and
finger-pointing," Dr. Alan Goldbloom, the hospital's vice-president of academic
and clinical development, said yesterday.

Both Dr. Nathan and Sir David arrived in Toronto on Sunday evening to brief Mr.
Prichard on some of the scientific issues at stake in the dispute between Dr.
Olivieri and the hospital -- and to stress the importance of the
hemoglobinopathy program at the children's hospital to international research.

On Monday, both scientists were involved in a marathon session of negotiations
involving the hospital, Dr. Olivieri, her supporters and a beehive of lawyers.

"I have the highest admiration for the Hospital for Sick Children and the
University of Toronto medical school," Dr. Nathan said from Boston yesterday.
"They are among the greatest institutions in the world, and they do great things
when they are not distracted . . . and we want them to continue to do so."

While the agreement looks like vindication for Dr. Olivieri, it does nothing to
address the issue of how large institutions oversee and protect researchers in
an era when the largest portion of research funding comes from the
pharmaceutical industry, whose commercial aspirations depend on that research.

Yesterday, the hospital asserted it will continue with a planned review of its
policies and procedures governing clinical trials.

TERMS OF THE DEAL

Dr. Nancy Olivieri will move to Toronto Hospital from the Hospital for Sick
Children (HSC).

She will run both hospitals' hemoglobinopathy programs.

HSC will withdraw all letters of discipline and complaint against her and key
supporters.

HSC will pay legal and other expenses incurred in the dispute -- up to a maximum
of $150,000.

She will get a paid "mini-sabbatical" of six weeks as soon as possible and
another of 12 months within the next three years.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1999 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


