                              124 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            August 10, 2017 Thursday
                               Australian Edition

Hospital builders have minister in their sights

BYLINE: MICHAEL OWEN

SECTION: THENATION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 486  words


Builders of the $2.3 billion new Royal Adelaide Hospital have launched legal
action in the Federa-l Court over the troubled project, just weeks before its
scheduled opening.

The legal claim - foreshadowed by The Australian in May - has been lodged in NSW
by Hansen- Yuncken and CPB Contractors- (formerly Leighton Contractors), which
were jointly involved in the construction of the hospital as part of a larger
consortium.

Their claim is against consortium Celsus (formerly SA Health Partnerships), the
South Australian government, Health Minister Jack Snelling and Donald Cant Watts
Corke, an independ-ent certifier engaged to determine blame for alleged faults
in the hospital's construction that has delayed its completion and opening. The
hospital, due to open on September 5, is 17 months overdue and $640 million over
budget.

SA Health Partnerships had previously launched legal action against the
Weatherill government after it rejected a so-called cure plan to fix alleged
defects in the build, but this was settled out of court.

Yesterday, Mr Snelling told parliament the government "remains- entirely
confident in its legal position and the protections afforded to it by the
contract" over the $180m legal claim.

"It is worth noting that, to date, over 20 extensions of time have been
submitted by the builder," he said. "This is, I think it would be fair to say,
the last gasp by the builder, and we are very, very -confident with our legal
position. It is important to note in the taking of action against anyone who is
-involved in the project, including the consortium Celsus (who were formerly
known as SAHP), and indeed the independent certifier whose job it was to provide
advice to the government, that the hospital met all the contract-ual
-requirements." Mr Snelling said the government became aware of the "pretty
speculative legal action" late last week and it was "not terribly -surprising".

"The builder has taken a signif-icant hit through liquidated damages because of
the delay in the delivery of the new RAH and that has flowed through to the
state taxpayers in terms of -roughly $400m in service payments that have not
been paid to Celsus, so that is the total amount off the price," he said.

The opposition said it believed a flawed electronic records system- being rolled
out across South Australia's public hospitals was part of the Federal Court case
against the government.

"Jack Snelling needs to be upfron-t with South Australians about the nature of
the legal disput-e and the potential financial impact upon taxpayers,"
oppositi-on health spokesman Stephen Wade said.

"The reason why the Labor government entered a public--private partnership for
the RAH was to protect taxpayers from cost blowouts, but all we seem to have
achieved is a legal quagmire." Mr Snelling said that the legal -action would not
affect the hospital's opening date.Hansen Yuncken and Celsus declined to
comment.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: The Australian


                   Copyright 2017 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


