                              127 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           February 9, 2011 Wednesday
                                 Mersey Edition

Path clear to buildnew pounds 451m Royal hospital

BYLINE: Liza Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 650 words


ROYAL Liverpool hospital bosses expressed their "delight" last night, after a
legal challenge threatening the pounds 451m rebuild project was withdrawn.

They confirmed the path was now clear for the new hospital to be built.

Campaign group Keep Our NHS Public (KONP) was due to drag Royal Hospital bosses
and the Department of Health into the High Court later this week.

But the group has now dropped the case.

KONP were against the use of PFI cash for the build, which members said would
leave the region with crippling debts that could impact on future health
services.

Tony Bell, chief executive at the Royal, said: "We are absolutely delighted to
hear that this legal challenge is now over.

"We are sure that the people of Merseyside, who have given so much support to
the new Royal, will be pleased to hear this news.

"We can now press ahead with the exciting task of working with our three bidders
to create a world-class hospital for the people of this city.

"We can also continue with our plans for the Liverpool BioCampus, which will
attract significant investment and development opportunities for the whole
city."

The hospital will narrow the list of bidders set to build the hospital down to
two in the coming months.

WHAT Visit our www.post.co.your say Liverpool City Council leader Joe Anderson
said: "It is fantastic news. Now we can get on with building a hospital that is
fit for purpose, creating jobs and apprenticeships."

At the end of January, leading campaigner Sam Semoff was told legal aid for his
case was being withdrawn by the Legal Services Commission.

As a result, he has withdrawn the action.

The High Court hearing, scheduled for Friday, was itself an appeal after Semoff
's initial application for a Judicial Review was thrown out. And it is the
second time he has applied for a Judicial Review, in a saga that has run for two
years.

The total legal bill for the challenges is estimated to be well into six
figures. Health chiefs also predict each month the hospital has been delayed
will add pounds 1m to its final bill.

KONP claimed the PFI scheme would cost at least pounds 1.24bn over 34 years,
while public finance would cost pounds 730m.

online you think? But health chiefs insisted these figures were not accurate.A
website at liverpooldaily uk and have statement from KONP said: "Sam Semoff has
principles but very little money. "Very reluctantly, on legal advice, he has
withdrawn his case.

"The campaign group, Keep Our NHS Public Merseyside, congratulates Sam on his
magnificent battle.

"Paying for PFI will be top priority, coming before clinical need.

"Money will flow from the NHS to banks and private investors.

"The excess debt will force cuts in NHS services across Merseyside for the next
generation, pushing patients towards private healthcare. That will be the legacy
of Trust directors, the Dept of Health, and all those who took their side.

"The public deserve better. Our voices must be heard. It''s our NHS."

Mr Semoff said: Now that the scheme's current costs are known, I call on Trust
directors to formally request the Government to allow public finance for
Liverpool's new hospital.

Liverpool Riverside Labour MP Louise Ellman also welcomed the dropping of the
court action last night, saying it was a great day for the people of Liverpool,
who urgently needed a new Royal.

She added: I''m delighted with this news. This is the right decision and means
we can now go ahead with our new top-class hospital, together with the Bio
Campus development.

These projects will bring thousands of much-needed jobs at a time of rising
unemployment. It will also mean excellent health facilities for our people." The
hospital estimates the court process has put the build back by around six
months.

Building work is now expected to start in November, 2012, with a finished
hospital expected in late 2016.

¦ OPINION: Page 15

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Campaigner Sam Semoff - has dropped his legal case over the new Royal
Picture: JASON ROBERTS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2011 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


