                              123 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                             Corporate Legal Times

                                  March, 1995

What the Doctor Ordered: Health Care Mergers;
In-House Departments, General Counsel Race to Keep Up With Consolidation and
Growth

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2370 words

BY DICK DAHL

IT WASN'T that many years ago that Detroit hospital attorney Robert A. Mitchell
was still likening his primary function to that of traffic control. Hospitals,
like other purveyors of medical care, were almost a cottage industry, only the
biggest had in-house legal capabilities, and those lawyers' primary task was to
funnel legal work to appropriate law firms.

Mitchell joined Henry Ford Hospital to form a then-sizeable, two-lawyer staff 19
years ago. Next year, Mitchell plans to retire from his position as system vice
president, legal and insurance, and general counsel at the hospital's
descendant, the Henry Ford Health System, an entity that has grown to include
four hospitals, 25 clinics, a group practice of 900 doctors and its own HMO with
425,000 subscribers.

How has his job changed?

"Back then, hospital attorneys were primarily conduits," he says. "Now, we're no
longer a conduit. We handle 80 to 85 percent of our work inside.

"We're a system now, more than a hospital. We own nursing homes, pharmacies. We
have our own laundry. We even have a golf course!"

The golf course was a gift to the health system, and it includes adjoining
residential property, which means that besides all the other areas in which
Mitchell's eight-lawyer staff conduct their business, they have a real-estate
function now, too.

Clearly, health care's days as a cottage industry are over. Everywhere across
the United States, the dance is the same: Hospitals, doctors, insurers,
pharmaceutical companies and HMOs are courting one another and forming large and
ever larger "integrated delivery systems" for purposes of cutting costs and
achieving efficiencies designed to provide themselves a competitive edge in the
frenzied New World Order of health care.

In parallel fashion, in-house legal departments might be declining in number,
but they're growing in size and sophistication.

"The type and variety of legal issues facing the health care industry and the
delivery systems cover an incredible breadth," says Douglas J. Hammer, vice
president and general counsel for Intermountain Health Care Inc. of Salt Lake
City. Hammer also is president of the Chicago-based American Academy of Hospital
Attorneys and is chair of its In-House Committee.

His own employer, IHC, started as a single hospital, but today is a $1.2-billion
corporation which operates 24 hospitals in three states, owns its own insurance
arm, employs some 200 doctors, and operates a variety of managed care programs
covering 500,000 members, the largest such system in Utah.

His legal department has expanded to six lawyers and one government-relations
specialist. Not only does Hammer's office maintain a lobbying presence in Salt
Lake City; they also retain a law firm in Washington, D.C.

When he came to IHC in 1977, Hammer says, it was only a hospital company and the
legal department's tasks were neatly segmented into such areas as patient care
and professional liability. The department's work expanded greatly in 1984 when
IHC added its insurance arm, Intermountain Community Health Plan, and has
continually grown into new areas of law along with its expansion. Currently, for
instance, Hammer says that his office, like others in the health care industry,
is preparing for an increase in "excluded provider" claims from physicians or
hospitals who feel they've been unjustly left out of a system and file antitrust
suits.

"We've already seen a number of those claims around the country," he says, "and
we're going to continue to see a steady diet of them."

Antitrust Safety Zones

As the health care industry continues to consolidate into fewer large players,
federal and state antitrust regulations become of greater concern to in-house
lawyers.

"When I first got involved in health care, you just didn't hear of it," says
Nancy A. Wynstra, who joined the legal department at Allegheny General Hospital
in Pittsburgh 12 years ago. "But now, with the wave of joint ventures and
mergers and acquisitions in the last three or four years, it has become a much
bigger issue in health care. And it will continue. I think everyone's aware that
there are some things they can't do because of antitrust concerns.

In September 1993, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice
took the unusual step of issuing enforcement policy statements expressly related
to the health care industry and how those agencies would henceforth be enforcing
antitrust laws.

"To my knowledge," says Kevin E. Grady, an antitrust lawyer with Alston & Bird
in Atlanta, "these are the only policy statements that have been issued for a
particular industry."

Then, last September, the two agencies issued additional statements designed to
clarify and expand their health care antitrust enforcement policies. Most of the
policy statements establish "antitrust safety zones" which describe the specific
circumstances under which federal regulators will not challenge collaborators'
activities. For example, the two agencies state that they will not bring
antitrust action in the following instances:

*   Hospital mergers where one hospital has fewer than 100 beds, fewer than 40
patients a day and is more than five years old.

*   Joint ventures among hospitals to purchase expensive health care equipment
when they involve only the number of hospitals necessary to support the
equipment.

*   Exclusive physician network joint ventures -- those that restrict the
ability of a doctor to join another venture or to contract individually with
health insurance plans -- as long as the physicians share "substantial"
financial risk and the venture comprises 20 percent or fewer of the physicians
in each specialty in a geographic market.

Grady says that federal regulators have been rather lenient in their reaction to
two recent and growing trends: purchasing alliances in which a large delivery
system arranges to buy products -- such as pharmaceuticals -- from a provider in
exchange for reduced costs and heightened merger activity by physician groups.

And like Hammer, Grady predicts an increase in excluded provider claims by
people and institutions who are left out when the alliances, systems and
networks are formed.

"The groups that are forming early and first have a leg up," he says.

Furthermore, this belief is shared by many and is causing some unaffiliated
health care providers to panic, according to Grady.

"People are hustling, but they're doing it from a defensive standpoint, instead
of a proactive one. You don't just want to jump on the bandwagon because
everyone's doing it. It's important that you not just react, but have a game
plan for why you're doing it."

The process of consolidation holds a pivotal role for in-house legal
departments. In Pittsburgh, the Allegheny General Hospital has grown from a
single institution to the Allegheny Health, Education and Research Foundation
(aherf), a parent corporation for a health care system with 2,000 beds, 18,000
employees, and a $1.5-billion annual budget, or more than three times the size
of the hospital from which it originated. Wynstra, now an executive vice
president and general counsel for aherf, says that her department performs
extensive research and analysis on any prospective addition to the system.

"When we go in to evaluate bringing another entity into the system, we look at
the most efficient way of doing it," she says. "A lot of times there are layoffs
and people aren't happy about it, and oftentimes, unhappy people sue."

And then, of course, there is the matter of merging the legal departments
themselves. Often, small hospitals have no in-house department, but when there
is a genuine office of the general counsel, the first step in examining it, she
says, is conducting a comprehensive due diligence process.

"Then we look at the size of the department, the backgrounds of the lawyers and
how they might fit in. Someone in the office has to have the title of general
counsel. Often, other general counsel are not very keen on coming into a
position where they won't be the top person in charge of the legal department.
Here, our philosophy is that there is one general counsel, and that general
counsel is me."

Wynstra came to Allegheny General to create the legal department in 1983. By
1986, the staff had grown to four lawyers. Today, it numbers 14: seven,
including Wynstra, in Pittsburgh and seven in Philadelphia.

Some matters are handled systemwide, but each office also maintains its own
separate geographic responsibilities, Wynstra says. They usually ship out
litigation as well as the more complicated antitrust cases. But Wynstra tries to
keep as much of the antitrust work in-house as possible.

Generally, says Wynstra, any health care provider is safe if it comprises less
than one-third of a geographic market. Allegheny hasn't experienced any
significant antitrust problems, she says.

M&A The Likes Of Venture Capitalists

But there are larger health care entities, giants like Columbia/HCA Healthcare
Corp., the world's largest hospital chain, that have felt the antitrust sting.

Stephen T. Braun, senior vice president and general counsel for Columbia/HCA,
says that his company is planning to divest itself of five hospitals and one
surgery center. At this time, the company numbers some 200 hospitals and 125
outpatient facilities, most of them surgery centers. And with the merger of
Nashville-based HealthTrust Inc. with Columbia/HCA in a stock-swap transaction
to be effective by the end of the first quarter, the numbers will rise to about
310 hospitals and 60,000 licensed beds in 37 states and two foreign countries.
The company has stated that this colossal consolidation will result in savings
of $125 million.

Even prior to the HealthTrust purchase, Columbia/HCA was estimated to be
operating more than half of the private hospital beds in the United States. But
to place that fact into a more limited perspective, only 14 percent of the
hospital beds in the country are in private, tax-paying institutions. The others
are in non-profit hospitals.

Perhaps equally colossal is the growth of the company's legal department. Braun
came to Columbia/HCA from private practice in health care mergers and
acquisitions for Doherty, Rumble & Butler, Minneapolis, to open the legal office
in October 1991. Currently, his staff includes 22 lawyers and it plans to expand
again upon moving to a new office in Nashville this spring.

Braun divides his group into three areas: litigation and litigation management;
development, which focuses on acquisitions and joint ventures and is considering
switching its role to one more of oversight; and operations.

The numbers that roll off Braun's tongue are daunting.

"At any one time, we have at least 25 transactions under way, and by that I mean
legitimate transactions that have a chance of closing. Actually, that's very
conservative. It's more like 50," he says.

The legal work involving acquisitions "typically is handled by myself and a
couple of other lawyers. If it's over $1 billion, we'll send it out. But if it's
$1 billion or less, we're inclined to do it internally."

When Columbia/HCA makes its intentions known about moving into an area, a
typical reaction of existing providers is to form defensive alliances, as four
Chicago-area Catholic hospitals did in late 1994. Columbia/HCA secured three
letters of intent from Chicago-area hospitals in 1994, LaGrange Community
Hospital, Osteopathic Hospital and Olympia Fields Osteopathic Hospital and
Medical Center. Columbia/HCA President Richard Scott announced that his company
intended to buy more hospitals in the area in coming years.

Such defensive alliances also are occurring in many parts of Florida, where
Columbia/HCA already owns 25 percent of the state's hospitals.

In other parts of the country, doctors themselves are getting into the
consolidation act in a proactive way. Traditionally, doctors have been
unorganized, but "economics are causing physicians to get together and form
groups," says John M. Wray, vice president and general counsel for Mullikin
Medical Centers, based in Long Beach, Calif. A for-profit group of more than 300
doctors, Mullikin subcontracts with HMOs to provide medical care for set prices.

Wray says that in the two years since he joined Mullikin, the shift in the scope
of his department, now numbering two other lawyers, has been obvious. There's
been plenty of merger and acquisition work as the system has grown to encompass
50 clinics and increased contract work with HMOs.


Questionable Future

As delivery systems of all types grow ever larger, health care lawyers say, the
emphasis on cost-reducing standardization will probably bring new kinds of
lawsuits for in-house lawyers.

"You're going to see more medical malpractice litigation by participants in a
plan because they're denied service on the basis that it's too expensive," says
Grady. "That is, that the denial is based on financial needs as opposed to the
patient's interests."

In-house lawyers are facing the need now to spell out what their systems'
standard procedures will be for specific maladies.

"Increasingly in health care, we're trying to come up with protocols that,
unless there's a reason for an exception, you ought to treat a patient this
way," says Gail P. Heagen, general counsel for Sentara Health System, a Norfolk,
Va., system that includes four hospitals, two HMOs, an insurance company and
several nursing homes.

aherf's Wynstra says that quality review and clinical practice guidelines are
growing in importance for all medical delivery systems and their in-house legal
staffs now that the profit motive of performing that extra test is evaporating.
"I think we'll see some very interesting litigation focusing on the use of
clinical practice guidelines," she says.

Other in-house lawyers take a different view, however. Wray, of the doctor-owned
Mullikin system, maintains that medical malpractice lawsuits will not increase
under the set-fee systems.

"There's a greater emphasis on prevention now," he says. "If anything, I think,
there should be a tendency to reduce them."

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Photo, "When we go in to evaluate bringing another entity into the
system, we look at the most efficient way of doing it," says Nancy A. Wynstra,
executive vice president and general counsel of Allegheny Health, Education and
Research Foundation, Pittsburgh. "A lot of times there are layoffs and people
aren't happy about it, and oftentimes, unhappy people sue."; Photo By john
heller

                Copyright 1995 Corporate Legal Times Corporation


