                              126 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                            August 16, 2001, Friday

WE'LL FIGHT ON FOR OUR FATHER;
 HOSPITAL'S BID TO BLOCK LEGAL AID

BYLINE: Liz Hull

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 356 words


A LIVERPOOL hospital has threatened to apply for legal aid to be withdrawn from
a family claiming compensation following the death of their father.

Today the family branded hospital bosses "callous" for trying to force them to
drop the case.

John Hall, 74, of Breck Road, Everton, was admitted to the Royal University
hospital in July 1997. It took doctors 19 days to diagnose that bones at the top
of his neck were pressing on his spinal cord, paralysing him from the neck down.

By then it was too late to operate because Mr Hall had contracted septicemia and
pneumonia and he died two days later.

Soon after Mr Hall's death his daughters, Evelyn Loftus and Patricia Bell,
decided to sue the hospital for negligence.

Although they accept their father may not have survived surgery if an earlier
diagnosis had been made, the sisters claim their father went through
excruciating pain and suffering because of the delay.

They also claim the former railwayman was moved into a storeroom overnight
because his cries of pain were keeping other patients awake.

The sisters want the hospital to admit responsibility and are seeking pounds
2,500 compensation.

Evelyn, 54, of Sceptre Road, Croxteth, said: "I'm absolutely disgusted. This
matter is not about money, it is about the hospital taking responsibility for
the pain and suffering my father endured at the hands of the medical and nursing
staff."

Solicitor Helen Barry, who is representing the family, said: "The hospital are
not prepared to make any settlement out of court but because the costs of the
case would exceed the amount of damages, the Legal Aid Board could decide to
discharge it.

"This is a real shame because our evidence shows that Mr Hall went through
excruciating pain and discomfort."

In a letter to Ms Barry, hospital solicitors call on the family to drop the
case.

It states: "If the claim is not discontinued, we have invited our clients to
give us instructions in relation to making representations to the Legal Aid
Board and an appropriate application to the court to prevent this matter
drifting still further."

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCK: Evelyn Loftus with the letter from hospital solicitors; Picture:
RICHARD WILLIAMS

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd


