                              128 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              May 20, 2011 Friday
                               N-j Final Edition

Fish financing secured, but legal bills mounting

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION C; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 515  words

DATELINE: EDGEWATER


EDGEWATER -- The credit collapse that had been feared as Bert Fish Medical
Center unwound from Adventist Health System was averted with a new financing
agreement approved Thursday.

But the Southeast Volusia Hospital District board also heard Thursday that the
merger's undoing is predicted to cost the tax- supported hospital district
nearly $1 million in legal and consulting costs in the last six months of this
fiscal year.

That puts this year's tab for the failed merger's legal and administrative costs
at $2.5 million.

The board's attorney -- whose firm has billed $528,000 since the fiscal year
began -- said she expects there will be some months when which she won't be
working on district business full time with an assistant, costing the district
$85,000 a month, as has been the case in recent months.

There will be a point in time when the legal fees will be substantially
decreased," said Kelly Sullivan, an attorney with Dean Mead of Orlando.

The New Smyrna Beach hospital is undergoing a court-ordered dissolution of its
partnership with nonprofit Adventist Health because the merger agreement was the
result of talks illegally closed to the public in violation of the state
Sunshine Law. Circuit Judge Richard Graham voided the merger Feb. 24 and ordered
a plan to return Bert Fish back to its public ownership. The target date is June
30.

The district levies taxes on property owners in Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak
Hill and a portion of Port Orange to support indigent health care at the
hospital. Board members are appointed by the governor.

An uncertain commitment from Bank of America, which holds the hospital's letter
of credit, was part of the reason that board members struck the deal with
Adventist finalized last July 1. And the five-day trial into whether the
partnership should continue included testimony about the disastarous effects
that undoing the partnership would have on the 122-bed hospital's financing.

Board members feared the bank would ask the hospital to come up with the $14.5
million in outstanding debt. Such a call-in would drain the hospital's cash
reserves.

But Al Allred, the hospital's chief financial officer, said the terms of the new
agreement by which Bank of America will guarantee the hospital's debt for the
next nine months will be to the hospital's advantage. The agreement calls for
the hospital to put $10.8 million in a restricted fund to guarantee Bank of
America's commitment. That will leave the hospital with $11 million in cash
reserves available should an emergency occur.

Allred said the agreement actually lowers the cost of the hospital's debt.

It's a win-win," Allred said.

District board members are pressing on with a legal malpractice claim against
the lawyer that advised them to close the merger talks to the public. They hope
to recover the legal and administrative costs that resulted from his advice. But
so far, the financial report presented Thursday shows the unexpected costs will
put the district $1.6 million behind in its payments for indigent care rendered
at the hospital before theof the fiscal year, Oct. 1.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


