                              129 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                       Florida Times-Union (Jacksonville)

                              May 1, 2004 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                                  City Edition

California organization fights for the uninsured

BYLINE: SARAH SKIDMORE, The Times-Union

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. D-1

LENGTH: 549 words


A minority advocacy group has launched a legal aid program in Florida to help
uninsured patients challenge their hospital bills, fight collectors or defend
themselves in lawsuits over medical bills.

Consejo de Latinos Unidos (Counsel of United Latinos), a Los Angeles-based
organization, said it will provide legal aid, regardless of race, to patients
who are uninsured but do not qualify for charity care from hospitals.

"A lot of people do not know how to defend themselves," said Consejo leader K.B.
Forbes. "The uninsured, they have no one helping them, until today."

Consejo says hospitals are "price-gouging" patients by charging them several
times more than rates negotiated by insurance companies. Lawyers for the group
said they have clients whose hospitals would not create payment plans and others
who are being harassed by creditors.

The Florida Hospital Association said uninsured patients are among the few who
pay full price. Their bills are higher because hospitals have a set price for
services but public or private insurance plans get discounted rates. Rich
Rasmussen, spokesman for FHA, said the uninsured are a small but difficult group
to collect from; hospitals get paid about 6 cents on the dollar for treating
uninsured patients. He said no illegal or abusive tactics are being used.

Consejo has budgeted $250,000 for the legal aid program. It has eight cases
already and said it has 400 potential cases statewide.

Consejo said it is supported almost entirely by non-profit organizations and
foundations but will not reveal its donor list out of fear of retribution.
Forbes said it regularly receives anonymous threats. Critics are leery.

"It's clear the main interest that organization has is headlines and lawsuits,"
said Jeff Prescott, spokesman for HCA, the Health Care Company, which is a large
national hospital chain that has been the target of many of Consejo's projects.

FHA and HCA say Forbes' links are too close and his arguments too similar to the
insurance industry for him to be a true consumer advocate.

Forbes is a former employee of Medical Savings Co. insurance company in
Oklahoma. Lee Memorial filed a lawsuit against Forbes' former employer when it
refused to pay hospital charges higher than those offered to large health care
companies, according to a report published by Naples Daily News.

"[Medical Savings] have provided us with intellectual help," Forbes said. "I
rely on friends to help me out."

Forbes admits his group has received information, such as insurance contracts,
from hospitals, former actuaries and other groups to help Consejo gather data
for its debate.

Forbes denies a conflict of interest and says FHA is focusing on his past as "an
attempt to deflect the attention away from their own egregious behavior."

Forbes said the larger goal of his group is to abolish the difference in costs
between the insured and uninsured. The group pressured Tenet Healthcare, a large
national hospital chain, into establishing discounts for uninsured patients.

Part of the legal aid program would be to help educate patients about their
rights and reasonable billing rates.

sarah.skidmore@jacksonville.com, (904) 359-4268

LEGAL AID

Patients who are interested in seeking Consejo's legal aid can call
1-800-474-7576 or visit Jacksonville.com, keyword: legal aid.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 3, 2006



CORRECTION: The Times-Union takes mistakes seriously. We will correct all
mistakes of fact made in our news stories as soon as possible. We also publish
appropriate clarifications.

-- A story about a lawsuit over Tallahassee's affordable housing policy ran on
Page B-4 Wednesday. Because of an editor's error, a headline on Page D-1
Thursday incorrectly said the story was inside that day's Business section.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2004 The Florida Times-Union


