                              139 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                       March 6, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Judge Masan Research Go Grassroots Legal Service
Over Countryside

LENGTH: 336  words


Beijing, March 6 -- Mashan County People's Court of party secretary, president
Qinge Bing Mashan line 4-depth coverage and Guzhai ethnic Yao conduct roving
investigators and other aspects of the legal status of rural research.



The hospital visited the research found: In recent years, the ancient Xiang
farmers to carry out planting honeysuckle in support of the government, rising
incomes, many migrant farmers have returned home. Increase in population has led
to an increase in legal disputes, because the relatively weak legal
consciousness of the villagers, many disputes are often not satisfied with the
results.

For this case, the hospital made the following countermeasures. First, adjust
the investigators. Gu Xiang unified litigation services handled by the hospital
ancient peoples court zero. The hospital deployed two trials experienced, strong
mediation capacity of the judicial officers to zero the ancient court, the
better to provide legal assistance to the villagers within their jurisdictions.
The second is to add service route. Make full use of judicial public hospital
three platforms, actively popularize legal knowledge to the villagers. The
villagers do not go to court, as long as the mobile phone and the network at
home can understand the hospital announced the trial process, the referee
clerical and executive information. The third is sent to carry out illegal
activities. I use the trial to send France to carry out the business of leisure
activities in the countryside, through easy to understand explanations,
advocacy, to improve the legal awareness of the villagers.

It is the fifth French countryside service delivery activities carried out by
the hospital this year, the Party's mass line of educational practice, and it is
the first stop, "learning from Lei Feng" volunteer service month activities.
Next, the hospital will combine a variety of practical activities to carry out
legal advisory services masses understand the legal needs of the masses, and
better serve the masses.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


