                              136 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             August 3, 2001, Friday

FAMILIES TO SUE NHS OVER ORGANS SCANDAL;
 THOUSANDS PLANNING MASS LEGAL ACTION SETTLEMENT CALL: Matt Redmond and, left,
daughter Karen, who died in 1966

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 328 words


FAMILIES devastated by the 'stolen organs' scandal at Birmingham Children's
Hospital are to join thousands of other parents in a mass legal action against
the NHS.

A High Court ruling has cleared the way for the Midland cases to be linked with
500 families suing Alder Hey - the Liverpool Hospital at the centre of the
controversy.

All litigation over organ retention nationwide will now be combined. It is
estimated at least 2,000 families are involved in legal action, with the NHS
facing a compensation bill of more than pounds 30 million.

Richard Follis, a partner at Irwin Mitchell solicitors representing more than 50
families suing the Children's Hospital, said the move would lead to faster
settlements.

Key test cases from different hospitals will be brought forward and presented in
a single court hearing.

It was agreed all litigation could be linked with the legal action already
underway against Alder Hey following a hearing at the High Court in Preston.

Mr Follis said: 'It will avoid a multiplicity of cases around the country,
saving money and time.'

Birmingham Children's Hospital has admitted retaining 1,100 organs from dead
patients. Parents have learnt that as many as 42 different body parts were taken
and used in medical research.

Legal action against the Children's Hospital was launched in October last year.

Lawyers at Irwin Mitchell in Birmingham have been investigating two key areas -
the unlawful removal, retention and disposal of parts of children's bodies and
the distress caused to parents as a result of the way the hospital handled the
issue.

Matt Redmond, chairman of Stolen Hearts, a support group set up for families
affected by the Children's Hospital scandal, called for a fast and satisfactory
settlement for parents.

Mr Redmond, a former city councillor from Acocks Green, discovered 42 organs and
body parts were removed from his daughter, Karen, after she died aged six in
1966.

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


