                              141 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              April 7, 2014 Monday

Halifax Health CEO: $85M settlement won't affect patient care

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 514  words


DAYTONA BEACH -- An $85 million legal settlement will reduce the cash available
for Halifax Health to replace aging equipment and make large purchases in the
future, but the effects won't be felt immediately, the hospital's chief
financial officer said Monday.

The 678-bed public hospital system's cash position was "significantly impacted,"
but the president's health care law will have a bigger financial impact on the
budget moving forward because of tighter government reimbursements, CFO Eric
Peburn told the Halifax Health Board of Commissioners, the seven-member panel
that oversees the hospital.

"We certainly need to re-evaluate," Peburn said in his first public statement on
the settlement's financial toll.

Hospital officials did not elaborate on what that could mean for the community
provider and its roughly 4,000 employees, but spokesman John Guthrie said all
options are on the table during coming budget discussions.

Halifax Health CEO Jeff Feasel said patient care will not be affected as a
result of the hospital's legal troubles.

The comments came just days after lawyers for the whistleblower, who brought the
suit, filed a motion with the court asking for $7.3 million in legal fees and
expenses on top of the $85 million settlement. The two parties were unable to
reach an agreement on the legal fees, and a judge will decide the matter,
according to a motion filed over the weekend.

The settlement resolved part of the federal whistleblower lawsuit filed in 2009
by Elin Baklid-Kunz, director of physician services. Baklid-Kunz accused the
hospital of maintaining illegal contracts with doctors and submitting false
Medicare claims.

Halifax Health officials have consistently denied the allegations in the suit
but admitted in the settlement reached with the U.S. Department of Justice that
the hospital violated the Stark Law. That regulation prohibits agreements with
physicians that compensate them based on referrals and volumes. In the
settlement, the hospital agreed to abide by the terms of a corporate-integrity
agreement for five years, which will result in greater governmental oversight.

The hospital had no other options than to settle, said John Johnson, chairman of
the hospital board and president of Embry- Riddle Aeronautical University.

"Had we not taken that action we could have put the hospital into a devastating
financial scenario," he said. "We wanted to avoid that at all cost to protect
the hospital and all the people who work here."

The money to pay the settlement came from the funded depreciation account, which
is used to replace equipment, Peburn said. The hospital also has spent more than
$22 million on its legal defense in the case. In September, the hospital had
reserves of about $420 million, which helped it absorb the financial blow from
the settlement.

A second part of the case is set for trial in July. That part of the lawsuit
focuses on allegations that the hospital overbilled Medicare by admitting
patients for hospital stays of two days or less without sufficient medical
justification. The hospital has denied the allegations.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

