                              134 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                              May 3, 2016 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Three maternity masters demand to retain control

BYLINE: Eilish O'Regan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 497 words


THE stakes have risen in the row over control of a new national maternity
hospital following a show of solidarity between the country's three masters.

Dr Sharon Sheehan of the Coombe and Prof Fergal Malone of the Rotunda have rowed
in behind master of the National Maternity Hospital, Dr Rhona Mahony, who is
involved in an intense stand-off with St Vincent's Healthcare Group.

A new national maternity hospital is earmarked to be built on the campus of St
Vincent's, but Dr Mahony said it has to maintain its own corporate governance.

In a new development, the two other masters have come out strongly in favour of
maternity hospitals maintaining independence after re-location.

Both the Rotunda and the Coombe, which are due to move to new locations, have
now put down a marker that they will also be insisting on holding on to their
corporate governance.

The Rotunda is due to move to Connolly Hospital campus and the Coombe is
earmarked for St James's Hospital.

In a strongly worded letter the three masters said the national maternity
strategy, launched earlier this year, supports the retention of the system of
masters with an executive and board.

It has "served women well in 260 years" and produced good clinical outcomes,
they added. Their intervention was a clear signal that any similar interference
with their autonomy when they eventually move will not be tolerated.

Meanwhile, Tom Lynch, chair of the Ireland East Hospital Group, which includes
St Vincent's and the national maternity hospital, appealed to them to allow for
further mediation by the independent mediator appointed by the Department of
Health.

Mr Lynch supports the St Vincent's Hospital proposal to integrate the governance
of the maternity hospital.

However, the failure of the outgoing government to legislate to give any legal
powers to hospital groups means they have little say in this kind of dispute.
Ireland East's precise legal standing is unclear.

>COLETTE BROWNE: Why is religious order blocking hospital plans? p24 Legal bid
over children's hospital site A GROUP of parents, doctors and children who
object to St James's Hospital as the site of the new National Children's
Hospital is seeking legal advice about appealing the planning permission for the
project.

Dr Roisin Healy, a retired Crumlin emergency consultant of the Connolly for Kids
group, admitted they could not afford a High Court judicial review and would
need a philanthropist to underwrite the legal costs.

The group want the hospital built at Connolly Hospital in Dublin, instead of the
St James's site.

She said they had gathered a petition of 46,782 people urging it be built on at
a 145-acre site near the M50.

Dr Healy said 15 consultants working in Crumlin and Temple Street have warned
the new children's hospital should be physically linked to a maternity hospital.

They have eight weeks to lodge a judicial review of the planning permission.

An Bord Pleanala granted permission to the St James's site last week after years
of debate.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


