                              133 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The West Australian (Perth)

                              March 1, 2004 Monday
                                     METRO

Hospital bulk-bill rort revealed

BYLINE: WENDY PRYER

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 480  words


Doctors directed against legal advice, says probe report

A SECRET report into Medicare rorting at two Perth hospitals has revealed
doctors were directed to bulk-bill patients by hospital management despite legal
advice not to.

The Health Insurance Commission report of its investigation into inappropriate
Medicare billing at Princess Margaret and King Edward Memorial hospitals has
been obtained by The West Australian under Freedom of Information laws after
repeated refusals in the past year by the Commonwealth and WA Health Department
to make it public.

Despite its release, key sections of the report have been deleted, including the
names of doctors and hospital managers along with details of how much taxpayers'
money was wrongly claimed and how much the Commonwealth wants the State to pay
back.

The HIC investigation came about after internal audits of PMH/KEMH were leaked
to The West Australian in 2000.

Those audits alleged PMH doctors were rorting Medicare by charging the
Commonwealth for services provided to patients at State-funded public hospital
outpatient clinics.

The Ernst and Young reports said the doctors were also being paid by the State
and it was unclear if they had personally benefited from the Medicare money they
had claimed.

The HIC report found: "It has been established that hospital management
initiated and promoted, despite many legal advisings, cost shift arrangements."

It said that in 1990 a hospital manager sent out letters to doctors saying
outpatient services should be privatised because of a lack of funding from the
State Government.

"His report was outlined as follows: 'the mechanism I am suggesting is that
where clinicians are unable to maintain adequate services, that we consider
converting the hospital service into a private service, maintaining exactly the
same level of service, but on a fee for service basis through Medicare'."

The HIC revealed that PMH/KEMH doctors were not told of legal advice given to
hospital managers which said the bulk-billing of Medicare for State-funded
services was in breach of Federal laws and exposed them to legal risk.

The report said the practice went on for 10 years but the HIC was only able to
investigate it over a two year period - between 1998 and 2000 - which was the
term of the last Medicare agreement between the Commonwealth and States.

The amount of money wrongly claimed was deleted from the report. The State
Government has revealed $1.2 million is being sought by the Commonwealth but
negotiations are continuing.

The Australian Medical Association, which has continually claimed PMH and KEMH
doctors were not rorting Medicare for their personal benefit, welcomed the
release of the report.

AMA president Brent Donovan said there was no point taking punitive action
against the managers responsible for directing doctors because it happened in
the past and practices had since changed.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2004 West Australian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


