                              14 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                  Daily Times

                             May 25, 2017 Thursday

City faces shortage of female MLOs

SECTION: Vol. 15 No. 145

LENGTH: 762  words


Karachi, Pakistan's most populous city and amongst 'violent' cities for women,
is facing severe shortage of female medico-legal officers.

According to Sheraz Ahmed, Program Officer War Against Rape (WAR) Karachi, in
the number of gender-based violence in Karachi during April 2016 to April 2017,
there were 346 survivals cases which were reported in city's three hospitals
Jinnah Post Graduate Medical Centre, Civil Hospital Karachi and Abbassi Shaheed
Hospital.

"These figures were noted by our desk during timings of from 10 am to 2 pm. So
obviously there would be more cases," Sheraz added.

Similarly in our findings, WAR has come to know that 340 to 360 cases of sexual
violence including rape, gang rape and sodomy have been reported during last ten
years in these major hospitals of Karachi.

However to deal this situation, there are only 5 female medico-legal officers in
Karachi.

"Out of five, 3 are on duty and 2 are on medical leave. So technically there are
only three female medico-legal officers working at city's main public healthcare
centers Jinnah Post Graduate Medical Centre (JPMC), Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK)
and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital to deal the situation," said Dr Ejaz Khokhar,
Karachi Police Surgeon.

Other centers including Sindh Government Qatar Hospital Orangi Town, Lyari
General Hospital, and Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad have no female
medico-legal officers at all except for Sindh Government Hospital Saudabad where
a grade-19 of Additional Police Surgeon is working. Besides that one of the
city's hospitals has female medico-legal officer at night duty.

Duty timings of female medico-legal officers at CHK and Abbasi Shaheed are
morning and evening. In case if situation arises of emergency, we 'request'
Additional Police Surgeon Saudabad to work for us on 'complimentary grounds.' On
request, she is available at Abbasi or for Civil at night depending upon the
requirement.

At present there are two female medico-legal officers working at CHK, whereas
there is only one female medico-legal officer at JPMC. At Abbasi Shaheed
Hospital the duty is performed by additional police surgeon as there is no
female medico-legal officer appointed. But since JPMC mortuary is
under-construction, therefore if creates problems for people.

A medicolegal officer can be a coroner or medical examiner. In either case, the
medicolegal officer is responsible for leading an investigation to determine the
circumstances under which someone died. Medicolegal is something that involves
both medical and legal aspects.

Karachi, a city with estimated population of 20 million is prone to terrorism,
sectarian violence and women related violence for long. Known as the "City of
Lights", Karachi's law and order situation had been a nuisance for citizens for
far too long. City is also prone to terrorism and sectarian violence and
motorbike riding assassins "target killings", honor killings and domestic
violence.

In January this year, Citizens-Police Liaison Committee identified 60 places in
the sprawling metropolis where incidents of street crimes, particularly
snatching of mobile phones, have increased alarmingly, it emerged on Sunday.

Ejaz Khokhar, Karachi Police Surgeon said, there are 4 vacant seats of female
MLOs for last two years or so. There was no hiring of female medico-legal
officers since 2014 when one female medico-legal officer was appointed.
Similarly the last female medico-legal officer retired in June 2016. There was a
commission exam held around one year ago but that too is in pending. Through
that exam 25 new medico-legal officers were supposed to be appointed. However
Commissions work could not move forward due to some dispute and it went to
courts.

Dr Khokhar explains that the total working strength of female medico-legal
officers in Karachi is 32.

As per rules, every government hospital should have additional police surgeon of
grade-19, two senior female medico-legal officers of grade-18 and three female
medico-legal officers of grade-17.

According to existing formulae, total sanction strength of medico-legal officers
in Karachi should be 71 out of which 9 seats belong to female MLOs. Even if this
sanction strength is fulfilled even then we can not give 24-hours service to all
centers.

"Existing sanction strength is quarter a century old and that strength was kept
with that population and crime rate. Time has changed. The number of the medico-
legal officers should be enhanced keeping the current population and crime rate.
Government should sanction new posts of female medico-legal officers," Dr
Khokhar added.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Daily Times
                              All Rights Reserved


