                              132 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                           February 4, 2012 Saturday

Aged couple's heir hopes remain frozen

LENGTH: 483 words

DATELINE: KOCHI


KOCHI, Feb. 4 -- Casting a shadow on the efforts of an aged couple, who have
been fighting a legal battle to get their deceased son's semen and have a
grandchild through a surrogate mother, the hospital that preserves the semen has
refused to hand it over to them.

It was the 'Express' that first reported about the couple's legal battle on
December 30, 2011. Ratheesh, 28, son of Ravikumar and Karthyani of Angamaly, had
died of pneumonia in January 2011.

Ratheesh was referred to the Centre for Infertility Management and Assisted
Reproduction (CIMAR), Kochi, for semen preservation before the treatment for gem
cell tumour was started. The semen has been preserved at CIMAR, Kochi.

In a counter-affidavit, CIMAR director Dr Parasuram Gopinath submitted before
the Ernakulam Permanent Lok Adalat that there was no provision to hand over the
preserved semen to anyone, including the legal heirs or the parents of the
donor.

"It will not be possible to hand it over without any order from the court or a
competent authority," Gopinath said.

With the hospital taking such a decision, the couple have to wait for some more
time till the Adalat's final order. According to the hospital, at the time of
preserving the semen, Ratheesh had given a written consent stating that the
semen was to be stored in the hospital for one year and could be destroyed on
the expiry of the said period. But the hospital has been preserving it since
August 2010, and it was not destroyed.

The hospital authorities have expressed concern that the preserved sperm, if
used in future for pregnancy, may not be successful.

"The parents may be the legal heirs of Ratheesh, but the question is whether the
preserved semen comes within the definition of the 'estate of the deceased' to
which his legal heirs are entitled to succeed by virtue of principles of
intestate succession," the hospital said.

But the hospital authorities agreed that the semen contains sperms, which can be
used for artificial insemination or in surrogacy to develop an embryo which in
turn can grow into a live human being.

The couple, in their late 50s, now hope to get a child through assisted
reproductive technology by using the preserved semen.

Counsel for the couple Aniyan P Vakkom submitted that "their only demand is that
the semen stored in the hospital be released and they are ready to obey whatever
condition imposed by the Lok Adalat."

"I think the hospital is not against the wishes of the couple, but it requires a
legal support. We hope that justice will be done to us as the parents do not
have any other children and are too old to conceive and they have been planning
to have a child through assisted reproductive technology," said Aniyan.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2012 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


