                              146 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                             The New Zealand Herald

                            June 28, 2000 Wednesday

Courts lift shield of legal aid on frivolous lawsuits

BYLINE: By ANGELA GREGORY

SECTION: NEWS; General

LENGTH: 749 words


A High Court judge has ordered an unemployed woman on legal aid to pay $10,000
court costs after she lost a $550,000 suit against a surgeon and a hospital.

The woman had sought exemplary damages of $550,000 from the two parties after a
hospital doctor - not the surgeon - mistakenly gave her iodine which permanently
damaged her thyroid gland.

Identities of the parties were permanently suppressed in the nine-day trial last
September.

In a reserved judgment on costs, Justice Penlington said that, while the
hospital's negligence was proven, the claim for exemplary damages was hopeless
and "doomed from the start."

He ordered the woman to pay costs totalling $10,000 to the surgeon and hospital.

In a similar case, the Environment Court awarded $1200 costs against a Whangarei
man whose legal aid-financed battle failed to overturn the approval of a $75
million port development at Marsden Pt.

Judge David Sheppard said the arguments raised had gone beyond the court's
jurisdiction and the case was not mounted or handled satisfactorily.

He said the costs he awarded against the man were aimed at avoiding a perception
that someone backed by legal aid was free to conduct litigation in a way that
imposed unnecessary costs on his opponents with impunity.

The Northland Regional Council was now seeking further costs of $3450 from a
legal aid subcommittee, while the Northland Port Corporation was still
considering its options.

The hearing had cost the council $32,400 and the port company $401,099.

The Legal Services Board says an increasing number of decisions like these show
that judges' attitudes are now hardening against people who use legal aid to
take weak civil cases to court.

The board's executive director, Dave Smith, said non-family civil cases financed
by legal aid were the main concern and there seemed to be a "growing judicial
impatience" with them.

"They cost about $8 million in legal aid a year and in quite a lot of cases are
misconceived."

Mr Smith said many people thought if they took a case on legal aid they were
spared the threat of costs against them.

"Judges are making it clear they should not be assuming that."

He hoped the risk of misuse of legal aid money would be reduced by a proposed
law change, which would contract agencies to take over the work of distributing
legal aid from district subcommittees run by volunteer lawyers.

The Legal Services Bill is before the justice and electoral select committee,
which is due to report to Parliament by the end of the month.

In the hospital decision, Justice Penlington said the woman had started the
legal action outside the statutory time limits without asking the court's leave
and had sought an unrealistic sum.

He said the woman had offered no evidence to show the hospital had flagrantly
disregarded her safety, nor any to support her serious accusation of a
conspiracy of silence over her treatment.

Had she not been on legal aid, Justice Penlington said, he would have awarded
costs against her totalling $105,000.

He noted her only real asset was her share of a matrimonial home valued at
$120,000 which was still subject to a large mortgage.

The woman's legal action had taken up 12 court days and cost the surgeon,
understood to be insured, about $96,000 and the hospital $61,000.

A lawyer for the hospital said the case should never have been paid for by legal
aid, and he has asked the subcommittee which approved the grant for its files.

The hospital was now considering seeking costs from the legal aid subcommittee,
he said.

"The whole case was extremely frustrating and very distressing for the doctors
involved. There is no more dangerous an opponent than a legally aided
complainant who thinks they have nothing to lose."

The lawyer hoped the judgment would send a signal to other people with
"worthless claims" that they could not rely on hiding behind the shield of legal
aid.

The convener of the Auckland District Law Society's legal aid committee, Simon
Reeves, said he had confidence in the way legal aid was distributed.

He said checks and balances were in place and subcommittees could request
further information, or second opinions, on cases before deciding whether funds
should be granted.

In many cases the applications were refused, he said.

Mr Reeves said it was difficult to know in advance whether a case would be
successful, or argue its merits until it was tested in court.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

          Copyright 2000 The New Zealand Herald.  All Rights Reserved.


