                              144 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            January 15, 1999 Friday
                                 Early Edition

FoI nurses blast hospital;
Premier vows to change law after triple killer given access to 51 names

BYLINE: LYALL JOHNSON and SANDRA McKAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 720 words


A Melbourne hospital has been accused of incompetence and betraying staff after
a convicted triple murderer was given the names of 51 nurses as part of a bid to
clear his name.

The Premier has also expressed horror and vowed to rewrite Victoria's freedom of
information laws after Ashley Mervyn Coulston's successful application for the
names of the nurses, all from Frankston Hospital.

The names were given to Coulston without the nurses' knowledge after a series of
applications to the state's main civil tribunal.

Coulston, 42, is serving a life sentence for the execution-style murders of Anne
Smerdon and Kerryn Henstridge, 22, and Peter Dempsey, 27, who were found bound,
gagged and shot through the head at their rented Burwood home in July 1992.

Coulston has always protested his innocence, claiming he was visiting his
partner in Frankston Hospital at the time of the killings. His application for
the nurses' names was ostensibly part of a bid to prove his alibi and get his
case re-opened.

One nurse whose name was given to Coulston said yesterday that she was "very
scared and very angry". But the nurse, who declined to be named, said she
understood Coulston's purported motives in seeking the names.

"We feel we have been denied any control about how our names will be used. We
feel betrayed by the hospital, and scared about what the future may hold," she
said.

Coulston was granted access to the names on 23 November last year on appeal to
the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT) after two applications
under freedom of information were denied by the hospital.

The matter has only just come to light because hospital management did not
inform the nurses of the issue until last week.

VCAT and Frankston Hospital immediately came under fire yesterday from the
Australian Nursing Federation and Mr Kennett, who has ordered reviews of VCAT
procedures and freedom-of-information laws.

Mr Kennett described it as the "most outrageous incident I have heard about". He
said he had had concerns both about VCAT and the Freedom of Information Act for
some time.

"There is something terribly wrong when VCAT - and this is a legal body - can't
understand the ramifications of giving out to an individual the names of people
who only are going about their duty in the interests of humanity," he said.

The nursing federation accused the hospital of not properly protecting the
privacy of its nurses by failing to send legal representation to the appeal, and
instead relying on a doctor.

Coulston represented himself in the hearing via video link from Barwon Prison.

According to the federation, nurses at the Frankston Hospital are now living in
fear. The union's Victorian branch secretary, Ms Belinda Morieson, said hospital
management did not notify the nurses concerned, and instead issued a memo to a
charge nurse who did not receive it until last week because she was on holidays.
Ms Morieson said she was "physically appalled by the incompetence shown by the
hospital".

The Attorney-General, Mrs Jan Wade, said it was unfortunate the hospital had no
legal representation at the case. She also said its failure to appeal against
the decision meant it would not be reviewed by the Supreme Court.

The chairman of the Mornington Peninsula Health Care Network, which administers
the hospital, Mr Bob Polk, said the hospital had fought for two years to try to
stop the release of the list, and it was "terribly easy in hindsight" to
criticise it.

Mr Polk said that on its earlier legal advice, the hospital had been "supremely
confident" of winning the case, and had not bothered to send a lawyer to the
hearing. He said the hospital was "shattered" when the tribunal ruled against
it, and did not seek further legal advice before releasing the roster to
Coulston.

"Jan Wade is entitled to say it was a pity, and maybe it was, but the decision
(not to appeal to the Supreme Court) was made with the best available
information at that time," he said.

Coulston's lawyer, Mr Rainer Ellinghaus, defended Coulston's right to seek the
names of the nurses, saying it was the only chance for him to clear his name.

The re-surfacing of the case has "renewed it something terrible" for the father
of Peter Dempsey, one of the victims. Mr Frank Dempsey said Coulston should
never have been allowed access to the names of the nurses.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ashley Mervyn Coulston: serving a life term for the murder of
three Burwood housemates.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1999 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


