                              142 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                           December 27, 1990 Thursday

HOSPITAL MAY APPEAL OVER $15M AIDS BILL

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: EVANS S

LENGTH: 507 words


Hospital may appeal over $15m AIDS bill From SIMON EVANS in Melbourne THE Alfred
Hospital is likely to appeal against a $15 million legal bill it has been
ordered to pay on behalf of a middle-aged patient who contracted AIDS six years
ago after being treated at the hospital. The acting medical director, Dr John
Wiseman, said there was a 90 percent chance the hospital would appeal to the
Full Bench of the Supreme Court to have the decision on legal costs reversed.
Hospital officials, insurance company representatives, solicitors and the
officials from the Health Department of Victoria have scheduled a meeting for
tomorrow to discuss the appeal. The Alfred Hospital, based in the inner-eastern
suburb of Prahran, was covered against damages and legal costs but the unnamed
insurance company was ""distressed" by the $15 million legal costs bill, Dr
Wiseman said. Justice McGarvie on Monday ordered that legal costs for the man,
known as PQ, the Australian Red Cross and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories be
met by the Alfred Hospital. Two days earlier, PQ was awarded more than $870,000
by a Supreme Court jury as compensation for pain, suffering, medical expenses
and loss of income after he was treated with a blood product at the hospital.
The trial lasted more than 90 days and cost an estimated $15 million. PQ was the
first Australian to successfully sue over AIDS infection and the landmark
decision is expected to open a floodgate of multimillion-dollar damages claims
by up to 400 haemophiliacs infected during treatment at hospitals throughout the
country. PQ, who is married with children, launched his landmark legal action in
July against the Australian Red Cross Society, the Alfred Hospital and the
Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, claiming it was through their negligence that
he became HIV positive late in 1984. But the Alfred Hospital was found to be the
only negligent party. ""These costs are quite a slug," Dr Wiseman said. ""Over
the next day, we'll have a more exact idea of the final bill, but $15 million
appears to be a reliable estimate. ""The insurance company is experiencing
significant discomfort, to say the least, at the prospect of such costs.
""Unfortunately, it is the taxpayer who ultimately will have to pay because the
Health Department pays the insurance premiums for public hospitals." Dr Wiseman
said the hospital, insurers and solicitors still had a number of questions about
the case. ""Considering that there still are questions and uncertainties about
the case, there will be a need to look at an appeal," Dr Wiseman said. The chief
general manager of the Victorian Health Department, Mr Tim Daly, said insurance
policies managed by the department covered all public hospitals and community
health centres. ""We don't have simply one policy with one company but a series
of policies underwritten by several companies," Mr Daly said. ""Any damages
sustained by the Alfred Hospital will have to be resolved between the hospital
and its insurance company."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


