                              143 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             March 18, 2014 Tuesday

Rating agency downgrades Halifax Health

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 985  words


Halifax Health

DAYTONA BEACH -- Fitch Ratings has downgraded Halifax Health's credit rating as
a result of an $85 million legal settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice.

The ratings agency lowered the hospital's rating from BBB+ to BBB, writing that
smaller reserves and "modest levels of profitability" were key drivers in its
decision. A lower credit rating could result in the 678-bed public hospital
system paying higher interest rates when it borrows money in the future, and
unless it obtains a waiver, the hospital will be in default on some of its debt.

Hospital officials settled part of a whistleblower lawsuit with the Department
of Justice on March 10 accusing Halifax Health of maintaining illegal contracts
with doctors and submitting false Medicare claims. The hospital has spent $22
million in legal fees defending itself in the lawsuit filed in 2009 by Elin
Baklid-Kunz, director of physician services. Another part of the suit that the
Justice Department did not intervene on is set for trial in July.

Halifax Health officials declined to comment about the downgrade, saying that
public comments could be used against them during the pending litigation. The
hospital paid the $85 million settlement amount Friday, said John Guthrie, a
Halifax Health spokesman.

Hospital management told the rating agency they will be forced to violate some
of the promises they made to bondholders -- called covenants. The hospital will
be required to obtain waiver agreements for this fiscal year, and if it fails to
do so, the hospital will be in default, an event that Fitch views as unlikely,
according to the report.

The settlement and accrued legal fees are a "real kick in the teeth" for Halifax
Health, said Aaron Liberman, a retired health economist from the University of
Central Florida and a health care consultant. The violation of bond covenants
shows the hospital is under stress, he said.

"That is a great concern," Liberman said. "That really indicates that the
hospital is going to be in a rather precarious financial position. They've got
some challenges in their immediate future."

The hospital had a hefty cash reserve of $420 million as of Sept. 30, compared
with about $348.2 million in long-term debt. Hospital officials said they would
pay the settlement from the funded depreciation account, which is money set
aside to replace aging equipment and other assets.

The Halifax Health Board of Commissioners, a seven-member panel that oversees
the hospital, voted 6-1 in a Sunday meeting on March 9 to approve the
settlement, according to an audio recording of the meeting that was provided by
the hospital Tuesday in response to a public records request. Hospital
Commissioner Fred Costello cast the sole dissenting vote.

Vice Chairman Glenn Ritchey made the motion to settle the case, and Commissioner
Dan Francati seconded. Chairman John Johnson, along with commissioners Susan
Schandel, Karen Jans and Harold Goodemote, voted in favor.

Based on advice from an attorney, the board agreed to maintain a "unified
messaging strategy," where a single person would communicate the hospital's
position to the media and to the community to avoid inconsistencies that could
be used against the hospital during future legal proceedings. Halifax Health
commissioners have deferred questions to their attorneys.

Costello, who joined the board in June, said during the meeting he wasn't sure
whether he fully supported that, suggesting the board chairman comment about the
ramifications of the case. Costello agreed to refrain from making public
statements.

"There are people that are asking me why we still have the same attorney, why we
still have the same CEO," Costello said during the meeting. "I think it's
important they know these things predate some of these folks here."

The government was concerned about contracts the hospital had in place from the
2005 to 2008 fiscal years for six cancer doctors, along with employment
agreements with three neurosurgeons. The hospital admitted it provided bonuses
to cancer doctors based on the department's operating margin in violation of the
Stark Law. The Justice Department says such arrangements can result in
unnecessary medical procedures and drive up health care costs.

Dave Davidson, who has served as the hospital's general counsel since 1991, told
the board the employment agreements don't predate him.

"I take full ownership for these contracts," he said during the meeting.

Halifax Health CEO Jeff Feasel was appointed CEO and president in January 2005,
according to his biography on the hospital's website. He joined the hospital in
2000 filling various roles, including chief operating officer, and president and
CEO of patient business and financial services.

The hospital will be under greater federal oversight as a result of a corporate
integrity agreement it signed as part of the settlement. A compliance expert
will advise the board and a legal reviewer will examine physician contracts,
Davidson told the board. The compliance department will report directly to the
Board of Commissioners, instead of reporting to the legal department.

"If the compliance officer picks up the phone and calls one of you all, it's not
going to be under my purview to fire him because I didn't want him to call you,"
Feasel told the board during the meeting.

A trial is set for July on the allegations the hospital did not settle. The
whistleblower and her attorneys, who received $20.8 million of the settlement,
are accusing the hospital of admitting patients to the hospital for stays of two
days or less that were not medically necessary. They are seeking more than
$246.5 million on those claims, which the Justice Department did not intervene
on.

Halifax Health has consistently denied the whistleblower's accusations.

The legal fees and potential damages in the upcoming part of the case could
erode Halifax Health's financial position further, Fitch wrote.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

