                              149 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               Leicester Mercury

                            September 1, 2006 Friday

Birth complaints for hospitals

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 273 words


Hospitals in Leicester receive one of the highest levels of complaints about
problems at birth, new figures reveal.

Across the country, hundreds of families a year launch legal action for injuries
suffered by babies at birth.

In Leicester, a total of 78 claims have been made in the past five years.

The highest number was at Sheffield Teaching Hospitals Trust where 84 potential
legal actions were notified.

However, bosses at the University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust say theirs is
one of the biggest maternity units in the country.

There are an average of 9,300 babies born each year at Leicester Royal
Infirmary, Leicester General Hospital and St Mary's.

A spokesman for the trust said there were less than two legal claims made per
1,000 births.

He added: "Because a legal claim is submitted this does not mean there is a case
of negligence to answer or that the claim will be successful."

There have been a number of high-profile compensation claims in Leicester but
they have often taken years to settle.

Wendy Jones' son Daniel was born with brain damage in 1986 after being starved
of oxygen.

It took the family 14 years to secure a settlement of £1.1million.

Daniel, now 19, suffers from acute cerebral palsy and needs round-the-clock
care.

In 2002, Alexandra Upton, then aged 10, was awarded £3.3 million compensation
after her birth left her with cerebral palsy.

The previous year George Herbert, then eight years old, was awarded £2.6 million
compensation after his birth left him with epilepsy, cerebral palsy and spastic
quadriplegia.

The latest figures were obtained by the Sunday Times newspaper under the Freedom
of Information Act.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2006 Leicester Mercury
                              All Rights Reserved


