                              148 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            February 8, 2011 Tuesday
                                  2ND Edition

Hospital court bid dropped;
Appeal set to be shelved

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 315 words


A LEGAL challenge which threatened to derail the new pounds 451m Royal Liverpool
Hospital was set to be sensationally dropped today.

Campaign group Keep Our NHS Public (KONP) was due to drag hospital bosses and
the department of health into the high court later this week.

But the ECHO understands it has had to drop its case.

The group had hoped to overturn the government's decision to bankroll the
building project through a controversial private finance initiative (PFI).

KONP claimed a PFI would leave the region with crippling debts which could
impact on future health services.

But at the end of January, leading campaigner Sam Semoff was told legal aid for
his case was being withdrawn by the Legal Services Commission.

He was set to appeal the decision, but it left him facing a potentially huge
bill to take the case to court.

It is expected Royal bosses will be relieved the legal battle is over after
nearly two years.

Mr Semoff won the right to have an initial judicial review hearing in 2009 after
he claimed public consultation held to gauge support for the new hospital was
inadequate because it did not mention PFI funding.

He later withdrew his challenge after the hospital agreed to hold another
mini-consultation.

But then in August last year, Mr Semoff issued fresh proceedings at the high
court.

This time, he criticised the department of health's decision to approve the new
hospital's "outline business case".

The total legal bill for the challenges is estimated to be well into six
figures. Health chiefs also predict each month the hospital has been delayed
will add pounds 1m to its final bill.

The Royal declined to comment today.

Members of KONP also said they were unable to issue a statement but would be
commenting later today.

But Central Cllr Nick Small said: "This is excellent news.

"I am glad that KONP has finally seen sense on this."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  APPEAL: Sam Semoff

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


