                              147 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                           November 10, 2016 Thursday

Union and minister lash HSE for memo

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 416 words


Yesterday both Health Minister Simon Harris and Irish Nurses and Midwives
Organisation (INMO) general secretary Liam Doran condemned the memo written by
the HSE s legal advisers and issued to its national director of acute hospitals,
Liam Woods, on October 11.

The memo outlines how a patient s right to be on a hospital premises  is merely
a licence and once that has been abused, the nurse is also legally entitled to
remove the person as a trespass, using minimum force to do so .

The document says that given the country has entered flu season and there is
likely to be a greater demand on acute hospital beds, the HSE s contracted legal
firms are ready and capable of assisting any hospital which may have
difficulties in freeing up hospital beds  where patients are incapable or
unwilling to give up those beds .

The HSE memo says that unlike with education, there is no express right to free
health services in the Constitution.

However, the advice to remove patients is understood not to extend to private
patients. Mr Doran said this is because private patients represent  a stream of
money  for hospitals.

He described the memo as  madness, immoral, bizarre, and unbelievable .

He questioned the HSE  mindset  that went into drawing up several pages of legal
advice on how to remove patients at a time when minds should be focused on
devising practical solutions to the bed crisis.

Mr Doran said the INMO had only learned of the memo on October 25 and were told
on October 27 that it had been withdrawn.

Mr Doran said the HSE had  lost its soul  and that the memo was disrespectful
towards nurses.

It s an attitudinal thing that nurses will do what they are told. Well they won
t,  Mr Doran said on RTÉ radio.

Mr Harris tweeted that the memo was  utterly offensive and unacceptable . He
said it had been rescinded by the HSE at his request.

Last night the HSE said it was  not HSE policy to remove any patient, clinically
discharged or otherwise, from a hospital bed .

The HSE said the information in the memo  reflects the current legal position
and was shared by way of information with hospital managers following a request
by a third party for clarification on this matter .

While the memo outlines the current legal position, it has been rescinded in
light of concerns raised by staff and does not reflect HSE policy,  it said in a
statement.

Mr Woods told RTÉ radio that it was  a legal briefing note  but failed to
explain who had commissioned it or why it had been circulated to hospital
groups.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2016 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


