                              156 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                            March 14, 2009 Saturday

Widow considering legal action on drug;
Woman may sue company after accepting hospital's account of husband's release

BYLINE: Amy Nip and Ng Kang-chung

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 03

LENGTH: 435 words


The wife of a leukaemia patient whose death was related to a fungus-tainted drug
has accepted a hospital's explanation of his early discharge but is still
considering taking legal action against the manufacturer of the drug.

The woman, Mrs Chan,  said yesterday she was satisfied with Queen Mary
Hospital's explanation that her husband - diagnosed with a fungal infection in
his liver - was in stable condition when sent home.

She will consider more evidence and legal advice before deciding whether to take
legal action against Europharm, whose gout drug Purinol  was contaminated with
the fungus Rhizopus microsporus.

Accompanied by Democratic Party legislator Fred Li Wah-ming, she met the chief
executive of the Hong Kong West cluster of hospitals, Lawrence Lai Fook-ming,
and two doctors from Queen Mary Hospital yesterday.

"They said the level of blood platelets in my husband was normal, so there was
no problem for him to go home," Mrs Chan said.

The hospital explained details of her husband's treatment, but it did not offer
Mrs Chan an apology or compensation.

The hospital said the case had been referred to the Coroner's Court.

She will meet the superintendents of United Christian Hospital - where her
husband died - on Monday.

Her husband was one of six patients whose deaths are related to the tainted
drug.

He was discharged from Queen Mary Hospital on December 24. Three days later he
was admitted to United Christian Hospital with severe bleeding in his intestine.
He died on January 1.

Mr Li said Queen Mary Hospital would investigate whether the Purinol drug taken
by Mr Chan was identical to the four batches confirmed to have been
contaminated.

Yuen Kwok- yung, head of microbiology at the University of Hong Kong, would
conduct DNA tests to figure out if the fungus which killed Mr Chan and tainted
the Europharm drug was of the same subtype. The test would take several weeks.

Lawyer Wong kwok-tung said yesterday patients could sue the drug maker for
compensation if it could be established that their condition got worse after
taking a drug.

"This may be a bit difficult for a layman because expert assistance might be
needed to prove you have taken defective drugs," he said.

Europharm Laboratories was unavailable for comment yesterday.

Meanwhile, a Department of Health spokesman confirmed yesterday that some
bacteria had been found in the raw material used by Europharm to make the drug.

But he urged calm, saying the level was well below the safety limit.

"The international safety level is 100 count per gram and the level in the raw
material is lower than 10 count per gram," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mrs Chan, the wife of a leukaemia patient who died, met West cluster
chief Lawrence Lai Fook-ming at Queen Mary Hospital yesterday. Photo: David Wong

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


