                              16 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             The Financial Express

                            March 9, 2016 Wednesday

Shaping the future of Legal Medicine in India by creating Centre of Excellence;

Core India Institute of Legal Medicine, Pune, Maharashtra

LENGTH: 417  words


Core India Institute of Legal Medicine, Pune, Maharashtra

Brief about Core India Institute of Legal Medicine, Pune

It gives us pleasure to introduce, Core India Institute of Legal Medicine, the
organization in the medico legal field. In addition to medico legal consultancy,
it will contribute to the field of legal medicine of India by organizing a
number of academic programs and publications for doctors, advocates and hospital
employees.

The modus operendi of the CIILM is as follows

     ·    Medico legal consultancy - Professionally helping the doctors,
          hospitals and advocates in court proceedings, Pleading and
          representing doctors and hospitals in the Courts.
     ·    Medico legal skills development - various academic programs and
          courses for doctors and advocates, also for judges
     ·    Mediation, Conciliation and Arbitration - Though India does not have
          this system at present, it is best alternative to resolve disputes and
          it should be offered to all medico legal disputes as first solution.
     ·    Crisis Prevention and Intervention - Mainly training hospital
          employees with the techniques of prevention and intervention of crisis
          in the hospitals. Organizing programs and courses.
     ·    Risk management - Offering insurance based solutions to the doctors
          and hospitals for dealing with medico legal risks.


"Doctor Patient Synergy: A way towards medical legal partnership for patient
safety"

The Core India Institute of Legal Medicine is organizing a medico legal
conference for doctors, advocates, medical and law students with the above theme
on 26th 27th March 2016. The associate for the conference is the Indian Medical
Association, Pune Branch. Eminent speakers for this conference include Senior
members from Judiciary, Senior Police officials, Senior medical professionals
and advocates, Media Experts and Actors. The venue will be Smt.Shakuntala Shetty
Auditorium, Kannada Sangha, Erandavana, Pune.

Schedule of Program

     ·    Session 1 Violence Against Hospitals and Medical Professionals
     ·    Session 2 Release of IMA Medico legal Diary
     ·    Session 3 Evolution of Law governing Medical Negligence
     ·    Session 4 Dispute Resolut ion in Healthcare Role of Mediation,
          Conciliation and Arbitration
     ·    Session 5 Healthcare Risk Management
     ·    Session 6 Social Aspects of Doctor Patient Relationship Felicitations
          and speeches


Contact for Participation

Conference Secretariat,

Indian Medical Association,

Dr.Nitu Mandke Building,

Tilak Road, Pune

Tel: 020 - 24464771/ 24430042

Email: info@ciilm.com (mailto:info@ciilm.com) / imaofpune@gmail.com
(mailto:imaofpune@gmail.com)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2016 The Financial Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


