                              155 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Sunday Independent

                                February 2, 2014
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Hospital takes legal action on 'bed-blocker';
Charges mount as patient 'refuses' to leave St James's after four years

BYLINE: MAEVE SHEEHAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 507 words


A DUBLIN hospital has taken legal action against an elderly patient who has
occupied a bed for nearly four years and "refuses" to leave. The elderly woman
has been ready for discharge from St James's Hospital in Dublin since May 2010.
The hospital wanted to transfer the woman to a nursing home. The hospital says
the patient "refused" to apply for the State's Fair Deal scheme, which provides
financial support to people who need long-term nursing home care. Her family
also allegedly "refused to pursue the patient's options" under the scheme.

Management at St James's Hospital sued the patient for the fees and secured an
order in the High Court last July.

According to the hospital, the patient has appealed the order. "No steps have
been taken by the patient or her family to pursue an application for long-term
care funding under the Fair Deal Scheme, and the hospital charges continue to
accumulate," said the statement. The unusual stand-off is one of the few cases
in which hospitals trying to free up acute hospital beds have taken legal action
against so-called bed-blockers.

A report showed that in one week last year, 753 patients - known as delayed
discharges - occupied hospital beds around the country even though they were
deemed well enough to be discharged. The cost has been estimated at more than
(EURO)600,000 a year.

Public and voluntary hospitals can pursue long-stay patients for fees if they
are in hospital for more than 30 days and a doctor certifies that they no longer
need acute medical care.

St James's Hospital has not disclosed how much it is owed in fees by the patient
concerned. However, the maximum charge a public patient can be charged for
long-stay care in hospital is (EURO)175 a week. That works out at more than
(EURO)9,000 for each year she spends in hospital.

The St James's statement said: "St James's Hospital is a hospital providing
in-patient care for those in need of acute services. Patients who no longer need
acute care are discharged home, or are discharged to a suitable care facility.
The patient in question has not required acute hospital care since May 2010." It
continued: "The hospital's Social Work Department has been actively engaged in
finding and offering long-term care options to the patient, but neither the
patient nor her children will complete the necessary forms to enable her to
avail of such options.

"If patients refuse to accept discharge from acute care, the hospital is obliged
under the Health (Amendment) Act of 2005 and the Regulations made under the Act
to charge the patient for the bed being occupied."

The case came before the High Court in July last year, when the hospital secured
an order against the patient for fees. The decision has since been appealed.

The HSE did not reply when asked if it had begun legal proceedings against
longstay public patients who are holding up hospital beds.

The director general of the HSE has said that reducing "delayed discharges" is
one of its cost-saving targets.

Calls to solicitors acting for the patient were not returned.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HOSPITAL BEDS: St James's gives 'acute' patient care

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SDI


             Copyright 2014 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


