                              151 of 993 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2004 New York University School of Law
          New York University Journal of Legislation and Public Policy

                                  2004 / 2005

                       8 N.Y.U. J. Legis. & Pub. Pol'y 5

LENGTH: 13526 words

INCREASING ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE: METHODS TO ADDRESS THE NATIONAL CRISIS:
ARTICLE: THE CASE FOR REFORM: HOW NEW YORK STATE'S SECRET HOSPITAL CHARITY CARE
POOL FUNDS FAIL TO HELP UNINSURED AND UNDERINSURED NEW YORKERS

NAME: Elisabeth Benjamin & Kat Gabriesheski

TEXT:
 [*5]

   Christine and Ed King live in New Jersey. After the World Trade Center
disaster, Ed was only able to get a part-time tech job that paid just $ 350 per
week ($ 18,000 per year) and did not offer health insurance. When their baby,
Stella, was born with a cleft palate, the Kings were able to apply for and
receive New Jersey State "charity care" funds administered through the hospital.
At a six-month post-natal visit, Christine's doctors discovered a baseball-sized
cancerous tumor on her ovary. Christine had a hysterectomy, again paid for by
New Jersey State charity care funds. During the operation, the doctors
discovered that the cancer had spread to her kidney and had metastasized. Short
of a miracle, Christine was expected to die.

   Christine's doctors referred her to a national expert on her type of cancer
at Our Lady of Mercy Hospital in the Bronx, which receives roughly $ 6 million a
year from New York State to provide charity care. Our Lady of Mercy refused to
provide Christine life saving cancer treatment unless she paid $ 20,000 of her
projected $ 80,000 bill in advance of her admission.

   When Ed asked hospital staff for the charity care application, hospital staff
claimed that, unlike New Jersey, New York State did not have a charity care
program. Then Legal Aid Society attorneys contacted the hospital's legal counsel
and asked if some of Our Lady of Mercy's $ 6 million annual allotment could be
applied to Christine's case. The hospital's attorneys refused, stating that New
York's program was not established to help individual patients.

   Introduction

 The hospital industry's treatment of the estimated 43.6 million uninsured
Americans, in addition to the millions more whose health insurance is inadequate
for their needs, has been the focus of recent  [*6]  debate and advocacy efforts
around the country. n1 As of 2002, three million individuals in New York State
alone were estimated to have no health insurance. n2 Advocates are confronted
with increased demands for help from uninsured and underinsured patients who
face overwhelming medical bills, aggressive collection agencies and limited
avenues of relief. n3

   In a response to this crisis and to desperate calls from clients, The Legal
Aid Society of New York City (Legal Aid) decided to investigate how New York
State finances its care of the uninsured and the underinsured. n4 Specifically,
Legal Aid wanted to know what happened to New York State's annual allocation of
approximately $ 847 million to hospitals for their care of patients who cannot
afford to pay their medical bills though the State's Bad Debt and Charity Care
(BDCC) pool. n5 In the summer of 2003, Legal Aid surveyed and documented the
accessibility of free and discounted care for uninsured or underinsured patients
at twenty-two New York City hospitals n6 that  [*7]  collectively receive $ 316
million, or nearly 40%, of the State's allocation of BDCC funds each year. n7

   The Legal Aid study found that, unlike some neighboring states, n8 New York
(1) requires virtually no accountability for the millions of dollars allocated
for BDCC funds; (2) ignores the need for a standardized application and
eligibility system and notification to low-income New Yorkers on how to access
this money; and (3) fails to regulate hospital "charge" rates for uninsured and
underinsured low-income families or to set reasonable standards for billing and
collection practices. n9

   Section I of this article sets forth the history and components of the BDCC
funding pool. Section II explores the scope of the Legal Aid study, including
its methodology and findings, and its recommendations are described in Section
III. Section IV provides an analysis of the responses by New York hospitals, as
indicated by their regional trade groups, including the allegation that federal
law prohibits them from offering discounted care to the uninsured. The
conclusion asks what more should be done with the information gathered by the
study.

   I.

 Background: New York's Bad Debt and Charity Care Pool


   A. What is the BDCC Pool?

 Every year, the New York State Department of Health provides nearly a billion
dollars of Bad Debt and Charity Care funds to state hospitals. In 2003,
hospitals were allocated $ 847 million for the uncompensated  [*8]  care
purportedly provided to patients in 2001. n10 Historically, hospitals attempted
to recover their losses from bad debt n11 and charity care n12 by increasing
charges for those patients or payers. n13 In an attempt to mitigate this
practice, as well as to redistribute the care of the uninsured across a wider
range of hospitals, the legislature adopted the New York Prospective Hospital
Reimbursement Methodology in 1983. n14 This legislation, among many other
things, included a methodology for raising a funding pool to reimburse hospitals
for some of the financial burden caused by bad debt and charity care. n15

   The BDCC pool is funded by third-party payers (except for Medicare), which
are assessed add-on charges. The charge is allocated among geographical regions
within the state, and is dependent on whether the hospital is a major public
hospital or a voluntary nonprofit, private proprietary, or non-major public
general hospital. n16 Current legislation also provides for an assessment based
on the gross revenues of general hospitals, which is placed into a statewide
pool. n17 In January 1997, these funding pools became a part of the 1996 Health
Care Reform Act (HCRA), n18 which was recently extended through June 2005. n19
The HCRA includes other funding pools that benefit the hospital industry as
well, such as the Graduate Medical Education  [*9]  funding, which collected
approximately $ 1.4 billion annually from 1997 through 1999 to support teaching
hospitals in the state. n20

   The New York Department of Health (DOH) is required under state law to
determine each hospital's reimbursement rate for services provided to BDCC
patients on a prospective basis and calculated based upon an established base
year. n21 For example, the 2003 rate was calculated according to each hospital's
claimed provision of BDCC services during base year 2001. Hospitals are notified
of the upcoming rates at least sixty days before the start of the year. n22

   New York Public Health Law 2807-k governs the general hospital indigent care
pool, n23 which allocates money to general hospitals for their BDCC needs
according to set rate tables. n24 The hospitals' needs are defined as losses
from bad debts reduced to cost (rather than a hospital's inflated "charge"
rate), and the costs of charity care provided by the hospital - excluding any
services given as an employment benefit or as a courtesy. n25 The hospitals are
not supposed to include the cost of services, other than emergency room visits,
which have been denied reimbursement by a third-party payer for lack of medical
necessity or for lack of compliance with prior authorization requirements. n26
It is important that the hospitals actually reduce their claims of bad debt and
charity care to cost because their charge rates are usually artificially
inflated negotiating tools for setting rates for third party payers, which never
actually have to pay the higher rates. n27 Nonetheless, as discussed below, most
hospitals apply these rates to their uninsured patients, who are the least
likely to be able to afford them. Because there is virtually no government
monitoring of the  [*10]  hospitals' reported BDCC submissions, it is unknown
whether the hospitals follow the State guidelines and reduce their charge rate
to cost when calculating the amount of BDCC they spend each year. n28

   Hospitals must comply with minimal reporting requirements established by the
DOH, which include monthly and annual reports detailing the amount of bad debt
and charity care provided by the hospital. n29 Also, if a hospital has an
obstetrical care unit, it must provide accessible prenatal care to the uninsured
in order to be eligible for funding. n30 However, there are no public or patient
notice requirements for BDCC money distribution or state regulations governing
the mechanism through which patients may have their accounts "relieved" by the
funding.

   B. Debt Collection - Who Receives These Funds in the Hospital?

 State law requires that New York's general hospitals must implement minimum
collection policies and procedures - approved by the Commissioner of Health - in
order to participate in the pool. n31 Neither state law nor regulations describe
what minimum collection practices are appropriate. Without proper regulations
and limits, this type of requirement has led to widespread use of aggressive
billing practices by hospitals - which include charging exorbitant interest
rates (9%), garnishing wages, and attaching liens to uninsured individuals'
homes. n32

   Most importantly, there is no corresponding requirement that hospitals have a
system to identify charity care patients and provide them notice about BDCC
funds. n33 Without such a system, or any eligibility guidelines, many patients
who could benefit from this funding  [*11]  stream are placed into collections
instead. n34 Because of the lack of a public notice requirement about BDCC
funding, uninsured and underinsured patients have no idea that BDCC funds even
exist. Under New York law, hospitals do not have to inform their patients that
charity funds are available, nor provide charity care in any specified amount or
form. n35 Indeed, the few hospital representatives surveyed by Legal Aid who
were aware of the funding conceded that it was used entirely as a way to offset
their bad debt, rather than to proactively provide for free or low-cost care.
n36 Neither the statutes nor the regulations provide any means to ensure that
the neediest patients receive or otherwise benefit from these funds. The lack of
any auditing procedures by the DOH contributes to the mystery of who actually
receives free or reduced cost care from any of these hospitals. n37

   Although many hospitals receive a significant amount of money from the pool,
n38 the receipt of these funds cannot be used in court as a patient's defense
when he or she is sued by a hospital for collection of fees incurred during the
stay. n39 It is entirely within the hospital's discretion whether to provide
care for free or to turn a patient over to a debt collection agency, regardless
of the patient's ability to pay and the hospital's receipt of BDCC funding every
year.

   C. Accountability

 In 1996, New York State hospitals reported that they had provided more than $
1.5 billion in bad debt and charity services to their patients, about twice as
much as they receive from the BDCC pool. n40  [*12]  The hospitals'
self-reported spending allocations included $ 391 million for inpatient bad
debt, $ 604 million for outpatient bad debt, $ 158 million for inpatient charity
care, and $ 393 million for outpatient charity care. n41 There is no requirement
that hospitals submit claim reports or any other authentication for their BDCC
numbers, although the DOH does have authority to conduct audits if it chooses to
do so. n42

   In his April 2003 report, The Health Care Reform Act (HCRA): The Need to
Restore Accountability to State Taxpayers, New York State Comptroller Alan
Hevesi admonished the administration of the HCRA, including management of the
BDCC pool, for being "off-budget" and therefore having little, if any,
accountability to the state or its taxpayers. n43 There is no independent
auditing or monitoring system in place to track hospitals' submissions or the
pool's administration. The BDCC pool is administered by the Excellus Health Plan
through a contract with New York State. n44 The revenue for this fund is
collected and distributed by Excellus - completely outside the purview of the
normal auditing and accounting procedures of the Office of the Comptroller. n45

   Because of this lack of official oversight, the State is unable to answer
even basic questions about how the pool's funds have been spent, such as:



    (1) How many patients have benefited from the BDCC pool?

   (2) Where do these patients live?

   (3) Which hospital served the largest number of charity care patients?

   (4) Which hospital provided the most charity care in dollars?

   (5) How many patients had bad debt written off?

   (6) How did each hospital spend its allocation of the BDCC pool funds?



    Arguably, hospitals in receipt of BDCC funds have an obligation to provide
accountability about these allocations - allocations stemming from the benefits
they acquire under New York law as non-profit hospitals. All twenty-two of the
hospitals that Legal Aid surveyed are "charitable" entities and receive
substantial financial benefits from the government, including immunity from
payment of federal, state and local taxes. n46 In exchange for these benefits,
the IRS has held that  [*13]  non-profit hospitals must prove that they give
care to the poor in order to retain their tax-exempt status. n47 Similarly, New
York State law requires hospitals to issue "Community Service Plans" to
"demonstrate" and "report" efforts to "provide charity care services and to
improve access to health care services by the underserved ... ." n48 Despite
these charitable obligations, however, Legal Aid's study revealed that few
hospitals responsibly allocate BDCC funds to the low-income uninsured and
underinsured patients they purport to serve.

   II.

 The Legal Aid Survey: How do these funds work?


   A. Methodology Used

 In an attempt to understand how this money is used by hospitals in New York
City, as well as to gather information on billing and pricing practices in order
to help the city's uninsured and underinsured population become better health
care consumers, Legal Aid staff and interns systematically surveyed twenty-two
New York City hospitals in the Summer of 2003. The twenty-two hospitals were
chosen so as to represent a diverse sampling of hospitals from all five
boroughs. Legal Aid compiled the results of the survey in a report entitled
State Secret: How Government Fails to Ensure that Uninsured and Underinsured
Patients Have Access to State Charity Funds, which is available to the public
through The Legal Aid Society's website. n49

   The investigation was comprised of five central components. First, surveyors
telephoned each hospital to determine what billing or payment information is
available to consumers over the phone. The ability to obtain such information in
an efficient manner by calling the hospital is important to all patients, but
especially to those who are sick and disabled. Our surveyors began the calls by
trying the hospital's general phone number. They would attempt to speak with
someone in the billing department who would be able to answer questions  [*14]
for an uninsured patient. n50 If the surveyor was able to reach an individual in
the billing office, she would then ask a standard set of questions about the
availability of sliding fee scales, charity care, and payment options (described
below). At least three phone calls were made to each hospital in an attempt to
receive answers to these questions.

   The second part of the survey involved site visits to each of the hospitals.
n51 Each surveyor used identical survey instruments, which included both a
visual inspection section as well as interview questions for hospital financial
staff. The visual survey required the surveyor to mark each time they located a
sign that displayed hospital policies involving payment options, such as the
existence of sliding fee scales, charity care funds, or the Patient Bill of
Rights. n52 It was also noted whether or not the signs were in languages other
than English.

   The site visits began at the main desk, where the surveyor would try to
locate the billing office. At each office, the Legal Aid staff person explained
what information she was looking for and always asked to speak with someone more
knowledgeable, such as a supervisor or manager.

   The surveyors asked the following questions: n53



    (1) Where does an individual uninsured or underinsured patient who has
difficulty paying a bill go for help if they are ineligible for Medicaid
assistance?

   (2) Is there a sliding fee scale program available? Does it apply to
inpatient services?

   (3) Are payment plan options available? What are their terms?

   (4) Are there any charity care programs for the uninsured? Does your hospital
have any "charity care" funds? Can a patient apply for your Bad Debt and Charity
Care funds? Describe the process, if any.

   (5) Are any of the financial assistance policies or guidelines written, and
are they available to the surveyor?

    [*15]  (6) Are there any financial requirements, such as a deposit, for an
uninsured patient to access non-emergency services, like an elective surgery?



    After the site visits, the surveyors followed up with additional phone calls
to individuals who had not been available during the site visit and with more
senior supervisors and managers in the various billing, patient accounts, and
financial services offices of each hospital.

   At any hospitals where financial staff had been unable or unwilling to
cooperate during the site visits, attempts were made by phone, fax, and email to
members of the hospital's public relations and/or central executive offices.
During these contacts the surveyor included more detailed information pertaining
to the nature of the study and the specific questions being asked. At least
three phone calls were made to each hospital during this follow-up period. n54

   Legal Aid staff members also made "secret shopper" phone calls to each
hospital to obtain information on "charge" rates for an uninsured patient's
overnight stay for elective surgery. n55 The caller asked for the rate exclusive
of charges such as the physician's fee or drug costs. This line of questioning
was made in the context of shopping around for a hospital in which to have a
hysterectomy, one of the most common elective surgeries. n56

   Finally, Legal Aid staff members tracked various low-income clients who were
either uninsured or underinsured and who had outstanding medical bills from one
of the surveyed hospitals. n57 None of these clients was eligible for Medicaid
at the time of hospitalization, but because of the size of the medical bills,
each is struggling under the weight of his or her debt. On their behalf, Legal
Aid staff members have sent letters and placed phone calls to the hospitals'
financial services directors to request that the individual hospitals' bad debt
and charity care funds be used towards these individuals' bills.

[*16]

   III.

 The Findings


   A. BDCC Funds are Not Available to Individual Uninsured and Underinsured
Patients

 Although collectively the twenty-two hospitals surveyed by Legal Aid receive
roughly $ 316 million dollars of bad debt and charity care compensation per
year, n58 the study found that not one seemed to use the funds to pay off the
accounts of uninsured and underinsured patients. As set forth above, the laws
that govern the administration of BDCC funds do not require hospitals to allow
patients to access these funds individually, but there is nothing in them to
prohibit such a distribution either. Instead, the hospitals routinely use the
funds to compensate themselves for bad debt accounts on the back end, while
still harassing their most needy uninsured patients through collection agencies.

   At each hospital, Legal Aid surveyors informed the financial representative
that our research indicated that the hospital received the relevant specific
amount of BDCC funds from New York State. The surveyors then asked the
representative several questions. First, they asked how a patient could access
these funds to help pay for his or her care. Second, they had a series of
questions prepared that would determine the eligibility rules that the hospitals
use to provide uninsured patients charity funds. n59 Finally, the surveyors
asked for a copy of the hospital's written policy governing the eligibility
criteria and how to apply for these BDCC funds.

   The survey revealed that none of the hospitals voluntarily makes BDCC funds
accessible to individual uninsured and underinsured patients through an
application process. n60 It also revealed that each of the hospitals' financial
staff is almost completely unaware of the existence  [*17]  of BDCC funds.
Instead, uninsured and underinsured patients are routinely charged the highest,
self-pay rates for hospital services (described in more detail below). n61

   At thirteen of the twenty-two hospitals surveyed, the patient accounts
representatives with whom our surveyors spoke were completely unaware that BDCC
funds existed. n62 Typical was the response by the associate director of
financial services at Bronx-Lebanon Hospital, that "there are no Bad Debt and
Charity Care Funds." n63 In fact, Bronx-Lebanon receives more than $ 22 million
BDCC funds each year. n64 Similarly, a credit and collections supervisor at SUNY
Downstate claimed that the hospital might have had charity care funds in the
past, "but not anymore," n65 even though SUNY Downstate receives nearly $ 6
million in yearly BDCC funds. n66

   Representatives at eight of the twenty-two hospitals were vaguely aware of
the BDCC funds, but they could not supply our surveyors with any policies that
outlined how these funds work or how to apply them to a patient's medical
expenses. n67 For example, the billing staff at Montefiore Medical Center -
which receives roughly $ 18 million in BDCC funds a year n68 - seemed to believe
that if this funding source did exist, it is only accessible with the permission
of senior management. n69 A representative of Cornell/NY Presbyterian - which
receives more than $ 60 million of BDCC per annum n70 - asserted that "there is
a fund" but "I can't tell you who it is from or how much it is" - nor could the
representative explain the hospital's policies, eligibility criteria or degree
of access to the funds for individual cases. n71

    [*18]  Only at Elmhurst Hospital, which is operated by New York City's
Health and Hospitals Corporation, was the staff aware that the BDCC funds are
intended for uninsured or underinsured patients. According to an Elmhurst
representative, the hospital uses BDCC funds to offer a sliding fee scale for
uninsured patients. n72 Despite this policy, even Elmhurst does not have a
specific mechanism other than the sliding fee scale to enable a needy patient to
apply for BDCC funds. n73

   In sum, the Legal Aid Society study revealed that, in the absence of
legislative or regulatory mandate, the New York hospital industry fails to
voluntarily provide meaningful access to the hundreds of millions of dollars in
BDCC funds it is allocated each year.

   B. Little Notice of Charges and Charity Care Provided to Patients

 Under New York State law, there is no legal requirement for a hospital to
disclose its billing and charge information to the public. n74 Most hospitals
take advantage of this fact by refusing to share even the most basic financial
information. This lack of relevant information makes it nearly impossible for a
health care consumer in New York to compare hospitals based on price - unlike
consumers in any other field. For example, when a New Yorker buys a car, by law
car dealers must disclose information pertinent to the sale to their customers,
such as the recommended manufacturer's list price and gas mileage.
Unfortunately, there are no similar consumer protections for hospital patients
and no laws to require hospitals to provide accurate information about charity
care, billing policies or payment plans.

   Even if most individuals do not think to compare hospitals before actually
needing one, or do not think of health care as a consumer-based commodity, this
information could be vital to advocacy groups, such as Legal Aid, in their work
on behalf of the uninsured. Also, if hospitals were forced to disclose this
information to the public, it would help legislators to understand where gaps
exist in financially accessible care. It might also be a catalyst for a more
consumer-friendly atmosphere at hospitals.

   As described below, in the absence of statutory patient protections,
hospitals routinely refuse to disclose information about their policies for the
uninsured and underinsured, billing rates and payment plans. Legal Aid surveyors
discovered almost immediately that an uninsured  [*19]  New York City patient
has a much harder time learning about New York City hospitals' policies for the
uninsured than a car shopper has in finding out the specifications of a car.

   Legal Aid's investigation was designed to approximate the experience of an
underinsured or uninsured New Yorker who attempts to find out hospital billing
and charge information over the phone and in person. The surveyors recorded
practical considerations such as: (1) the time required to obtain answers; (2)
whether a patient accounts department was easily accessible from the main
hospital building; and (3) the availability of assistance in languages other
than English. n75

   The amount of time and energy exerted by the surveyors just to find answers
to basic questions pertaining to a hospital's charges and billing practices was
far greater than could be expected to be endured by the average patient, let
alone a patient who was timid or unsophisticated or a patient with a serious
health problem or disability. Even the surveyors' significant dedication of time
and effort yielded little concrete information on some hospital's services
provided to uninsured and underinsured patients. Legal Aid graded each hospital
on how easy it was for a patient to receive this information: n76 seven
hospitals earned an A, six a B, three a C, two a D and four hospitals failed.
n77 The four hospitals that earned a failing grade refused to answer any of
Legal Aid's policy and practice questions. Two hospitals provided answers only
after Legal Aid contacted their public relations and/or executive offices. At
three hospitals, surveyors were forced to spend at least two hours, or had to
speak with more than five employees, before receiving answers to all of their
questions. At six, our surveyor was provided with the information within two
hours and spoke with five or fewer employees. Only at seven of the twenty-two
hospitals in the Legal Aid survey were our staff members able to get responses
to  [*20]  their questions within one hour and by consulting with three or fewer
employees. n78

   One serious consequence of a hospital's initial failure to respond to these
inquiries is that patients are forced to physically travel to their hospital to
learn about charity care, charges, billing, and payment options. At seven
hospitals, our surveyors discovered that the billing offices were located more
than a fifteen minute walk from the main hospital building. n79 Out-stationing
these offices results in considerable hardship for patients who are ill or who
have job and family obligations. Furthermore, once at the hospital, our
surveyors occasionally found financial staff and hospital administrators
unnecessarily bureaucratic, reluctant to respond, and sometimes rude. n80 This
is also a complaint often heard from low-income clients who have tried to settle
bills themselves before coming to Legal Aid for assistance. n81

   The Legal Aid surveyors also found that only three of the twenty-two
hospitals had posted signs that described programs for the uninsured or
underinsured. n82 Both on the phone and in person, the surveyors consistently
found it difficult to identify and locate the appropriate person with whom to
speak about billing and payment options for the uninsured and underinsured. For
example, at nine hospitals, employees assumed that a request for information on
behalf of the uninsured or underinsured should be referred to billing staff
responsible for Medicaid patients. n83 Our surveyors reported that even hospital
administrators often proposed Medicaid and Family Health Plus as complete
solutions to patients' financial difficulties, despite the fact that the Legal
[*21]  Aid surveyors explained that they sought information on behalf of
uninsured or underinsured patients who are not eligible for Medicaid. n84

   C. Hospitals' "Charge" Rates

 Another major reason that uninsured and underinsured patients incur
insurmountable medical debt is because hospitals routinely charge them higher
rates than patients who have insurance. They charge an uninsured patient, with
no bargaining power, what is termed a "self-pay" or "charge" rate. These base
rates for medical procedures are heavily discounted for powerful HMOs and
insurance companies that have the ability to negotiate with the hospitals, and
they are far above what the government pays on behalf of Medicare or Medicaid.
n85 They are often thought of as the rates charged to wealthy self-pay clients
who fly in from other countries for expensive treatments; unfortunately, they
are also the prices charged to low-income New Yorkers without health insurance
coverage.

   Legal Aid's clients have experienced firsthand the financial hardship
incurred by this practice. For example, in February 2003, a Legal Aid client's
teenage daughter woke up with terrible chest pains. Terrified, the family rushed
their daughter to St. Francis Hospital on Long Island. The Emergency Room doctor
determined that she had an extreme case of the flu and sent her home with Advil.
A few weeks later, the family received an "Explanation of Benefits" from their
HIP insurance plan denying St. Francis' $ 240 claim for the emergency room visit
on the ground that the daughter's health coverage had lapsed a month earlier. In
September 2003, the family received a bill from St. Francis' collection agency
for $ 1,310.50 - over a 500%  [*22]  markup from the rate the hospital had
originally charged the HIP insurance plan. n86

   In an effort to learn more systematically what deregulated prices or charge
rates hospitals quote to uninsured patients, Legal Aid surveyors called the
hospitals and asked how much an overnight stay for an elective surgery, such as
a hysterectomy, would cost. Surveyors explained to each hospital that they only
wanted the overnight stay charge, excluding all other charges, such as surgeons'
fees and anesthesia costs. The responses received from the hospitals'
pre-admitting staff varied widely; the price quotes ranged from $ 1,100 at Mary
Immaculate to $ 11,422 at the NYU Medical Center. n87 In contrast, commercial
insurers pay a "per diem" rate between $ 800 and $ 1,400 for such a stay,
depending on the hospital and its location. n88 The wide disparity in hospital
prices for the uninsured reminds us that health care consumers must be given
easy access to this type of billing information, especially since many uninsured
patients chose to forego medical care rather than pay such steep self-pay rates.
n89 Accordingly, Legal Aid's investigation next examined how uninsured and
underinsured patients apply for sliding fee discounts and other payment plans
for medically necessary inpatient stays.

   D. Sliding Fee Scales

 Some hospitals offer a discounted fee schedule to low-income uninsured or
underinsured patients. This fee schedule is usually called a "sliding fee"
scale. New York City's public hospital system, the  [*23]  Health and Hospitals
Corporation ("HHC"), has long made its sliding fee scale program available to
its uninsured and underinsured patients. n90 The latest HHC fee schedule applies
a discount based upon the uninsured patient's family size and income. n91
However, there is no state law that requires the non-profit private and
voluntary hospitals to disclose their sliding fee scale and other reduced
payment programs.

   The availability of sliding fee scales in the health care context is
important given the inexorable rise in the number of uninsured and underinsured
patients who cannot afford medical treatments. Sliding fee scales are
particularly valuable for inpatient, non-emergency treatment. Although many such
treatments, such as chemotherapy for cancer patients, are considered elective as
opposed to emergency services, they often include procedures that can
significantly reduce pain and suffering and decrease the chance of death. These
procedures are generally far more expensive than clinic services, and rates
routinely climb into the tens of thousands of dollars.

   Although most of the twenty-two hospitals surveyed in the Legal Aid study
have certified to the New York State Department of Health that they make some
services available to low-income uninsured patients, n92 our surveyors
discovered that these vague certifications fail to guarantee affordable care to
uninsured or underinsured patients. At St. John's Hospital and the NYU Medical
Center, the billing staff told our surveyors that the hospital did not offer a
sliding fee scale program. Three other hospitals did not respond to Legal Aid's
requests for information about sliding fee scale policies for the uninsured. n93
Although seventeen hospitals claimed to have sliding fee programs,  [*24]  only
three actually apply these programs to inpatient bills - where discounts are
most needed. n94

   Very few hospitals had written fee scale policies to aid financial staff in
determining eligibility requirements. Only four out of the twenty-two hospitals
surveyed had written policies that were available to the public. n95 The
majority of the hospitals would not voluntarily provide Legal Aid with copies of
their sliding fee policies, if there even were any. When a surveyor asked to see
a copy of the sliding fee scale policy at Cabrini Medical Center, she was told
that "this is a hospital ... we can't give out that information." Staff at
Jamaica Medical Center said no because "they are hospital documents." n96 By
contrast, the Health and Hospital Corporations hospitals (the Legal Aid study
included only one HHC hospital: Elmhurst) routinely make their sliding fee scale
programs known and information about them available in pamphlets distributed in
the hospitals' billing offices.

   E. Payment Plans

 Legal Aid surveyors also found that several of the hospitals in the study
offered onerous payment plans before patients are even admitted for treatment.
For example, at eight of the twenty-two hospitals surveyed, uninsured patients
are regularly asked to pay 100 percent of their anticipated bill prior to
admission. n97 Lenox Hill Hospital revealed that their policy is to demand $
6,000 up front, with the possibility for a reduction to $ 3,000. n98 Similarly,
Columbia/NY Presbyterian requires a sixty percent deposit and the NYU Medical
Center requires a fifty percent deposit prior to admission. n99 The
inflexibility of most plans is likely to deter patients from seeking treatment
for a serious condition as well as cause considerable financial hardship. n100

    [*25]  Most of the hospitals Legal Aid surveyed offer more than one payment
option and claim to consider income, bill amount, or the size of a patient's
household when establishing a payment plan. But the cumulative impact of the
hospitals' imposition of charge rates, up-front payment demands, stringent time
limits, and woefully inadequate discounts demonstrate that payment plans are
remarkably unrealistic for uninsured and underinsured patients who might seek
inpatient care.

   Should an uninsured patient be fortunate enough to be admitted without a
deposit (usually through the emergency room), many hospitals have unrealistic
post-treatment payment plans. At least six of the twenty-two hospitals allow
discounts - almost always capped at twenty percent - off the total bill only if
a patient is able to pay the whole bill, or a large percentage, up front. n101
Uninsured or underinsured patients are unlikely to be able to satisfy either of
these two conditions; they typically receive large bills, and their annual
income is often less than eighty percent of what they owe. In contrast, Elmhurst
Hospital, a New York City public hospital, requires only a minimum deposit of $
200 with the remainder determined according to a patient's income. n102 Many
hospitals also place inflexible limits on the amount of time a patient has to
pay the bill, usually less than one year - only five are more flexible, or
permit longer payment periods. n103

   F. Collection Agencies

 The New York State BDCC statute explicitly encourages hospitals to vigorously
pursue uninsured and underinsured patients. n104 Accordingly, hospitals
regularly refer their overdue bills to collection agencies. Some hospitals do
this on a routine basis, such as after a bill remains unpaid for a certain
amount of time (often between sixty days and one year). Direct referrals to
collection agencies are generally made without any inquiry into a patient's
financial circumstances because, as the Patient Accounts Manager at Beth Israel
Medical Center claimed, "the patient can tell us anything [about his or her
financial  [*26]  status]. There is no way for us to verify their story. That's
why we refer them to collection agencies." n105

   If a patient notifies Brookdale Hospital that he or she is having trouble
paying the amount owed, the hospital brings that patient in for what it calls an
"interrogation" to identify what amount the patient can afford to pay. n106 At
Jamaica Hospital, however, the staff refuses to even negotiate payment plans.
Instead, patients are referred to a collection agency in order to negotiate
payment options when they are unable to pay the full amount. n107

   Research reports and academic articles describe how medical facilities'
inflexible payment plans and reluctance to negotiate with patients early in the
billing process unnecessarily subject the uninsured and underinsured to
aggressive pursuit by creditors, ruined credit, and personal bankruptcy filings.
n108 One recent study found that nearly half of all bankruptcies were filed for
a medical reason or for medical debt, and more than 500,000 middle class
families turned to the bankruptcy courts for help following an illness or injury
in 1999. n109 This study also revealed that vulnerable groups, such as
female-headed households n110 and the elderly, n111 were even more likely to
experience a health-related bankruptcy. Tellingly, many of these families were
not uninsured, but only underinsured - nearly eighty percent had some form of
basic health insurance. n112

[*27]

   IV.

 Reactions


   A. Legal Aid's Recommendations

 Based on its extensive findings, The Legal Aid Society proposed the following
recommendations to New York's legislature: n113



    New York policy makers should transform the BDCC funding stream and make
these funds accountable along the lines adopted by our neighboring states.

   (1) Enact a statute to establish a simple, uniform statewide application and
eligibility process for hospitals to use to administer free care and sliding fee
programs based upon standardized income guidelines. This process should be
simple to administer and non-bureaucratic.

   (2) Require hospitals to notify patients of the availability of charity care
funds, sliding fees and other payment policies whenever the hospitals seek
payment, i.e., prior to admission and/or at post-discharge billing. Require
posting of signs and booklets regarding these policies in inpatient accounts
departments.

   (3) Require hospitals to charge uninsured and underinsured families the
lowest, not the highest, rates - the Medicaid rate, for example.

   (4) Require hospitals to follow fair and standardized collection practices.

   (5) Enact legislation to immunize low-income families who are income-eligible
for public insurance coverage from suit by hospitals that receive BDCC funds.

   (6) Establish an appropriate auditing system of BDCC funds which: (a)
accounts for the number of uninsured patients served through the funding
mechanism; (b) rewards hospitals which serve larger numbers of uninsured with
increased BDCC funding; and (c) ensures that patients' accounts are credited if
funds are provided for their care, i.e., they are not also put into collections.



    Should these recommendations be implemented, The Legal Aid Society argues,
health advocacy groups would not only support the BDCC program, but urge for its
expansion. However, without meaningful improvements in the BDCC pool's
administration, Legal Aid and other advocates have urged lawmakers to consider
other concrete alternatives - such as expanding insurance access - that are
meaningful to the uninsured patients these programs are purportedly designed to
serve. For example, the $ 847 million in BDCC funds each year  [*28]  could be
used to fully insure an additional 227,000 low income New Yorkers through the
State's Family Health Plus program. n114

   B. The American Hospital Association's Reaction and Advocates' Response

 Confronted with various advocacy reports, press accounts, the recent
congressional investigation into the billing practices of hospitals nationwide,
and other forms of public pressure, the American Hospital Association (AHA)
asserted in December 2003 that the Medicare statute prohibits hospitals from
using less aggressive collection tactics on low-income uninsured families. n115
It wrote a letter to Tommy Thompson, head of the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services, in which the trade group claimed that the Medicare regulations
"make it far too difficult and frustrating" to reduce prices for their uninsured
patients. n116

   But as a rule, the Medicare program does not review a hospital's self-pay
charge in order to establish Medicare rates. n117 Generally, Medicare
rate-setting is not based on an "average" of other payers' charges or rates.
Rather, rates are typically based on a calculation of local wage and consumer
price adjustments. n118 For example, Medicare calculates its reimbursement rates
for an acute hospitalization as follows: First, the government sets Diagnosis
Related Groups (DRGs), which capture the relative intensity of an individual
health encounter or hospitalization. Second, once the DRG is assigned to the
patient, the actual reimbursement varies by hospital and depends on such factors
as geographic location, teaching status, and proportion of low-income patients.
n119

    [*29]  Furthermore, Medicare explicitly permits hospitals to provide "free
care or care at a reduced charge to patients who are determined to be
financially indigent." n120 The federal government's Medicare Provider Manual
describes a simple mechanism for hospitals to follow "to assure that the
provisions of such free care or care at a reduced rate will not affect the
acceptance of the provider's established charge schedule as customary." n121

   Federal law does prohibit providers from billing Medicare beneficiaries a
higher charge than non-Medicare beneficiaries. n122 But the purpose of this
prohibition is to avoid excess charges to government-sponsored health programs,
thereby avoiding government subsidization of commercial insurance payers. It is
not intended to regulate hospital billing of uninsured patients. As the Medicare
Provider Manual notes, "it is the intent of the law that the Medicare program
shall reimburse no more than a private payment patient would be asked to pay,
even if there is only one 'patient liable for payment on a charge basis.'" n123

   Accordingly, "setting uniform prices is not the same as receiving uniform
reimbursements." n124 Hospitals routinely negotiate steep discounts for
commercial insurers. Federal law does not bar New York's non-profit hospitals
from negotiating steep discounts with the uninsured. In fact, in early-and
mid-2003, for-profit hospitals, such as Hospital Corporation of America (HCA)
and Tenet Healthcare Corporation, announced reduced rates for their uninsured
patients. n125

   In addition, the fact that the hospitals routinely charge their privately
insured patients less than their customary charges is now under serious scrutiny
not only by the media and Legal Aid, but also by the  [*30]  federal government.
Indeed, the Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector
General recently proposed regulations which seek to remedy this system and
explained that it was concerned that hospitals are "simply overcharging
Medicare." n126 The regulations would require hospitals to include "negotiated
rates" with managed care companies when they calculate their "usual charges."
n127

   The new rule also provides important protections for the uninsured.
Specifically, it proposes to not include in the hospital "usual charge"
calculation "charges for services provided to uninsured patients free of charge
or at a substantially reduced rate ... ." n128

   C. The Federal Government Weighs In on the Side of the Uninsured

 In February 2004, Health and Human Services Secretary Tommy Thompson responded
to this debate and to the American Hospital Association's demand for specific
guidance by stating that "nothing should stop the industry from taking steps to
offer discounts to the uninsured" and that hospitals are not required "to engage
in any specific level of collection effort for Medicare or non-Medicare
patients." n129 Although the Medicare statute requires providers to make a
"reasonable collection effort" to pursue debts, the Medicare Provider
Reimbursement Manual clearly sets forth a mechanism whereby a provider can
determine that a patient is "indigent" or "medically indigent." n130 Once an
individual is judged "indigent" for this purpose, that person's "debt may be
deemed uncollectible" and the hospital is not required to pursue standard debt
collection practices. n131

[*31]

   D. HANYS Guidelines

 The Healthcare Association of New York State (HANYS), the trade group that
represents the state's 230 not-for-profit hospitals, recently responded to the
increased national scrutiny, calls for reform by the Legal Aid study, and the
presence of several reform bills in Albany. n132 It proposed voluntary
guidelines for its member hospitals that would offer immediate price reductions
to patients with incomes below 200 percent of the federal poverty level
(currently around $ 9,300 a year). n133 HANYS also urged its hospitals to
provide other valuable discounts to individuals and families with incomes above
that level. The guidelines suggest that hospitals should discontinue their
practices of charging the uninsured higher prices than HMOs, insurers, and the
government (through Medicare and Medicaid). n134

   The trade group also addressed the practice of aggressive collections by
specifically discouraging hospitals from forcing home foreclosures or using
"body attachments," a practice whereby patients are actually arrested and jailed
for failing to show at medical debt related court appearances. n135 However,
even under these voluntary guidelines, hospitals are still able to charge
interest, garnish wages, place patients into collection actions, and put liens
on individuals' homes. n136

   V.

 Conclusion: How Can the Uninsured Be Good Health Care Consumers?

 New York City is a self-touted "medical Mecca." But for the uninsured and the
underinsured, securing access to affordable care is confusing, frustrating, and
uncertain - in short, it is an exercise in futility.  [*32]  For example,
uninsured patients are routinely asked to pay more than their annual income in
advance of treatment. Unlike consumers who are shopping for cars, uninsured and
underinsured health consumers have few consumer protections when they confront a
medical crisis. They are often left without practical information necessary to
obtain care at a manageable cost.

   Caring for uninsured and underinsured patients imposes financial difficulties
for hospitals that provide treatment to people in need. n137 Nonetheless, under
the State Health Department's supervision, New York hospitals administer
billions of dollars of "off budget" government health spending, purportedly to
benefit low-income patients, through a variety of funding pools, including the
BDCC pool, with virtually little or no oversight. n138

   But from the patient's perspective, New York's BDCC funds are totally
ineffective in their intended purpose of providing care for the uninsured and
underinsured. Our study shows that all twenty-two hospitals we approached fail
to establish voluntary policies for the administration of these funds to the
patients they are designed to assist.

   New York's program, thus, stands in sharp contrast to our neighboring states.
Connecticut, New Jersey, and Massachusetts have all established legal frameworks
that ensure that their version of these funds are actually made available to
low-income uninsured and underinsured patients. Each of our neighboring states
requires hospitals that receive Charity Care funds to provide notice to their
patients about the existence of the funds and to establish specific eligibility
criteria for individual patients. n139

   The difficulties experienced by Legal Aid surveyors in accessing information
about hospital charges and billing practices for uninsured or underinsured
patients suggest the harsh reality that affordable care is largely unavailable
for this group. More broadly, these results indicate that it is almost
impossible for poor patients to become informed health care consumers. Instead,
they are left to seek out information  [*33]  on sliding fee scales and payment
plans that is not readily available, or to work out an unfeasible repayment
schedule after collection agencies have pursued them.

   In light of the public outcry, a three-stage response to caring for the
uninsured and underinsured at hospitals is necessary. First, the onus now lies
upon the hospital industry to justify the use of the nearly billion dollars in
annual BDCC funds by: (1) making BDCC fund information accessible to these
patients; (2) improving payment options; and (3) decreasing the rates charged to
the uninsured. Second, the State Department of Health must assert its regulatory
authority and demand accountability and transparency for the BDCC pools it has
the responsibility to administer. Third, the State legislature should follow the
lead of our neighboring states and establish a more just and equitable system of
BDCC funding for the uninsured. Currently, three such bills are under
consideration in the State Assembly. Sponsored by Assemblyman Grannis and
several other Assembly members, these bills would require hospitals who received
BDCC funds to report the number of uninsured or underinsured patients were
served by these funds, establish uniform standards and procedures for the
provision of financial assistance to low-and middle-income patients without
health insurance, and adopt reasonable policies and procedures to charge and
collect payments from low-and middle-income patients that take into account
their ability to pay. n140

   Absent meaningful legislative reform, New York State's generous allocation of
charity care funding to hospitals that purport to serve uninsured and
underinsured patients will continue to be a billion-dollar allocation in name
only.


Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Business & Corporate LawNonprofit Corporations & OrganizationsGeneral
OverviewGovernmentsLocal GovernmentsFinancePublic Health & Welfare LawSocial
SecurityMedicaidProvidersPayments & ReimbursementsHospitals

FOOTNOTES:




n1.  See Lucette Lagnado, Hospitals Will Give Price Breaks to Uninsured, if
Medicare Agrees, Wall St. J., Dec. 17, 2003, at A1 [hereinafter Lagnado,
Hospitals] (stating "under pressure from lawmakers and consumer advocates, the
hospital industry said it would consider making broad price cuts for the
uninsured ... ."); Henry J. Kaiser Family Found., New York: Population
Distribution by Insurance Status, State Data 2001-2002, U.S. 2002 (2002), at
http://www.statehealthfacts. kff.org (last visited Sept. 27, 2004).





n2.  Danielle Holahan et al., United Hospital Fund, Health Insurance Coverage in
New York, 2002 34 tbl.2 (2004), http://www.uhfnyc.org/usr doc/chartbook
2004.pdf.





n3.  See Lagnado, Hospitals, supra note 1 (noting that "adding to the problem
for the uninsured, many hospitals have become more aggressive in seeking payment
of these bills. Hospitals have placed liens on debtors' homes, garnished wages,
seized bank accounts and, in some cases, sought the arrest of debtors who miss
court dates, a practice known in some states as 'body attachment.'").





n4.  The Legal Aid Society is the nation's oldest and largest legal services
provider. The Legal Aid Society's Health Law Unit provides health care advice
and representation to thousands of health care consumers, community based
organizations and providers each year through a Health Law Hotline. More
information can be found at www.legal-aid.org, and a copy of the survey
discussed in this article - State Secret: How Government Fails to Ensure that
Uninsured and Underinsured Patients Have Access to State Charity Funds - can be
found at http://www.legal-aid.org/Uploads/ BDCCReport.pdf. This article's
authors were lead authors of the survey. Elisabeth Benjamin, MSPH, JD, is the
Director of the Health Law Unit at the Legal Aid Society and Kat Gabriesheski,
JD, was a 2003 Summer Intern.





n5.  N.Y. State Dep't of Health, Indigent Care Pool Distributions (2003)
(spreadsheet on file with The Legal Aid Society's Health Law Unit) [hereinafter
Indigent Care Pool].





n6.  The twenty-two hospitals surveyed were: Beth Israel, Bronx-Lebanon,
Brookdale, Cabrini, Columbia/NY Presbyterian, Cornell/NY Presbyterian, Elmhurst,
Flushing, Jamaica, Lenox Hill, Maimonides, Mary Immaculate, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering, Montefiore, Mount Sinai, NY Methodist, NYU Med. Ctr., St.
John's, St. Luke's, St. Vincent's Manhattan, St. Vincent's Staten Island, and
SUNY Downstate. See Legal Aid Society, State Secret: How Government Fails to
Ensure that Uninsured and Underinsured Patients Have Access to State Charity
Funds 19 (2003), http://www.legal-aid.org/Uploads/BDCCReport.pdf [hereinafter
State Secret].





n7.  See Indigent Care Pool, supra note 5, at 19. A similar study was completed
in the summer of 2000 by the Long Island Health Access Monitoring Project. See
Long Island Health Access Monitoring Project, Long Island Coalition for a
National Health Plan, Hospital Community Benefits and Free Care Programs: An
Initial Study of Seven Long Island Hospitals iii (2001) (stating that study's
"overall objective was to determine what local hospitals say and do about
community benefits and free care for the uninsured"),
http://www.communitycatalyst. org/acrobat/NY-7-hosp-pilot.pdf.





n8.  New Jersey and Massachusetts also have "charity care" pools but provide a
greater nexus between the funds and individual patient accounts via generalized
applications and eligibility requirements. See N.J. Admin. Code tit. 10,
10.52-11.5 (2004); Mass. Regs. Code tit. 14.6, 10.03, 10.04 (2004).





n9.  See discussion infra Part III.B. See also Lagnado, Hospitals, supra note 1
(noting that "at the heart of the issue is the hospitals' common practice of
charging full listed prices").





n10.  See Indigent Care Pool, supra note 5, at 19.





n11. " Bad debt" typically refers to the failure to collect from bills issued
either directly to patients or to third-party insurers. State Secret, supra note
6, at 14.





n12. " Charity care" typically refers to free or low-cost care based on
financial need. See id.





n13.  See St. Joseph's Hosp. Health Ctr. v. Dep't of Health of N.Y., 677
N.Y.S.2d 194, 197 (4th Dep't 1998).





n14.  Christine S. Spencer, Do Uncompensated Care Pools Change the Distribution
of Hospital Care to the Uninsured?, 23 J. Health Pol. Pol'y & L. 53, 54, 70
(1998) (arguing funding pool largely unsuccessful at meeting redistribution
goals). See also N.Y. Pub Health Law 2807 (McKinney 2003). The most relevant
regulations adopted pursuant to these statutes are N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs.
tit. 10, 86-1.11, 86-1.65 (1995-1999).





n15.  N.Y. Pub Health Law 2807-a(8)(e) (McKinney 2002).





n16.  Id. "Major public general hospital" means all state-run hospitals, those
run by the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, and all other public
general hospitals with annual inpatient operating costs of over twenty-five
million dollars. Id. 2807-k(1)(a).





n17.  N.Y. Pub Health Law 2808-c(1) (McKinney 2002).





n18.  Letter from Richard Pellegrini, Director, Bureau of Financial Management &
Information Support, (Nov. 4, 1996), at
http://www.health.state.ny.us/nysdoh/hcra/ main.htm.





n19.  Jerry Geisel, New York Extends, Raises Hospital Bill Surcharge, Bus. Ins.,
June 23, 2003, at 3. The recent budget extension of HCRA also raised the
hospital surcharge, which is added to patient accounts to help fund the indigent
care pool, to 8.85%, up from 8.18%. Id.





n20.  Pub. Pol'y Inst. of N.Y. State, Inc., Misguided Money: A Reexamination of
the $ 2.6 Billion in Subsidies Provided by Taxpayers and Insurance Surcharges to
Help Finance New York's Medical Institutions 3 (1998),
http://www.bcnys.org/ppi/misgd3.htm (last visited Sept. 27, 2004).





n21.  N.Y. Pub Health Law 2807(7) (McKinney 2002).





n22.  See St. Joseph's Hosp. Health Ctr. v. Dep't of Health of N.Y., 677
N.Y.S.2d 194, 199 (4th Dep't 1998).





n23.  This statute encompasses major general hospitals, which consist of all
public hospitals run by the state, hospitals operated by the New York City
Health and Hospitals Corporation (HHC), and those with over $ 25 million in
annual inpatient operating costs. N.Y. Pub Health Law 2807-k(1)(a) (McKinney
2002).





n24.  Id. 2807-k(3)-(5).





n25.  Id. 2807-k(1)(d).





n26.  Id. 2807-k(1)(e).





n27.  Lucette Lagnado, A Young Woman, an Appendectomy, and a $ 19,000 Debt, Wall
St. J., Mar. 17, 2003, at A1 (stating that "most major U.S. hospitals are
required to set official 'charges' for their services, but then agree to
discount or even ignore those charges when getting paid by big institutions such
as insurance companies or the government.") [hereinafter Lagnado, A Young
Woman].





n28.  See Alan G. Hevesi, Office of the State Comptroller, New York State, The
Health Care Reform Act (HCRA): The Need to Restore Accountability to State
Taxpayers 17 (2003), http://www.osc.state.ny.us/press/releases/apr03/ HCRA.pdf
(last visited Oct. 28, 2004).





n29.  N.Y. Pub Health Law 2807-k(9) (McKinney 2002).





n30.  Id. 2807-k(10), 2807-c(16)(e); N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 10,
86-1.65(j)(2) (Supp. 2004).





n31.  N.Y. Pub Health Law 2807-k(9) (McKinney 2002). This is similar to
requirements in the Medicare law, which are discussed in Part V infra.





n32.  See, e.g, Alison Leigh Cowan, Yale Hospital Plans to Halt Foreclosure for
Bill Collection, N.Y. Times, May 9, 2003, at B2. Legal Aid's Health Law Unit has
assisted low-income uninsured and underinsured patients who have been subjected
to all of these practices and more.





n33.  Mary Sisson, NY System Strands Charity Patients, Crain's N.Y. Bus., Nov.
10-16, 2003, at 1 ("But unlike other states that provide charity care funding,
New York state has set up its system so that the money goes directly to
hospitals. As a result, people who need free or discounted care - those without
insurance, money or access to Medicaid - often end up with huge bills.").





n34.  See id. (noting that when hospitals receive their BDCC reimbursement, they
are not required to credit the accounts of patients who cannot pay).





n35.  Margaret Ramirez, Sick Feeling Over Costs, Newsday, Nov. 3, 2003, at A12
(stating that "Patricia J. Wang, senior vice president of finance for the
Greater New York Hospital Association, said patients are not notified about
charity funds because the money isn't available to individuals.").





n36.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 22-23.





n37.  See Hevesi, supra note 28, at 17.





n38.  In 2000, New York hospitals received a total of $ 765 million dollars for
the BDCC pool, with $ 156 million going to public hospitals, $ 546 million to
all voluntary hospitals, $ 36 million to high-need hospitals and $ 27 million to
Supplemental Indigent Care Distributions, which goes to teaching hospitals with
BDCC needs. Manatt, Phelps and Philips, Breakdown of Allocations under the New
York State Health Care Reform Act of 2000 Table I (2002) (on file with The Legal
Aid Society Health Law Unit).





n39.  N.Y. Pub. Health Law 2807-k(14) (McKinney 2003) (stating that a hospital's
receipt of BDCC funds "shall not be admissible as a defense, offset or reduction
in any action or proceeding relating to any bill or claim for amounts due for
hospital services provided").





n40.  Pub. Pol'y Inst. of N.Y. State, Inc., supra note 20, at 3.





n41.  Id.





n42.  Id.





n43.  Hevesi, supra note 28, at 2.





n44.  Id. at 1.





n45.  Id.





n46.  New York State does not allow for-profit hospitals. See N.Y. Pub. Health
Law 2801-a(1) (McKinney 2003). Nonprofit hospitals are exempt from taxation. See
Alice A. Noble et al., Charitable Hospital Accountability: A Review and Analysis
of Legal and Policy Initiatives, 26 J.L. Med. & Ethics 116, 116 (1998); Kevin M.
Wood, Legislatively-Mandated Charity Care for Nonprofit Hospitals: Does
Government Intervention Make Any Difference?, 20 Rev. Litig. 709, 710-11
(2000-2001) (noting, however, that "society now perceives very little difference
between nonprofit and for-profit hospitals").





n47.  Hospitals Must Show It Serves Indigent for Exemption, LEXSTAT 2001 TNT
48-45 (Feb. 5, 2001).





n48.  N.Y. Pub. Health Law 2803-l (McKinney 2002).





n49.  State Secret, supra note 6.





n50.  Different hospitals had different terms for their departments, such as
patient accounts, billing, finances, collections, payment offices, etc. For
convenience, we will refer to any office where a patient might get information
about a potential bill as a "billing office."





n51.  A copy of the on-site survey instrument is attached as Appendix A to the
report. See State Secret, supra note 6, App. A.





n52.  The New York State Hospital Patients' Bill of Rights offers no statutory
or regulatory protections for New York State health consumers when they seek
care in the hospital. See N.Y. Comp. Codes R. & Regs. tit. 10, 405.7 (2001).





n53.  State Secret, supra note 6, at App. A. This information was confirmed by
the hospital's admitting or pre-admitting offices.





n54.  Id. at 18.





n55.  Id.





n56.  Hysterectomies are the second most commonly performed surgical procedures
for women of reproductive age in the United States. See, e.g., Homa Keshavarz et
al., Hysterectomy Surveillance - United States, 1994-1999, Morbidity & Mortality
Weekly Rep., July 12, 2002, at 1, http://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/PDF/SS/SS5105.pdf.





n57.  One such uninsured client's story was profiled in The Wall Street Journal
last year. Rebekah Nix, a twenty-five-year-old magazine intern, was charged $
14,000 - the highest "self-pay" rate - by New York Methodist Hospital after an
emergency appendectomy landed her in the hospital for two days. Lagnado, A Young
Woman, supra note 27. In contrast, Methodist Hospital charges insurers
substantially less for a hospital stay for the same services; commercial HMOs
are billed at about $ 2,500, Medicaid is billed at about $ 5,000, and Medicare
is billed at about $ 7,800. Id.





n58.  Indigent Care Pool, supra note 5.





n59.  Criteria that we presumed relevant for determining eligibility for State
BDCC funds included an assessment of the patient's family income and resources,
the number of people in the patient's household, the size of the patient's
medical bill, proof that the patient had been rejected from Medicaid or another
public insurance program, the gravity of the patient's medical condition,
whether it was a repeat or one-time-only patient, and proof of the patient's
uninsured status. However, none of the hospitals we surveyed used these or any
other criteria for the allocation of charity care.





n60.  Lenox Hill's attorneys - through written answers provided to their public
relations staff - claimed to have a charity care fund from "private donors"
available for "a patient who demonstrates need." However, Lenox Hill would not
disclose the criteria for accessing these funds, if any, and would not provide
us a copy of their application for its "private" charity care program. Fax and
email to Lenox Hill legal counsel (July 31, 2003) (on file with Legal Aid
Society Health Law Unit).





n61.  The Public Policy and Education Fund awarded "F" grades to all twenty-six
New York City hospitals for their failure to provide publicly available free or
charity care policies in response to their phone survey. Pub. Pol'y & Ed. Fund
of N.Y., Hospital Free Care: Can New Yorkers Access Hospital Services Paid for
by Our Tax Dollars? 21-24 (2003), at http://www.citizenactionny.org/reports/
Hospital Free Care Report Final.pdf.





n62.  These hospitals were Beth Israel, Bronx-Lebanon, Lenox Hill, Maimonides,
Mary Immaculate, Memorial Sloan-Kettering, Montefiore, Mount Sinai, NYU Med.
Ctr., St. John's, St. Vincent's Manhattan, St. Vincent's Staten Island, and SUNY
Downstate. See State Secret, supra note 6, at 21.





n63.  Id.





n64.  Indigent Care Pool, supra note 5.





n65.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 22.





n66.  Indigent Care Pool, supra note 5.





n67.  These hospitals were Brookdale, Cabrini, Cornell/NY Presbyterian,
Elmhurst, Flushing, Jamaica, NY Methodist, and St. Luke's. State Secret, supra
note 6, at 22.





n68.  Indigent Care Pool, supra note 5.





n69.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 22.





n70.  Indigent Care Pool, supra note 5.





n71.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 22.





n72.  Id.





n73.  Id.





n74.  See N.Y. Pub. Health Law 2807-k, -w (McKinney 2002); N.Y. Comp. Codes R. &
Regs. tit. 10, 400.18 (Supp. 2004).





n75.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 25.





n76.  Hospitals that answered the questions within one hour and after speaking
with one to three people received an "A"; hospitals that took between one to two
hours after querying less than five staff persons received a "B"; hospitals that
took more than two hours and required querying more than five staff persons
received a "C"; hospitals that would only answer our questions after we
contacted public relations staff or their executive offices received a "D"; and
hospitals which refused to cooperate received an "F." State Secret, supra note
6, at 26.





n77.  Columbia/NY Presbyterian, Jamaica, St. Luke's, Montefiore, NYU Med. Ctr.,
St. Vincent's Staten Island, and SUNY Downstate received an "A." Beth Israel,
Bronx-Lebanon, Cabrini, Elmhurst, Flushing, and St. John's received a "B."
Brookdale, Cornell/NY Presbyterian, and Mt. Sinai received a "C." Lenox Hill and
NY Methodist received a "D." Maimonides, Mary Immaculate, Memorial
Sloan-Kettering, and St. Vincent's Manhattan received an "F." Id.





n78.  Id. at 27.





n79.  This information is based on surveyor reports from Beth Israel, Brookdale,
Cornell/NY Presbyterian, Lenox Hill, Mary Immaculate, Mount Sinai, and St.
Luke's Roosevelt. Id.





n80.  At two hospitals - Cornell/NY Presbyterian and Maimonides - the patient
accounts representatives claimed that they could not answer general billing
questions because of HIPAA (the federal law that protects patient privacy). Id.
at 27 n.62. This response represents a gross misinterpretation of the law; HIPAA
protects patients' health information, not hospitals' general policies. See
Press Release, United States Department of Health and Human Services, Fact
Sheet: Protecting the Privacy of Patients' Health Information (Apr. 14, 2003),
http://www.hhs.gov/news/facts/privacy. html (last visited Oct. 27, 2004).





n81.  See Ramirez, supra note 35 (noting that "although Guzman tried negotiating
with hospital officials to work out a reasonable payment plan after being
treated last September, Mount Sinai officials balked at working something out").





n82.  Only St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan posted information about federal
charity care funds, and only Mount Sinai and Bronx-Lebanon posted information
about their sliding fee scale programs. State Secret, supra note 6, at 28.





n83.  These hospitals were Beth Israel, Brookdale, Cornell/NY Presbyterian,
Jamaica, Maimonides, Mary Immaculate, St. John's, St. Luke's, and SUNY
Downstate. Id. at 28 & n.65.





n84.  Id. Medicaid eligibility in New York is restricted to those individuals
with an annual income of $ 7,908 and asset limits of $ 3,950. There are some
instances where individuals may be eligible to "spend down" excess income on
medical bills in order to qualify. However, these income limits are extremely
low, and many individuals who cannot afford to buy health insurance do not
qualify. See New York State Department of Health, Info for Consumers: Need Help
Paying for Medical Care?, at
http://www.health.state.ny.us/nysdoh/medicaid/mainmedicaid.htm (last modified
Aug. 2004). As for New York's Family Health Plus low-cost insurance program,
there is no retroactive eligibility. Therefore, should an individual be found
eligible after incurring medical expenses, Family Health Plus would not help pay
for those bills. See New York State Department of Health, Info for Consumers:
Family Health Plus: What Will Happen When I Apply?, at
http://www.health.state.ny.us/nysdoh/fhplus/ what will happen.htm (last modified
Aug. 2004).





n85.  See Lagnado, A Young Woman, supra note 27.





n86.  This example is based on Legal Aid's interview with the family, a review
of their bills and confirmation of their charges with hospital representatives.





n87.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 31. Kat Gabriesheski, this article's
co-author and one of Legal Aid's surveyors, called the NYU Medical Center on
July 17, 2003, and received a quote of $ 11,422. Because NYU's rate quote was an
outlier compared with the other hospitals' quoted "charge rates," Ms.
Gabriesheski called again on a later date for verification. This time, however,
the pre-admitting office refused to provide any information because, it was
claimed, a patient must be "in the system to receive this information." Thus,
NYU could have been listed as either the most expensive hospital of the
twenty-two surveyed or the only hospital that refused to provide a rate quote
for the requested overnight surgical stay. Id.





n88.  The Medicare program pays $ 1,101.75 for a hysterectomy performed in
Manhattan. This rate includes the doctor's fees and the hospital costs. See Am.
Med. Ass'n, at http://www.webstore.ama-assn.org/search/cptlookup (CPT code
58150) (last visited May 5, 2004).





n89.  See Lisa Duchon et al., The Commonwealth Fund, Security Matters: How
Instability in Health Insurance Puts U.S. Workers at Risk viii (2001),
http://www.cmwf.org/usr doc/duchon securitymatters 512.pdf; The Access Project,
Paying for Health Care When You're Uninsured: How Much Support Does the Safety
Net Offer? 10 (2003), http://www.accessproject.org/downloads/d finreport.pdf.





n90.  New York Lawyers for the Public Interest, The Rights of the Uninsured In
New York City Training Manual, Supplement III-E (2001) (indicating that fee
scales for inpatient services have existed since the 1970s at HHC) (on file with
the Legal Aid Society Health Law Unit).





n91.  See N.Y. City Health & Hosps. Corp., HHC Options: Making Quality Health
Care Affordable 5-8 (June 2004) (on file with The Legal Aid Society Health Law
Unit).





n92.  All of the hospitals surveyed, except for Cabrini and Maimonides,
certified in 1997 that "they would provide all medically necessary care to
medically indigent patients coming to the hospital for services" in order to
receive federal funding through a program designed to help them "transition to
Medicaid managed care." Comm'n on the Public's Health Sys., CHCCDP: Are We
Getting Our Money's Worth? Monitoring the Use of Community Health Care
Conversion Demonstration Project Funds 1, 11, 18-22 (2003) (on file with the
Journal of Legislation and Public Policy).





n93.  These hospitals were Memorial Sloan-Kettering, Mary Immaculate, and St.
Vincent's Manhattan. State Secret, supra note 6, at 34.





n94.  The three hospitals that apply their sliding fee programs to inpatient
stays are Cabrini, Elmhurst (a New York City public hospital), and Flushing
Medical Center. Id.





n95.  These hospitals were Elmhurst, Montefiore, NY Methodist, and SUNY
Downstate. Id.





n96.  Id. at 33.





n97.  The hospitals which said they require uninsured patients to pay 100
percent of their estimated charges in advance were Beth Israel, Bronx-Lebanon,
Cabrini, Jamaica, Memorial Sloan-Kettering, Mt. Sinai, St. Luke's Roosevelt, and
St.Vincent's Staten Island. Id. at 35.





n98.  Id. at 36.





n99.  Id.





n100.  See Duchon, supra note 89, at 8-9; The Access Project, supra note 89, at
10-11.





n101.  These hospitals are Beth Israel, Flushing, Lenox Hill, Mount Sinai, NY
Methodist, and St. Vincent's Staten Island. State Secret, supra note 6, at 36 &
n. 80.





n102.  Id. at 37.





n103.  These hospitals are Brookdale, Bronx-Lebanon, Elmhurst, St. John's, and
St. Vincent's Staten Island. Id. at 36.





n104.  See N.Y. Pub. Health Law 2807-k(9) (McKinney 2002) (stating that "in
order for a general hospital to participate in the distribution of funds from
the pool, the general hospital must implement minimum collection policies and
procedures ... .").





n105.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 37.





n106.  Id.





n107.  Id.





n108.  See, e.g., Duchon, supra note 89, at 9, 12; Access Project, The
Consequences of Medical Debt: Evidence from Three Communities 14-16 (2003),
http://www.accessproject.org/downloads/med consequences.pdf; Melissa B. Jacoby
et al., Rethinking the Debates over Health Care Financing: Evidence from the
Bankruptcy Courts, 76 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 375, 410 (2001) (characterizing the
bankruptcy system as the "insurer of last resort to families and individuals who
cannot pay health-care-related costs.").





n109.  Jacoby, supra note 108, at 389-90.





n110.  Id. at 392, 395 (finding that female-headed households were less numerous
in the population than they are in bankruptcy courts and that the highest filing
rate for medical-related bankruptcy in 1999 was for women in a household with no
adult male present).





n111.  Id. at 397-98 (finding that nearly half of the debtors sixty-five and
older in the study identified illness or injury as a reason for bankruptcy
filing, notwithstanding Medicare and retirement benefits).





n112.  Id. at 401.





n113.  State Secret, supra note 6, at 44-45.





n114.  Calculations conducted by Elisabeth Benjamin after learning from the
State Department of Health that the average monthly per member capitation rate
for Family Health Plus is $ 311.





n115.  Lagnado, Hospitals, supra note 1 (reporting that the trade group claimed
Medicare's "rules 'create a very strong presumption that hospitals must use
aggressive efforts to collect from all patients'").





n116.  Id.





n117.  69 Fed. Reg. 48,916, 48920 (Aug. 11, 2004) (to be codified at 42 C.F.R.
pts. 403, 412, 413, 418, 460, 480, 482, 483, 485 & 489) (explaining that the
Medicare rate is determined by (1) calculating the base payment rate, (2)
multiplying the adjusted base payment rate by the DRG relative weight, and (3)
including add-on payments for treatment of a high percentage of low-income
patients, provision of indirect medical education, use of new technology or
medical services, and exposure to outlier costs).





n118.  See Wei Yu, Health Econ. Res. Ctr., How Do I Calculate Medicare
Reimbursement for an Acute Hospitalization?, at http://www.herc.research.med.va.
gov/FAQ I18.htm (last updated Apr. 14, 2003) (last visited September 25, 2004).





n119.  Id. Of course, there are exceptions to this general rule, e.g., high cost
outlier cases. See 69 Fed. Reg. at 48920 (explaining that a hospital may be
eligible for an additional payment over the national base Medicare payment rate
for costs incurred in unusually expensive cases).





n120.  Ctrs. for Medicare & Medicaid Servs., Medicare Provider Reimbursement
Manual Part I ch. 26 2606.2(D) (last modified Sept.16, 2004), at http://
www.cms.hhs.gov/manuals/pub151/PUB 15 1.asp (last visited Oct. 20, 2004).





n121.  Id. The mechanism is: (1) the provider must have a published full charge
schedule; (2) the provider's revenues for patient care must be based upon the
application of the published charge schedule; (3) the provider must maintain
written policies for its process of making patient indigency determinations; and
(4) the provider must maintain sufficient documentation in support of its
"indigency allowances." Id.





n122.  42 U.S.C. 1320a-7(b)(6)(A) (2003 & Supp. 2004).





n123.  Ctrs. for Medicare & Medicaid Servs., supra note 120, at 2604.3(B).





n124.  Carol Pryor et al., The Commonwealth Fund, Unintended Consequences: How
Federal Regulations and Hospital Policies Can Leave Patients in Debt 10 (2003),
http://www.accessproject.org/downloads/unintended.pdf.





n125.  See Rhonda L. Rundle, Tenet to Unveil New Protections for the Uninsured,
Wall St. J., Jan. 28, 2003, at A3; Lucette Lagnado, Hospitals Urged to End Harsh
Tactics for Billing Uninsured, Wall St. J., July 7, 2003, at A9.





n126.  See 68 Fed. Reg. 53,939, 53,940 (Sept. 15, 2003) (to be codified at 42
C.F.R. pt. 1001).





n127.  Id. at 53,941.





n128.  Id.





n129.  Lucette Lagnado, HHS Chief Scolds Hospitals for Their Treatment of
Uninsured, Wall St. J., Feb. 20, 2004, at A1.





n130.  Ctrs. For Medicare & Medicaid Servs., supra note 120, at 310, 312.
Medicare's guidelines for the determination of indigence are straightforward and
merely require that the provider: (1) determine that the patient is medically
indigent, e.g., by asking patient to sign a declaration stating his inability to
pay; (2) take into account the patient's total resources, including an analysis
of assets - but only those that are convertible to cash and unnecessary for
daily living; (3) determine that there is no other source besides the patient
that is legally responsible for the bills; and (4) keep documentation of these
efforts. Id. at 312.





n131.  Id. at 312 (emphasis added).





n132.  Lucette Lagnado, New York State Hospitals Agree to Cut Prices for
Uninsured, Wall St. J., Feb. 2, 2004, at B1 [hereinafter Lagnado, New York
State] (noting that "amid mounting criticism of hospitals' treatment of the
uninsured and warnings of tough legislative remedies, hospitals in New York
state have agreed to a voluntary program to cut prices and provide charity care
for their poorest patients. They have also pledged to restrict punitive
collection tactics.").





n133.  See HANYS, Financial Aid/Charity Care Policy at New York's Not-for-Profit
Hospitals 2-3 (2004),
http://www.hanys.org/publications/upload/Financial-Aid-Charity-Care-Policy-at-Ne
w-York-s-Not-for-Profit-Hospitals-Guidelines-
from-the-Healthcare-Association-of-New-York; United States Dep't of Health and
Human Servs., The 2004 HHS Poverty Guidelines: One Version of the [U.S.] Federal
Poverty Measure at http://aspe.hhs.gov/poverty/04poverty.shtml (last revised May
3, 2004) (last visited October 28, 2004).





n134.  HANYS, supra note 133, at 2.





n135.  Id. at 5.





n136.  Lagnado, New York State, supra note 132 (noting that even charitable
entities, such as hospitals, can charge nine percent interest rates). See also
HANYS, supra note 133, at 5.





n137.  See Testimony of Kenneth E. Raske, President, Greater New York Hospital
Association, Before the New York Senate Finance and New York State Assembly Ways
and Means Committee 5 (Feb. 3, 2004) (stating that "in addition to the negative
impact that the lack of health insurance has on the lives of uninsured New
Yorkers and their families, a failure to provide employee health benefits places
an unacceptable financial burden on New York State's entire health care
community."), http://www.gnyha.org/testimony/2004/pt2004-2005 Budget.pdf (last
visited October 28, 2004).





n138.  Hevesi, supra note 28, at 17.





n139.  See Mass. Regs. Code tit. 14.6, 10.03, 10.04, 10.08 (2004); Conn. Gen.
Stat. 19a-649 (2003); N.J. Admin. Code tit. 10, 10:52-11.5 (2004).





n140.  Assemb. A09217, 2003-2004 Reg. Sess. (N.Y. 2003); Assemb. A09218,
2003-2004 Reg. Sess. (N.Y. 2003); Assemb. 09219, 2003-2004 Reg. Sess. (N.Y.
2003), http://assembly.state.ny.us/leg/ (last visited October 28, 2004).


