                              150 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                             Daily News (New York)

                          September 24, 1998, Thursday

ELDERLY RESIDENTS MOVED AGAIN

BYLINE: By MARTY ROSEN

SECTION: News; Pg.  76

LENGTH: 301 words


Twenty elderly and frail residents yanked from their nursing home and moved to
Queens Hospital Center two weeks ago were transferred again yesterday, this time
to a long-term care center.

The group was among the 300 Neponsit Health Care Center patients moved from the
crumbling Far Rockaway facility in the middle of the night Sept. 10 to
acute-care hospitals in Queens, Manhattan and Brooklyn.

New York City Health and Hospitals Corp. officials were under pressure from
state and federal regulators to get the senior citizens out of the old
tuberculosis ward at Queens Hospital Center because of problems there.

Nursing home advocates said that the Queens ward was filled with paint fumes,
that elderly men accustomed to private rooms were sleeping in open wards and
that patients were denied the freedom they enjoyed at the oceanside Neponsit
home.

"The patients are so upset. They don't know where they are," said Anne Dierking,
a lawyer with Legal Aid Society.

The 20 were moved to the new nursing center at Kings County Hospital in
Brooklyn. An additional 65 former Neponsit residents will be moved there next
week.

Most of the remaining Neponsit patients have been placed at the Coler-Goldwater
Memorial Hospital on Roosevelt Island, a long-term care facility.

HHC President Luis Marcos said residents were in immediate danger from falling
bricks and decaying steel supports at Neponsit, and a hasty move to the
acute-care hospitals was unavoidable.

Meanwhile, federal Health Care Financing Administration officials want to know
whether the emergency closing of the 85-year-old Neponsit complex was avoidable.
They are sending in an independent civil engineer who will report whether the
residents can ever return to a place some called home for more than 15 years.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 1998 Daily News, L.P.


