                              163 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           October 16, 2014 Thursday

Ebola Outbreak: Nurses, Duncan's Family Likely Face Uphill Legal Battle

LENGTH: 298  words


The pair of nurses who contracted Ebola at a Dallas hospital -- and the family
of the Liberian man who died there last week -- would face a high bar if they
decide to take legal action, according to leading local attorneys and experts.


Nina Pham and Amber Vinson, the two caregivers who have tested positive for the
deadly virus, likely wouldn't be able to sue the hospital for damages if they're
covered by workers' compensation, according to attorney Robert Hilliard.
Hilliard, who is based in Corpus Christi, Texas, said workers' compensation is
typical for hospital employees, limiting them to time-loss pay and health
benefits. Their families or estates may have a stronger case, Hilliard said, if
the illness were fatal. A spokeswoman for the hospital did not immediately
return phone calls placed by NBC News.
The family of Thomas Eric Duncan would also have a difficult time winning
justice in a liability suit against the hospital where he was treated and died.
Texas has an incredibly restrictive tort reform law, enacted in 2003, requiring
plaintiffs suing emergency room physicians to prove willful and wanton
negligence by the doctors -- a very high bar, according to Charla Aldous, a
leading Dallas trial lawyer. She said her law office was looking into the issues
involved in potential legal action against the hospital.
Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital has come under fire for the ways it allegedly
treated Duncan and in the staff's preparedness to cope with an Ebola case. A
union that says it represents nurses in every state has said that there was no
protocol, there was no system at the hospital. The hospital has also been
criticized for first sending Duncan home after he complained of fever and
abdominal pains following travel in Liberia. 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


