                              167 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Medical Device Daily

                            March 26, 2003 Wednesday

FTC holding series of hearings on legal issues for hospitals

LENGTH: 296 words


FTC holding series of hearings on legal issues for hospitals

A Medical Device Daily Staff Report

WASHINGTON - The Federal Trade Commission (FTC; Washington) is conducting a
series of hearings, beginning today, focused on hospital-related legal issues.
The hearings, to run through Friday, are co-sponsored by the Department of
Justice (Washington).

Topics to be discussed include the emergence of single-specialty hospitals,
hospital contracting practices and issues in litigating hospital mergers,
according to David Hyman, office of the general counsel at FTC.

"The day will start with a roundtable discussion. The attendees will talk about
the challenges they face in the hospital setting and how they perceive
competition law," said Hyman. The afternoon will be devoted to the growing niche
hospitals, or "focused factory" industry, such as a hospital specializing in
cardiac procedures and treatments, Hyman said.

The second and third days will focus on contracting and mergers.

"With some payer contracts, a hospital system will tell the insurer that they
either agree to include all hospitals in the network, or it's nothing. Payers
don't like this type of forced agreement," said Hyman.

Government officials also want to determine what makes a merger between
hospitals so different from other merger agreements. "We want to identify the
factors that go into a merger agreement. Obviously the FTC needs to improve its
understanding of this arena, based on our 0-for-7 record," said Hyman. Hyman was
referring to the FTC's string of losses in litigation regarding mergers, with
the agency arguing that they violate anti-trust regulations.

The hearings, free and open to the public, are being held at the FTC conference
center, 601 New Jersey Ave. in NW Washington.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newsletter


                          Copyright 2003 AHC Media LLC
                              All Rights Reserved


