                              165 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday
                                 Final Edition

Lawyers meeting over Bert Fish case legal fees

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION C; Pg. 3C

LENGTH: 412  words


Lawyers for the Southeast Volusia Hospital District and the Bert Fish Foundation
will meet in court-ordered mediation today to try to reach an agreement on what
legal fees the hospital district must pay the foundation.

Circuit Judge Richard Graham has indicated he will award the philanthropic
foundation legal fees for bringing the case that forced the hospital district to
comply with the state Sunshine Law.

Graham ruled the Sunshine Law was violated when the hospital district conducted
21 private meetings to sell or lease Bert Fish Medical Center, which is
supported with taxes from property owners in Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak
Hill and a portion of Port Orange.

The judge ordered the 2010 merger between the New Smyrna Beach hospital and
nonprofit Adventist Health System undone on Feb. 24 after a five-day court
proceeding.

Now the question remains, how much money does the district owe the foundation
for bringing the suit?

The two attorneys who brought the case, Jon Kaney of Cobb Cole, and Noah
McKinnon, the foundation's lawyer, took the case on a contingency basis and have
filed for fees that total nearly $1 million.

But totaling the amount has been complicated. Halifax Health, also a public
taxing district, paid legal fees to press the Sunshine Law case against the
district in an effort to keep Bert Fish Medical Center from becoming the sixth
hospital in Volusia and Flagler counties run by Adventist Health System.

Halifax paid for the time of Harold Hubka, another Cobb Cole attorney --
contributing $271,806 in legal fees, according to a Halifax spokeswoman.

So far, the district, which pays for indigent medical care in Southeast Volusia,
has racked up an estimated $2.4 million in merger- related legal and consulting
fees, most of them spent defending the merger. That does not include fees that
Adventist Health paid for the services of several other lawyers and consultants.

The district board, in turn, voted unanimously Aug. 25 to send a letter
demanding $22.5 million to the firm of the lawyer who advised the board to close
the merger meetings to the public. Jim Heekin, one of the partners of the
Orlando firm Lowndes, Drosdick, Doster, Kantor & Reed, advised the hospital
board it could meet outside public view.

McKinnon said he couldn't comment on today's proceeding because of
confidentiality rules and lawyers for the Southeast Volusia Hospital District
could not be reached for comment.

The hearing will be in front of mediator Terry White.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


