                              162 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                           December 18, 2010 Saturday
                               N-j Final Edition

Halifax reveals it's paying legal fees in hospital merger suit

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 854  words


Halifax Health confirmed this week that it has paid nearly $125,000 in legal
fees to another group that has filed suit to stop the merger of Bert Fish
Medical Center and Adventist Health System.

Halifax wanted to merge with Bert Fish Medical Center in New Smyrna Beach but
lost out to private, nonprofit Adventist Health, which owns Florida Hospital
locations in Volusia and Flagler counties.

Jeff Feasel, CEO of Daytona Beach-based Halifax Health, has publicly stated his
hospital's support for a lawsuit brought by the Bert Fish Foundation to overturn
the merger. But not until Halifax officials were questioned this week did they
reveal they were paying a lawyer with Cobb Cole that is representing the
foundation in the suit.

So far, taxpayer-supported Halifax has spent $124,900 on the legal fees.

The foundation sued to stop the merger because the deal was reached after 21
closed meetings over 16 months -- in violation of the state's Sunshine Law,
according to a judge.

After the closed meetings came to light and the suit was filed, the Bert Fish
hospital board went through the selection process a second time -- this time in
public meetings -- and came to the same decision to merge with Adventist Health.

But foundation lawyers say they are pressing on with the suit because they
believe the second decision -- the so-called "cure" -- was not reached
independently of the illegally closed meetings, as the law requires.

Halifax's involvement in the suit was news to one member of the Bert Fish
hospital board.

I guess there is a lot of money on the table and Halifax is doing everything
they can to keep the issue alive," said Robert Weiss, vice chairman of the
Southeast Volusia Hospital District.

In the lawsuit against the merger, three attorneys represent the Bert Fish
Foundation: Noah McKinnon, a lawyer and member of the Bert Fish Foundation, and
Jon Kaney and Harold Hubka, both attorneys with Cobb Cole.

McKinnon said he and Kaney are doing legal work on a contingency basis in hopes
their fees are recovered from the other side if they win the suit. Halifax is
picking up the bill for Hubka, he said.

When you look at the amount of time it takes to do this case, we need help
because Jon and I are just two people and they have two major Orlando law firms
majorly committed to this case," McKinnon said.

Kaney said there was no attempt to keep the financial arrangement with Halifax a
secret.

Once someone asked, we told them," Kaney said.

Halifax did not need approval from its governing board to pay the legal fees
because they fall under "professional services," its CEO Feasel said.

Hubka's work involves issues that are common to both Halifax Health and the Bert
Fish Foundation, Halifax officials said.

We believe it's in the best interest of the community," Feasel said of the
lawsuit's aim.

A member of the Halifax Health Board of Commissioners said he wishes he'd been
told about Halifax's financial support of the suit.

I don't know if I would have acted any differently, but it should have been
brought to the board," said Art Giles of Daytona Beach, a Halifax commissioner.

Halifax's involvement did not surprise Daryl Tol, president and chief executive
officer of Florida Hospital's Volusia/Flagler market. Several members of the
Bert Fish Foundation board, which gave the hospital to the Southeast Volusia
hospital taxing district decades ago, have close ties to Halifax, he said.

This does help us better understand the motivations and intensity driving the
current litigation," said Tol, who is also a member of the new Bert Fish
hospital board.

The Southeast Volusia Hospital District, which is also supported by tax money,
has so far spent $275,000 on legal fees involving the cure and defending the
merger, according to Darryl Bloodworth, an attorney hired by the district.

Adventist Health also has paid for some legal fees related to the so-called
cure. But Adventist Health, a private company not subject to public records
laws, will not disclose the amount because of attorney-client privilege, said
Mayanne Downs, a lawyer for Adventist Health.

Dr. Pam Carbiener, a Daytona Beach obstetrician-gynecologist, is a member of
both the Bert Fish Foundation board and the Halifax Health Board of
Commissioners. She said she has no problem with Halifax helping with the
foundation's legal costs. The goals of Halifax and the last will and testament
of Judge Bert Fish, the foundation's namesake, are in alignment on this issue
and in the interests of both communities, she said.

The deal that the Southeast Hospital board signed is a disaster for that
community, because it has the largest potential cost to taxpayers of the
Southeast District -- an additional $300 million over the time covered by the
contract," Carbiener said.

Carbiener said she thought the issue of paying some of the foundation's legal
fees was best left to the discretion of Halifax administrators, and did not
necessarily need to go before the Halifax governing board.

Halifax's Feasel said his hospital didn't officially join the suit because it
wanted to save money. He said there was no intent to hide Halifax's involvement
in the suit.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2010 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2010 News-Journal Corporation


