                              161 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               Chester Chronicle

                               September 5, 2008
                                  City Edition

Hospital sets legal standard;
In association with Mercedes Benz of Chester

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 365 words


THE Countess of Chester has set a new benchmark for others to follow by having
the first hospital legal department to achieve Lexcel status.

Lexcel is a quality mark which is awarded by The Law Society to legal
departments that have met its practice management standards.

The standard is common in private law practices where businesses must stand out
from the competition, but so far has seen only a small take-up in the public
services sector.

To achieve the standard, legal teams must be independently assessed by approved
companies such as Centre for Assessment.

To gain official Lexcel status, legal service departments must meet and
demonstrate the Law Society's mandatory requirements which include superior
management practices, a clear structure and consistent procedures.

Lexcel helps to reduce mistakes and risks, improve client care and create
management efficiency.

Stephen Cross, solicitor and Foundation Trust secretary at the Countess, said:
"I came to the Countess of Chester from a private legal practice which used the
systems that Lexcel encourages. The hospital already excels in a number of areas
and I wanted the legal services team to be recognised as part of this success
too.

"I chose to implement this nationally recognised standard, which really does set
us apart as a truly forward-thinking hospital to which others will look as an
example of best practice. Lexcel has helped us to streamline our systems and
provide even better case management services. Patients and staff alike are
already benefiting from these changes."

Anne Milne, assessor at Centre for Assessment, said: "Lexcel assesses legal
teams on different elements, from people management and customer satisfaction to
business planning systems and case management.

"These elements are defined by The Law Society, so to meet them demonstrates
that the team at Countess of Chester really is well organised, efficient and at
the top of its game."

Cheryl Turbitt, head of legal services at the Countess, said: "Lexcel has an
added benefit for our hospitals, it is all about continual improvement. It
really is win-win and just a matter of time until more hospitals start to work
toward it."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  LAW IN ORDER: Cheryl Turbitt, head of legal services at the Countess
of Chester, with legal assistants Hannah Featherston and Kim Peate.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2008 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


