                              164 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     October 6, 1995, Friday, City Edition

Tarpon delivers ultimatum to Helen Ellis management

BYLINE: DEANNA BELLANDI

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 457 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



The Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital Foundation risks defaulting on its lease if
it doesn't agree to pay more than $ 12,000 in legal bills incurred by the
city's Health Facilities Authority.

That was the warning sent Thursday to Helen Ellis by Barbara Pankau, the
authority's attorney. The hospital has 30 days to comply or risk being in
default.

Pankau said the hospital's leases require the foundation to pay the  authority's
legal fees. One of the most extreme penalties for a default would  be the
eviction of the foundation and its governing board from the hospital so  new
management could be installed, Pankau said.

"I urge the foundation to evaluate the serious repercussions which may  result
from a continued failure to abide by its covenants in the subleases,"  Pankau
wrote in the letter mailed Thursday.

Helen Ellis' attorney, Jerry Mansmann, declined to comment Thursday on  Pankau's
letter because he hadn't yet received it. Mansmann said the  foundation already
has paid about $ 1,000 to cover administrative costs for the  authority.

"We felt that that was legitimate," he said.

In addition to paying its legal fees, the authority wants the hospital to  hand
over information about issues such as Helen Ellis' agreement with  Columbia/HCA
Healthcare Corp. to capture more managed-care contracts, as well  as specifics
on any plans the hospital has to open a medical office building  in Pasco
County.

The five-member authority, which is appointed by the City Commission, is  the
liaison between the city and the hospital. The city, which owns the  hospital
land and buildings, leases them to the authority, which in turn  leases them to
the foundation, a private non-profit group.

The hospital foundation is made up of representatives from more than 60  local
churches and civic groups. The hospital is governed by an 11-member  board,
which includes foundation representatives and hospital administrator  Joe
Kiefer.

For nine months the city and hospital have been feuding over the future of
Helen Ellis, a 150-bed facility. The dispute culminates Nov. 14 in a
referendum. Voters will be asked to decide whether the city should sell Helen
Ellis. A majority of the City Commission favors such a move, but Helen Ellis'
governing board opposes it.

Hospital administrator Kiefer said the foundation has not flatly refused to  pay
the authority's legal bills.

"It was a request for additional information and we're not going to pay it
until they get the additional information," Kiefer said.

Pankau included additional information in her letter, as well as the
authority's latest legal bill for $ 5,756. The foundation had previously
received a bill of $ 6,260.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

                    Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company


