                              169 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                             March 31, 2014 Monday

HSE may cut funding to two hospitals;
St Michael s and St Vincent s could lose support over consultant appointments

BYLINE: Martin Wall

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 543 words


The HSE is planning to cut all capital or development funding to St Vincent's
and St Michael's hospitals in south Dublin as well as to suspend their rights to
appoint new consultants and refuse to sanction further lines of credit if their
governing board does not agree to a process to stop senior doctors paid by the
State working in its private hospital.

In what is building up to potentially the biggest clash between the State and a
voluntary hospital, the HSE is also understood to be looking at plans to
withdraw medical specialities and related funding from hospitals in the St
Vincent's group and assign these to other institutions.

The HSE has accused the St Vincent's Healthcare Group of seeking to mislead it
on the extent of the practice of consultants employed in its public hospitals
working also in St Vincent's Private Hospital.

In a letter to the chairman of the St Vincent's Hospital Group, Prof Noel Whelan
last Thursday, HSE director general Tony O'Brien set a deadline of today for it
to reply to demands for a process which would see such consultants cease private
practice in St Vincent's Private Hospital.

The Irish Times                      understands that the HSE is planning to
impose significant sanctions on the St Vincent's Hospital Group, which operates
the two public institutions, St Vincent's University Hospital in Elm Park and St
Michael's in Dn Laoghaire as well as St Vincent's Private Hospital. unless it
receives a reply it considers to be a satisfactory response. Highly placed
health service sources suggested the HSE would also "take steps to ensure that
private insurers review their relationships with St Vincent's Private Hospital
vis-a-vis individual consultants".

The St Vincent's Hospital Group last night signalled the row could end up in the
courts. The dispute, in essence, centres on whether consultants employed in the
public hospitals on a particular contract known as type B can engage in practice
in the group's private facility. Since 2008, new hospital consultants have been
appointed under either a category A contract, which allows them to work only in
public hospitals, or on a type B contract, which permits limited private
practice in public hospitals. However, the St Vincent's Healthcare Group told
the HSE earlier this month that its legal advice was that, as its private
hospital was co-located with the public facility and operated by the same
employer, its category B consultants could work in both institutions on its
campus.

Legal opinionA spokesman for the St Vincent's Healthcare Group said: "We would
expect that the resolution of differences in legal opinion in the interpretation
of the consultants contract would be resolved where differences in legal opinion
are normally resolved, through some form of judicial process."

The St Vincent's Healthcare Group has indicated to the HSE that 95 consultants
employed in its public hospitals also carry out private practice in St Vincent's
Private Hospital. However it suggested that not all would have category B
contracts and that some, for example, could be academic consultants.

Highly placed health service sources said the HSE was "appalled" at only
learning the extent of these private practice arrangements in recent weeks.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2014 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


