                              17 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             March 24, 2015 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Lawyers in hospitals to aid women;
Family violence - Medical staff get cultural training

BYLINE: Jane Lee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 513 words


Laywers are working with doctors, nurses and midwives in hospitals to advise
victims of family violence.

InTouch, the Multicultural Centre Against Family Violence, will start to work
with Dandenong Hospital this week to train hospital staff to identify and
respond to the clinical signs of family violence in women.

Staff will also be briefed on legal redresses for victims, including
intervention orders, and social welfare services. The centre will also deliver
cultural training to help clinicians understand their patients' experiences of
family violence.

About 52 per cent of Dandenong's population was born overseas in non-English
speaking countries, and migration and resettlement in difficult circumstances
could provide a trigger for family violence, Maya Avdibegovic, the centre's
chief executive, said.

"You have a reversal of [gender roles] ... women feel quite empowered to retrain
and work, while men feel more vulnerable," she said. Men could also feel "left
behind" if they were unable to continue the careers they pursued in their home
countries and were forced to take up lower-level jobs.

"It's important for health practitioners to have the understanding that those
people have quite different circumstances and experiences, and that has a big
impact on their experience of family violence."

Women were often comfortable talking to their doctors, she said.

"This is one of the relationships that are out of the control of the
perpetrator," Ms Avdibegovic said. "If the children are sick the woman will have
to take her kids to the doctor, so there's a window of opportunity there for
them to get assistance."

A lawyer from InTouch will provide free legal help at the hospital once a week
to patients referred to them. A lawyer will also sit once a week at the
Dandenong Refugee Health Clinic, as part of a two-year program funded by the
Legal Services Board.

There is a growing number of partnerships between hospitals and legal centres to
bridge the gap between medical and legal help for family violence victims, who
are often isolated through their abuse.

Inner Melbourne Community Legal has given legal and family violence training to
more than 180 staff at the Royal Women's Hospital since 2012, including 30
doctors. It also provides free legal help there up to three times a week.

Women who were thinking about leaving their partners may also need help, said
the manager of the centre's "Acting on the Warning Signs" program, Linda Gyorki.

Royal Women's Hospital nurse and midwife Kate O'Donnell said the training helped
her to pick up cues from her patients she would not have previously have
noticed. This included people who repeatedly went to the emergency department
with urinary tract infections or reporting abdominal pain, with no obvious
source.

"Repeated admissions for non-specific things might [mean] there's something else
that she's trying to tell us but we're not asking the right question," she said.

The legal centre also provides free legal advice at the Royal Children's
Hospital and Royal Melbourne Hospital's Waratah mental outpatient facility.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


