                              171 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              June 2, 2014 Monday

Hospital chairman says he's not pleased with handling of lawsuit

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 540  words


Halifax health board

DAYTONA BEACH -- The chairman of the Halifax Health Board of Commissioners is
not pleased with how the hospital's management and legal team are handling a
whistleblower lawsuit that has cost the system more than $108 million.

John Johnson, who leads the seven-member hospital board, expressed his
frustrations during a two-minute statement Monday at the beginning of the
board's monthly meeting. In the past, hospital board members have refrained from
publicly discussing the whistleblower suit, which accuses the hospital of
improperly billing Medicare and maintaining illegal contracts with doctors.

"We need to look at personnel and make appropriate decisions," Johnson said in
response to a reporter's questions, adding that management and legal staff
should "move the legal process forward in an appropriate way."

He declined to elaborate on what changes could be in store for the 678-bed
public hospital system based in Daytona Beach. He said he is unhappy with how
long the suit has continued, the cost it is inflicting on the hospital and a
federal magistrate judge's order last week rebuking the hospital's legal team
for submitting a "tardy and deficient" statement to the court before a mediation
session.

"I am not pleased with how we are handling the litigation before us," Johnson
told the board.

Board member Karen Jans voiced her agreement with the chairman, and the matter
was not discussed further during the meeting.

The whistleblower suit was filed in 2009 by Elin Baklid-Kunz, who is still
employed by Halifax Health as director of physician services.

The hospital has spent more than $23 million on its own legal defense and
settled a portion of the case for $85 million in March. The U.S. Department of
Justice joined the plaintiff in that part of the lawsuit, but declined to
intervene in the remaining claims.

The two sides remain at loggerheads over allegations that the hospital
improperly admitted patients for short inpatient stays and billed Medicare at a
higher rate as a result.

Johnson, who also is president of Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, has been
supportive of the hospital's leadership in the past, calling them in August
"good guys in white hats" who did nothing wrong.

Halifax Health CEO Jeff Feasel acknowledged during a break in the meeting a
mistake was made in submitting paperwork ahead of mediation, but he said
internal legal staff and management were not at fault.

"We are all upset," Feasel said. "It's a mistake. It happened. We'll fix it and
move on."

He defended the hospital's lead counsel McDermott Will & Emery, saying it is one
of the top five health care law firms in the country. He added that "not every
part of a legal case is going to go the way that you want it."

Last week, Marlan Wilbanks, an attorney representing Baklid- Kunz, said
settlement discussions collapsed, and the case is likely headed to trial in July
in federal court in Orlando.

Experts for Baklid-Kunz calculated Medicare overpayments arising from improper
admissions totaled $82.2 million, according to court documents. Factoring in
damages and penalties, Wilbanks said the potential price tag for Halifax Health
could climb as high as $300 million.

Hospital chair not pleased with handling of lawsuit

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

