                              172 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Post (South Africa)

                            July 09, 2008 Wednesday
                                   e1 Edition

My mum died at hospital - can we sue?

SECTION: LEISURE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 369 words


DEAR LEGAL EAGLE

MY MOTHER died under tragic circumstances. She was admitted to a Johannesburg
hospital to remove her gallstones.

My brother asked the nurses why the side railing on her bed were not raised, as
my mother could fall off the bed as she was short and morphine was administered
to her.

A nurse advised my brother she would not fall off the bed and that there was no
reason to raise the side bar.

However, it appears that around 2am that morning my mother tried to contact the
nurse who was busy with another patient. My mother fell from the bed and
subsequently died.

She suffered a concussion and died from head injuries. What are our legal
remedies?

ANON

DEAR READER

IT IS SAD that your mother had been harmed by the same institution she sought
help from.

Almost everyone knows of a person who was admitted to hospital for some
innocuous complaint and subsequently died from another complaint.

In most of these instances the cause of death is as a result of the negligence
of some person associated with the hospital.

Patients go to the hospital with the expectation that all the doctors, nurses
and other employees of the hospital would provide the most competent and
comprehensive treatment possible.

The hospital employees have this duty of care and any treatment or care that
falls below this standard can amount to negligent or reckless conduct on the
part of these employees.

Your family can sue the hospital for the loss sustained by your family, arising
out of the death of your mother, which was due to the negligence of their staff.

I suggest you consult with an attorney in Johannesburg to institute a claim
against the hospital.

The attorney will advise you as to what amount you can claim for.

I do not have enough facts to advise you of the different categories of claim
that your family have. If your mother had dependant children, they will be
entitled to sue for loss of support.

Legal action not only serves to benefit those who sustained loss financially but
it also forces institutions like the hospital to provide proper training and
eradicate bad habits.

It may serve to ensure that no one suffers the same fate as your mother. Legal
action under these circumstances deter malpractices.

LEGAL EAGLE

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: NP


                 Copyright 2008 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


