                              173 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                             July 09, 1999, Friday

Hospital foundation to pay Times legal fees

BYLINE: BRYAN GILMER

SECTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 552 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



(ran SS edition of METRO & STATE)

When someone requests records they believe are public under the Florida
Constitution, the person should not be dragged into an expensive legal fight, a
circuit judge has affirmed.

Judge L. Ralph Smith Jr. last week ordered the Tarpon Springs Hospital
Foundation, the non-profit group that runs city-owned Helen Ellis Memorial
Hospital, to pay a portion of the St. Petersburg Times' legal fees after the
foundation responded to the newspaper's records request by suing.

Times Executive Editor and Deputy Chairman Paul Tash said the award of legal
fees is important because it emphasizes that making a public records request is
every Floridian's constitutional right.

Without the ruling, "private citizens who don't have the resources of a
newspaper would be left wondering what kind of bill is going to come from making
a public records request," Tash said.

The dispute began in 1997 after state Attorney General Bob Butterworth issued an
opinion that the foundation's records should be public because the foundation
performs a governmental function on behalf of the city.

Citing Butterworth's opinion, the newspaper requested access to minutes of
foundation board meetings and similar documents. In response, the foundation
sued the newspaper in Leon County Circuit Court.

The newspaper's attorneys argued that Florida public records laws are set up so
that the person making the request has the option of suing if a request for
records is declined.

The hospital could simply have declined to provide the records if it believed
they were not public, the attorneys said.

After the hospital first filed the suit, it lay dormant.

In the meantime, the Florida Legislature passed a blanket exemption to public
meetings and records laws for hospitals like Helen Ellis. A circuit judge in
another case ruled the exemption covered Helen Ellis Memorial.

Still, the hospital pressed on with the suit, insisting it had questions about
whether it had to follow Florida's open government laws. Foundation attorney
Samuel Braver of Pittsburgh filed an updated lawsuit in April. He could not be
reached for comment Thursday.

In awarding the fees, the judge found a "complete absence" of issues that needed
his attention in the latest version of the hospital foundation's suit.

Smith ordered the foundation to pay the newspaper's legal fees since April, an
estimated $ 7,500, said St. Petersburg attorney Tom McGowan, who represented the
newspaper in the case.

The Times plans to donate the money to an area charity, Tash said.

"The newspaper typically donates these sorts of awards to charitable causes in
the community so that the community itself isn't damaged," Tash said.

The foundation was ordered last year to pay the legal fees of another group, the
Tarpon Springs Health Facilities Authority, which issued the bonds to finance
hospital expansions.

"I just find it kind of hard to understand why it is the hospital seems to end
up paying everybody's legal fees," foundation president Lester Garner said
Thursday. "To me it's an indication that it's open season on the hospital. It
just doesn't seem right."

But the foundation sued both the authority and the Times.

"We didn't pick this fight," Tash said. "I'm glad to have it resolved in this
way."


LOAD-DATE: July 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; SEMINOLE TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; CITY &
STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


