                              19 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                             April 28, 2017 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

St Vincent's board backs deal after reassurance it will own new hospital

BYLINE: Eilish O'Regan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 598 words


THE Sisters of Charity are to retain ownership of the new (EURO)300m national
maternity hospital when it moves to the St Vincent's campus, it was confirmed
last night.

The reassurance that the controversial deal underpinning the transfer of the
maternity hospital to the site would remain unchanged was key to the board of St
Vincent's Healthcare Group supporting the proposed relocation at a lengthy board
meeting yesterday.

The Sisters of Charity had been urged by critics of the deal to transfer the
site to the State, which would mean they would not be owners of the hospital,
removing concerns about the influence of the Catholic ethos on services. The
board, chaired by James Menton, and which was attended by its main shareholders
the Sisters of Charity, said St Vincent's and the board of the maternity
hospital in Holles St will now start the next phase of the project.

They will work with Health Minister Simon Harris and officials in translating
the agreement into a legal document to secure the clinical and corporate
governance structures of new hospital.

"These legal agreements will be effected in accordance with all of the
provisions contained in the agreement mediated by Kieran Mulvey and endorsed by
both hospitals."

The agreement, published in recent days, has been criticised by some legal
experts as failing to provide watertight safeguards that the new hospital will
have clinical independence.

In particular, they have drawn attention to the makeup of the nine-person board
and the method of selection of the international expert who will be a member and
have a casting vote.

The St Vincent's board said last night that "a new maternity hospital is
urgently needed."

Locating it alongside St. Vincent's acute hospital will provide synergies for
both hospitals that will lead to the delivery of modern, world class medical,
maternity and neonatal services.

"Every year St Vincent's provides acute care to over 80,000 women and it is
strongly positioned to provide women and infant-centred care in support of the
national maternity hosday pital at Elm Park. There is a long and historical
supportive clinical relationship between both hospitals."

It welcomed the endorsement of the agreement by the Holles Street board on
Wednes-night. This was rejected by three members, including the former Holles
Street master Dr Peter Boylan, who resigned yesterday saying the Holles St board
is "blind" to its actions.

The St Vincent's board also welcomed the clarity provided by the health
minister, saying he was " unequivocal" that the relocation would take place
under the terms of the agreement. Holles Street master Dr Rhona Mahony said she
remains convinced the agreement will guarantee the new hospital will have full
clinical independence.

The outcome of a planning application for the hospital is due in September.

Kieran Mulvey, the former chairman of the Workplace Relations Commission said
yesterday that the agreement does not purport to be a legal document.

It says quite clearly that the heads of agreement will have to go forward for
legal drafting.

But during the process legal experts for both hospitals analysed it, he said.

"I took independent legal advice myself. I have been drafting complex agreements
for 20 years," he said.

Support "Agreements are done with the intention of getting the support of the
parties."

Referring to concerns about the selection of an international expert with a
casting vote to the board of the new hospital he said that person would have to
be agreed by both hospitals.

"That was the compromise to prevent either side having a majority," he added.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IIN


             Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


