                              182 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      Chico Enterprise-Record (California)

                           February 1, 2007 Thursday

Union, Enloe argue over legal bills

BYLINE: By LARRY MITCHELL - Staff writer

SECTION: LOCAL

LENGTH: 789 words


The union planning a strike at Enloe Medical Center next week has long claimed
the hospital spends a fortune on anti-labor attorneys.

On Thursday, the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) passed out
leaflets at Enloe saying it had discovered the hospital has spent even more on
legal fees than it had imagined.

But Laura Hennum, spokesperson for Enloe, said the union had misunderstood tax
documents and was making false claims about the hospital's spending.

It's "an inaccurate statement to say we spent millions," she said in a telephone
interview Thursday.

For more than three years, the SEIU has been trying to win the right to
represent about 600 service workers, including certified nursing assistants
(CNAs). In April 2004, workers voted for the union by a narrow margin, but Enloe
challenged the vote, arguing the outcome was invalidated by irregularities.

Enloe pressed its challenge at various administrative levels, which required the
work of its legal consultant, Foley and Lardner of San Francisco.

The union has argued Enloe is wasting money on legal fees   funds that should
have gone for patient care.

Dana Simon, an SEIU labor representative, said he and other union officials
thought Enloe had spent more than $1 million trying to overturn the election
outcome. However, he said, when they examined tax documents filed by Enloe they
realized the hospital had spent much more than that.

It's "really obscene," Simon said.

He said Enloe's last available tax record, for 2004, showed the hospital paid
Foley and Lardner $964,968. And that was in just one year, he said.

Clearly, Enloe had paid "multiple millions" to the firm to fight the SEIU, he
said. He added Foley and Lardner specialize in labor law, so Enloe couldn't
truthfully claim the money went for anything but battling the union.

However, Hennum said Enloe uses Foley and Lardner for all kinds of legal issues
not just labor matters.

She said only a small part of the $964,968 paid to the law firm in 2004 went for
work relating to the SEIU. The lawyers worked on a number of matters for Enloe,
including the hospital's dealings with another union, which represents
registered nurses, contracts with physicians and issues relating to Enloe's
expansion.

She said it shouldn't surprise anyone that Enloe pays lawyers as much as it does
because the hospital faces many complex legal issues.

Simon said Thursday morning union members passed out leaflets to employees and
doctors at the hospital detailing what it had learned about Enloe's payments to
Foley and Lardner.

In its latest move, Enloe appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington,
D.C., to invalidate the election. A hearing is set for Feb. 20.

Recently, Enloe's board of trustees announced plans to lay off scores of
workers, including many CNAs. Hospital leaders said the cuts are necessary
because Enloe's expenses are rising faster than its income.

The SEIU responded to the layoff announcement by demanding that Enloe bargain
over the plan to cut jobs. When hospital officials declined to negotiate, the
union called a one-day strike, which is scheduled for Wednesday.

Hennum said Enloe has plans for various contingencies, including strikes. She
said patients will not notice any reduction in the quality of care on Wednesday.

Responding to questions from the Enterprise-Record, she said there will be no
delays or cancellations of surgeries which are scheduled for Wednesday at the
hospital.

She was asked if any of the employees likely to go on strike worked in the
emergency room and if Enloe had plans to cover for them if they did walk out.
Hennum said she didn't know which workers would participate in the strike, but
that the hospital has replacements lined up for all who do take part.

Two unions represent workers at Enloe. The California Nurses Association
represents registered nurses and SEIU represents food-service and house-cleaning
employees. The latter groups are not employed by Enloe but work for Compass,
which has a contract with the hospital.

Hennum said both union contracts contain provisions prohibiting employees from
taking part in a "sympathy strike," where workers refuse to cross another
union's picket line.

"We would hope they would honor their contracts," she said. "We're relying on
them to come to work."

Staff writer Larry Mitchell can be reached at 896-7759 or lmitchell@chicoer.com.

BACKGROUND: Enloe Medical Center and the Service Employees International Union
(SEIU) are battling over the results of a 2004 election.

WHAT'S NEW: On Thursday, the union distributed leaflets at the hospital charging
Enloe has spent millions on the fight, a claim a hospital official denied.

WHAT'S NEXT: Angered over impending layoffs, the union plans a one-day strike on
Wednesday.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2007 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


