                              188 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Bournemouth Echo

                           November 20, 2014 Thursday

Hospital threatens 'bed blockers' with legal action

BYLINE: Alex Winter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 370 words


SO-CALLED hospital 'bed blockers' could soon face legal action if they
monopolise spaces needed by sick patients.

But the boss of a Dorset watchdog has said 'threatening' patients will not solve
the problems many face.

Katie Whiteside of Royal Bournemouth Hospital claimed too many families were
refusing to take their relatives home when they were fit to go.

She said one family asked the hospital to "keep hold" of a relative while they
took a two-week holiday in Turkey.

On Wednesday, there were 70 patients at the facility who were medically fit to
leave.

Around half had a safe place to go - a family home or care home - the hospital
claimed.

Ms Whiteside said: "We have relatives coming back telling us they don't like the
decor of care homes, or they don't like the member of staff who met them at the
door."

She added that new patients, some seriously ill, may have to wait in corridors
or on trolleys in A&E while routine operations are cancelled because of the lack
of beds.

The hospital trust plans to give a week's notice to patients fit enough, who
have a safe place to go, and could even evict them if they refuse or families
refuse to take them.

If a case went to court, families and patients could be liable for legal costs
of up to £50,000.

A hospital spokesman said: "Once medically fit for discharge, an acute hospital
environment is not in the patient's best interest."

But Martyn Webster, manager of Healthwatch Dorset, the local health and care
watchdog, said: "Threatening patients with legal action won't help solve the
problems many people face when leaving hospital. People need to work together to
sort this - the hospital working with patient's families, carers, friends, and
other people like social services, community groups and charities to give
patients the support they need when they leave hospital."

He added: "In our latest report there are comments from local people who felt
under pressure to leave hospital before they were ready."

A spokes-man at Poole Hospital, who said there are currently 48 on its wards
despite being deemed medically fit for discharge still on the wards.

"The situation is exacerbated by the fact that we are also dealing with high
numbers of emergency admissions," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2014 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


