                              187 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            January 15, 1999 Friday
                                  Late Edition

Outrage over killer's list;
Premier vows to change FoI law after triple murderer gets names of 51 nurses

BYLINE: LYALL JOHNSON and SANDRA McKAY with AAP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 718 words


A Melbourne hospital has been accused of incompetence and betraying staff after
a convicted triple murderer was given the names of 51 nurses as part of a bid to
clear his name.

The Premier, Mr Jeff Kennett, has also expressed horror and vowed to review
Victoria's freedom of information laws after Ashley Mervyn Coulston's successful
application for the names of the nurses, all from Frankston Hospital.

The names were given to Coulston without the nurses' knowledge after a series of
applications to the state's main civil tribunal.

Coulston, 42, is serving a life sentence for the execution-style murders of Anne
Smerdon and Kerryn Henstridge, 22, and Peter Dempsey, 27, who were found bound,
gagged and shot through the head at their rented Burwood home in July 1992.

Coulston has always protested his innocence, claiming he was visiting his
partner in Frankston Hospital at the time of the killings. His application for
the nurses' names was ostensibly part of a bid to prove his alibi and get his
case reopened.

One nurse whose name was given to Coulston said yesterday that she was "very
scared and very angry". But the nurse, who declined to be named, said she
understood Coulston's purported motives in seeking the names.

"We feel we have been denied any control about how our names will be used. We
feel betrayed by the hospital, and scared about what the future may hold," she
said.

Coulston was granted access to the names on 23 November last year on appeal to
the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT) after two applications
under freedom of information were denied by the hospital.

The matter has only just come to light because the nurses were not told of the
issue until last week.

Amid uproar over the case yesterday, it was revealed that:

* The hospital had no legal representation at the first appeal hearing, relying
instead on a doctor to argue its case against the release of the names.

* Coulston represented himself in a tribunal hearing via video link from Barwon
Prison.

* Hospital management did not notify staff about the case until a memo was
issued to one charge nurse, who did not receive it until last week because she
was on holidays.

VCAT and Frankston Hospital immediately came under fire from the Australian
Nursing Federation and Mr Kennett, who has ordered reviews of VCAT procedures
and freedom of information laws.

Mr Kennett described it as the "most outrageous incident I have heard about". He
said he had had concerns about both VCAT and the Freedom of Information Act for
some time.

The Australian Nursing Federation accused the hospital of not properly
protecting the privacy of its nurses by failing to send legal representation to
the appeal. The federation's Victorian branch secretary, Ms Belinda Morieson,
said she was "physically appalled by the incompetence shown by the hospital".

The Attorney-General, Mrs Jan Wade, said it was unfortunate that the hospital
had no legal representation at the case. She also said its failure to appeal
against the decision meant it would not be reviewed by the Supreme Court.

The chairman of the Mornington Peninsula Health Care Network, which administers
the Frankston Hospital, Mr Bob Polk, said the hospital had fought for two years
to try to stop the release of the list, and it was "terribly easy in hindsight"
to criticise.

Mr Polk said that on its earlier legal advice, the hospital had been "supremely
confident" of winning the case and had not bothered to send a lawyer to the
hearing.

He said the hospital was "shattered" when the tribunal ruled against it, and did
not seek further legal advice before releasing the nurses' roster to Coulston.

"Jan Wade is entitled to say it was a pity, and maybe it was, but the decision
(not to appeal to the Supreme Court) was made with the best available
information at that time," he said.

The president of Liberty Victoria, Ms Felicity Hampel, QC, said Mr Kennett's
attack on the tribunal undermined its independence and tainted the judiciary.

"This carries with it a very real threat that if members don't decide the law in
the way the Premier likes, their appointment won't be reviewed," she said.

The shadow attorney-general, Mr Rob Hulls, accused Mr Kennett of deliberately
using the case "an excuse to shut down FoI, which he's been wanting to do for a
long time". -- With AAP

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ashley Mervyn Coulston: serving a life term for the 1992 triple
murder in Burwood.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1999 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


