                              179 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 7, 2002

Tragic mum wins payout over lawyers' claim delay;Firm ordered to pay (pounds)
500 after bitter cash battle following death of son in hospital

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 514 words


A MOTHER whose son died after being admitted to hospital has won a legal fight
against her former lawyers.

Grace Devine has been awarded (pounds) 500 compensation from law firm Ross
Harper after a dispute about proposed legal action against a Glasgow hospital.

After her complaint to the Law Society of Scotland was upheld, she is now
considering suing the Glasgow firm as she believes it hampered her bid for
justice.

Mrs Devine's son James, 23, died in the city's Western Infirmary 10 days after
being admitted for a drugs overdose in 1998.

The keep-fit fanatic, who lived with his mum in Braeside Street, Maryhill, was a
keen weightlifter and went on outward bound courses.

He was rushed to hospital after falling unconscious when he took an overdose,
although his mother insists he was not a drug addict.

Relatives who visited him on the night of his admission to hospital claim he was
sitting up, talking and was showing signs of recovery.

But later he was moved to intensive care and put on a ventilator because his
oxygen levels were low. His condition deteriorated rapidly and doctors said
there was nothing they could do.

Medics said at the time he was suffering from adult respiratory distress
syndrome, which can be caused by several factors, including lung infection.

Mrs Devine believes James may have died from an infection picked up in the
hospital.

Law firm Ross Harper was appointed by the family to get access to James's
medical records four years ago.

His mother wanted to take action against the Western Infirmary, but didn't lodge
a legal claim before the three-year time limit was up.

She claimed lawyers didn't apply for legal aid for her and left it too late to
tell her they didn't think she had a case.

In a written ruling, the Law Society of Scotland ordered Ross Harper to pay her
(pounds) 500 compensation for "inadequate professional service".

The watchdog said lawyers took too long to advise Mrs Devine they thought she

didn't have a case against the hospital and would not be granted legal aid.

She was only told in October 2001 - a month before the three-year deadline for
taking legal action would expire.

Mrs Devine has also written to the Scottish Legal Services Ombudsman, which is
looking into her complaint, and said: "I was relying on them to help me get
answers as to why James died. Now I will never know as I can't raise a case
against the hospital.

"They had three years to lodge a complaint and they failed."

Two years ago Mrs Devine lost her fight for an official investigation into her
son's death after the procurator-fiscal ruled there would be no fatal accident
inquiry.

An expert from Glasgow Royal Infirmary was called to give a second opinion on
James's condition before he died. The consultant is understood to have cleared
the Western of any blame for the tragedy.

A Ross Harper spokesman said: "A payment was awarded for inconvenience rather
than the loss of compensation had a claim been lodged. We felt there was no case
to answer against the hospital."

LOAD-DATE: October 08, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MOTHER AND SON: James and battling mum Grace

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2002 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


