                              180 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            June 14, 1997, Saturday

Cracks form in secrecy of hospital talks

BYLINE: CHRISTINA HEADRICK

SECTION: SEMINOLE TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 693 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



A year and a half into a legal battle between the city and Helen Ellis  Memorial
Hospital, some of those involved are wondering whether keeping  settlement talks
secret serves the public's interest.

At two recent meetings, the city-appointed Health Facilities Authority
considered the need for secrecy.

"Settlement proposals may be something the public is entitled to hear,"  said
John Tarapani, chairman of the authority, which issued bonds for Helen  Ellis
and sublets the city-owned land and buildings to the hospital  foundation.

"These are public issues that should be discussed in public," he said.  "That's
been our position all along."

George Psaras, a former Tarpon Springs mayor on the authority, agreed.

"There's nothing that should be kept from the public when you're dealing  with
public assets," he said. "Right now, there's too many rumors that  aren't true
because people don't have all the information."

The city, the authority and the private foundation that runs Helen Ellis  are
entangled in lawsuits to clarify the proper relationship among the three.

The Tarpon Springs Hospital Foundation contends that the city and authority
have overstepped their roles. The foundation sued in late 1995 to clarify
questions about its lease with the city.

The city and authority had been dissatisfied since 1994, when the  foundation
tried to partner with Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp. without the  city's input.
The city has countersued the foundation to seek more control  over the hospital
property it owns.

Yet, both sides now say they want to settle the legal mess before it goes  to
trial.

For months, the city and hospital foundation have held secret negotiations.  The
talks have been more frequent in the past month.

The legal negotiations are exempt from state open government laws. When the
litigation is settled, everything will become public record.

One way to settle the case would be to revise the hospital's lease so  everyone
is satisfied. The city also could sell its interest in the hospital  to the
foundation and get out of the health care business.

On the advice of City Attorney John Hubbard, the Health Facilities  Authority
agreed this week that its discussions about the dispute will remain  secret -
for now.

"We are in litigation with a private group who isn't subject to the same  rules
that we are," Hubbard said. "That's the really unfair part of this  thing. The
other guys would have a really huge advantage over us, unless we  also have the
ability to discuss everything in private."

Hospital attorneys said they were "cautiously optimistic" that a  settlement
would be reached, but wanted to negotiate without public scrutiny.

"Discussions are at a sensitive stage," said Dale Webber, a Tampa lawyer  with
Buchanan Ingersoll Professional Corp. "It would be difficult to go  forward if
they weren't confidential."

The hospital has gone out of its way to keep everything secret, city  officials
said.

A month ago, hospital attorneys asked the city to sign an agreement  promising
that any hospital documents turned over during litigation be kept  confidential.
The agreement was contrary to state laws that require city  records to be open,
City Manager Costa Vatikiotis said.

"There is a difference in mind-set how we conduct business and how they  do,"
Vatikiotis said. "There are very few things under Florida law that can  ever be
confidential in city governments. The hospital has privacy concerns  tied to
competition in the local health care market. But we could not sign any  such
agreement."

Meanwhile, the legal bills continue to mount. Although the hospital  considers
its costs confidential, the city's expenses are not. To date, Tarpon  Springs
has spent about $ 292,500 on legal fees, copying and court reporters to  battle
the hospital. The Health Facilities Authority has spent about $ 75,000  in legal
fees, Tarapani said.

"We're not the ones who sued in the first place," Vatikiotis said. "This  is the
cost of the city protecting itself. It's a very expensive case."

- Times files were used in this report.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; (1989) City Attorney John Hubbard

                    Copyright 1997 Times Publishing Company


