                              181 of 993 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday

Cape Fear Valley, FirstHealth continue battle over hospitals in Hoke County

BYLINE: Jennifer Calhoun, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 741 words


June 21--RAEFORD -- FirstHealth of the Carolinas on Monday night again asked
Cape Fear Valley Health System to drop legal appeals and get on with the
business of building hospitals in Hoke County.

The request was made during the county's regular Board of Commissioners meeting.

FirstHealth Chief Executive Officer Charles Frock said he would be willing to
drop plans for a 65-bed hospital and build an eight-bed hospital in the county,
if Cape Fear Valley would drop appeals and start building its proposed 41-bed
hospital.

Otherwise, Frock said, the legal battles and construction could eventually delay
a hospital in the county for 10 years.

But Cape Fear Valley Chief Executive Officer Mike Nagowski didn't seem
interested in FirstHealth's proposal.

Nagowski said that Cape Fear Valley's proposed 41-bed hospital would be better
for the county than FirstHealth's proposed eight-bed hospital.

In addition, he said, an eight-bed hospital isn't financially sustainable, and
that -- with so few beds -- it was meant to be a stop-off for patients who would
ultimately be taken to FirstHealth Moore Regional Hospital in Pinehurst.

Chairman Tony Hunt said he asked the health systems to attend the meeting
because of growing frustration in the county over the legal bickering between
the two companies.

"All of the commissioners have been getting phone calls and people stopping us
on the streets, asking us, 'When are we going to get a hospital?'" Hunt said
after the meeting.

Pointed questions

Hunt grilled the CEOs during the meeting, with Nagowski getting the brunt of the
questions.

Hunt noted that the state's Department of Health and Human Services had advised
the county could support two hospitals, and questioned why Nagowski would be
against it.

"Why wouldn't we do that?" Hunt said. "What are you protecting Hoke County
from?"

Nagowski said he was concerned that an eight-bed hospital wasn't sufficient for
a growing county the size of Hoke.

"If someone shows up, and there are only eight beds, where do they go if they're
full?" Nagowski said.

Hunt fired back.

"They go down the road," he said, "to your 41-bed hospital."

Hunt later added: "I understand your concern for FirstHealth ... but that
liability is on them. Why would you care? Why would that be a problem?"

Hunt asked Frock, who is retiring at the end of the year, whether FirstHealth
would still be committed to the project after he left.

Frock said the health system's board of directors was fully committed to the
project and would continue it in his absence.

Hunt asked Frock why the health system hadn't purchased land, yet, while Cape
Fear Valley Health System had already purchased land on U.S. 401.

Frock said that the health system had a purchase option, but was still working
to resolve some infrastructure issues.

It had nothing to do with lack of commitment to the county, he said.

Hunt said the board may end up drafting a formal resolution to let the state and
the two health systems know where they stand.

The meeting was a way to ask some questions the residents have been asking him
and other board members, he said.

"We're just sick and tired of all the legal maneuvering," Hunt said.

Hunt said he didn't want to drive down the road in five years and still see no
hospital.

Or worse, he said, sick patients who had to be driven 30 to 40 minutes for
emergency services "with their life hanging in the balance."

"That's what the board is concerned about, and that's what the citizens are
concerned about," he said. "That's what we want to convey to you tonight."

Legal battle

The two health systems have been locked in legal battles since 2009, when both
companies submitted requests to build hospitals in the county.

Both hospitals have been approved -- FirstHealth for an eight-bed facility and
Cape Fear Valley for a 41-bed facility.

On June 15, FirstHealth submitted an additional request with the state to build
a 65-bed hospital in the county.

The measure was taken after the state said the Cumberland-Hoke medical services
needed 65 additional beds.

Staff writer Jennifer Calhoun can be reached at calhounj@fayobserver.com or
486-3595.

To see more of The Fayetteville Observer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.fayettevillenc.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Fayetteville
Observer, N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110621-FY-Cape-Fear-Valley-FirstHealth-continue-battle-over-hospitals
-in-Hoke-County-0621-20110621

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2011 The Fayetteville Observer


