                              197 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 29, 1995

Hospital has family's support in Scotland's first legal action to allow patient
to die. Court bid for coma woman

BYLINE: Alison Daniels, Alan Macdermid, Medical Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 721 words


A HOSPITAL trust has confirmed it is to take legal action to allow a woman who
has lain in a coma for more than three years to die. It will be Scotland's first
right to die case.

Yesterday, after doctors met relatives of the woman, Mrs Janet Johnston, 50,
from Allanton, near Shotts, Law Hospital in Carluke said it was taking up the
case on humanitarian grounds.

The hospital's medical director, Dr John Browning, said the woman was in a
persistent vegetative state, was being kept alive with a feeding tube, and had
no hope of recovering.

Mrs Johnston, an asthma sufferer, slipped into a coma three and a half years ago
after reportedly taking an overdose. Her husband, retired butcher Peter
Johnston, 53, and his daughter, Ms Linda Bryce, 30, said Mrs Johnston was
effectively dead and should be allowed to die in peace and with dignity.

Speaking at the hospital, the trust's chief executive, Mr Ken Thomson, said the
decision to go to the Court of Session in Edinburgh in October came after months
of discussion with medical staff and the relatives. Independent neurologists had
also been consulted and they shared the view of doctors at Law Hospital.

He said the hospital's legal team, provided by the Central Legal Office, had
followed guidelines from the House of Lords set down after the Tony Bland case
in England.

Mr Bland, who had suffered injuries in the Hillsborough football disaster, had
been in a persistent vegetative state. On appealto the House of Lords, his
parents won permission for his artificial feed to be withdrawn.

At present, there are no specific guidelines in Scotland, although doctors in a
previous case in Glasgow were advised by the Scottish Office that a decision to
terminate feeding would be in their hands if an agreement was reached with
relatives.

However, Mr Thomson said the hospital believed the proper forum to discuss Mrs
Johnston's future was the Court of Session. He said the trust had decided to go
down the legal route in order to protect its medical staff. He said that until
the court advised on publicity the hospital did not want to give any further
details on the case.

Mrs Johnston's family asked the hospital to read out a brief statement on their
behalf. In it, they said the decision to proceed with the court case had been
the most difficult and painful decision they had ever had to make.

"The family has discussed their relative's condition with medical staff and are
all in full agreement that this is the correct way forward."

The legal position for doctors and relatives in Scotland wishing to end the life
of a patient in a persistent vegetative state has remained in limbo since a
statement by the Solicitor-General two years ago, writes ALAN MacDERMID, Medical
Correspondent.

It appeared to repudiate guidance given by the Scottish Home and Health
Department a few years earlier that artificial feeding could be withdrawn
without fear of prosecution provided certain conditions were met -- that two
consultants agreed on the matter, and had consulted relatives.

The guidance -- which was issued to doctors treating a patient in PVS at Glasgow
Royal Infirmary -- was subject to the proviso that the procurator -fiscal would
be obliged to investigate if a complaint were made to him or the police, making
it important to have the agreement of the patient's family.

As a result, the Glasgow patient was allowed to die without any fanfare of
publicity and the case -- and the advice given -- became known at the time of
the Tony Bland case in 1992. The implication was that a court application would
not necessarily be needed each time doctors wanted to disconnect a dependent
patient.

A few months later, however, the Solicitor-General, Mr Thomas Dawson, QC, denied
that any prior assurance could be given about immunity from prosecution and said
he could not speculate on whether a Scottish court would take the same view as
the English court took in the Bland case.

A Crown Office spokesman said yesterday: "There appeared to have been a
misunderstanding about the position."

However, the British Medical Association said: "We believe this should be a
clinical decision, although it should not be taken until the patient has been in
a persistent vegetatuve state for at least a year."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Mr Ken Thomson, Law Hospital's chief executive, and medical director Dr
John Browning said they were taking the action on humanitarian grounds.
Picture: PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1995 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.


