                              189 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             April 22, 2011 Friday
                               N-j Final Edition

Hospital board advised it could sue 2nd lawyer

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION C; Pg. 1C

LENGTH: 569  words

DATELINE: NEW SMYRNA BEACH


NEW SMYRNA BEACH -- With a target date set for Bert Fish Medical Center toits
relationship with nonprofit Adventist Health System on May 31, questions emerged
Thursday on whether more than one lawyer should be liable for losses stemming
from the voided merger.

The oncoming split is court-ordered because the merger was the result of 21
meetings over 16 months closed to the public in violation of the state Sunshine
Law.

Because of the subsequent attempt to cure the Sunshine violations and a failed
defense of those attempts, the Southeast Volusia Hospital District already has
$1.5 million in legal bills that could hurt its ability to provide indigent care
at the New Smyrna Beach hospital it oversees.

Some lawyers have said the hospital district's losses in the botched merger
could reach into the tens of millions, potentially costing property taxpayers in
Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak Hill and a sliver of Port Orange.

The board of the hospital district has been interviewing legal firms to recover
those expenses through a legal malpractice claim against the lawyer who
erroneously advised them to close those meetings.

That lawyer, Jim Heekin, resigned from representing the board last month after
more than 20 years with the district.

But former Volusia County Sheriff Bob Vogel, who lives in Edgewater, said board
members should consider whether their current legal representative, whose
defense of the merger failed in court, should also be liable.

Orlando Attorney Darryl Bloodworth continues to represent the district in
hashing out the terms by which the hospital will become unwound from Adventist
Health. And one of the associates of his firm, Kelly Sullivan, has been chosen
as the district's day-to-day lawyer to replace Heekin.

But Vogel said the board shouldn't have done that. From a copy of Circuit Judge
Richard Graham's decision nullifying the merger, Vogel read a part that included
Bloodworth in the list of people who should have advised the board to take
action that would've "removed one of the biggest clouds hanging over" the
district's costly attempt to cure the Sunshine Law violations. That cloud was
the continuing partnership with Adventist Health as the district board met
publicly to pick a new partner, which turned out to be Adventist Health, the
judge wrote.

As a result, Bloodworth should not be participating in the selection of the
lawyer who will press the legal malpractice claim, Vogel said.

You've got these tentacles of Jim Heekin right here," Vogel said, pointing out
that Bloodworth was part of the team.

Bloodworth addressed the board and defended the omission.

There seemed to be no reason to set aside a transaction that we thought had been
entered into lawfully," he said.

But he said that the list of questions he prepared for potential litigants in
the malpractice case in no way seeks to limit whom the board will choose. He
said he is willing to stand up to the scrutiny of another lawyer looking at his
liability in the matter.

I am not concerned about being sued," he said. "They should look at it. I would
welcome them to look at it."

Vogel, whose wife, Jeannie, once served on the board, got up for one last
comment directed at Bloodworth.

The judge wrote your name in there," he said.

Board members would not comment on the exchange. But Jon Kaney, an attorney for
the Bert Fish Foundation, which sued to stop the merger, didn't want to say
anything definitive.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


