                              20 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                              July 24, 2016 Sunday

Karachi Police Surgeon's post vacant for three months

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 204

LENGTH: 350  words


The Health Department Government of Sindh has failed to fill the vacant post of
Karachi Police Surgeon despite the passage three months, creating hindrance in
legal procedure and obtaining certificates in high-profile cases, it was learned
on Saturday.

Reliable sources at Medico-Legal Department told that the post of Police Surgeon
Karachi has been lying vacant for last three months and provincial health
department authorities have failed to finalize the name of official for this
important post. They said police surgeon post is lying vacant since 15th April
2016 after retirement of Dr Aftab Qureshi.

They said police surgeon is considered one of major post in medic-legal
department but due to non-serious attitude of   high-ups of health department
the post is lying vacant. All administrative and official works in medico-legal
departments of three major and six other hospitals have badly affected due to
delay in appointment police surgeon Karachi on vacant post.

Sources said this important post is being run on temporary basis since 2015 and
high ups of health department Sindh has miserably failed to finalize the name of
official in grade-20 for this important post.

Another official said health government Sindh has decided to appoint Medical
Superintendent of Shikarpur Hospital Dr Imtiaz Ahmed Jokhio, an officer on
grade-19, on Karachi Police Surgeon post. Dr Jokhio has promoted from grade-18
to grade-19 in recent past and he has no experience about Medico-Legal
Department.

Sources said there are three major hospitals of city having the facility of
Medico-legal Officers (MLOs) like Abbasi Shaheed Hospital, Jinnah Postgraduate
Medical Center( JPMC) and Civil Hospital (CHK), while medico-legal department in
six other hospitals like  Lyari General Hospital, Sindh Government Hospital New
Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh Government Hospital
Saudabad, Sindh Government Qatar Hospital Orangi Town and Sindh Government
Hospital Korangi are partially non-functional due to shortage of MLOs.

Secretary Health Sindh, Ahmed Baksh Narejo, was not available for comment.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


