                              192 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                      May 12, 1998, Tuesday, Final Edition

DOCTOR-LAWYERS PONDER DELIVERY-ROOM VIDEOS

Don Colburn

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. Z05; THE CUTTING EDGE

LENGTH: 459 words


As more families seek to videotape the birth of a child, hospitals and doctors
face a delicate question: Is this a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to capture a
family milestone -- or a medically unnecessary intrusion fraught with potential
trouble?

A little of both, say researchers at the University of Iowa College of Medicine
who surveyed members of the American College of Legal Medicine, a group of
medical-legal specialists, about the pros and cons of birth videos. Their
findings appeared in the March issue of the Journal of Family Practice.

"Physicians must balance their patients' desires to film the birth process
against the inherent legal risk," the Iowa researchers concluded. Allowing video
cameras in the delivery room "can have significant negative consequences when
deliveries become unexpectedly complicated," they noted. Pictures that seem
routine to obstetricians, they warned, may appear gruesome to a jury in a
malpractice case.

Yet the existence of a videotape can prevent as well as encourage malpractice
suits, researchers found. As one lawyer noted in the survey, "the mere existence
of a surgery video may be sufficient to dissuade overzealous attorneys from
attempting to 'scare up' easy money" in cases relying on doubtful memories.

An earlier survey of 610 Iowa doctors found that 97 percent of OB-GYNs had
received at least one request for delivery room videotaping; nearly half had
refused such a request, usually because of concern about possible lawsuits.

At most hospitals, permission to videotape a delivery is left to the discretion
of the doctor, depending on the patient's condition. That is the policy at Inova
Fairfax Hospital, Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring and Columbia Hospital for
Women, which lead Washington area hospitals in deliveries in Virginia, Maryland
and the District respectively, hospital spokeswomen said.

One doctor-lawyer responding to the Iowa survey noted that in Tulsa, Okla.,
hospitals have enacted rules limiting use of video cameras in delivery rooms,
and at least one insurer has tried to adopt such a policy statewide. But a ban
on videotaping could offend or disappoint some families enough that they might
switch to another hospital, researchers said.

A better approach, the Iowa team said, is for obstetricians to raise the issue
ahead of time. If the family intends to videotape the delivery, the doctor
should obtain the patient's written consent and inform her that "it may be
necessary to discontinue the videotaping at the physician's discretion," they
advised.

"Since patients are not forgiving of physicians' poor interpersonal skills," the
article noted, "explaining the policy in advance helps avoid confrontations in
the delivery room."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1998 The Washington Post


