                              196 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           February 23, 2016 Tuesday

Klang Council lands in court from family of 15-year-old boy who sustained
injuries after falling into a manhole

LENGTH: 274  words


A single mother is initiating legal action against Klang Municipal Council (MPK)
for injuries sustained by her son, who fell into an open manhole last month.

May Tok, 44 said that her 15-year-old son lost a kidney in the fall, which
happened on January 27 next to the Giant hypermarket on Persiaran Batu Nilam.

My son was walking to school with his friend at 6.45am and didnt notice the open
manhole, which was covered with fallen branches and dried leaves.

He fell into the hole and sustained injuries to the right side of his body.
Luckily his friend was there to help him and took him to the nearest clinic, she
said at a press conference this evening in Klang.

May said that when she arrived at the clinic she was advised by the doctor to
take her son to hospital.

I took him to a private hospital, but was advised to go to Tengku Ampuan Rahimah
Hospital because the private hospital lacked the equipment to examine him, she
said.

May added that her son had to have emergency surgery to remove his kidney that
same day.

He is currently on medical leave and cant eat solid food. We want MPK to pay for
his medical bills and any future complications that may arise in the future, she
said.

MCA Klang Division Youth chief Tee Hooi Ling said that the MCAs Legal Bureau
would be initiating legal action against MPK on Mays behalf.

Our lawyer will be issuing a letter of demand to MPK once we have received the
medical report from the hospital next month on the extent of the boys injuries,
she said.

MCA Youth Legal Bureau chief Ng Kian Nam said that they would ask for a
settlement but if MPK refuses, then they will go to court. 2016 Legal Monitor
Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2016 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


