                              195 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                             May 26, 1999 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

ALP hits at hospital secrecy

BYLINE: SANDRA McKAY, STATE POLITICAL REPORTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 461 words


The State Government was accused of obsessive secrecy yesterday for overriding
the Austin Hospital's legal advice to release two sensitive reports on
privatisation.

The Victorian Civil and Administrative Appeals Tribunal earlier this month
ordered the Government to release all financial details on the privatisation of
the Austin and Repatriation Medical Centre on public interest grounds.

The hospital and the department had claimed in the tribunal that releasing the
information would damage the bidding process and have a "substantial adverse
effect on the economy of Victoria".

Parliament was told yesterday that the hospital's legal advice was not to
challenge the tribunal's decision as it would be unsuccessful, but the State
Government has pushed ahead with a Supreme Court appeal.

A spokeswoman for the Health Minister, Mr Rob Knowles, said there was "nothing
sinister" in the Government's action.

"From the hospital's point of view, it doesn't matter to them so much, but from
the Government's point of view we have a very clear cut responsibility to make
sure that the Victorian taxpayer gets the best tendering process and that
sensitive financial data not be publicly available," Ms Serena Williams said.

While the Government was not privy to the hospital's legal advice, Ms Williams
said "we do have clearly different legal perspectives".

The Opposition last year won partial access to the two reports but the
Department of Human Services blanked out sections on projected staff cuts and
the hospital's running costs.

Both reports cast doubt on whether the private sector would have the financial
capacity to run the Austin Repat.

Labor's health spokesman, Mr John Thwaites, said the Government's pressure on
the Austin to challenge the decision showed it was desperate to keep
privatisation details secret until after the next election.

The shadow attorney-general, Mr Rob Hulls, attacked the Government in
parliamentary question time yesterday, saying the Premier had an "obsession with
secrecy and covering up the truth".

He said the Government was breaching the spirit of the Freedom of Information
Act by spending hundreds of thousands of taxpayers' dollars to overturn the
tribunal's decision.

The Premier, Mr Jeff Kennett, yesterday defended the Supreme Court appeal as a
necessary and normal part of business to provide financial confidentiality to
private investors.

A spokeswoman for the Austin, Ms Fiona Gillies, would not comment on the
hospital's legal advice.

The Government has short-listed two bidders - the Sisters of Charity, which runs
St Vincent's Hospital, and a consortium consisting of Mayne Nickless' Health
Care of Australia, Ramsay Health Care and the Inner and Eastern Health Care
Network to tender to build, own and operate the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1999 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


