                              194 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             The Northlines (India)

                               May 3, 2013 Friday

Legal Services Authority core group visits quake victims at hospital

LENGTH: 474 words

DATELINE: Bhaderwah


Bhaderwah, May 3 -- On the directions of Chief Justice (Patron-in-Chief) and
Executive Chairman J&K State Legal Services Authority, a core group was
constituted by Brij Mohan Gupta, Chairman District Legal Services Authority,
Bhaderwah, District Doda here today as per the scheme provided under Legal
Services Act for Disaster Victims. The core group under the supervision of Brij
Mohan Gupta, Pr. District & Sessions Judge, Bhaderwah and the other members
comprising Kamlesh Pandit, Sub-Judge, Bhaderwah, Meyank Gupta, Munsiff
Bhaderwah, N.P Khajuria Advocate, President Bar Association Bhaderwah, P.K
Parihar Advocate, Abdul Wahid Advocate, Manjit Razdhan Advocate and Sunil Sharma
Advocate Bhaderwah visited the affected people of earth quake in areas of civil
population and hospitals. It was found on visiting SDH Hospital Bhaderwah that
all the patients including earth quake victims were being treated nicely in
temporary make shifts installed in open space of the hospital premises.

On interaction with the victims and hospital staff it came to surface that four
injured earth quake victims were undergoing treatment and whose condition was
stable and likely to be discharged in a day or two. However one attendant Ahsan
Ahmed S/o Abdul Gaffoor Zargar R/o Ghatha Bhaderwah reportedly succumbed due to
cardiac arrest as being a panic victim. On further first hand visit it was found
while taking round of the hospital structure that same appears to be damaged.

Further more the core group at Bhaderwah convened a meeting with the District
Administration, headed by DC Doda for the better implementation of Scheme
(SUPRA) wherein it was given to understand that District Administration being
already seized of the seriousness of the situation has formulated groups at
block level for the whole District of Doda to access the damages caused due to
recent earth quake which has struck in District Doda. Further, a temporary legal
aid clinic under the Chairmanship of Kamlesh Pandit, Chairman Tehsil Legal
Services Authority Bhaderwah has been established in SDH Hospital Bhaderwah to
provide legal services and awareness to the earth quake victims.

The core group members deputed to Tehsil Doda have also reported that three
children from Gandoh area who have suffered injuries due to earth quake are
undergoing treatment in District Hospital Doda. These children are students of
Govt. Primary School Kota (Gandoh).

Further more, the Core Group Members deputed to Tehsil Gandoh and Thathri have
reported substantial damage to the private and government buildings and also
injuries to some victims who are undergoing treatment in concerned hospital.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from The Northlines. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2013 The Northlines
                              All Rights Reserved


