                              191 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            January 8, 1998 Thursday

Hospital payment carries condition  Money can't be used to fight restructuring

BYLINE: BY JANE COUTTS Health Policy Reporter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 462 words

DATELINE: TORONTO


Hospitals cannot pay for their fights against restructuring with the money
handed out yesterday by the Ontario government, a provincial spokeswoman says.

Although part of the $154-million payment to hospitals announced by Health
Minister Elizabeth Witmer is intended to cover legal costs associated with
restructuring, fees for "lawsuits, claims and court challenges" are specifically
excluded from the payments, Lily Weedon said.

Several Ontario hospitals have run up big legal bills fighting the
recommendations of the Health Services Restructuring Commission. Critics say the
money, even if it is not being taken directly from funds intended to care for
patients, could be better spent.

"They'll say it's from parking revenue, or the cafeteria, or whatever, but the
fact is that that money used to go to patients -- to buying equipment or fixing
things," a source at one of the affected hospitals said. "They're just throwing
it away. They can't win."

The biggest legal bill is rumoured to be that of Wellesley Central Hospital in
Toronto. Sources say it has spent $1.6-million to fight its takeover by St.
Michael's Hospital.

Board chairwoman Libby Burnham said that figure was high but refused to say how
much the hospital has spent on its legal challenges or where the money has come
from.

At Women's College Hospital in Toronto, about $100,000 has been spent resisting
the commission's decision that it should merge with Sunnybrook Health Science
Centre and the Orthopedic and Arthritic Hospital.

Much of that money was raised by donations, a hospital spokeswoman said, and the
rest came from deferring capital projects. She was not sure whether medical
equipment or other patient-related expenditures were among those deferrals.

Montfort Hospital in Ottawa, Ontario's only French-language hospital, has spent
about $50,000 or $60,000 resisting the restructuring commission's plans,
president and chief executive Gerald Savoie said.

While the commission originally suggested that the hospital be closed, it later
said Montfort should become a day hospital, with only its maternity and
psychiatric wards permitting overnight stays.

Montfort still hopes to change that decision through negotiation, Mr. Savoie
said, and as yet has not gone to court. The work so far has been financed by the
SOS Montfort campaign or done by volunteers, he said.

The money Ms. Witmer announced is the first instalment of a $2-billion fund
first revealed in the budget last May to help hospitals cover the cost of
restructuring. The biggest share is to go to severance packages for people who
lose their jobs.

The province is paying only 85 per cent of the cost of employee severances and
70 per cent of capital costs.

The hospital share of one-time restructuring costs is expected to be
$700-million.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


