                              190 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                   Kansas City Daily Record (Kansas City, MO)

                              May 12, 2008 Monday

Attorneys team up with doctors to help the indigent

BYLINE: Kelly Weise and Aaron Bailey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1082  words


A law professor in St. Louis is trying to launch a program to help poor families
whose legal problems are also affecting their health.

But even as the groundwork gets laid for that effort, similar initiatives have
been in place and thriving across the state in the Kansas City.

Ellen Lawton, executive director of the Medical-Legal Partnership for Children
in Boston, said programs are growing around the country, as medical
professionals realize that legal assistance can benefit not only their patients
but their hospitals' bottom lines.

Programs can take many shapes, but typically a lawyer, or several, will work
closely with a local hospital or clinic that treats the poor, she said. The
lawyer gets involved when patients come for treatment to see if there are legal
problems as well.

"The whole idea is to achieve legal solutions to medical problems," said Katie
Lamb, an attorney with Legal Aid of Western Missouri who co-heads the medical-
legal partnership at Children's Mercy Hospital in Kansas City.

For instance, Lamb has helped the family of a child being treated for asthma
file housing complaints to improve the child's breathing environment. While
medication can help suppress symptoms, Lamb said, sometimes the problem's root
can be better fought in a courtroom.

"With this kind of access to clients, we can do something preventative before it
reaches crisis level," she said. "It's great to see kids getting better without
having to just up the dose. "

Benefiting all sides

The national partnership program was started in 1993 by Dr. Barry Zuckerman, a
pediatrician who got frustrated seeing sick children get treated only to return
to homes lacking heat or basic meals.

"The remedies they needed were not traditional medical remedies," Lawton said.
"His epiphany was the problems they have were actually legal problems" and the
specialists to call were not trained in medicine but in law.

Areas of assistance can range from helping get people on the Medicaid health
care program, which allows the hospital to recoup at least part of the cost of
treatment, to forcing a landlord to remove lead paint or a school to provide the
occupational therapy that a disabled child needs.

Lawton said it can take a few years, but often hospitals end up chipping in if
not covering the cost to have a lawyer in the building to help patients and also
help get more medical care paid for by outside parties. Legal aid offices also
sometimes relocate an attorney to a hospital or clinic as they often see the
same population.

The Medicaid Appeals Project between Legal Aid of Western Missouri and Truman
Medical Center in Kansas City has been so fiscally successful that the hospital
took over funding responsibility after the program's first year in 2005. The
program identifies hospital clients who were denied Medicaid and links them with
a Legal Aid attorney.

In the program's first two fiscal years, Truman received about $3 million in
Medicaid funds that the hospital would never have seen without the project, said
Lewis Popper, Truman's general counsel. A percentage is then kicked back to
Legal Aid to cover expenses.

"What's so spectacular is that patients who previously didn't go to a doctor
because they couldn't pay now have a card in their pocket saying they can pay,"
Popper said. "So those patients aren't waiting to come to the emergency room
once their problem gets bad, they are coming in to get care, preventative care.
"

Popper said Legal Aid's deputy director, Gregg Lombardi, got the idea off the
ground by placing a paralegal at Truman on a full-time basis. Legal Aid attorney
Effie Day runs the project from the legal end, while paralegal Tracie Griddine
handles the first contact, then refers eligible clients to Legal Aid attorneys.

Popper said he's surprised that more hospitals haven't looked into medical-legal
partnerships, especially for Medicaid appeals. The majority of people seeking
treatment at Truman are indigent, making the partnership ideal for everyone
involved, Popper said.

"I'm not sure why hospitals aren't jumping over each other to do this," he said.
"It's really just a great deal all around. "

The project at Children's Mercy began in September, Lamb said, using the Boston
program as a starting point. More than 150 families have been assisted by Legal
Aid attorneys so far - almost lapping the goal of 88 in six months. Like the
partnership at Truman, the Children's Mercy program was started with a grant
from the Health Care Foundation of Greater Kansas City. But Lamb said they hope
to have the program self-sufficient soon.

The 'right thing to do'

A small pilot program is under way in St. Louis, with hopes of expanding and
making it a permanent fixture.

Today, Tricia Harrison, an assistant clinical professor at Saint Louis
University School of Law, supervises law students who visit once a week at a
Grace Hill health clinic. They typically help families whose children have been
diagnosed with autism or behavior disorders but haven't received the services
they're due from their school district.

Harrison said the students, overseen by law professors, also can help with other
legal matters, such as a grandmother who lacks formal legal custody caring for
children whose parents are in jail.

Last school year, her students had a similar project within Cardinal Glennon
Children's Medical Center.

Harrison said there's a great need for legal assistance, and her group has to
turn cases away because they don't have the time or people to dedicate to them.
And they visit just one clinic, once a week, and typically don't even delve into
insurance matters.

Harrison said the basic idea is to take a "holistic approach" with families.

"If you have legal problems and you're struggling with these problems, it
absolutely will affect your health," she said.

Professor Jesse Goldner is working to raise the funds needed to establish a
program that could include its own office with a paid full-time lawyer along
with a social worker who also could be a grant writer. He also hopes to entice
law firms to chip in funding as well as pro bono time to help with cases.

Goldner also said the concept is a particularly good fit for SLU, which has a
nationally recognized health law program.

"This is a good education program, particularly for a school like ours which
attracts a student body for health law," he said. "Also it's the right thing to
do. I know too many cases in which legal services are not available that if
somebody pushed, these kids could get help. "

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

