                              207 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                Roscommon Herald

                                  July 5, 2011

Council should take control of hospital

SECTION: LETTERS

LENGTH: 382 words


In light of very poor political leadership in Europe the people of Roscommon
must now look beyond the short-term political scars at local and national level
of the removal of major acute services from Roscommon Hospital. As a united
Roscommon people we must, with open arms, embrace a paradigm shift with
Roscommon County Council taking over control of Roscommon Hospital in the legal
format of a not for profit arms length company.

Clearly this would be the best chance in a generation to meaningfully alter the
way acute hospital services are run in Roscommon. Such an arm length not for
profit company would allow for Ireland's first nurse led hospital to be a
training hospital and create a whole new landscape in hospital care throughout
Ireland, being financially controlled by our elected Roscommon county
councillors at monthly meetings.

The scale of the challenge is immense, but the immediate rewards are security of
retention of all hospital services into the future. The bedrock of such a
proposal would be all our elected political representatives in united fashion
gathering support at Dail level, for a legal instrument to be passed by
Oireachtas that would allow medical doctor recruitment from India or Pakistan,
five year legal immunity for the arms length company from any court action,
joining together of A+E and intensive care services, setting of remuneration
rates and working practices for medical consultants.

It may be a marathon or a sprint for Roscommon Council to take over the running
of Roscommon County Hospital, but it needs to be done so as to secure the
continued provision of full hospital services and the meaningful powers and
immunity by legal statue instrument of Oireachtas, to run our own local hospital
in a democratic and equitable nurse led model way for the population of
Roscommon.

The local medical, nursing, legal and administrative skills mix, is abundant in
Roscommon hand in hand with the political firepower to take this opportunity,
presented to us by our Taoiseach Enda Kenny TD in his decision, delivered
personally in Roscommon, to remove our major acute services from Roscommon
Hospital mortally wounding our very way of Life in north and south Roscommon.

is mise le meas

Ger o Brien BA (Hons ) LLB (Hons) BA RGN RMN.

3 The Plains

Ballinagare

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


