                              203 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            July 18, 2012 Wednesday

Marin General Hospital regains financial footing in first half of 2012

BYLINE: By Richard Halstead Marin Independent Journal

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 800 words


While the national economy seems to be weakening, Marin General Hospital gained
financial strength during the first six months of this year, according to the
hospital's CEO Lee Domanico.

Domanico said patient volumes at Marin General dropped to a nadir last year and
the hospital's finances dipped into the red, due in part to expenses associated
with the transition of management back to the Marin Heathcare District and away
from Sutter Health.

"In summary, the transfer was maybe a little more challenging than we thought it
would be," said Domanico, who briefed the Marin Independent Journal editorial
board on Marin General's health this week, two years after the June 2010
management change.

MGH recorded an operating loss of $5.6 million on net revenues of $303.4 million
in 2011, said John Friedenberg, the district's chief fund and business
development officer. Friedenberg said operations were affected by $14.3 million
of transition related expenses, which included legal fees incurred due to legal
action against Sutter Health, a revenue cycle redesign, and write offs of
pre-transfer accounts receivable that were deemed to be uncollectible.

But Domanico said the hospital returned to profitability in January, and patient
volumes are up during the first six months of 2012 compared with the same period
of 2011, the first such year-to-year increase in seven years. Marin General's
daily census rose 5 percent, and its total surgeries jumped 10 percent during
the first half of 2012. The hospital's operating revenue for this period
increased 6.7 percent to $151.8 million.

Domanico said the court-appointed arbitrator who last month ordered Sutter
Health to pay Marin General $21.5 million has not yet ruled on whether Sutter
Health will have to reimburse Marin General for its $3 million to $5 million in
legal expenses. Marin General sued Sutter, accusing it of illegally taking $120
million in profits from Marin General before it relinquished management control.

There is a possibility, however, that Arbitrator Judge Rebecca Westerfeld could
require Marin General to pay Sutter's legal expenses. In her decision,
Westerfield wrote, "An issue remains as to which is the prevailing party in this
arbitration and thus entitled to be reimbursed its reasonable attorneys' fees."

Domanico said, "We have to file a written argument. Then there is a rebuttal
argument, and then she (Westerfield) takes it under consideration."

Despite the cash award to the district, both sides have claimed victory.

"Our understanding is the decision hasn't been made about legal fees," said
Sutter Health spokeswoman Kathie Graham.

Friedenberg, however, said Westerfield's ruling leaves little room for debate.

"If you read her ruling," Friedenberg said, "she found that Sutter willfully and
purposely violated the operating standard, that they breached the contract and
that they violated the covenant of good faith and fair dealing."

Domanico said, "In essence, Sutter acted deliberately to injure Marin General by
not recruiting physicians for Marin General." He said in fact the ruling details
how Sutter recruited some physicians to Marin who did not use the hospital as
part of a strategy to attract patients away from Marin General to other
Sutter-controlled hospitals.

Domanico said over the last seven to eight years, while Sutter Health managed
Marin General, the hospital lost about four percent of its share of the Marin
County health care market to hospitals outside of Marin. He said that since the
Healthcare District took control of the hospital, it has invested millions of
dollars in physician recruitment, and the hospital's market share has
stabilized. In 2010, Marin General joined with the Marin IPA medical group, a
network of local doctors, to form the Prima Medical Foundation, which recruits,
hires and sponsors local doctors.

Domanico said the Healthcare District is proceeding with plans to build a new
Marin General Hospital building. Under state law, the district must make Marin
General earthquake safe no later than 2020 by either building a new hospital or
retrofitting the existing structure. Due to the hospital's age, it is considered
impractical to retrofit it.

Domanico said the county of Marin is currently reviewing the environmental
impact report for the new hospital plan. He said the Healthcare District expects
to put a general obligation bond on the ballot in November 2013 to raise about
$350 million for the project, which has been estimated to cost about $500
million.

And Domanico said Marin General is exploring various options for joining with
doctors to form an "accountable care organization," which will allow it to
benefit from new financial incentives in the Affordable Care Act to promote
preventative care.

Contact Richard Halstead via e-mail atrhalstead@marinij.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Marin Healthcare District Executive Director, Lee Domanico. Jean-Paul
Horre
Marin General Hospital, seen on Wednesday, June 22, 2011, in Greenbrae, Calif.,
has been under public management for a year. It was managed by Sutter Health
previously. (IJ photo/Frankie Frost) Frankie Frost
Marin General Hospital, seen on Wednesday, June 22, 2011, in Greenbrae, Calif.,
has been under public management for a year. It was managed by Sutter Health
previously. (IJ photo/Frankie Frost) Frankie Frost

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


