                              202 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                       August 12, 2016 Friday 6:22 PM GMT

Family of woman who died after miscarriage take legal action against Pennine
Acute hospital trust;
Nanaaishat Momodu's family instruct lawyers and allege clinical negligence over
her treatment at North Manchester General Hospital

BYLINE: By Paul Britton

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 549 words


The family of a mum-of-two who died after miscarrying are taking legal action
against under-fire hospital trust Pennine Acute, alleging clinical negligence.

Nanaaishat Momodu, 32, from Middleton , was 22 weeks pregnant when she lost her
baby at North Manchester General Hospital .

She was admitted with abdominal pain last October but died two days later after
her conditioned worsened.

Nanaaishat miscarried before she got to the hospital, but her family claim she
was told she would have to wait 48 hours to see if she would go into labour
naturally.

They allege that she wasn't given correct treatment quickly enough and also
criticised staffing levels.

Pennine Acute , which runs North Manchester General, the Royal Oldham Hospital ,
Fairfield General and Rochdale Infirmary , has been branded 'inadequate' in a
scathing report by the Care Quality Commission.

Our largest hospital trust is unsafe, appallingly understaffed and badly-led,
say health inspectors

The CQC uncovered severe under-staffing within maternity, neonatal and
paediatrics. In maternity, it found 'a poor culture with deeply entrenched
attitudes where some staff accepted sub-optimal care as the norm'.

At the time of February inspection there were 170 serious maternity and
gynaecology incidents still yet to be dealt with, 13 of which involved severe
harm or death.

News of the legal action was confirmed after an inquest into Nanaaishat's death
was opened and adjourned at Manchester Coroners Court.

Coroner Nigel Meadows said he has received a copy of an internal investigation
report carried out by the hospital.

Independent experts in obstetrics and midwifery could be appointed by the court
to give evidence at the inquest and Mr Meadows said health professionals at the
hospital who were involved in the case could seek to have their own legal
representation at the hearing.

He said: "My initial impression is that this was not a case where there was no
system. There was a system. It comes down to individual clinical judgement."

Nanaaishat's brother, Abeni Momodu, took his sister to the hospital after she
began to feel unwell. Once there, no fetal heartbeat was detected, the hearing
was told.

Scandalous failings: The terrible truth about our biggest hospital trust

Speaking to the M.E.N. after her death, Mr Momodu said his sister was clearly
unwell and was begging medics to remove the baby, but she was given only
paracetamol for pain.

Her condition deteriorated over a weekend and she was taken into surgery on a
Sunday night. She died hours later.

Zak Golombeck, of Manchester law firm Slater and Gordon, said the firm had been
instructed to investigate claims of clinical negligence at Pennine Acute.

He said: "We act for a number of people who have very serious allegations to
make about the care they received at these hospitals.

"Like Nanaaishat's family, they just want answers and to find out if more should
have been done to protect their loved ones.

"The recent findings of the Care Quality Commission will be upsetting and
concerning for them, but will come as no surprise.

"What is clear now is that a wholesale review is needed and must be carried out
urgently to restore public confidence and ensure the highest standards of safety
and care for patients in the future."

The trust has been approached for comment.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


