                              204 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               India Pharma News

                     October 10, 2013 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Hospital Awarded Two Grants Totaling $25,000 Toward Medical-Legal Partnership
Project

LENGTH: 455  words


New Delhi, Oct. 10 -- The Hospital of Central Connecticut (HOCC) has been
awarded two grants totaling $25,000 for its Medical-Legal Partnership Project
(MLPP) with the Center for Children's Advocacy (CCA).



Community Chest of New Britain and Berlin Inc. provided a $20,000 grant toward
program expenses and The Farmington Bank Community Foundation contributed
$5,000.

Both grants are the first awarded to the hospital by the respective
organizations. The hospital's MLPP program, founded in 2008, helps ensure that
low-income children throughout the area receive optimal medical care. To date,
the program has helped hundreds of at-risk children throughout Greater New
Britain, which includes the towns of Bristol, Southington, Plainville and
Berlin.

Through MLPP, the hospital works with the CCA, a Connecticut non-profit agency
that provides legal services for at-risk children. HOCC pediatricians and the
center's MLPP attorneys help low-income children lead healthier lives by
improving access to healthcare and resolving issues such as substandard housing.
Other concerns they address include disability and other basic need benefits,
utility issues, Medicaid and HUSKY concerns, and educational rights.

"The collaborative project between the Pediatrics Department at The Hospital of
Central Connecticut and the CCA is aimed at improving the health outcomes of low
income and other at-risk children within the Greater New Britain area," says
Nagwa Khadr, M.D., chief of Pediatrics. HOCC is grateful to both The Community
Chest of New Britain and Berlin and the Farmington Bank Community Foundation for
these grants, says Khadr, which provide an additional way the hospital, with
CCA, serves the community.

Jay Sicklick, director of the CCA's Medical-Legal Partnership Project, says CCA
is "tremendously grateful" for the two grants that will allow the partnership to
continue to assist some of the most vulnerable children and families in Greater
New Britain.

"There are so many families whose children suffer from medical issues that can
be alleviated with our help," he says. "Poverty should not be a roadblock to the
health and well-being of children and families. Being on site at the hospital,
and working with and training affiliated faculty of HOCC gives patients and
practitioners easy access to legal services that can provide real relief."

"The collaboration of the Medical-Legal Partnership Project and The Hospital of
Central Connecticut is all about medical professionals and lawyers working
together for better health outcomes for families," says Bonnie Roswig, senior
staff attorney of the CCA's Medical-Legal Partnership Project and the on-site
attorney at HOCC. "The grants are really wonderful assists to the community."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2013 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


