                              21 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                     May 29, 1997, Thursday, METRO EDITION

Hospital says pair on panel biased Wellesley launches legal challenge

BYLINE: By Rita Daly TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A2

LENGTH: 450 words


   The commission in charge of closing Ontario hospitals has been accused of
bias in a legal challenge launched by one of the Metro hospitals it ordered
shut.

Wellesley-Central Hospital is the first in Metro, and the second in the province
after the civic hospital in Pembroke, to take its fight to stay open into
Ontario's courts.

It is battling the 11-member Health Services Restructuring Commission in Ontario
Divisional Court on six grounds, among them that two of its commissioners have a
bias due to their ties to St. Michael's Hospital.

St. Mike's is the hospital that the commission in its March report ordering 10
Metro hospitals shut assigned to take full control of Wellesley-Central's
management, buildings and assets.

The commission members are Hartland MacDougall, deputy chairman of London
Insurance Group Inc., who was a founding member of St. Michael's Hospital
Foundation, and Daniel Ross, a London-based lawyer whose law firm McCarthy,
Tetrault represents St. Mike's.

Libby Burnham, chairperson of Wellesley-Central's board, said the commission has
shown an "unreasonable bias" against hospitals ordered to close.

"There is no commissioner who is attached to a hospital in Ontario slated to
close," she said in outlining their legal action.

In a brief statement through his insurance office, MacDougall said that in
accepting the role as commissioner, his conflict as St. Mike's foundation
chairperson was declared.

"It was agreed that he step down (as foundation chairperson), which he did in
January of this year," said Pat Novinger, MacDougall's executive assistant.

Ross could not be reached for comment.

The hospital also argues the commission let itself be politically influenced by
Health Minister Jim Wilson's office. Letters were sent from Wilson's office last
month to the commission favoring Wellesley-Central's closing, and at least one
letter specifically stated it agreed the HIV/AIDS program at Wellesley-Central
Hospital will be better off at a new clinic on Sherbourne St. run by St.
Michael's Hospital.

The legal action will also tackle Charter issues, arguing the rights of
patients, particularly homosexuals and women seeking birth control, will be
violated by having to obtain treatment at St. Mike's, a Catholic hospital.

The commission yesterday was surprised that Wellesley- Central was going ahead
with its legal action before it released its final report on Metro hospitals.

"We believe their decision to launch legal action at this time is somewhat
premature," said commission spokesperson Ruth Lewkowicz.

She said the commission is still in the process of reviewing all options, so "no
decisions have been made."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 2 PHOTOS: Daniel Ross; Hartland MacDougall.Ontario; hospital; closing;
damages; Health; Services; Restructuring; Commission

                  Copyright 1997 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


