                              200 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                        May 24, 2016 Tuesday 7:59 PM GMT

Four more people hospitalised after taking legal highs;
Police say nine people have suffered the horrific affects of the psychoactive
substances in the town in just four days

BYLINE: By Todd Fitzgerald

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 533 words


Another four people have been taken to hospital, including one man who is
fighting for his life, after taking so-called 'legal highs' in Rochdale.

Police say nine people have suffered the horrific affects of the psychoactive
substances in the town in just four days.

All suffered serious reactions after taking 'Annihilation', 'Cherry Bombs',
'Clockwork Orange', 'Pandora's Box', or 'Kronic'.

Officers first put out a warning on Friday after two men collapsed after taking
'Annihilation'.

One was left in an induced coma in hospital. Both men suffered bad reactions
after taking the substance on Drake Street in the town centre.

On Saturday, officers reported that three more people had collapsed after taking
legal highs.

Read: What is the 'Annihilation' legal high?

One, aged 34, is in a serious condition in hospital. Two others received medical
treatment before leaving of their own accord.

Those five are all believed to have taken 'Annihilation', or a similar substance
'Cherry Bombs'.

Despite police warning legal highs can be lethal, another four people were taken
to hospital on Monday after taking various legal highs.

One of them is in a life-threatening condition.

Officers were called to Milnrow Road at around 3.50pm on Monday after a man in
his 30s was found unconscious. It is suspected he took 'Clockwork Orange'.

Read more: Teenage boy fighting for life after taking ecstasy known as
'Rockstar'

He was treated at the scene and taken to hospital where he is in a
life-threatening condition.

At around 4.20pm, police were called to Oldham Road after a man in his 40s had
collapsed. It is thought he took 'Pandora's Box'.

He has since discharged himself from hospital.

Another man, in his 30s, was taken to hospital after he was found collapsed at
an address on The Butts. It is believed he took a substance called 'Kronic'.

The fourth call came in at around 5.50pm. A man his 40s is believed to have
taken legal highs on Drake Street near to the junction with Oldham Road.

He was taken to hospital. It is believed he is conscious.

Read: Three more people taken ill after taking legal highs

Read: Urgent warning over legal high Annihilation as man left in coma

Symptoms of the mind-bending substances include profuse sweating, a racing
heartbeat, extreme muscle tension, delirious ranting, and very high body
temperature.

Detective Insp Lee Hopwood of GMP's Rochdale Borough said: "Despite issuing
warnings about the dangers of these so called 'legal highs', these are now the
latest people to have been taken ill after taking them in the past few days.

"I cannot stress enough how dangerous they are and even though they might not be
illegal, please do not take the risk.

"They can seriously harm you and in the case of these men they are now in
hospital because of it.

"Please think about the effects these substances and do not take them. If you
think someone you know might have taken 'legal highs' then please get medical
attention immediately."

Anyone with information about where the drugs may have come from is asked to
call police on 101 - or Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.

For help or advice on all drugs - including 'legal highs' - Talk to Frank on
0800 777 6600 or visit talktofrank.com.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2016 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


