                              206 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                             April 3, 2010 Saturday

Medico-legal law still killing accident victims

LENGTH: 903  words

DATELINE: LAHORE


LAHORE, April 3 -- Last month, six teenagers left their school in a jeep for a
coffee shop in Gulberg. Looking for a thrill, the young-bloods stepped on the
gas as soon as they got onto The Mall. Drunk with excitement, listening to loud
music and with no worries at all, the teenage driver aimed for a sharp turn to
get on Zafar Ali Road, but lost control of the jeep, crashing right into the
wall of the bridge.

The injured boys were rushed to a private hospital, but the administration
refused to take the case, saying, "only government hospitals are authorised to
admit accident victims". While the rescuers tried to convince the doctors,
saying that the youngsters were in critical condition, one of the boys, Razi
Talib, breathed his last. Still, the doctors advised paramedics to take the boys
to a government hospital. Annoyed by the doctors' refusal, the rescuers took the
injured to two other nearby private hospitals, but doctors there also refused,
saying that the law doesn't allow them to admit accident patients. Eventually,
the five injured boys were taken to a government hospital, where another boy,
Muhammad Hussain, fought for his life for a week before succumbing to his
injuries.

The other four boys, Raza Khar, Taimur Elahi, Ahmad Nadeem and Waleed Butt,
however, were fortunate enough to survive the incident. The two boys' lives
could have been saved if they received proper medical attention in time, but the
archaic medico-legal law - in force since the days of the British Raj - defeated
the boys' in their struggle to survive. This was not the first time precious
human lives were lost for no good reason, and it probably will not be the last.
Despite the deaths of hundreds every year, simply because of medico-legal red
tape, the government shows no interest in amending the 'complicated' procedure,
Daily Times has learnt. Under the law, if someone is injured in a car accident
or receives a bullet wound, the patient will have to go to a government hospital
to obtain a medico-legal certificate (MLC) - a prerequisite for getting an FIR
registered. Treatment at private health establishments have no legal standing,
and police will not include the relevant sections in the first information
report (FIR), even if a case is registered after verification of the incident
from the crime scene. Owing to the complications involved in the whole process,
private hospitals refuse to treat accident patients, even if they are in
critical condition. This causes a lot of trouble to already-panicked patients,
often resulting in the deaths of the aggrieved. Mayo Hospital Casualty Medical
Officer (CMO) Dr Shahbaz said his unit receives 15 to 18 medico-legal cases
every day, with the number increasing three times during the summers. He said
patients come with a number of problems, including poisoning, firearm injury,
traffic accident, electric shocks, burns and calamity (in case of bomb blasts).
"Many such patients are refused treatment by private hospital doctors before
coming to Mayo," he said.

Shadman Station House Officer (SHO) Waseem said the law does not bar private
health establishments from giving treatment to accident patients. "It's just
that police will not include the relevant section in the FIR unless an MLC is
issued by a doctor working in a government hospital...but no one stops doctors
from treating accident patients," he added.Private Hospitals Association
Treasurer Dr Mazhar Iqbal Chaudhry said, "Doctors practicing in private
hospitals usually avoid treating such patients because they do not want to get
involved in thana, kutchehry (police station and court) affairs." However, he
said that treatment should be given to patients in a critical condition, but the
problem is that "since private hospitals are not authorised to issue medico-
legal certificates, a police case cannot be registered even if a patient is
treated at a private hospital," he said.

No plan: Law Secretary Dr Syed Abdul Hassan Najmi told Daily Times that the
government did not have a plan in the pipeline to amend the said law. "Since the
law comes under the Criminal Procedural Code (CrPC), only the federal government
can make amendments in it...the Health Department and the provincial cabinet can
only send recommendations to the Centre," he said. However, he suggested
increasing the number of medico-legal centres to address the problem instead of
amending the CrPC.Criminal law practitioner Advocate Muhammad Rizwan Gondal said
that patients had been refused treatment even at government hospitals in the
past for not getting a docket from the police station concerned.However, former
prime minister Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain changed the procedure after assuming
office, and now patients are initially treated without any question, but an MLC
is still issued after getting the docket, he said. He was of the view that since
there is a provincial health department as well, the Punjab government could
make amendments in its area of jurisdiction.

Bill: MPA Sheikh Allauddin said he had repeatedly voiced the issue in different
sessions of the Punjab Assembly, adding that he would also move a private bill,
which would incorporate stern action against private hospitals' doctors if they
refuse to admit accident patients. Published by HT Syndication with permission
from Daily Times. For more information on news feed please contact Sarabjit
Jagirdar at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


