                              210 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                        Calgary Herald (Alberta, Canada)

                      June 14, 1992, Sunday, FINAL EDITION

Hospital target of suit

BYLINE: ALLYSON JEFFS

SECTION: CITY; Pg. A5

LENGTH: 364 words


The mother of a schizophrenic man who died of pneumonia after being diagnosed
with arthritis has filed a suit against Holy Cross Hospital, two local doctors
and the City of Calgary.

However, whether the suit proceeds to court depends largely upon a decision by
the Legal Aid Society of Alberta.

Documents filed at Court of Queen's Bench allege 27-year-old James Michael Simon
of Calgary was improperly diagnosed and treated by two doctors at Holy Cross
Hospital between May 14 and June 15 of last year.

Simon was found dead in his apartment June 17. His mother, Norma Simon, found
him lying naked on a couch with blood and foam running from his mouth.

An autopsy revealed he died of bilateral pneumonia, which is pneumonia affecting
both lungs.

Sandy De Piero, spokeswoman for Holy Cross Hospital, said the hospital has not
yet been served with the documents and could not comment on them.

Because Simon's mother cannot afford the cost of a lawsuit, and because the
provincial Fatal Accidents Act sets a limit of $ 3,000 on the amount of money
which may be recovered, the suit may not proceed.

Lawyer Mitchell Ford, who acts for Simon, said Legal Aid has agreed to cover
costs for filing initial documents and preparing an opinion on the merits of
proceeding with the case.

After that, he said, Legal Aid will review the file and decide whether or not to
finance the case.

Ford said he doesn't know if Legal Aid will fund a case where the amount of
money that can be recovered will not even begin to pay for legal costs.

"Medical malpractice can be a very expensive lawsuit, very difficult and very
expensive," Ford said.

He added the costs of obtaining hospital records and of obtaining expert medical
opinion alone can run into tens of thousands of dollars.

A spokesman for Legal Aid could not be reached for comment.

Simon is seeking $ 3,000 in damages, funeral costs and unspecified special
damages.

The City of Calgary is named because of Simon's complaints about how Emergency
Medical Services personnel responded to her son's call for an ambulance last
June 15.

A spokesman for the City of Calgary could not be reached for comment.



LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 1992 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


