                              208 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Manchester Evening News

                            October 13, 2015 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Top doctors in legal fight against Healthier Together shake-up

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 478 words


A GROUP of senior Wythenshawe Hospital doctors have officially launched legal
action against the NHS over 'catastrophic' plans to move surgery away from the
site.

'Keep Wythenshawe Special' - a company set up for the purpose - has lodged court
papers aimed at triggering a judicial review of the decision, taken by clinical
commissioners over the summer. NHS bosses say it could cost the system £500,000
in legal costs.

The doctors have launched their bid as a result of the Healthier Together
hospital shakeup, which aims to create four 'specialist' hospitals across the
region. They would become the only sites to deal with emergency abdominal
surgery - but Wythenshawe, to the fury of doctors, MPs and some local
councillors, was not one of those chosen.

As a result a small group of consultants, with the backing of the hospital's
much larger medical staff-ing committee, has now launched legal action against
Greater Manchester's 12 clinical commissioning groups.

In a statement, the doctors - who are represented by lawyers Irwin Mitchell -
said the move would 'downgrade' the hospital.

Lawyer Mathieu Culverhouse said they believed the decision was 'unlawful' and
had not taken clinical outcomes into account, adding that the impact could be
'catastrophic'.

Speaking on behalf of Keep Wythenshawe Special, consultant surgeon Andrew
Macdonald added: "We have not been given the assurances we sought from the
commissioning groups and have real concerns about how the plans will affect
patient safety in the Greater Manchester region."

But Healthier Together and the council leader in charge of health for the region
have both hit back.

Dr Nigel Guest, chief clinical officer of Trafford CCG and one of those who gave
Stepping Hill specialist status over Wythenshawe, said commissioners were
'extremely disappointed' with the move, which he claimed was not backed by the
hospital's board.

An initial £500,000 has been put on one side to defend the challenge, he said,
adding: "We have met with these individuals a number of times to understand
their concerns and tried to resolve the issue collaboratively, rather than going
through a legal process. However, the group has refused further meetings and has
formed a private company, Keep Wythenshawe Special, in order to sue the NHS."
Lord Peter Smith, who leads on health devolution for the combined authority,
said the move could 'halt' the recruitment of 13 new A&E doctors and 22
surgeons, adding that the entire shake-up had been about improving all
hospitals.

A judge is expected to look at the bid in the next couple of months before
ruling whether or not the review can go ahead.

But it's understood the Healthier Together shakeup will largely continue as
planned while the legal process rumbles on.

Sources said the University Hospitals South Manchester board wished to see the
issues resolved outside the legal process.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wythenshawe Hospital faces a downgrade.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2015 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


