                              211 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                            August 30, 2014 Saturday

Editorial: Halifax Health moves forward from lawsuit

BYLINE: OUR VIEW

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 707  words


Having finally settled a five-year-long whistleblower lawsuit that cost it $120
million in fines and legal fees, it's understandable that Halifax Health would
want to put the episode in its rear-view mirror and focus on what lies ahead.

Successfully navigating the future, though, requires learning from the
experience of the past and avoiding decisions that led to the huge settlement.
The hospital cannot afford any more costly detours.

Nor can it have the government giving it confusing directions.

Hospitals swim in a vast sea of regulations. They have a difficult but mandatory
responsibility to comply with those rules. That includes separating the common
fish from the barracudas that can take a chunk out of the hospital's hide.

Halifax Health failed in that regard when, in 2008, Elin Baklid- Kunz, an
employee in the hospital's compliance office, notified management that
employment contracts violated the federal Stark Law, which regulates physician
services for Medicare and Medicaid patients. Her concerns were justified
according to a legal analysis done by Halifax Health's associate general
counsel.

Despite its own employees warning of the problem, Halifax Health's legal counsel
sought the opinion of an outside counsel, who concluded that the arrangements
could be defended in court but gave no assurances that a judge or jury would
agree that the agreements were legal. The hospital chose to go with the outside
opinion.

Halifax Health's associate general counsel recommended self- reporting the
matter to the government, which she believed would have resulted in a much less
severe penalty for the hospital. An assistant U.S. attorney later told The
News-Journal that would have been the wise course of action. Hospital officials,
though, contend that federal protocols for such settlements didn't exist until
2010.

In June 2009, Baklid-Kunz filed the whistleblower lawsuit against her employer
alleging it was ignoring illegal contracts with nine physicians and overcharging
Medicare for short hospital stays.

In a meeting with The News-Journal editorial board last week, Halifax Health CEO
Jeff Feasel said he wasn't aware of the decisions his legal counsel made that
were at the center of the lawsuit until December 2009. The hospital's board of
directors was notified of the suit a month later. He added that he wished the
Stark Law issues had been brought to his attention when concerns were initially
raised.

Going forward, Halifax Health needs the foresight to address these problems
before they metastasize. Not only is it responsible to the taxpayers who
partially fund it, but the health care it provides makes it an invaluable asset
to the community that must not be weakened.

Halifax Health has taken welcome steps to avoid a repeat, some of them
voluntary, others mandated by the federal government.

Earlier this month David Davidson, the hospital's chief general counsel since
1991, resigned effective Oct. 1. He told hospital commissioners in a meeting he
took "full ownership" of the contracts at the center of the lawsuit.

In the meeting with The News-Journal editorial board, Feasel said hospital
management "thinks differently" today. It now asks how people outside the
organization, including in government, would view its policies.

As part of the first settlement agreement, the hospital has hired a compliance
expert to advise its board. He has a five-year mandate, but management has
indicated it may voluntarily extend that period to provide greater protection.
Board members and hospital staff also have had to complete training sessions on
compliance. The hospital's compliance officer now reports directly to Feasel.

In January, a legal review team will begin examining contracts and policies to
provide an extra layer of compliance.

Will that be enough?

It would help if hospitals didn't have to grow wings to stay above all the
government regulations that continuously pile up, or employ psychic powers to
interpret them.

The Stark Law is confounding; Halifax Health officials say it is 10 pages long
but open to "900 interpretations." Public funds must be protected from waste and
fraud, but those controls should be clearly defined and understood, and the
penalties should be commensurate with the violations.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

