                              213 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                October 28, 2005

Hospitals refuse to donate equipment for quake zone

BYLINE: Hannah Davies

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 507 words


Hospital bosses have refused to donate medical equipment to help victims of the
South Asia earthquake - because it could leave them open to legal action.
Hospitals in Pakistan and India are buckling under the strain as they struggle
to treat thousands of people injured in the quake or ill in its aftermath.

Charity workers from the International Hospital Relief Trust recently
transported two tonnes of medical aid from hospital trusts across the country.

However, the organisation today revealed that managers at Leicester's hospitals
would not contribute to the shipment of incubators, wheelchairs, beds, trollies,
blankets and bandages.

The University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust has never donated medical
equipment to the charity. It said it could face legal action if the equipment
failed or went wrong.

As a result, bosses scrap 75 per cent of unwanted machinery, while the rest is
returned to the manufacturer as a trade-in, or auctioned.

Other hospital trusts have found a way round the legal problem.

Today, Leicester hospital managers pledged to review their policy.

Zuffar Haq, chairman of the relief charity, said: "There is a desperate
situation in Pakistan. We can help by salvaging equipment hospitals here
considered to be unsafe or beyond repair.

"I have been asking the trust to donate medical equipment to the charity for
three years and have always been disappointed.

"I had hoped they would change their minds after the earthquake, but they
didn't.

"I don't understand why they will not help out, when other hospitals do. They
wouldn't even give us a blanket." Walsall Hospitals NHS Trust and Liverpool
Women's Hospital NHS Trust were among those to donate equipment for earthquake
victims.

A Leicester trust spokesman said it had refused requests for donations because
it had to be sure it was "indemnified against all possible legal ramifications
in the event of the equipment failing or being used inappropriately".

However, Mike Cooke, chief executive of South Staffordshire Healthcare NHS
Trust, donated equipment three years ago.

In a letter to Mr Haq, he covered liability issues.

He said: "Obviously, this equipment has no warranty and my organisation can
accept no responsibility for its subsequent performance.

"I am delighted that the organisation I represent is able to donate equipment
which has reached the end of its service life and is therefore of no further
value to the NHS.'' Mr Haq, who is also chairman of Leicester Patients' Group,
has offered to draw up a document which would transfer liability to his charity,
but this proposal was refused by the trust.

He said: "This equipment might not be suitable for use in Leicester, but people
in Pakistan are using machines that are 30 years old." A trust spokeswoman said:
"The trust has great sympathy for those affected by any disaster.

"Our policy on the donation of equipment will be reviewed and, in the meantime,
any request for equipment will be sympathetically considered."

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

                       © Copyright 2005 Leicester Mercury


