                              212 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              May 13, 2014 Tuesday

Palm Drive non-profit requesting mediation

BYLINE: Martin Espinoza, The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 489 words


May 13--The nonprofit foundation that wants to reopen Palm Drive Hospital and
take over its management has asked a federal bankruptcy judge to intervene in
its stalled talks with the hospital board.

The Palm Drive Health Care Foundation, which has been negotiating for weeks with
the hospital district board, filed a legal motion on Friday requesting a court
appointed mediator "to resolve an impasse" that is preventing the hospital from
reopening.

For its part, the hospital board, filed legal papers opposing Monday opposing
the foundation's request for a court appointed mediator.

In early April, the hospital board both filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy and
approved the closure of the cash-strapped facility, citing crippling competition
from Santa Rosa hospitals, especially Kaiser Permanente, declining overnight
patient stays and reduced health plan payments.

The legal filings are further signs of the acrimony that has developed between
the hospital board and the foundation that for years supported the hospital with
millions of dollars in private donations.

"The bankruptcy court may not agree with us, but we are looking for a means to
find a good solution to work for all of us," said Gail Thomas, a key negotiator
for the foundation.

Thomas said one of the goals of the Chapter 9 bankruptcy process is to keep
public entities -- in this case the hospital -- functioning while their
financial issues are resolved.

The foundation's legal motion states that "the foundation's essential and
achievable plans to re-open the hospital should not be allowed to languish
another day as a result of the board's failure to openly engage the foundation."

Chris Dawson, president of the hospital board, said he was surprised by the
foundation's legal maneuver. He said the last meeting between the hospital board
and foundation was last Wednesday, and that both sides had agreed to put out a
press release stating that talks were ongoing and that progress was being made.

"Having a mediator involved just doesn't make sense," Dawson said.

Dawson said there continue to be a number problems with the foundation's
proposal, including its plan for governance, its financial projections, proposed
clinical services and lack of a qualified executive management team.

Dawson also said a court-appointed mediator is not needed since the hospital
board is also in talks with other interested parties, including St. Joseph
Health in Sonoma County, which has expressed interest in possibly providing
physical therapy and urgent care services.

"I don't think its necessary," he said. "We're talking to other people."

When asked how long the hospital would remain closed, Dawson said, "I can't
answer that."

You can reach Staff Writer Martin Espinoza at 521-5213 or
martin.espinoza@pressdemocrat.com

___ (c)2014 The Press Democrat (Santa Rosa, Calif.) Visit The Press Democrat
(Santa Rosa, Calif.) at www.pressdemocrat.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20140513-UR-Palm-Drive-non-profit-requesting-mediation-0513-20140513

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UR


                                 Copyright 2014


