                              216 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                Irish Daily Mail

                              June 3, 2013 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

'Patients with grievances should get free legal aid'

BYLINE: Dan Danaher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 238 words


HOSPITAL patients or relatives of patients who have a serious grievance over the
standard of care at a public hospital should be given free legal aid, a Fine
Gael politician has claimed.

Councillor Padraig Conneely made the claim as he criticised the standard of care
provided by University College Hospital Galway in the lead-up to the death of
Savita Halappanavar.

As chairman of the HSE West Forum, Mr Conneely told a meeting of the forum that
free legal aid should be provided to people who have a serious grievance or who
have lost a lovedone in a public hospital such as UCHG. The ex-Galway City Mayor
criticised the provision of legal aid for people with '30 or 40 convictions'
while patients have no such entitlement.

He cited a case involving one woman who approached him concerning care but was
told by a barrister she would have to produce '(EURO)10,000 up front before he
could even look at the file'.

It has also emerged the final report of the HSE inquiry into the death of Ms
Halappanavar is expected to be complete in the coming weeks.

Chief Operating Officer of the Galway Roscommon Hospital Group Tony Canavan says
while a date is not yet confirmed, the independent chairman, Professor Sir
Sabaratnam Alrulkumaran, is working on the final stages. Ms Halappanavar, 31,
died in hospital last October, four days after suffering a miscarriage. A jury
in the inquest into her death returned a verdict of medical misadventure.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DML


          Copyright 2013 Irish Daily Mail - Associated Newspapers Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


