                              214 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         Star Tribune (Minneapolis, MN)

                           October 10, 2013 Thursday
                                 METRO EDITION

State reviewing payments to U hospital

BYLINE: JEREMY OLSON; STAFF WRITER, STAR TRIBUNE (Mpls.-St. Paul)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 534 words



HIGHLIGHT: Question is whether Amplatz facility is really a stand-alone
hospital.


State officials have commissioned a legal review to determine whether a
Department of Human Services executive gave a Twin Cities pediatric hospital an
unfair exemption from a cut in public payments.

An internal department audit recommended the review last week after finding that
the exemption granted to the University of Minnesota Amplatz Children's Hospital
appeared inconsistent with state law and unfair to competitors in Duluth and
Rochester. If agency attorneys agree the exemption was improper, the state might
"take back" $3 million in excess payments to Amplatz, which is part of the
Fairview Health Services hospital and clinic group.

The controversy dates to 2011, when the Legislature and Gov. Mark Dayton
balanced the state budget with a temporary, 10 percent cut in rates paid to
hospitals for care of Minnesotans covered by Medical Assistance and other
publicly subsidized health plans.

They included an exemption for children's hospitals, which clearly applied to
Children's Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota, and Gillette Children's Specialty
Healthcare because both operate licensed, free-standing hospitals in the metro
area.

But while Amplatz has its own shiny new building on the West Bank campus of the
university, it technically is licensed as part of the larger university Medical
Center.

"There is no definition in state law of a children's hospital, so there's some
degree of interpretation here," said Chuck Johnson, deputy human services
commissioner for policy and operations. "Is [Amplatz] a hospital? Or is it just
a children's unit or a subhospital within a hospital?"

The same question applies to pediatric hospitals within the Mayo Clinic in
Rochester and in Duluth. But leaders of those hospitals never requested the
exemption, as Fairview executives did in a November 2011 meeting with DHS
Assistant Commissioner Scott Leitz.

According to an Oct. 1 summary of an internal audit, Leitz made his own judgment
that Amplatz should qualify for an exemption because it treats only children and
is a stand-alone hospital with its own emergency department.

"We should have sought a legal opinion at the time," Johnson said. "It doesn't
mean the decision was necessarily wrong. We're still examining that."

Johnson said the department will recommend changes in state law to clarify the
definition of pediatric hospitals. It will also pursue a clear process for
deciding whether hospitals qualify for exemptions to the rate cut, which is
scheduled to expire in 2015.

Since September 2011, Amplatz has received $29 million from the state for
hospital services. Had it not been exempt from the rate cut, Amplatz would have
received only $26 million, according to state estimates.

The end result of the legal review could be that Amplatz pay the $3 million
difference to the state or that the pediatric hospitals in Duluth and Rochester
receive payments equaling what they should have received if they had also been
exempt to the rate cut over the past two years.

Fairview officials believe Amplatz meets the definition of a children's hospital
, according to a statement, but declined to speculate on how they will respond
to the legal opinion until it is issued.

Jeremy Olson · 612-673-7744

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2013 Star Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


