                              222 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Liverpool Echo

                             August 18, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

City vasectomy blunder doctor loses job at NHS;
Op reversal surgery at hospital failed, ECHO understands

BYLINE: HELEN DAVIES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 522 words


A SURGEON who gave a man a vasectomy by mistake has been sacked, the ECHO
understands.

It is also understood that an attempt to reverse the blunder has failed.

The urology department at Broadgreen hospital has now admitted the vasectomy
error was just one of five botched operations in 12 months.

The vasectomy incident and another mistake - believed to be a swab left inside
someone - are being described by health chiefs as "never events" - medical
mistakes that should never happen.

When the ECHO revealed earlier this year a man undergoing a minor operation had
been given a vasectomy by mistake, the hospital "apologised unreservedly" to the
patient. It is now understood the man has been told a procedure to correct the
error did not work.

This means that although he may still be able to have children through IVF, he
will not be able to have children naturally.

Ian Cohen, clinical negligence lawyer at Slater & Gordon, said the patient could
be eligible for more than £100,000 in compensation, but it would depend on how
old he is and whether or not he has been left infertile.

On top of this, the trust could have to cover legal fees.

Mr Cohen said: "In a case like this where the hospital has said it's made a
mistake, the NHS Litigation Authority (LA) should encourage the hospital to hold
its hands up, "The NHS LA have an objective that in cases where there's a clear
claim for compensation that it's dealt with swiftly.

"If it was dealt with quickly, the legal fees, both for the hospital and the
person claiming, would be quite limited. The legal fees wouldn't be much more
than a couple of thousand.

"If the view is taken to defend the case, the legal fees go up."

Mr Cohen added that the age of the patient could also affect how bad the
emotional impact of the blunder is.

He said: "If a 25-year-old who wants a family is told he won't be able to father
children, it will be devastating."

Another three errors in the department have been classed as "serious events".

Hospital bosses say the blunders have been reported to NHS chiefs and that
investigations are under way to establish how they happened.

Dr Peter Williams, medical director at Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen University
Hospitals NHS Trust, said: "Our urology department is the biggest in Cheshire
and Merseyside, caring for over 4,000 patients a year.

"The vast majority of feedback from these patients is overwhelmingly positive.
We have excellent, highly regarded clinical teams who treat the most difficult
urological cases, many of which are referred to us by other hospitals for our
expertise and leading edge surgical techniques.

"In the last 12 months, three serious incidents and two never events occurred in
our urology department and these were reported to the appropriate bodies. We are
still in the process of investigating some of these incidents, including looking
at how to improve the processes and systems in place and are taking appropriate
action. We cannot comment on the outcomes of these investigations at this stage.

"Patient safety is always our priority and we use the lessons learnt from any
incident to continually improve our standard of care."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Broadgreen hospital entrance ¦

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: LPE


               Copyright 2014 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


