                              23 of 993 DOCUMENTS

              Copyright (c) 2012 by Orange County Bar Association
                              Orange County Lawyer

                                 December, 2012

                              Orange County Lawyer

                           54 Orange County Lawyer 32

LENGTH: 2606 words

FEATURE: DOES ANYONE READ THESE THINGS?: BOILERPLATE HOSPITAL ADMISSION FORMS

by Philip Michels and Steven B. Stevens

Philip Michels is a principal of the Law Offices of Michels & Watkins in Los
Angeles. He can be reached at pmichels@michelswatkins.com.
Steven B. Stevens is Of Counsel to the Law Offices of Michels & Watkins in Los
Angeles. He can be reached at sbstevens@michelswatkins.com.

TEXT:

    [*32]

   The modern hospital is much more than the building in which a surgeon
operates. It is a health care center, staffed with physicians, technicians, and
nurses, that needs patients in order to continue doing business. It invites
members of the public to come in for medical care--no appointment necessary, no
physician referral required.

   Although eager to attract patients, the hospital understandably is less so
when it comes to accepting responsibility for negligent medical care. The
hospital's effort to disavow liability for substandard care begins almost as
soon as the patient enters its doors: the Conditions of Admission form.

Hospital Standard Form "Conditions of Admission"

   "Conditions of Admission" forms, sometimes labeled "Conditions of Service,"
are standard form documents that are presented to emergency department patients
and to hospital scheduled admission patients upon entry to the hospital. Most of
the paragraphs in the Conditions of Admission form are routine and expected:
responsibility for payment; consent to treatment; protecting patient's
valuables. There is one paragraph in all of these standard forms, however, that
can be troublesome if the patient is injured by negligent medical care: the "
Legal Relationship" clause. A typical paragraph, taken from a hospital form in a
recent case, states (bold in original):


     Legal Relationship between Hospital and Physician: All physicians and
     surgeons furnishing services to the patient, including the Emergency
     Department physicians, radiologist, pathologist, anesthesiologist and
     the like are independent contractors with the patient and are not
     employees or agents of the hospital. The patient is under the care and
     supervision of his/her physician and it is the responsibility of the
     patient's physician or surgeon to obtain the patient's informed
     consent, when required, to medical or surgical treatment, special
     diagnostic or therapeutic procedures, or hospital services rendered
     for the patient under the general and special instructions of the
     physician. The physician's fees are billed separately and
     independently of hospital charges, which means you will receive
     multiple bills.

   In a medical negligence action, the hospital will contend that this
paragraph, placed within the standard form, is sufficient notice to the patient
to absolve it of responsibility for the negligence of the physicians that it
selected to treat the patient.

A Standard Form Is Not Conclusive Evidence of Actual Notice

   There are several theories upon which counsel for a patient can attack the
Conditions of Admission form and, in particular, the applicability of the "Legal
Relationship" clause.

   The first inquiry--a basic yet often overlooked question--is whether the
patient signed the form. It is not uncommon for the hospital to thrust the
Conditions of Admission form into the hands of a family member (spouse or adult
child) and demand a signature as a condition for treating the loved one. Setting
aside all of the problems with the paragraph (more about those, below), the
fundamental question becomes whether notice to a family member constitutes
notice to the patient. It does not. A familial relationship is not in itself an
agency relationship. Flores  [*33]  v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC, 148 Cal.
App. 4th 581, 589-590 (2007) ("there is no statutory authorization for a person
to agree to arbitration based solely on a familial relationship with the
patient"); Avedissian v. Manukian, 141 Cal. App. 3d 379, 385 (1983) ("agency
cannot be implied merely from the marriage relation alone"). Nor is a familial
relationship, alone, an ostensible agency. The hospital would have to show that
the patient did something to hold out his spouse, child, or parent as his agent.
See South Sacramento Drayage Co. v. Campbell Soup Co., 220 Cal. App. 2d 851, 857
(1963) ("Ostensible authority must be based upon acts or declarations of the
principal and not the conduct or representations of the alleged agent.");
Pagarigan v. Libby Care Center, Inc., 99 Cal. App. 4th 298 (2002) (absent some
act of parent through which she held out children as her agents, their
signatures were insufficient to compel arbitration of action).

A Conditions of Admission Form, by Itself, Is Insufficient To Show Actual Notice
as a Matter of Law

   The threshold question to determine a hospital's vicarious liability for the
negligent acts of the health care providers practicing therein is whether the
patient or the hospital selected that provider to treat the patient. Brown v. La
Societe Francaise De  [*34]  Bienfaisance Mutuelle, 138 Cal. 475 (1903) (patient
had contracted with the hospital for medical care and, therefore, the hospital
was liable for the physician's negligence); Seneris v. Haas, 45 Cal. 2d 811, 832
(1955) (hospital may be held liable for negligence of on-call anesthesiologist;
"it cannot be 'seriously contended' that [the patient] was obligated to inquire
whether each person who attended her in said hospital was an employee or
independent contractor").

   Mejia v. Community Hospital of San Bernardino, 99 Cal. App. 4th 1448 (2002)
held that an on-call radiologist was the ostensible agent of a hospital because
the hospital chose that radiologist to provide health care to the
plaintiff-patient. The plaintiff in Mejia went to the hospital emergency room
with complaints of severe neck pain. The hospital assigned her to an emergency
room physician who then ordered x-rays of the plaintiff's neck. The radiologist
misinterpreted the x-ray. The trial court ruled that the radiologist was not the
ostensible agent of the hospital and granted a nonsuit in the hospital's favor.
The Court of Appeal, applying the well-settled law of California and the modern
trend throughout the country, reversed.

   Mejia explained the two elements of ostensible agency in the context of a
hospital's liability for injury to one of its patients. Those elements are: (1)
conduct by the hospital that would cause a reasonable person to believe that the
physician was the agent of the hospital; and (2) reliance on that apparent
agency relationship by the plaintiff. Mejia, 99 Cal. App. 4th at 1453 (citations
omitted).

   The appellate court further delineated the proof required to meet each of
those elements:

     Regarding the first element, courts generally conclude that it is
     satisfied when the hospital "holds itself out" to the public as a
     provider of care. . . . In order to prove this element, it is not
     necessary to show an express representation by the hospital. . . .
     Instead, a hospital is generally deemed to have held itself out as the
     provider of care, unless it gave the patient contrary notice. . . .
     . . . .
     . . . The second element, reliance, is established when the plaintiff
     "looks to" the hospital for services, rather than to an individual
     physician. . . . However, reliance need not be proven by direct
     testimony. . . . If a person voluntarily enters a hospital without
     objecting to his or her admission to the hospital, then that person is
     seeking care from the hospital itself.

Mejia, 99 Cal. App. 4th at 1453-1454 (citations and internal quotations omitted;
emphasis added).

   A defendant-hospital that wants to avoid liability as a matter of
law--through motions for nonsuit, summary judgment, or directed verdict--for the
wrongful acts of the health care providers that it selected to treat a patient
has an exceptionally heavy burden.

     When this standard [nonsuit] is applied to the case law governing
     ostensible agency in the hospital context, it appears difficult, if
     not impossible, for a hospital to ever obtain a nonsuit based on the
     lack of ostensible agency. Effectively, all a patient needs to show is
     that he or she sought treatment at the hospital . . . . Unless the
     evidence conclusively indicates that the patient should have known
     that the treating physician was not the hospital's agent, such as when
     the patient is treated by his or her personal physician, the issue of
     ostensible agency must be left to the trier of fact.

 [*35]  Mejia, 99 Cal. App. 4th at 1458 (emphasis added). See also Ermoian v.
Desert Hosp., 152 Cal. App. 4th 475 (2007) (where patient sought obstetrical
care from hospital's outpatient clinic, had no previous relationship with any
physician there, and hospital assigned physician to care for her, patient had a
reasonable belief that the hospital was providing care to her and physicians
were ostensible agents of hospital).

The "Legal Relationship" Clause Is Insufficient

   The "Legal Relationship" paragraph is not sufficient to meet summary judgment
standards. Whether a notice is sufficient to inform a party about a fact is a
question of fact for the jury to resolve. See Renton v. Monnier, 77 Cal. 449,
456 (1888) ("whether notice was given or not, and, if given, whether [the party]
understood it, and it was sufficient to put him on his guard or, in the language
of the Code, to put a prudent man upon inquiry (Civil Code § 19) were questions
of fact for the jury . . .").

   A disclosure in itself, even if made to a sophisticated party, does not
foreclose liability if the totality of the circumstances makes it reasonable to
conclude that the party is dealing with an agent of the putative principal. See
Kaplan v. Coldwell Banker Residential Affiliates, 59 Cal. App. 4th 741 (1997)
(holding that where plaintiff, a superior court judge and sophisticated real
estate investor, relied upon national reputation of name of real estate broker
and failed to notice disclaimer, in smaller print, that broker was independent
franchise of national company, whether national company was the putative
principal of broker was a question of fact for jury to resolve).

   There is often no evidence concerning whether an emergency department patient
was able to read and appreciate the ramifications of the "Legal Relationship"
clause. Patients are often in intense pain. Parents are focused on a child who
needs emergency care. It is indeed overreaching to charge a desperate patient
with understanding lengthy boilerplate forms, and fault him or her for not
reading them more closely.

   Even if a patient is capable of reading a form, understanding the words and
understanding their ramifications are two very different things. It is not
uncommon for the average patient to find the former confusing and the latter
incomprehensible. The "Legal Relationship" clause was drafted by hospital
counsel using legal terms of art to accomplish the goal of avoiding liability
[*36]  for the negligence of the physicians that the hospital selected to treat
the patient.

   The average patient would expect to be asked to pay for medical care, so a
clause about that is not surprising. The average patient would expect to be
asked to consent to medical treatment, so a clause about that is not a surprise
either. The average patient would be quite surprised to learn, however, that the
hospital to which she has gone for treatment is trying to disclaim
responsibility for the very physicians it selected to treat her. It is certainly
counterintuitive for the average patient to understand that, having been invited
by the hospital to seek care, and having accepted that invitation, the hospital
is not responsible for the care provided.

   The "Legal Relationship" paragraph sometimes contradicts other parts of the
Conditions of Admission form. In teaching hospitals, the form often includes a
paragraph that purports to notify the patient that some of the physicians who
will be treating her are residents and postgraduate fellows. Residents and
postgraduates are ordinarily employees of the hospital. Univ. of Southern
California v. Super. Ct., 45 Cal. App. 4th 1283, 1289 (1996) ("[a medical
resident] treats his employer's patients . . . and because of the
employer-employee relationship, the hospital is liable for his negligence under
accepted principles of respondeat superior"); see also Regents of the Univ. of
California v. Public Employment Relations Board, 31 Cal. 3d 601 (1986) (medical
residents are members of hospital's house staff, employed by hospital).

   If the assumption is that the average patient read and understood the legal
implications of the form, then the end result is a standard form agreement that
notifies a patient that some physicians are independent contractors, while
others are employees of the hospital. The Conditions of Admission form, however,
does not tell the patient how to differentiate the two. This lack of information
is especially problematic if the resident physician provides medical care
without direct patient contact (for example, a resident in pathology or
radiology).

   Also, the typical title of the clause is misleading. As in the example,
above, the bold heading of the paragraph announces that there is a "Legal
Relationship Between Hospital and Physician." To the average
patient--especially, but not exclusively, one in the emergency room--the title
manifests the obvious: there is a "legal relationship between" the hospital and
the physicians it selects to treat a patient. The average patient would not
expect the text that follows to contradict what the title conveys.

   The "Legal Relationship" paragraph often emphasizes billing, not liability.
As in the sample above, the hospital makes bold the sentence that physicians
bill separately from the hospital. Again, for the patient with no relevant legal
training,  n1 scanning a document quickly in the hospital, the disclosure--if it
can be called that--is nothing more than to expect lots of bills.

   Hospitals sometimes try to enforce the "Legal Relationship" clause using
contract principles, i.e. because the patient signed it, it doesn't matter
whether he read or understood it. The paragraph is not, however, an exchange of
promises or obligations. Its function is to be a disclosure. As Mejia explains,
constructive notice is insufficient.

Conclusion

   When the hospital attorneys step into court, they insist that the "Legal
Relationship" clause is a warning to the patient that, "if the doctors that we
assigned to you commit malpractice, you cannot sue us, you can sue only them."
The paragraph does not say that, however; certainly not explicitly. Hospitals do
not want to acknowledge negligence that occurs within their walls. Even in
standard boilerplate forms, which are rarely read, hospitals loathe to disclose
(or even hint) that a patient might be a victim of negligence. A notice, if it
is to be meaningful, must be clear. The Conditions of Admission form is not the
shield that hospitals desire it to be.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Business & Corporate LawAgency RelationshipsAuthority to ActGeneral
OverviewBusiness & Corporate LawAgency RelationshipsEstablishmentEstoppel,
Ostensible Agency & NecessityOstensible AgencyCivil ProcedurePretrial
JudgmentsNonsuitsGeneral Overview

GRAPHIC:
PICTURE, no caption

FOOTNOTE-1:





n1  Even a license to practice law might not help the unwary patient. In the
authors' experience, a large number of lawyers who work outside of the medical
negligence field are surprised by the "Legal Relationship" clause and by its
possible legal effect, if signed. Like any other patient or parent, when they or
their children are in need of medical care, lawyers will sign anything placed in
front of them to get that care.


