                              223 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Inside Bay Area (California)

                            November 19, 2006 Sunday

Report: Hospital charity care flatlines

BYLINE: By Michael Manekin, STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SAN MATEO

LENGTH: 755 words


Imagine earning $7 an hour and getting slapped with a $25,000 hospital bill.

Now, that's sticker shock.

But here's the real shocker: Low-income patients at many state hospitals are
entitled to receive a discount or even free care -- and hospitals have violated
their obligation to the uninsured by failing to inform them of their rights,
according to a recent study by a nonprofit health consumer advocacy group.

"We see low-income, uninsured consumers with bills from all the major hospitals
in and around San Mateo County, including the public hospitals," said Melissa
Rodgers, an attorney at the Legal Aid Society of San Mateo County and director
of its Health Consumer Center. "They were not offered charity care, and most of
them did not even know charity care was an option. By the time they reached us,
many of them had bills in collection, and the hospitals refused to recall the
debt."

Members of the California Hospital Association are required to offer charity
care -- free or reduced care to the uninsured -- based on guidelines
self-imposed in 2004. Although hospitals typically receive tax benefits in
exchange for the charity care, the report charges that many hospitals do not
even inform patients of their right to financial assistance.

In any case, the voluntary guidelines will be history at the end of theyear.
That's because the Alliance's report comes on the heels of new state legislation
which requires hospitals to treat low-income patients to discounted medical
care.

The new law -- AB 774, sponsored by Assemblywoman Wilma Chan, D-Oakland --
requires hospitals to inform uninsured patients of their obligation to provide
financial assistance, caps the amount patients are charged and limits hospitals'
punitive collection practices.

Why publish a report highlighting problems already solved by state legislation?

According to Rodgers, the report highlights the extent to which voluntary
compliance has failed low-income patients.

"The report is relevant, because the legislation will not implement itself," she
said. "Hopefully, hospitals will make the choice to comply with the new
legislation, but we also hope that an informed public is going to hold the
hospitals accountable."

The report -- courtesy of the Health Consumer Alliance, a network of nine local
health consumer centers -- surveyed 163 hospitals in 15 counties, including six
hospitals in San Mateo County, and alleges numerous violations. Many hospitals
do not even bother to write financial assistance policies, according to the
study. In addition, fewer than two-thirds of the hospitals surveyed posted
notices about their financial assistance programs where patients could see them.

Some hospitals provide inadequate discounts, leaving low-income patients saddled
with debts they cannot pay; others outright charged the patient more than the
cost of care, according to the report.

Many hospitals make their application process overly difficult, while others
resort to punitive payment-collection practices, such as lawsuits, wage
garnishments or liens on primary residences.

The new state legislation, which kicks in the first of the year, will put the
kibosh on such practices and mandate that patients who make under $34,300 (less
than 350 percent of the Federal Poverty Level) must be charged no more than the
rate that hospitals could charge Medicare for patient service.

The report highlights numerous nightmares from the days of hospital
self-regulation, including incidents in San Mateo County.

One uninsured patient was billed $23,000 by the San Mateo Medical Center despite
being enrolled in the county's WELL program, which offers the uninsured low-cost
care. Another patient was billed $125,000 for an emergency-room visit at Sequoia
Hospital, according to the Legal Aid Society.

Medical Center spokesman David Hook was aware of the Alliance's report, but
could not comment on the specific case involved. A call to Sequoia Hospital was
not returned before press time.

Although both local cases were resolved when patients sought help from the Legal
Aid Society, Rodgers contends that the billing was unacceptable.

"People shouldn't have to come to a lawyer for help with these kinds of things
-- especially when you have hospitals with voluntary guidelines that say they
will advise people about charity care and provide it to them," she said.

To see the full report, visit
healthconsumer.org/HospitalFinancialAssistanceRpt.pdf.

Staff writer Michael Manekin can be reached at (650) 348-4331 or by e-mail at
mmanekin@sanmateocountytimes.com .

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


            Copyright 2006 MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved


