                              217 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                           August 20, 2014 Wednesday

Halifax CEO: Time to move on after lawsuit

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 589  words


DAYTONA BEACH -- Halifax Health leaders say it's time to move forward now that
they have concluded three town hall meetings explaining a whistleblower lawsuit
that cost the hospital about $120 million in settlement and legal fees.

"We want to put it behind us," Halifax Health CEO Jeff Feasel said. "We want to
move on. This will not define Halifax Health."

The third and final public session was Wednesday at the Mary McLeod Bethune
Performing Arts Center.

Next month, the Halifax Health Board of Commissioners, a seven- member board
appointed by the governor, will begin evaluating the performance of Feasel, who
was named CEO in January 2005.

Despite the hefty cost of the suit, hospital officials say they settled the
matter at a sum that won't dramatically affect the 678- bed public hospital
system's viability in the future. Rating agencies downgraded the hospital's bond
rating -- from A- to BBB+ in one instance. But hospital officials say $420
million stockpiled in reserves helped them to absorb the blow.

The third meeting, held at 4 p.m., was sparsely attended with about 20 people in
the audience. Only about half a dozen weren't affiliated with the hospital.

Elin Baklid-Kunz, a former compliance officer, filed the lawsuit in 2009, and it
was later broken into two cases.

The first alleged Halifax Health violated the Stark Law when paying three
neurosurgeons and six cancer doctors. The Stark Law bars hospitals from
compensating doctors based on volume and referrals. The hospital settled that
part of the suit in March for $85 million and agreed to abide by the terms of a
five-year corporate integrity agreement that will give the federal government
greater oversight into its operations.

It will cost about $350,000 a year to adhere to the terms of the corporate
integrity agreement, which requires the hospital to hire a compliance expert and
independent law firm to review a sample of physician contracts.

The U.S. Department of Justice joined the first part of the case, arguing such
contracts as the ones between the hospital and its cancer doctors can induce
physicians to perform unnecessary tests and procedures. The hospital maintains
it structured the agreements in a way to keep qualified doctors in the community
and did nothing wrong.

The second phase involved allegations the hospital overcharged Medicare by
admitting patients to the hospital for short stays of two days or less, instead
of keeping them in observation status and billing at a lower rate. That was
settled for $1 million.

Faced with a potential judgment of more than $1 billion, mounting legal fees and
the prospect of numerous appeals, hospital officials say they settled the matter
even though they don't think they did anything wrong.

"It was taking great wear and tear on our community and the hospital," said Ann
Martorano, chief operating officer for Halifax Health.

In the town hall meetings, hospital officials took aim at what they consider to
be unclear health care regulations with draconian penalties. They say no
inappropriate care was ever provided, and no bills were ever submitted for
medical services not rendered. In addition to the $86 million settlement amount,
the hospital also paid $24 million for its own legal fees and $10 million in the
whistleblower's attorney fees during the five-year legal battle.

Despite the suit, patient care has never suffered at the hospital, Feasel said.

"We want to get back to focusing 100 percent of our time on doing what we do
best and that's providing health care for our community," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

