                              218 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               New Indian Express

                             August 29, 2016 Monday

Amrita hospital gets state-of-the-art autopsy block

LENGTH: 365 words

DATELINE: KOCHI


KOCHI, Aug. 29 -- Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS), here, opened the
state's most advanced Autopsy Block with world-class facilities, including
state-of-the-art autopsy theatre with a viewing gallery and cold storage as well
as separate rooms for police inquest, relatives of the deceased, and visitors.
Plus, it is equipped with 24-hour CCTV surveillance and recording facility. Dr
Arul R B Krishna, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law & Order and Traffic),
inaugurated the new setup.

"The over-burdened government medical colleges in the state cannot fulfil our
requirement for medico-legal autopsies. On the other hand, the same facility in
private medical colleges is lying unutilised. A well-equipped Autopsy Block like
the one at Amrita Hospital gives police the critical support it needs in medico-
legal cases. It is a welcome addition to the autopsy capability of the state,
and the City Police will try to fully utilise the facility to reduce the burden
on government hospitals," the DCP said. Dr. V V Pillay, Head, Department of
Forensic Medicine & Toxicology, AIMS, who also spoke on the occasion, said, "Not
many people know about it, but we are the only private medical college hospital
in Kerala, which is authorised to perform medico-legal autopsies (post-mortem).
In fact, we have several police stations attached to the hospital for the
purpose. All autopsies are done at our hospital free of cost as a public
service. The addition of state-of-the-art facilities, which hardly exist
elsewhere in the state, has made our Autopsy Block among the best in India. I
appeal to the police and relatives of the deceased to put it to full use to
reduce the heavy autopsy burden on government hospitals and avoid needless
travel and wait." According to RTI data, about 12,680 medico-legal autopsies
were conducted in government hospitals in the state in 2014. Of these, only
4,850-- about one-third-- were performed by Forensic experts, who have an MD in
Forensic Medicine.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from New Indian Express. For any
query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please
contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2016 Expressbuzz.
                              All Rights Reserved


