                              224 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                 Irish Examiner

                            April 26, 2017 Wednesday

Maternity hospital row: Health official did not tell Simon Harris of concerns

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 468 words


The fresh controversy emerged last night as St Vincent s Hospital Group
published the 25-page legal independence document for the hospital and Holles
Street s clinical director said it will perform any legal procedure when it
opens, potentially including abortions, despite ongoing fears it will fall under
religious control.

Speaking on RTÉ Radio s Morning Ireland, Holles Street board member Peter Boylan
who will refuse to resign over his criticism of the hospital site at a board
meeting this evening   claimed the department was warned of the religious
interference concerns a year ago.

Citing a letter from 2016, Dr Boylan said Department of Health secretary general
Jim Breslin was told of the concerns by the HSE s Ireland East Hospital Group
chairman, Tom Lynch.

Senior department sources later insisted no such letter exists.

However, the department last night confirmed that Mr Breslin was informed of the
concerns in a formal meeting about a number of issues with Mr Lynch in May 2016,
during which he was handed a document on  potential resolutions of the
difficulties that had arisen  at the site.

The Irish Examiner separately understands that Mr Lynch also raised the
religious interference concerns in a conversation with Mr Breslin at the same
meeting.

However, it is understood Mr Harris was not told of, and is still unaware of,
any issues raised at that time.

Meanwhile, the St Vincent s Healthcare Group has again attempted to address
concerns that the new national maternity hospital may be subject to religious
interference by insisting it will perform any legal procedure when it opens.

In a statement last night coinciding with the publication of the new hospital s
previously leaked 25-page memorandum of understanding, St Vincent s lashed out
at  entirely false  claims by Dr Boylan and others.

The statement said the clinical independence of the facility will be enshrined
in the memorandum, and specifically noted the legal independence assurances of
its deal, which include:

A ministerial  golden share  veto to protect its autonomy;

Agreed reserve powers  to ensure services  without religious, ethnic, or other
distinction ;

Guarantees that St Vincent s Healthcare Group will be the sole  owner  of the
new company governing the maternity hospital and will fall under the influence
of the State.

Speaking on RTE s Six One News, Holles Street clinical director Prof Declan
Keane went further, saying the new hospital will provide any legal procedure,
saying  absolutely, absolutely  when asked if this will potential include
abortions.

The Holles Street board will meet this evening to discuss the ongoing
controversy and calls for Prof Boylan to resign for criticising the chosen site.

Prof Boylan yesterday said:  I have no regrets. I am glad I did [speak out]. I
ll resign when I m ready.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Landmark Digital Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


