                              221 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                       March 11, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Adolescent, Pingnan Court Action

LENGTH: 724  words


Beijing, March 11 -- In recent years, Ping County People's Court to strengthen
judicial functions, innovative ways of working, caring and carry out activities
to protect young children actively involved in youth carefully interest in the
adjudication of cases, the full protection of the legitimate rights and
interests of young people, and achieved good results.



Legal education base: the cradle of youth legal education

"Today I saw a lot about juvenile delinquency cases, shocking, in the future I
have to learn, do not do illegal things." A high school student, after visiting
the youth court's legal education base in an interview with reporters, said with
emotion. December 13, 2013, Pingnan County People's Court has invited the ring
of high level CCP 160 students walked into the court, "Zero" feel the work of
the Court, to give them a lesson in a lively and meaningful legal education
lesson.

In 2010, the hospital established a legal education base Pingnan, 2012, the
hospital set up a working committee on women, the Next Generation Working
Committee, in order to better carry out legal education, the hospital "Next
Generation Committee" fully the role of legal education Pingnan base, from time
to time to the young students, "Please come in", and actively carry out legal
education and improve their legal awareness, legal awareness, and to make them
from primary law, knowing, understanding, and more to do to the law, to prevent
and reduce juvenile delinquency. Since 2013, the hospital has invited more than
300 young students to visit the court to carry out the judge to send France into
school activities twice, distribute promotional materials, more than 600 copies.


After contracting mechanism innovation: for the young offenders rebuild lives

"Human life, the road slowly, there is always the wrong time, the wrong way is
not terrible, the key is to be mending their ways, I hope you use it to climb
from where to where it falls, rehabilitation and start over." This is Ping
County Court Criminal Division judge in a return visit in the ardent desire for
young offenders.

In recent years, helping to "stumble" youth, prevention and reduction of "slip"
juvenile recidivism, hospital after contracting an active extension and
innovative mechanisms to develop a series of crimes against minors after hearing
the characteristics of measures to achieve the pre-trial heavy "check", focus on
understanding the defendant before the trial's upbringing, mental state, growing
environment, past performance, and other causes of crime; atrium heavy "teach"
the trial to judicial officers as the center, and fully mobilize the public
prosecutor, counsel, legal representative, from different angles law, reason,
emotion, and the accused legal, moral, life, family, pleaded guilty and
promising a full range of education; "help" the backyard, by taking telephone
interviews , home visits to carry out the work of tracking helpers juvenile
criminal cases, so that they Mituzhifan anew.

"Going out" Prussian: escort for young people

December 10, 2013, Ping County Court Judge Tribunal carried into the third
secondary school level nanzhen legal advocacy activities. Judges legal education
by playing pieces, issuing prevention of juvenile delinquency promotional
materials, live interactive quiz and other forms of legal knowledge, to attract
students to take part in publicity and education activities to the rule of law.
Judges rule interesting propaganda activities, to provide a good platform for
students to understand the legal knowledge to enhance the students' awareness of
the law.

In recent years, the hospital attaches great importance to legal education of
young people, take advantage of the timing of Children's Day and other holidays,
legal advocacy, legal literacy, and enhance the legal awareness. In addition,
the hospital juvenile cases involving alimony, child support, labor remuneration
opened a "green channel", the implementation of "one stop service" priority
filing, priority processing, precedence, so stand fast fast fast trial knot.
According to statistics, the hospital since the creation of the national
"women's civilization Kong" has accumulated through the "green channel" filing
298, 723 pre-trial mediation, the parties to really handle economic difficulties
litigation costs ease, reduce, avoid 545,617 yuan.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


