                              219 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           December 10, 1998 Thursday

Report criticizes Sick Kids, doctor  Some key questions raised by drug-research
controversy remain unanswered

BYLINE: KRISTA FOSS and PAUL TAYLOR The Globe and Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A7

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: Toronto


A long-awaited review of a drug controversy at the Hospital for Sick Children
has criticized the actions of the hospital administration and the researcher at
the centre of the affair.

In a 153-page report released yesterday, Dr. Arnold Naimark says the hospital's
weak policy infrastructure and failure to give clear moral support to Dr. Nancy
Olivieri exacerbated the blood researcher's dispute with Apotex Inc., a drug
firm that sponsored her research.

At the same time, Dr. Naimark says Dr. Olivieri did not report "serious adverse
reactions" involving the drug to the hospital's research-ethics board.

The hospital's board of trustees was quick to issue a statement asserting the
institution's blamelessness in the affair.

But Dr. Naimark, speaking later at a news conference, insisted: "I am not
exonerating the hospital of anything."

The report leaves unanswered some key questions raised by the controversy, in
which Dr. Olivieri says the hospital did not support her legally and morally in
the dispute with Apotex.

The company had threatened her with legal action when she questioned the
effectiveness of a drug she was testing for the firm.

"The question of whether she asked for and was refused legal assistance [from
the hospital] is still open," Dr. Naimark said at the news conference, where the
report was made public.

That contradicted the hospital's statement, which said: "The claim that no legal
support was forthcoming from the hospital is false."

The issue has been a public-relations nightmare for the hospital and a subject
of hot debate in scientific circles.

At the crux of the controversy is how the hospital dealt with Dr. Olivieri in
her dispute with Apotex, and whether or not patient safety was shortchanged in
the process.

Still, a clearly relieved James Pitblado, chairman of the board of trustees,
said at the news conference, "The review clearly shows that the hospital
energetically and consistently put child health and safety first."

In 1993, Dr. Olivieri and another hospital researcher, Dr. Gideon Koren, agreed
with Apotex to research a drug called deferiprone as a potential new treatment
for children with thalassemia -- a condition in which patients don't produce
their own hemoglobin and must be regularly transfused with red blood cells.

Those regular transfusions can lead to a fatal buildup of iron in the organs --
so "iron-chelating" drugs are needed to offset the effect.

Dr. Olivieri hoped deferiprone would be such a drug. But when early results
showed the drug was not as effective in ridding her patients of iron, she
reported the results to the research-ethics board. It advised her to revise
patient-consent forms, so patients would be aware of the effects.

The contract Dr. Olivieri and Dr. Koren signed with Apotex included a
confidentiality clause that prohibited the researchers from publishing their
results without the company's consent for a year after the termination of the
three-year contract.

A more strongly worded part of that contract could be read as "you may not
reveal anything to anyone without our permission," according to Dr. Naimark. The
hospital did nothing to stop Dr. Olivieri from telling patients about the new
results, according to the report. In fact, it made sure that was done.

But Dr. Naimark noted that, on two or three occasions, Apotex tried to "stiff
arm" its interpretation of Dr. Olivieri's research to the research-ethics board.

Apotex threatened legal action when Dr. Olivieri started to inform patients and
regulatory agencies about the efficacy of the drug and prepared to publish her
results.

This is where the issue of how much support the hospital gave Dr. Olivieri --
legally and morally -- gets muddy.

The report suggests hospital and University of Toronto officials made
representations to Apotex to persuade the company to stop threatening legal
action -- but did not inform Dr. Olivieri they had done so.

Dr. Naimark conceded the report would have been more complete had Dr. Olivieri
and her supporters participated.

Dr. Brenda Gallie, a senior hospital scientist, and other supporters of Dr.
Olivieri plan to hold a news conference today to give their detailed assessment
of the report.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


