                              225 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Angry patients blame and beat up the doctors;
Lawsuits against mainland hospitals can drag on for years and people resort to
drastic action over claims

BYLINE: Zhuang Pinghui and Alice Yan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 04

LENGTH: 475 words


Families dressed in mourning clothes are a regular sight at mainland hospitals,
as are attacks on doctors by disgruntled patients or their relatives.

While some are professional yi nao (medical hooligans), paid to put pressure on
hospitals so that they pay compensation claims quickly, others are patients just
trying to find out whether their suffering can be linked to malpractice.

A Beijing lawyer specialising in medical lawsuits says they turn to dramatic
protest action because the regular, legal way for patients to seek redress is a
long, bumpy road.

Zhu Yonggen, a lawyer at King Virtue Attorneys at Law,  said patients were
usually at a disadvantage when pursuing a lawsuit.

After the mainland's tort law, which governs legal liabilities under civil law
for wrongful action, was reinforced in July last year, patients have to provide
evidence that a medical blunder caused the damage they suffered. But patients
lacking medical knowledge have a hard time proving they have been wronged,
especially when their medical charts and records are kept in hospitals and are
inaccessible.

"When legal proceedings start, the medical record should be sealed but the first
reaction of a hospital is to window dress the medical records, such as
describing the patient as being in a more serious condition or completing a
chart. It happens in all the cases I represent, even the big, famous ones," Zhu
said.

The tort law stipulates hospitals will be held liable if medical charts are
forged, fabricated or destroyed but that is often an unresolved matter of
dispute.

Apart from the technical barriers, the legal process can take anything from six
months to several years.

Wang Baoluo, who stabbed Xu Wen, a prominent ear, nose and throat surgeon at
Beijing Tongren Hospital in September, inflicting multiple wounds to her arms,
forehead, neck, back and left leg, was engaged in a lawsuit against the hospital
for three years. It got bogged down in a dispute over whether his medical
records were genuine.

Wang Jian, chief of general surgery at Shanghai's Renji Hospital, said many
patients choose not to go through the legal process because they believe a
hospital will pay more compensation if they cause unrest.

He said patients also distrust the courts and the committees of medical experts
that decide malpractice cases. But Wang, a member of Shanghai's malpractice
committee, said the members were impartial and did not favour hospitals or
doctors.

Wang said the tense situation had a lot to do with the unbalanced allocation of
medical resources which resulted in expensive and inaccessible medical care and
bills that were a heavy burden for patients.

Doctors were the victims of a resentful society with low morality and a hunger
for money, he said.

"Disgruntled patients blame and beat up doctors, which is unbelievable anywhere
in the world," Wang said.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mourners in front of Youan Hospital in Beijing. Photo: ImagineChina

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2011 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


