                              24 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                           February 9, 1998, Monday
                              Correction Appended

Millions spent in hospital suit

BYLINE: BRYAN GILMER

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 924 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



There is no winner yet in the three-year legal fight between the city and the
non-profit group that runs Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital - except maybe the
lawyers for both sides.

The attorneys so far have taken home nearly $ 1.7-million in fees and  expenses.
Unless a settlement results soon from new talks that began Thursday,  the money
faucet will keep gushing.

City records document $ 428,081 of tax money spent on the city's legal team.
The Tarpon Springs Hospital Foundation spent nearly three times as much: an
estimated $ 1,256,000, according to hospital administrator Joseph Kiefer.

The city's $ 428,000 alone could have bought 19 new police cars with lights  and
cages for transporting prisoners.

It could have paid the electricity bills for the city's five parks, eight
athletic courts, six sports fields, two playgrounds and two recreation centers
for 12 years.

It could have paid the annual salary for 29 laborers who repair and build  the
city's roads.

The hospital could have bought medical equipment, treated the poor for free  or
charged all patients less if it had not paid the fees.

"I think the whole damn thing's been a waste of money," said John  Tarapani,
chairman of the board that leases the city-owned hospital to the  foundation. "I
think it's sad it went this far without people sitting down  and talking."

The legal dispute began in late 1994 when the hospital announced it  intended to
affiliate with the for-profit Columbia-HCA hospital chain. The  City Commission
blocked the partnership.

The foundation spent about $ 449,000 of its total legal fees trying to make  the
deal happen. The city spent about $ 137,000 of its fees blocking the deal  and
then trying to sell the hospital to another non-profit group. City voters  nixed
the idea of selling the hospital.

Then the city-appointed Health Facilities Authority that Tarapani chairs
declared the hospital in default of its lease. The hospital sued to get a  judge
to determine whether that was true and to clarify the three groups'  roles.

The Health Facilities Authority owes another $ 100,000 or so in unpaid legal
fees, according to Tarapani. Who should pay those bills is a point of
contention in the legal fight.

The players on both sides acknowledge they have paid lawyers a lot of  money.
They say they hated to spend it. They both claim self-defense, saying  they had
no choice but to spend the money.

"We didn't initiate the lawsuit," Mayor Anita Protos said. "The city  must
defend itself. Our attorneys have tried to be very cautious. We have  worked
with our attorneys to try to keep the costs down."

The amount of the legal fees is "definitely above normal, but we had to  defend
ourselves," said Kiefer, who also is a member of the 11-member board  of the
hospital foundation.

Other board members contacted last week directed all questions to Kiefer.

Ed Cole, a board member of the Citizens Alliance for Progress, a  neighborhood
improvement group, suggests there were better ways to spend  $ 1.7-million in
the public interest, which both the city and the hospital  foundation say they
exist to serve.

"That's a million, seven hundred thousand dollars that could have gone to
improve housing, improve streets and a lot of things that have come before the
board of commissioners this year," Cole said. The city could have used some  of
the money to fight its persistent illegal drug trade, he said.

The city's two top lawyers on the case put in long hours: Barbara Pankau at  $
220 an hour and Phil Campbell at $ 210 an hour. Both work for the Tampa firm  of
Honigman, Miller, Schwartz & Cohn. Pankau formerly worked for Shumaker,  Loop &
Kendrick, and some of the legal fees included in the city's total were  paid to
that firm.

There were also $ 75-an-hour legal assistants and court reporting costs.

The hospital's law firm is Buchanan Ingersoll of Tampa and Pittsburgh, and  its
lead attorneys are James Kennedy III and Samuel Braver. None of the  lawyers
could be reached Friday.

The fight has been long and both sides say they are tired. They also hint  that
a settlement might result soon from the current negotiations.

Asked recently what issues the lawsuit started over, City Manager Costa
Vatikiotis thought for a minute or so and then said he couldn't remember.

"I think that the lawsuit has always been a waste in my opinion, and I  think
the issues are obsolete," Vatikiotis said. "They certainly have  outlived their
relevancy. That's my personal opinion."

However, blocking the Columbia-HCA deal, he said, was money well spent.

"That money was literally used to save the hospital," he said.

The suspicions created by the hospital's surprise announcement of that  planned
merger damaged the city's trust in the Tarpon Springs Hospital  Foundation.
Vatikiotis said that trust is being rebuilt in the current  settlement talks.

The discussions are closed, and no one who attended them last week will say  in
detail what was discussed. Another meeting is planned for Tuesday.

"Joe (Kiefer) made a comment that they have learned a lot from the  Columbia
experience," Vatikiotis said. "I don't know that there would be a  repeat of
that whether there was a settlement or not."

Kiefer also welcomed the renewed possibility of a quick end to the fight  and an
end to the spending on lawyers.

"I'm optimistic," he said. "I think if we can settle, it will be much  less
expensive than preparing for and going to trial."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; PASCO TIMES

CORRECTION-DATE: February 10, 1998

CORRECTION:
 Attorneys Barbara Pankau and Phil Campbell work for Shumaker, Loop & Kendrick.
Pankau formerly worked for Honigman, Miller, Schwartz & Cohn. A story in
Monday's Times about the ongoing legal battle between the city of Tarpon Springs
and the Tarpon Springs Hospital Foundation incorrectly stated the firms.

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO, JOSEPH GARNETT JR.; COLOR GRAPH; BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO,
(3); BLACK AND WHITE GRAPH; (1997) Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital; stacks of
dollars to represent the amount of money spent by the city of Tarpon Springs and
the private Tarpon Springs Hospital foundation on legal fees since 1994, (ran
NT); Joseph Kiefer (ran NT); John Tarapani (ran NT); Costa Vatikiotis (ran NT);
stacks of dollars to represent the amount of money spent by the city of Tarpon
Springs and the private Tarpon Springs Hospital foundation on legal fees since
1994, (ran PT)

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


