                              227 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                Irish Daily Mail

                            October 13, 2014 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Children's hospital hitch;
Fears that legal case will be 'another nail in the coffin' of delayed project

BYLINE: Eanna Drury

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 606 words


A FURTHER delay to the completion of the new National Children's Hospital
threatened by new legal proceedings has been decried as 'another nail in the
coffin' for the long-running project.

Jonathan Irwin, the head of the Jack & Jill children's charity, added in his
criticism that the country can ill afford the mounting costs associated with the
development given the delays.

The hospital has been costed at (EURO)650million but this could increase with
delays and legal disputes.

An application for judicial review at the High Court has been initiated against
the National Paediatric Hospital Development Board by firesafety consultants
initially chosen by way of tender this year.

Listed for mention on Friday, the application is the latest in a series of
events which have delayed the project at St James's Hospital, which was first
announced by former health minister James Reilly.

Mary Harney, the former minister of health and children, initially announced in
2006 that the hospital would be developed at the Mater Hospital site. However,
this fell through due to planning issues.

Some (EURO)40million had been spent on the doomed inner-city project for the
setting up of the hospital at the Mater before An Bord Pleanála deemed it an
unsuitable site.

The design team for the new hospital announced last month that the hospital
would open in spring 2019, however the new legal proceedings could well push it
back further.

Mr Irwin, who campaigned for a site at Blanchardstown to be used instead, said:
'The news of the judicial review application is just another disaster. I find it
totally extraordinary. This news of legal proceedings is just another nail in
the coffin.

'It could keep the process going forever with no end result.' The CEO of the
Jack & Jill Foundation added: 'I just don't think we can afford this hospital
any more - either financially or politically.' The board, during legal
correspondence with the applicants, emphasised that the proceedings would 'have
a significant impact' on the project's progress. It has now withdrawn its tender
for the fire-consultancy contract and expects to issue a new one before the
year's end.

A spokesman for the board confirmed 'it is expected that the contract will be
awarded in December 2014'. The application for judicial review has been brought
against the board by FCC Fire Cert, which originally won the contract.

Following talks, the board reversed its decision on August 13. The Dublin
company will argue that the rules of competition were changed.

FCC Fire Company was assisted in its bid by Tenos, a UK company who were to
provide 3D visual aids for FCC's bid. After securing the contract, FCC was
informed that Tenos would have to provide an undertaking of joint liability. FCC
protested, arguing this requirement hadn't been included in the tender's
original conditions, and refused to comply with the board's demands. The
contract, valued at around (EURO)400,000, was then offered to Maurice Johnson
and Partners, which had placed second in the original tender process. It had
held the original contract for fire-safety services before the hospital's forced
location change to St James's.

The cost of designing the hospital is estimated at (EURO)35million.

However, Mr Irwin questioned the suitability of the St James's site, which he
said was in a dangerous area and decided upon in a rushed manner by the
Government. He said: 'I'd prefer a country site, with fresh air... To add to it
all, it's in a very dangerous part of town.' He said one St James's doctor told
him they feared 'this project would send the hospital into lockdown'.

Comment - Page 12 reporter@dailymail.ie

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DML


          Copyright 2014 Irish Daily Mail - Associated Newspapers Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


