                              233 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          November 16 1988, Wednesday

Free legal advice at 'teaching hospital'; Educating law students

BYLINE: FRANCES GIBB, Legal Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Issue 63240.

LENGTH: 535 words


Radical proposals to create the first 'teaching hospital' for lawyers in
Britain, in which law students would work alongside practising barristers and
solicitors, have won initial approval from the Lord Chancellor.

The hospital, which would be modelled on those in the medical profession, would
be created from barristers' chambers and a solicitors' practice working under
one roof, in association with academics from a law degree course.


A key feature will be a free legal service for members of the public who cannot
obtain legal aid; although the lawyers will also do a normal range of private
practice.

Students will have direct access to live legal cases and be allowed to conduct
minor cases for the public where legal aid is not available, such as in
industrial tribunals.

The Lord Chancellor's officials have asked for further details of the proposals
in the context of the forthcoming Green Paper on the legal profession. Those
proposals are the brainchild of two barristers, Mr Tony Smith, QC, a crown court
recorder, and Miss Nadia Sharif. They want to see the hospital in action by
April if the minimum Pounds 50,000 funds needed can be raised.

Mr Smith says: 'There is as yet no teaching hospital in which students can see
and participate in the totality of the professional world in which they intend
to inhabit: as trainee doctors can'.

The proposals, a new venture in the way they link academic law with the
'clinical' side, coincide with the shake-up of the legal profession expected in
the Green Paper; with the new Legal Aid Board and the prospect of legal advice
work being opened beyond the profession. The hospital would not mean fusion
between the scheme's independent barristers and solicitors but it could lead to
more informal working arrangements between the two branches.

'The chambers and the solicitors' firm will be set up in accordance with
existing professional conduct rules and will maintain the highest professional
standards', Mr Smith said.

'The lawyers will physically be side by side; but the real difference will be a
joint commitment to vocational legal education.'

The hospital would be in Birmingham and would operate with students from
Birmingham Polytechnic's law degree course. The idea could be adopted where
there is a flourishing Bar.

Lord Mackay of Clashfern, the Lord Chancellor, in a letter responding to the
proposals on his and the Prime Minister's behalf, said he was 'particularly
impressed by the imaginative basis on which the scheme is founded'; that is,
that the practical supervised representation in cases should form part of the
system of formal legal education.

Sir Patrick Mayhew, QC, the Attorney General, has also said he is 'greatly
impressed' and will commend the scheme in the 'appropriate quarters'.

The chambers will start with a full-time clerk, a senior barrister as head of
chambers and volunteer 'door tenants' from the profession who will devote some
time to helping students with their cases.

The solicitors' firm will be supervised by a senior lawyer and started by
academics on the teaching course who will build up a practice and then take on
full-time staff and assistants.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1988 Times Newspapers Limited


