                              25 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                     February 13, 2014 Thursday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Legal Advocacy to Promote the Rule of Law
in-Depth Multi-Channel

LENGTH: 885  words


Beijing, Feb. 13 -- To comprehensively promote the rule of law, accelerate the
construction of a socialist country ruled by law, Lingshan County People's Court
of active legal campaign, multi-channel, multi-angle, multi-form carried out the
legal publicity and education activities, establishing the legal authority in
the whole society, promote social justice and deep-seated , achieved good
results.



Leadership attention, build strong legal publicity team

Lingshan Court attaches great importance to the importance of legal advocacy,
hospital party to provide full support for the legal advocacy, with a strong
staff to do to protect the funds. Each trial are equipped with hospital
information propagandists, as of now, the hospital full-time research room has
been equipped with high-definition cameras publicized a desk, DV machine,
equipped with three cameras, a voice recorder. Each division, department, room,
teams are equipped with a camera. Protection hardware, software, power has also
been strengthened. Increase the capacity of the hospital public information
training of police officers, taken part in a variety of news and propaganda
business training, invited experts, media reporter for the hospital and police
officers to conduct special training, organization and methods of writing skills
exchange propaganda manuscript hospital and police officers, and strengthen
Correspondent of professionalism and responsibility to mobilize the enthusiasm
of the hospital police officers writing, to change the past only full-time
responsibility of one or two people, into a news propaganda more flowering, to
build a high political consciousness, professional quality hard legal publicity
team.

Held a press conference for the depth of the Franco-Prussian society

To allow the community to learn more about promoting open justice court, the
implementation of the sun of justice, serving the overall development of the
main measures to narrow the distance between the courts and the public, outward
show the effectiveness of the courts. The morning of November 8 last year, the
hospital held a "sun of justice" and the service of major projects and business
development news conference, and live by the hospital official microblogging
invite Qinzhou daily newspaper, the North Bay Morning, Lingshan television,
Lingshan Radio, Lingshan News and other media reporters to attend. The press
conference to show the community hospital in 2013 to serve the area and the sun
of justice major projects and business development.

Households delivery method, and actively promote the popularization and
education activities

Lingshan court by conducting various forms of legal advocacy and counseling
activities to enhance public awareness of the law, strengthen their legal
concept. The hospital actively send France into campus activities, many times to
the legal system given the area schools, to carry out "with Law, booster dream"
moot court, the legal education from the student grabbed. The hospital has also
implemented the "going out, please come in" publicity and strategy, first point
of contact for the organization hanging judge to send France into the village to
carry out household activities, house to house visits by the way, the rule of
law to the masses distribute promotional materials and convenient contact cards
, and for the legal issues of concern to the masses, combined with relevant laws
and regulations, eliminating confusion for the masses, so that the people
understand the law, will use to enhance public awareness of the risks and rights
awareness and guide the masses correctly to avoid risks, to avoid the occurrence
of conflicts and disputes . Second, actively carry out the court open day, open
the door to let people understand the trial court environment up close, court
culture results, measure the sun of justice, so that people feel open and
impartial judiciary, enhance their legal awareness, legal awareness. Last year
the hospital all kinds of promotional materials were distributed more than 3,000
copies, 7,000 people by educating the masses.

Giving full play to the role of the network, legal education to build a large
platform

Internet media has spread rapidly, wide coverage, vivid, and so easy to accept,
and the infinite diversity of its freedom of communication, communication space
on the propagation time on loved by the masses, as people learn of legal
knowledge , an important channel to get legal help. Since last year, the network
Lingshan open court, legal education to build a large platform to deepen the sun
of justice, to promote open justice and promote the work of the courts fair,
impartial, open and transparent. Make full use of China Court website platform,
and actively promote the "Network trial live" work of live online court cases
20; official microblogging registration court, set up a special studio,
designate a person responsible for the daily maintenance and management, and
carry out "microblogging trial live." . Since opening last May, there are 745
cases of official Sina Weibo were broadcast, publish, transmit tweets 1558, a
total of 3044 copies of documents posted on the commencement referee. Our
hospital was named the official microblogging autonomous region for the year
2013 the Court of the Superior Court "Top Ten microblogging."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


