                              241 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              The Washington Post

                    April 12, 1984, Thursday, Final Edition

Hospitals Assail Bond Legal Fees;
$420,000 Cost Of Industrial Issue Called Too High

BYLINE: By Eric Pianin, Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: Metro; C1

LENGTH: 789 words


The D.C. Hospital Association, which is seeking assistance from the District
government to issue $40 million worth of industrial bonds to buy new hospital
equipment, has complained that the city's bond counsels are charging
"exorbitant" rates to do the legal work.

The two firms assigned by the city to the proposed bond issue--Melrod, Redman &
Gartlan and Reynolds, Mundy & Gibson--would be entitled to fees totaling
$420,000 if the bond issue goes through.

"We are confident the city will agree the bond counsel fee should be adjusted,"
Stephen H. Lipson, executive director of the hospital association, said
yesterday.

Deputy mayor for finance Alphonse G. Hill criticized the hospital association
this week for complaining publicly, but conceded that the fee may be too high.

"I think there's room for negotiation," Hill said.

Last year, the city launched a major effort to stimulate business expansion by
inviting private firms and nonprofit groups to apply for millions of dollars in
low-interest revenue-bond financing.

The proposed $40 million bond issue, to finance the purchase of X-ray machines
and other equipment for seven local hospitals, is the largest of 10 industrial
bond proposals currently under active review by the D.C. government.

However, the city recently entered into talks with officials of Georgetown
University about a plan to issue $42 million worth of industrial revenue bonds
to finance expansion of the main campus.

The city has signed contracts with five local law firms, including two with
limited experience in municipal bonds, to serve as the District's bond counsels
in all industrial revenue bond transactions.

Under the agreements, the firms would be guaranteed fees equal to 1 percent of
the face value of the bond issue, as well as other costs.

Bond counsels are responsible for preparing all the legal documents associated
with a bond issue and rendering an opinion--for which they are liable--as to
whether the bonds are exempt from federal and local taxes.

Hill said the city assumed from the start that most of the industrial
revenue-bond issues would be for relatively small amounts, with none exceeding
$10 million. District officials felt that bond counsel fees ranging up to
$100,000 were not out of line with prevailing legal costs, according to Hill.

However, the hospital association's major bond proposal caught the city by
surprise, he said, and resulted in the dispute between hospital officials and
the two law firms assigned to the case.

Several area bond counsels and municipal finance experts reached yesterday said
they believed a $400,000 fee was excessive for handling a $40 million bond
issue.

"I would think you would find that if the thing were done on a competitive basis
that it would be done for substantially less," said one lawyer, who declined to
be identified.

Another bond counsel, who also declined to be identified, said, "It depends on
how much work was involved and the risk assumed in rendering a legal opinion on
tax-exempt status , but $400,000 for bond counseling is very, very high."

Stephen D. Kahn, a partner with Melrod, Redman & Gartlan, agreed yesterday that
the 1 percent fee "was not intended" for large bond issues, such as those being
sought by the hospital association and Georgetown University.

"Those deals require fee adjustments," Kahn said. "It's been left to the bond
counsel and the applicants to work it out."

The hospital association began talks with the city a year ago and formally
applied for the bonding authority last July. The hospitals that would benefit
from the low-interest financing include Washington Hospital Center, Capitol Hill
Hospital, Providence, Children's Hospital, Greater Southeast, Georgetown
University and Sibley Memorial.

According to Lipson, the hospitals are required to pay the firms $20,000 in
preliminary legal fees, in addition to the $400,000 in bond counsel fees called
for under the city's contracts with those firms.

Lipson said the 1 percent fee is "outrageous by every standard" and that he
hopes to negotiate it down to about $100,000.

The city's plans for making frequent forays into the municipal bond market have
been postponed indefinitely by the wrangling on Capitol Hill over changes in the
District's home rule law to make it conform to a 1983 Supreme Court ruling.

Sen. Charles Mathias (R-Md.) has scheduled a hearing for April 25 in hopes of
resolving differences between District officials and the Reagan administration
that have prevented settlement of the dispute.

"At this point, we haven't made any reconciliaton with the Reagan
administration," Hill said. "We're awaiting the hearing proposed by Sen.
Mathias. We're still in a holding pattern."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 1984 The Washington Post


