                              235 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                           Investor's Business Daily

                             March 20, 2006 Monday
                                NATIONAL EDITION

Legal Issues Cloud Shift In Nation's Hospital Market

BYLINE: GLORIA LAU

SECTION: HEALTH & MEDICINE; Q & A; Pg. A08

LENGTH: 826 words


A battle between doctor-owned specialty hospitals and traditional general
hospitals continues to pick up steam.

A provision in the 2003 Medicare law placed a moratorium on the construction of
new specialty hospitals until June 2005.

The plan was to give regulators a chance to see if these hospitals have an
unfair advantage over general hospitals, or if they otherwise hurt the existing
health care system.

The moratorium was extended through December. Since then, the effect on
specialty hospitals is unchanged. For now, Medicare's financing arm is declining
to review new applications for reimbursement of specialty hospitals.

The American Hospital Association and other lobbying groups are pushing for a
permanent moratorium. The AHA accuses specialty hospitals of taking high-profit
business from general hospitals, leaving them with a heavier percentage of poor
or uninsured patients.

Specialty hospitals do have their benefits, however. In 1999, specialty hospital
operator MedCath of Charlotte, N.C., hired consulting firm The Lewin Group to
study its patient outcomes.

The study's latest yearly results, based on 2003 Medicare data, show that
MedCath patients have an 18% lower mortality rate than those at peer community
hospitals. This lower rate comes despite the fact that Medcath tends to handle
more complex cases which take more money and effort to treat. MedCath's average
heart patient stays just 3.69 days vs. 4.79 days at peer community hospitals,
the study says.

Thomas Jeffry Jr., a partner at the Los Angeles office of Davis Wright Tremaine
LLP, recently spoke to IBD about the legal issues facing specialty hospitals.

IBD: What drives doctors to invest in specialty hospitals?

Jeffry: Many physicians have reached the conclusion that they're not going to
increase their income just practicing medicine. So more of them are providing
forms of ancillary health care -- in addition to running their medical practices
-- to enhance their incomes.

The eye surgeons who started operating Lasik surgery centers years ago . . . I
almost consider them early trendsetters.

These new emerging joint ventures are not necessarily (led by) the huge national
companies, but are made up of orthopedists or cardiologists putting imaging
centers next to their office.

These are the types of things that you used to refer patients to hospitals for.
Now doctors are handling these procedures themselves.

Specialty hospitals are usually set up to handle patients from one specialty.
Heart hospitals, orthopedic hospitals and OB-GYN hospitals are some of the most
common.

These specialty hospitals are a big threat to (general) and not-for-profit
hospitals. Some general hospitals have entered into joint ventures with
physicians (and their facilities). If you can't beat them, join them. Better to
share 50% of the revenue than to get none at all.

IBD: What are the main legal issues?

Jeffry: The Stark law, or anti-kickback regulations, limit a physician's ability
to refer patients to facilities they have ownership in.

The legal challenge is to structure these arrangements so they fall within the
exceptions. One exception is if the doctors who refer patients own 40% or less
of a facility. Then they just have to be paid based on percent of ownership.

Physicians can't be reimbursed based on the volume of referrals. You can't tell
the doctor that for every patient you refer for surgery, we'll pay you an extra
$100.

The law doesn't want physicians' financial interests tainting their medical
judgment. One specialty hospital group is MedCath. They put together a lot of
these arrangements. Typically they own 60%. Cardiologists own 40%.

IBD: Would you quantify the impact on public and private hospitals?

Jeffry: From the (general) hospital's perspective, the concern is real unless
the community is seeing significant (population) growth.

The cardiologist could pull all the (high-payment) services out of your
hospital. You have a real hole on the revenue side that you won't be able to
make up anyplace else.

General hospitals worry about losing the high-revenue business, including open
heart surgeries and orthopedic surgeries. These concerns are especially real
when we're talking about the more profitable privately insured patients. But
even Medicare reimburses well enough for profit margins with some of these
procedures.

General hospitals look to that revenue to offset losses they typically take in
the emergency room and internal medicine areas. Usually general hospitals rely
on profits from open heart surgeries, orthopedic procedures and other in-
hospital surgeries.

If a specialty hospital takes away the plusses, (old-style) hospitals are left
with the debts. Then what's left to cover? The sickest patients, the emergency
room patients and the uninsured? Though entire hospitals don't always shut down,
they do close the money-losing areas.

Last year in Southern California, we had several emergency rooms shut down. The
average person should be concerned.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 Investor's Business Daily, Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


