                              234 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          September 12, 1998, Saturday

BATTLE OVER PLAN FOR NEW SUPER-HOSPITAL

BYLINE: By Jon Hunt

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 520 words


Birmingham Health Authority is facing a legal challenge over its support for a
new super-hospital for the city.

A watchdog body, the South Birmingham Community Health Council, says it may seek
a judicial review of the proposals on the grounds that the public has not been
consulted properly.

The CHC, which has long been at loggerheads with the health authority, is
accusing it of having made up its mind about the hospital without allowing the
public to consider alternative options.

But last night the health authority warned that legal action could take
thousands of pounds from patient services and delay vital decisions.

Spokeswoman Mrs Christine Ransome-Wallis said: "It involves considerable time
and cost to go to court. It will cause even more delays in improving health
facilities in Birmingham while other places, like Manchester, get on with it.
They already havepoun ds 432million for new hospitals."

In its latest consultation document, A Framework for Health Investment, the
health authority gives the green light to the new hospital which would replace
the Queen Elizabeth Hospital and Selly Oak Hospital. The final decision on a
plan has to be made by the hospital management, the University Hospital
Birmingham NHS Trust.

First estimates have put the cost of the new hospital at pounds 200million
although efforts are being made to cut the cost.

The health authority also proposes radical changes in the organisation of health
treatment with the creation of ambulatory care centres in hospitals offering
bedless, high-speed treatment and diagnosis. And it believes it can shift pounds
50million from hospitals to GP and community services.

The CHC opposes the plan and claims to have public support for its stance.

If it goes ahead with a legal challenge, it will be the second CHC in the region
to seek recourse to the courts. Kidderminster CHC is putting the finishing
touches to a legal challenge to Worcestershire Health Authority's decision to
down-grade its local hospital.

Last night Mrs Ursula Pearce, chairman of South Birmingham CHC, admitted it had
no finance to support the pounds 30,000 cost of a legal challenge.

She said: "Kidderminster has a big fighting fund behind them. The public there
are much more aware of what is going on.

"It's early days yet to say whether there will be a public fund got up in south
Birmingham. We need to know whether we have a strong case or not."

The CHC had originally opposed the use of the Private Finance Initiative to
build the new hospital. But Mrs Pearce said it now believed the new building
would be too expensive even if it was built with public cash.

The CHC has written to Health Secretary Mr Frank Dobson and the NHS West
Midlands office calling for them to halt the health authority's consultation.

But health minister Mr Paul Boateng has told Mrs Pearce that it is "far too
early" to discuss a judicial review. And Mr Keith Smith, director of corporate
affairs at the NHS Executive West Midlands, told the CHC that the health
authority had undertaken " extensive informal consultation".

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


