                              239 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                            August 9, 1986 Saturday

In a no-man's land of life, death and the law

BYLINE: MARGOT GIBB-CLARK

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 597 words


Until very recently, fear of lawsuits prevented them from giving a
 direct order not to restore a patient's heartbeat or breathing.

Instead, notes were pencilled on charts and erased. Nurses were told
 orally not to revive certain patients. Colored stickers or red dots
 appeared in files of patients who were not to be resuscitated. A chart
 might note ''in case of cardiac arrest notify attending physician" - who
 very well could be off duty.

In hospital jargon this is called ''slow code," since a call for
 resuscitation is usually announced over a hospital intercom system as
 ''Code 25" or "Code 99."

''Every nurse has been in that position," says Bev McParland, a manager
 of nursing practice at Toronto General Hospital. Slow code implied the
 doctor was saying ''take your time to call me." Today, nurses are more
 likely to push for a formal order.

In the past, a hospital's legal advisers and insurance companies were
 against issuing DNR orders that would let a patient die.

Theoretically, a Canadian doctor writing such an order could be charged
 with homicide. Section 205 of the Criminal Code says ''a person commits
 homicide when, directly or indirectly, he causes the death of a human
 being." And the code suggests medical treatment is a legal duty.

''Regrettably, the legal authorities and their clients have apparently
 totally ignored the practices to which physicians then had to resort to
 provide proper medical care to their patients," wrote Dr. Adam Linton,
 chief of medicine at Victoria Hospital in London and medical professor at
 the University of Western Ontario.

Still, there appear to have been no lawsuits on this issue in Canada.
 And the situation has improved since 1984, says Dr. Linton, because of new
 guidelines.

The Canadian Medical Association, the Hospital Association and Nurses
 Association came out with joint guidelines that year, suggesting
 appropriate procedure for DNR orders and for death with dignity. Since
 then, many hospitals have developed their own procedures.

Yet some doctors are still uncomfortable about following such guidance
 and have sought their own legal advice. The legal situation has not been
 formally cleared up. The Ontario Hospital Association's legal advisor says
 that in the case of unconscious patients, ''from the view of the law, it
 would be inadvisable for a physician to discontinue life support measures
 on the instructions of the family or any person whatsoever except the
 patient."

Canada's Law Reform Commission has recommended modifying the law so
 that doctors cannot be held criminally liable for care that will reduce
 suffering but not cure a patient. However, this 1984 recommendation has
 not been acted upon and a spokesman for Justice Minister Ray Hnatyshyn
 says there are no plans to do so.

The legal issue is not a major worry, say Dr. Geoffrey Barker of the
 Toronto Hospital for Sick Children and Dr. Neil Lazar of Toronto General,
 both of whom run intensive care units where DNR orders come up regularly.
 ''I don't believe anything hinders us at the moment, though we would feel
 comfortable with more apparent support from our legal colleagues," says
 Dr. Barker.

However, many doctors have faced threats of lawsuits from relatives of
 patients.

"Fear (of lawsuits) is a terrible way to make a decision," says Dr.
 Michael Gordon, of Baycrest and Mount Sinai hospitals. Because of this
 fear, he has sometimes seen elderly terminal patients transferred by
 ambulance from nursing homes to hospitals as they were dying, instead of
 being left in more familiar surroundings. ''Should people die in transit
 because someone is afraid?"

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1986 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


