                              236 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Hospitals 'use legal loophole to block inquiries into blunders'

BYLINE: Laura Donnelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 489 words


HOSPITALS are routinely using the threat of legal action as an excuse to block
investigations into medical blunders, patient safety campaigners have claimed,
as they announced a possible legal challenge against the Health Secretary.

Lawyers for the charity Action against Medical Accidents (AvMA) have issued the
threat to Jeremy Hunt over NHS guidance which says hospitals can refuse to
investigate complaints if a patient or relative is considering future legal
action.

The rules were supposed to change in 2009 to prevent them being used as an
"excuse" to deny victims of poor care a thorough investigation.

But campaigners say that confusing guidance, which their lawyers suggest is
unlawful, allows hospitals to close down complaints routinely if there is any
hint that someone may sue for negligence. They have issued a legal letter
warning of their intention to seek a judicial review if the advice is not
changed.

Peter Walsh, the AvMA chief executive, said that efforts to persuade ministers
to tackle the issue had fallen on deaf ears.

He said: "It is outrageous that after all we have heard about the need for more
openness and honesty in the NHS that the Department of Health continues to leave
the door open for NHS bodies to use potential claims for clinical negligence as
an excuse not to provide a truthful investigation and response to a complaint."

Following the scandal at Mid Staffordshire Foundation Trust, where up to 1,200
patients died amid failings in care, ministers have promised a "duty of candour"
for the NHS, legally obliging hospitals to admit medical blunders.

But the charity said such pledges were "meaningless" if hospitals could block
questions from relatives.

It has uncovered a number of cases in which hospital trusts and the NHS
Ombudsman have refused to examine complaints because patients might take legal
action.

Patients are being treated in corridors and having to wait four days to be
assessed by a consultant because of "chaotic" care at Tameside General Hospital
in Manchester, reports suggest.

Two independent expert reviews, seen by The Guardian, criticised the standard of
care and said there was "significant" overcrowding as well as delays in
ambulance handovers because the A&E unit was full. A hospital spokesman said an
action plan to address the issues had been approved by Monitor, the regulator.

New cover-up 'Systemic issues' reference deleted

Evidence of a further cover-up at the NHS watchdog has been uncovered in emails
which show senior figures knew of "systemic" failings at a hospital maternity
unit.

Regional officials at the Care Quality Commission, discussing a response to
media queries about Morecambe Bay NHS trust in January 2010, agreed to delete a
reference to "systemic issues" at the unit, where 14 babies were later found to
have died. The CQC said it had published an independent report into the
regulation of Morecambe Bay and did not wish to comment further.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


