                              240 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                                August 31, 2007
                              Business Day Edition

Hospitals get guide to treating minors

BYLINE: Chantelle Benjamin

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 612  words


Hospitals get guide to treating minors

Netcare says ambiguities in the new Children's Act expose their hospitals and
doctors to legal action

Chief Reporter

THE Hospital Association of SA has drawn up guidelines to help concerned
hospital groups with the legal minefield surrounding the Children's Act, which
allows 12-year-old children to receive medical care without parental consent.

Hospital group Netcare said this week it had created brochures using Hasa's
guidelines to assist staff at its hospitals with tricky medical decisions,
because it felt ambiguities in some of the regulations laid hospitals and
doctors open to legal action.

Sections of the controversial act were passed into law on July 1, including
provisions which make it possible for children to have abortions and undergo HIV
testing without requiring permission from their parents.

The act included provisions to reduce the age of maturity from 21 to 18.
However, the full act will not come into effect until the Children's Amendment
Bill is passed by Parliament and regulations have been finalised, early next
year.

Kurt Worrall-Clare, CEO of the Hospital Association, said yesterday that while
the principles of the Children's Act were sound, in that it attempted to address
realities such as sexual and physical abuse, and neglect by parents, there were
insufficient guidelines in some rather sensitive areas.

In terms of the act, a doctor can give medical care to a 12-year-old, provided
he believes that the child has the maturity to understand the procedure being
undertaken.

"Not enough direction is given by the act as to how to make this assessment, or
how the doctor should record his observation in medical records," said
Worrall-Clare.

"One doctor may not consider a child mature enough and refuse a procedure only
for another doctor to find differently. In that case, can the first doctor be
accused of diminishing the right of the patient to care?"

Ironically, while a minor can give consent to medical treatment, a child does
not legally have the right to contract with a medical practitioner for payment.

Worrall-Clare said clinics were seeing that more unaccompanied children coming
in for medical care were seeking abortions and help with drug problems and
mental health issues.

"The aim of the act is not to take away parental rights but to empower children
to make certain decisions," he said. "We are seeing a significant number of
minors coming in who want treatment for drug addiction to illegal and
over-the-counter drugs, and do not want their parents to know, and who might not
otherwise get care.

"We also see children with sexual orientation problems who feel their parents
cannot help, or are in fact making the situation worse," he said.

Worrall-Clare said doctors were being advised to read the Children's Act with
other legislation, such as the National Health Act of 2003, the Medical Scheme
Act of 1998, the Mental Health Act of 2002, the constitution and the United
Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. However, in some cases, these
contradicted each other.

The Mental Health Act and the National Health Act have different requirements on
who can provide consent for a medical procedure should a child not be considered
capable of it.

The Children's Act also has contradictions within it which creates a minefield
for health workers. The act allows children of 12 to receive medical care but
not surgical intervention, which includes the taking of blood, without
assistance of a parent. Yet it allows for the taking of blood for an HIV test
without parental permission.

The Children's Act allows children to have abortions or to undergo HIV testing
without parental consent.

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


