                              232 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                     Marin Independent Journal (Marin, CA)

                             March 1, 2003 Saturday

Marin General ruling a great opportunity

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 432 words


THE RULING OF the state Supreme Court closes the door on a bitter legal battle
over control of Marin General Hospital, but it also signals an opportunity for
both sides to start bridging the chasm that has been created and work together
toward making MGH the best possible community hospital.

The court upheld lower court rulings, rejecting the Marin Healthcare District's
suit that a conflict of interest should invalidate the district's 1985 decision
to enter into a long-term contract for the private management of the public
hospital.

Even with the end of this legal battle, the hospital faces serious challenges.
It has to bring its buildings up to the state's tougher seismic safety
standards, a task that most agree will involve building a new wing onto the
Greenbrae facility. It also faces the dynamics of a fiscal crisis swirling
around health care and a constant demand for modernization.

The legal and political power struggle over MGH has made it additionally
difficult to focus on meeting those challenges.

Today, with state Supreme Court justices calling for an end to the legal fight,
there's an opportunity for both sides to turn their focuses away from courtrooms
and to the jobs that need to get done for the community.

Will the bitterness that has tainted this battle dissipate quickly? Don't bet on
it. The court's ruling was not unexpected, even among supporters of the lawsuit.
But they persisted in the legal fight because they are convinced that the 1985
move to bring in private management of the hospital has left the public with no
effective oversight of its hospital.

That concern remains as a hurdle as the leaders of MGH and the Marin Healthcare
District board, whose focus for five years has been the unraveling of the
private contract, move forward.

The coming months will test the leadership on both sides. Perhaps the end of a
legal battle will open the door to others willing to carve a new, constructive
direction for our community hospital.

Healthcare district board director Suzy Coxhead, who was the only director to
object to the district's costly path of litigation, is optimistic. "I would hope
both the district and hospital boards would look at this as a new opportunity to
start planning together," she said. "By both boards working together, something
can come out of this that is a compromise."

It is time for this struggle to enter a phase of cooperation and community
spirit with a shared goal of making Marin General better. This is a time that
demands strong leadership and requires both sides to rise to the challenge.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

    Copyright 2003 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication


