                              246 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 9, 1985

Women sent to mental hospital seeks leave to sue doctors / Mary Winch plans
legal action against Risley Remand Centre and North Wales Hospital

BYLINE: By SUSAN TIRBUTT

LENGTH: 397 words


A woman who spent a year in a mental hospital is seeking leave in the Appeal
Court to sue three doctors involved and their employers, for negligence.

Miss Mary Winch, aged 65, alleges want of care by doctors at Risley Remand
Centre and North Wales Hospital, Denbigh, and their employers, the Home Office
and Clwyd Health Authority.


She is applying for leave to take legal action because of a clause in the 1959
Mental Health Act protecting doctors from harassment by litigation.

She was committed to hospital for mental treatment for a year after she refused
to hand over legal documents during a five-year property dispute.

Mr John Macdonald, QC, for Miss Winch, said Mr Alun Jones, a psychiatrist at
North Wales Hospital, did not rescind the order under the same act committing
Miss Winch to hospital after she had been cooperating with treatment and was no
longer a danger to other people or herself. Mr Jones did not keep the order
under review and rarely saw her. After a year the order expired and Miss Winch
was released.

Dr Paul Hayward and Dr Paul Bishop, of Risley Remand Centre, should not have
recommended making an order under section 26 of the act without making further
inquiries as to whether Miss Winch's beliefs about solicitors were well founded,
the court heard.

The two doctors found that Miss Winch, who was in the middle of a long legal
action over ownership of a house, was suffering from paranoid schizophrenia. The
illness, they found, expressed itself in litigation and the belief that there
was a ring of solicitors.

Miss Winch was taken to North Wales Hospital, Denhigh, in 1978 under a court
order after spending three months at Risley Remand Centre, where she had been
gaoled for contempt by Judge Blackett-Ord.

Miss Winch was held in contempt for refusing to hand over legal documents to
release the sale of her late mother's house. She had been disputing the sale of
the house since her mother's death in 1972.

Her sister disputed that she should administer the estate and asked the Public
Trustee to take over.

While Miss Winch was in hospital in 1978 the house was sold. The Public
Trustee's court costs were awarded against her, which, with her own legal costs,
took up al: her inheritance.

The case before the Master of the Rolls, Sir John Donaldson, sitting with two
colleagues, continues today.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 Guardian Newspapers Limited


