                              248 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             August 26, 2011 Friday
                                 Final Edition

Hospital seeks $22.5M for failed merger

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 522  words

DATELINE: NEW SMYRNA BEACH


NEW SMYRNA BEACH -- Seeking to repair financial damage a failed merger caused
tax-supported Bert Fish Medical Center, the hospital district's board voted
Thursday to demand $22.5 million from the firm of the lawyer who gave it faulty
advice.

The board unanimously approved starting with that amount in a demand letter that
will be delivered to a lawyer representing the Orlando firm Lowndes, Drosdick,
Doster, Kantor & Reed.

One of that firm's partners, Jim Heekin, advised the hospital board it could
meet outside public view in 21 meetings over 16 months that resulted in
Adventist Health System merging with the New Smyrna Beach hospital in 2010.

That merger, however, became the focus of what some have called the largest
violation of the state's Sunshine Law to be challenged in court. After a
five-day hearing, Circuit Judge Richard Graham on Feb. 24 ordered the merger
undone.

The legal fight and ensuing separation resulted in a pile-up of legal and
administrative costs to the hospital and the Southeast Volusia Hospital District
that are still being tallied.

The board has hired Lou Mrachek, a Palm Beach attorney who specializes in legal
malpractice, to try to recover some of those expenses. Mrachek urged the board
to authorize him to compose a demand letter that will be the starting point for
mediation with the Orlando firm.

We want to give a number that won't scare them off and have them give us the
cold shoulder, and I don't think that will," Mrachek said of the $22.5 million.

Some of Bert Fish Medical Center's costs are underwritten by taxpayers from
Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak Hill and a portion of Port Orange. The hospital
district's tax rate of $3.25 per $1,000 of taxable value, the highest of any
such district in the state, was expected to bring in $17.2 million this fiscal
year.

The legal costs of the failed merger have threatened to squeeze the amount
budgeted to support indigent care at the hospital, district officials have said.

Mrachek said he hired consultants to estimate the value of the Adventist deal
that had been signed.

Heekin's own testimony valued the merger's value to the taxing district at $40
million, when the hospital was worth $18 million, Mrachek told the board.

He said it was a great deal," Mrachek said.

Because the hospital was returned to public ownership, that means the district
lost $22 million in income, Mrachek said. Add to that the resulting legal and
administrative fees, estimated to be at $3.4 million, and damages come to $25.4
million.

A 10 percent discount to the damages is traditionally applied when the case
doesn't go to court, Mrachek explained. And that would bring the amount that
should be demanded to $22.4 million, he said.

I love this case. I'm excited about the case," Mrachek told the board after
being asked if it would be a difficult case to press.

Heekin could not be reached for comment Thursday night.

Since the merger debacle, only two of the seven board members who were serving
at the time of the merger remain. Gov. Rick Scott dismissed the three officers
of the board who had re-applied for their positions, and five new members have
been appointed.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


