                              26 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            The Times of India (TOI)

                           September 15, 2013 Sunday

SPG docs refuse to conduct medico legal formalities in private hospital

SECTION: VARANASI

LENGTH: 502 words


VARANASI: By asking the government doctors to visit private hospital to complete
medico legal formalities in criminal cases for the third time in
one-and-half-month, the police have stirred up the hornet's nest as the doctors
of SPG Hospital refused to visit private hospital and also raised voice against
the cops.

After the employees of a business firm were shot at in loot bid at Sigra
crossing, the injured were rushed to a private hospital in Maldahiya. SP city
Rahul Raj sent a letter to the superintendent-in-chief of SPG Hospital, asking
him to send a medical officer to complete the medico legal formalities in the
hospital. The SP referred the possibility of law and order problem in case of
delay in completing the formality as it could delay in beginning of treatment.

However, the hospital authorities refused to send officer to private hospitals
for medico legal work and termed it as illegal. It led to high drama for some
time. UP Provincial Medical and Health Services Association (UPPMHSA) swung into
action in support of the SPG Hospital doctors. UPPMHSA vice-president AK Singh
and local unit general secretary Arvind Singh convened a press conference and
claimed that in the past one-and-half-month it was the third time when police
wrote such letter to the divisional hospital.

They said that on past two occasions, the doctors accepted the request of police
for sending emergency medical officer (EMO) to conduct medico legal formalities
in criminal cases. But, it can not be done on all the occasions as the practice
is illegal as per the provisions prescribed in the medical manual of state
government, which states that the government doctors can not visit private
hospital for this purpose. They said that in two cases, the Supreme Court had
given guidelines, which were also considered by the Union government as law.
These guidelines are sufficient to make it clear that in the cases of life
threatening situation, saving the life of patient is must, they said adding, in
such circumstances no law would be considered as hurdle to begin the treatment.

They said that if medico legal formalities are considered as must before
beginning treatment of any patient, any qualified medical practitioner with
minimum qualification of MBBS can conduct it. The UPPMHSA said that whenever the
government doctors conduct medico legal formalities in private hospital, the
reason for it is sought by the court and the credential of such doctors are
considered as doubtful.

Whenever any EMO is compelled to visit a private hospital for medico legal
formalities, the emergency services of government hospital suffers. They said
that the state unit general secretary of association had been made aware about
the current practices of Varanasi police and also the stand of government
doctors. The office-bearers of the association would make the director of health
department aware about it. They said that these practices are not being followed
in any district of state.

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


