                              244 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                       Sunday Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                           September 28, 2014 Sunday
                                 First Edition

Law, health unite to help victims

BYLINE: Bec Zajac - Bec Zajac writes for The Citizen; thecitizen.org.au.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 585 words


Lawyers working within the Royal Women's Hospital are giving abused women
discreet legal advice in an initiative that could be extended to other health
centres.

The move has put doctors and the legal fraternity in partnership in the latest
effort to counter Victoria's high incidence of family violence. It is giving
women, who might otherwise be too fearful to come forward, access to free advice
under the cloak of routine medical appointments.

Lawyer Linda Gyorki, who manages the project, said it was often difficult for
women suffering from abuse to " "seek legal assistance and work out what their
entitlements are". Often, women found themselves only able to leave the house
alone for antenatal appointments. The project aims to inform the women of their
legal rights, according to Dr Fleur Llewelyn, who heads the clinical side of the
operation.

"The power of having this kind of alliance is that women who are not usually
able to see a lawyer are able to see them when they are 'legitimately' on site
for a medical appointment," she said.

The project, Acting on the Warning Signs, is a joint initiative of the hospital
and Inner Melbourne Community Legal. It is the first of its kind in a major
metropolitan hospital.

Launched two years ago, the preliminary findings of an expert panel overseeing
the project suggest it is making a difference. The service has so far provided
advice to more than 100 women.

Underpinning the strategy is research that shows that putting women in contact
with lawyers can help lead to a decline in violence. Also, abused women are more
likely to disclose violence to health professionals than they are to lawyers.

A central aspect of the project was the opening of a free legal clinic within
the social work wing of the Royal Women's Hospital. The clinic is open three
times a week, enabling women to make contact of their own accord or via
referrals from anyone working at the hospital.

Ms Gyorki said the legal service was general in nature, but she had found
herself talking to women mostly about family law matters. Some had sought advice
about child support payments. Others needed help filling out applications for
intervention orders, while some from other countries wanted to know how they
could prevent their partners from moving their children overseas.

Another key component of the project is a training program for doctors and
health professionals that helps them to spot the physical and emotional warning
signs of abuse and know how to respond.

Intimate partner violence is the leading preventable cause of death, disability
and illness for Australian women aged 15 to 44. In 2012-13, in Victoria alone,
there were 45 homicides in family settings.

Acting on the Warning Signs was inspired by the US model of medical-legal
partnerships that has evolved during the past two decades and is based on what
is commonly referred to as the social model of health.

It recognises that some illness is caused or exacerbated not by medical factors
but by legal, social or economic ones and can only be solved when doctors,
lawyers and social workers collaborate.

ACCESSING JUSTICE

" Interviews with survivors of partner abuse have shown that health
professionals are the major group to which women want to disclose violence.

" Recent US studies found that the provision of legal services was one of three
key factors contributing to a decline in violence against women.

" The annual cost of domestic violence in Australia in 2002-03 was estimated by
Access Economics to be $8.1 billion.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


