                              242 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                     November 7, 2015 Saturday 7:39 PM GMT

Wythenshawe Hospital downgrade protest rally draws more than a thousand
residents;
Medics who launched legal action against NHS decision join march across the town

BYLINE: By Charlotte Cox

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 467 words


Hundreds of residents marched with medics and MPs in a show of solidarity
against plans to downgrade Wythenshawe Hospital.

More than a thousand people joined a rally to celebrate the hospital's 100 year
history and pledge their support to its future.

It was organised by 'Keep Wythenshawe Special' - a group of senior doctors who
have launched legal action against the NHS over 'catastrophic' plans to move
surgery out of the hospital.

Starting on Firbank Road and led by a band, comedian Ted Robbins spoke
emotionally about how the hospital's cardiac specialists saved his life
following his collapse while performing on stage.

MPs, Mike Kane, Graham Brady and Kate Green also took part and spoke out, as
well as medics and patients.

An organiser said: "It was absolutely brilliant.

"Around half the members were staff from the hospital with the rest members of
the community, local councillors, MPS and unions.

"The idea is to challenge the decision made by Healthier Together to downgrade
Wythenshawe. This was really a celebration of Wythenshawe and all it's done in
its 100 year history."

She said they supported the idea of Healthier Together but added: "The final
process, we feel, was flawed and Wythenshawe should not have been put in a
position where was going to be downgraded.

"In the early days, it was about patient care but somewhere along the line the
goalposts shifted and patient benefit no longer seemed to be the main criteria."

Wythenshawe Hospital

Doctors have launched their legal bid as a result of the Healthier Together
hospital shake-up, which aims to create four 'specialist' hospitals across the
region.

They would become the only sites to deal with emergency abdominal surgery - but
Wythenshawe was not one of those chosen.

A small group of consultants, with the backing of the hospital's much larger
medical staffing committee, has lodged court papers against Greater Manchester's
12 clinical commissioning groups.

It's aimed at triggering a judicial review of the decision taken by clinical
commissioners over the summer.

They will find out on Monday if the review will go ahead.

NHS bosses say a judicial review could cost the system £500,000 in legal costs.

Dr Nigel Guest, chief clinical officer of Trafford CCG and one of those who gave
Stepping Hill specialist status over Wythenshawe, said commissioners were
'extremely disappointed' with the legal action, which he claimed was not backed
by the hospital's board.

He also accused the doctors of scaremongering by writing to GPs earlier this
month claiming the hospital's A&E could close.

Lord Peter Smith, who leads on health devolution for the combined authority,
said the move could 'halt' the recruitment of 13 new A&E doctors and 22
surgeons, adding that the entire shake-up had been about improving all
hospitals.

Healthier together

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


