                              27 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                           November 23, 1989 Thursday

Standards of care set for doctors

BYLINE: BARRY HAILSTONE

LENGTH: 377 words


Royal Adelaide Hospital doctors have been told they have to provide a
"reasonable" standard of care for patients during times of rationed medical
services.

The doctors had sought a legal opinion of their responsibility in such
circumstances.

The opinion, in a memorandum circulated throughout the hospital by the medical
director, Dr Richenda Webb, says the hospital and its clinicians are under a
legal duty to provide a reasonable standard of care even where treatment options
are limited by hospital policy and/or lack of resources.

The legal opinion from the hospital's solicitors was sought at the request of
the hospital's drug committee, which was concerned about restrictions in the
prescribing of expensive drugs.

The legal opinion says "reasonable" cannot be precisely defined but means that
standard of care which the law expects of a large public hospital.

"The law would regard it as reasonable, for instance, for the hospital to place
some restriction on the availability of drugs," the memorandum says.

It says a policy to restrict "over-prescription" of expensive drugs or drugs in
short supply would be regarded as reasonable.

"Our view is that no legal liability would attach to the hospital in respect of
a decision made on economic grounds not to have available for prescription a
certain drug, or to have only a limited supply of certain drugs so long as that
decision was not made unreasonable," says the memorandum.

It was not within the province of the law to direct hospital managements as to
what funds to make available to departments or to direct departments how to
allocate limited financial resources.

The legal opinion, sought after restrictions were imposed on the RAH during its
budget blow-out earlier this year, says if it was foreseen that a patient's
condition was such that it may require treatment by a drug that may be
unavailable, the hospital had a legal duty to advise the patient of that fact
and to give the patient the option of seeking other treatment.

While it may not be possible in situations such as an emergency admission, in
cases where deferment of treatment would not be harmful, the failure to advise
the patient might attract legal liability if harm to the patient resulted.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1989 Nationwide News Pty Limited


