                              257 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             August 18, 2014 Monday

Halifax Health defends whistleblower settlement

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1170  words


whistleblower lawsuit

PORT ORANGE -- A federal whistleblower lawsuit that cost Halifax Health $120
million in settlement and legal expenses boiled down to a single sentence in a
contract, hospital leaders said Monday during their first of three town hall
meetings.

Hospital officials took aim at what they say are confusing, unclear and
draconian health care regulations, while vowing to beef up compliance efforts to
ensure the 678-bed public hospital system is protected moving forward.

Halifax Health CEO Jeff Feasel said laws need to be changed because the hospital
faced a huge penalty for merely trying to structure agreements to maintain the
community's trauma unit and retain cancer doctors to treat indigent patients. No
inappropriate care was ever delivered by the hospital, and instead, the case
involved interpretations of language in physician contracts, he said.

"We take care of everyone in our community," Feasel told an audience of about 40
during a 9 a.m. meeting at the Riverside Pavilion in Port Orange. "These
physicians that were raked over the coals and made to feel like they criminally
did something wrong are the very physicians who get up in the middle of the
night on Christmas Eve, on the weekend and take care of people who can't pay for
their health care."

Elin Baklid-Kunz, a former compliance officer, filed the lawsuit in June 2009.
The suit accused the hospital of maintaining illegal contracts with six cancer
doctors and three neurosurgeons that violated the Stark Law, a statute that
prohibits paying doctors based on referrals and volume.

Public comments from Halifax Health officials about the suit have been limited
until now because the matter was being litigated. The lawsuit was broken into
two cases. The first case involving allegations of improper physician contracts
was settled for $85 million in March. The hospital settled the remaining claims
this past month for $1 million plus $4.5 million in the whistleblower's legal
fees.

Marlan Wilbanks, an attorney for the whistleblower, disagreed with the
hospital's description of the lawsuit. The laws Halifax Health was accused of
breaking are in place to protect patients by ensuring doctors don't make
treatment decisions based on financial inducements, he said.

"It wasn't a single line in a contract," Wilbanks said. "It was about creating a
bonus pool for physicians that the more procedures they did, the more money that
the hospital made. It's asking people to disregard the facts, disregard the law
and pretend that the mistake wasn't so monumental that it cost them $85 million.
That's a fantasy."

Faced with mounting legal fees that topped $20 million, the prospect of endless
appeals and a potential $1 billion-plus judgment if the matter went to trial,
hospital officials said they settled the matter even though they didn't think
they did anything wrong. In addition to the settlement costs, the hospital spent
about $24 million on its legal defense plus an additional $10 million it paid to
the whistleblower's attorneys.

The U.S. Department of Justice joined part of the suit in 2011, arguing
employment agreements, such as the ones at Halifax Health, give incentives
doctors to perform more tests and procedures. Initially, the Justice Department
demanded $185 million to settle the matter, hospital officials said, an amount
they refused to pay.

In March, the hospital agreed to pay $85 million and abide by the terms of a
five-year corporate integrity agreement, which will give the federal government
greater oversight into the hospital's operations. Hospital officials say they
welcome the increased scrutiny because it will help protect the hospital from
future violations. It will cost about $350,000 a year for the hospital to abide
by the terms of the agreement.

Ann Martorano, the hospital's chief operating officer, said the hospital paid
bonuses to six cancer doctors based on 15 percent of the department's operating
margin. This was done to give doctors an incentive to be efficient in operating
the oncology department, and the bonuses averaged only about $20,000 per doctor
per year, she said.

"It was never about any unnecessary care that was given to any patient or the
quality of that care or any bills that were sent to Medicare for services that
should not have been rendered to patients," Martorano said. "It was never about
any of that. What you'll find is it was really about language in a contract."

Baklid-Kunz alerted her supervisor before filing the lawsuit. The hospital
checked into the employment agreements. Audrey Pike, associate general counsel,
wrote in a Nov. 10, 2008, memo the contracts appeared to violate the Stark Law
and recommended self- reporting the matter to the government.

Instead of self-reporting, Dave Davidson, chief general counsel, solicited an
outside legal opinion from McDermott, Will and Emery, a Chicago-based law firm.
The law firm stated in a Feb. 9, 2009, memo that a "reasonable argument" existed
the contracts could be defended but added no assurances could be given that a
court or the federal government would agree.

After receiving that opinion, Davidson authorized the hospital to pay the last
bonus in March 2009 and then restructured the agreements to provide fixed
bonuses. Pike's boss, Davidson, resigned his position effective Oct. 1, but he
did not give a reason for the resignation.

The government also alleged the hospital paid three of its neurosurgeons above
fair market value.

Neurosurgeons were well-paid by the hospital because they provided
around-the-clock coverage for the hospital's trauma unit, Martorano said.

The top-paid neurosurgeon Dr. Federico Vinas made $1.9 million in 2008, which
Martorano said is in line with what other neurosurgeons in Central Florida earn.

Two doctors left Halifax Health for more lucrative positions elsewhere, and the
three remaining physicians agreed to pick up the extra work, contributing to
their earnings, she said.

The second part of the lawsuit focused on allegations that Halifax Health
overcharged Medicare for short hospital stays of two days or less. The hospital
"basically won" that part of the lawsuit and settled for $1 million to avoid
future legal expenses, Martorano said.

Several questions submitted in writing from audience members focused on why the
hospital didn't self-report the violation as suggested by their associate
general counsel. That was a question voiced by Dr. Remigio Lacsamana, a retired
physician who served as president of Halifax Health's medical staff in the
1980s.

"They should have listened better to concerns back in 2008 when Elin Baklid-Kunz
was working for the compliance department," Lacsamana said after the meeting.

Others, though, expressed satisfaction with how the hospital handled the manner.

"This is yesterday," said Joie Alexander, a former county councilwoman from
Southeast Volusia County. "Now, let's go on with the great hospital and the
leadership team we have and move forward."

Town hall meetings will also be held on Tuesday and Wednesday in Daytona Beach.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

