                              258 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             Cambridge Evening News

                            November 12, 2012 Monday

Legal row over GP threat to withhold cash from hospital

BYLINE: Rachel Allen

LENGTH: 313  words


Addenbrooke's is in a legal wrangle with a group of GPs threatening to withhold
more than half a million pounds.

The hospital has sought legal advice after the GPs, who make up the shadow
clinical commissioning group (CCG), threatened to withhold £547,000 - which
equates to 2 per cent of its monthly payment  - because they say seven hospital
departments failed to meet a treatment target.

The hospital has also incurred a £113,000 penalty from NHS Cambridgeshire, the
shadow CCG's predecessor, for failing to meet the 18 week referral-to-treatment
target.

This comes just over a month after the trust was docked £104,000 for cancer
treatment delays for a third consecutive quarter and was required to explain
itself to hospital regulator Monitor.

Hospital directors voiced their concerns at a board meeting last week. Jim
Potter, vice-chairman of the trust, said: "I'd like to know what the plan is
with the CCG because this will be alarming for the board."

A board report says the CCG made the threat under a "contractual clause" with
the hospital after specialties failed to meet "expected recovery dates".

Dr Karen Castille, interim chief executive, said: "As the board would expect
because of the significance of the potential to withhold some of their funding
we have quite rightly taken legal advice about this and contractually that's not
possible.

"We have written to the CCG to that effect and they have said they too would
like to take legal advice."

Tim Bennett, director of operations, said various action plans are in place to
meet the target, which should happen in the quarter starting in  January.

NHS Cambridgeshire said it is working with the trust to improve its performance
and "no final decision" has been made on withholding 2 per cent, which it says
is set out in the trust's NHS contract. Any funds held back would be released
once the 18-week standard is met.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CambridgeNews


                    Copyright 2012 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


