                              256 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                          June 23, 1993, CITY EDITION

Doctor says appeal on dismissal disallowed

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 673 words


A NEUROSURGEON has told the High Court that he was dismissed as a registrar at
Beaumont Hospital, Dublin, in June 1991 and that he was denied an opportunity to
appeal the decision.

Dr Christos Georgopoulos, at present a consultant neurosurgeon in Athens,
Greece, said yesterday that he was seeking reinstatement at Beaumont Hospital
where he was taken on as a registrar in neurosurgery in October 1989.

He was told his employment was for a three-year period, the contract to be
renewed annually, and it was renewed in June 1990 for a further year. During his
registrarship, he became aware of certain incidents and he considered patients'
care was being compromised.

He put his concerns into writing in February 1990. His letter, which was given
to the Irish Medical Council, in turn led to an inquiry into the hospital. Dr
Georgopoulos said that towards the end of 1990 he became aware of complaints
being made against him by consultants in the hospital which resulted in his
dismissal.

Dr Georgopoulos said there was no hearing initially and that he had learned
about his dismissal in the press. After legal proceedings there was a
settlement, and it was agreed that the hospital board would consider the case
afresh. The hearing took place from June 24th to 27th, 1991, with his solicitor
and counsel present, but the legal assessor to the board gave advice to the
board in private.

Dr Georgopoulos is seeking declarations that his purported dismissal on June
27th, 1991, is invalid and in breach of his constitutional rights, and that the
dismissal is in breach of the terms of his contract and/or terms ,of the
settlement of June 1991 with the hospital.

He is also claiming that the hospital board acted outside its powers in
dismissing him and violated the requirements of natural and constitutional
justice. He is seeking damages for wrongful dismissal and breach of
constitutional rights.

The hospital board is denying all claims and also that Dr Georgopoulos was
employed by it between October 10th, 1989, and June 27th, 1991, as alleged. But
if he was employed, which was not admitted, then the employment was for a fixed
duration only, expiring on June 30th, 1991. It admits dismissing Dr Georgopoulos
but states that such dismissal was warranted and efficacious in law.

The defence also claims that Dr Georgopoulos was accorded a full and air caring
and that if the legal assessor withdrew with members of the board and gave legal
advice as asserted, which was denied, then this was a valid use of the legal
assessor's powers.

The court was told by Mr Gerard Hogan, for Dr Georgopoulos, that on October
10th, 1989, the doctor took up the post. He was receiving a salary of about
£18,377.

Mr Hogan said that in March 1991 the board purported to carry out an
investigation against Dr Georgopoulos in respect of certain complaints and
purported to dismiss him - in a letter on March 26th, 1991 - on the grounds that
the board found he was unavailable to medical and nursing staff on numerous
occasions when on duty; that the performance of his duties was unsatisfactory on
occasions, and he thereby placed the management and care of the patients at
risk. The board also contended that on numerous occasions he was unco-operative
with medical, paramedical and nursing staff.

Dr Georgopoulos took legal proceedings, as a result of which the hospital dealt
afresh with the complaints. The board, having heard the evidence, purported once
again to dismiss Dr Georgopoulos.

Mr Hogan said the legal assessor to the board withdrew with members of the board
and gave legal advice in private. The terms of the advice were not disclosed to
the parties and, in particular, to Dr Georgopoulos's legal advisers. The doctor
and his advisers had no means of ascertaining the nature of the advice and
whether it was correct in law. They were wrongly denied the opportunity of
commenting, raising requisitions, and of making a plea in mitigation.

The hearing before Mr Justice Murphy continues today.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 1993 The Irish Times


