                              253 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                             Daily News (New York)

                           December 30, 2004 Thursday
                              SPORTS FINAL EDITION

HOSPITALS' NEGLECT TRANSLATES BADLY

BYLINE: BY ALBOR RUIZ

SECTION: SUBURBAN; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 598 words


IMAGINE RUSHING to a hospital seeking urgent medical attention for you or your
children and not being able to tell the doctor what hurts, what is wrong with
you or your child. Imagine the frustration and the fear.

Marta Peña can tell you all about it. She is 25, lives in Queens and has a
4-year-old boy and a 2-year-old girl.

"When I was pregnant with my first child, I was feeling really bad and I began
to bleed," she remembered. "I was very scared and went to the hospital, but when
I finally got to see a doctor, he didn't speak any Spanish, and those days I
didn't speak any English. I didn't know what to do. How could I explain to him
what was happening to me? I was desperate."

No interpreter was available, and Peña was forced to ask another patient for
help, she told us in June. She had a healthy baby boy, although many other cases
do not have happy endings.

Peña's situation is not unique. With 2 million Latinos living in the city, it is
the daily reality of thousands of people.

The lack of translation services at the hospitals means that hundreds of doctors
are not able to ask thousands of people what is afflicting them.

Patients with limited knowledge of English have to rely on gestures, the
kindness of other patients or their own children.

"Condition Critical," a report released Dec. 14 by the Puerto Rican Legal
Defense and Education Fund, makes clear that those communication barriers are
endangering the lives of immigrant New Yorkers.

The report documents the almost wholesale exclusion of Latinos from top
policy-making positions in the city's private or voluntary hospitals.

After surveying 13 voluntary hospitals in the five boroughs, especially those
that serve large Latino populations, "Condition Critical" found that 12 of them
have almost no Latinos in leadership positions.

And it concludes that this is one of the reasons for the lack of interpreters
and the discrimination suffered by Latinos in many New York voluntary hospitals.

"This is a condition that makes these institutions less responsive to our
community and disregards anti-discrimination laws and regulations," said Angelo
Falcón, senior policy executive at the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education
Fund.

"What I found from those who complained to us . . . about health issues was that
the most frequent culprit identified was not the individual physician or even
the HMO - it was the hospitals," César Perales, the fund's president and general
counsel, wrote in the report preface.

This is something taxpayers and communities should hold hospitals accountable
for. Because even if they are called "private," these hospitals rely heavily on
public funds.

Amazingly, the Greater New York Hospital Association, entrusted with overseeing
the hospitals, recently failed to meet the city Health and Hospitals Corp.'s
equal employment opportunity standards.

Anticipating the criticism in the Puerto Rican legal fund report, the
association announced the creation of an advisory panel to study the hospitals'
problems relating to the Latino community. It will be headed by Ida Castro, the
respected former boss of the federal Equal Employment Opportunities Commission
under President Bill Clinton.

To many, the new panel is only a public relations move intended to steal the
thunder from the biting Puerto Rican legal fund report. In any case, as Perales
said, private hospitals "don't need a commission to do this."

The Greater New York Hospital Association can begin 2005 the right way by taking
care of this problem without further delay. Patients should not have to wait any
longer. aruiz@nydailynews.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

