                              255 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                November 8, 2005

Fight for Frenchay 'doomed to failure'

SECTION: News; Health; Hospitals; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 730 words


Health bosses have reacted with dismay to a legal bid to halt the downgrading of
Frenchay hospital. South Gloucestershire Council yesterday voted to seek advice
on mounting a High Court challenge to Health Secretary Patricia Hewitt's refusal
to re-examine a planned shake-up of city hospitals which would see Southmead
Hospital upgraded while Frenchay withers.

Sonia Mills, chief executive of North Bristol NHS Trust which runs both Frenchay
and Southmead hospitals, said the move could delay the work by up to two years -
and add at least £36 million to the costs involved.

And Bristol North West MP Doug Naysmith branded the council's refusal to give up
the fight to save Frenchay as "crazy" as the legal bid was bound to fail.

Taking legal advice is likely to could cost the council up to £2,000. Taking the
case to the High Court is expected to cost £10,000 and if the council were to
lose and be ordered to pay all of the legal costs, it could be landed with a
bill of more than £100,000.

Ms Mills said the judicial review South Gloucestershire Council is seeking would
take up to 10 months.

She said: "Our timetable is deliberately designed to ensure that we are at the
front of the queue of 25 major hospital schemes in other cities throughout
England which are at a similar stage of development. It is very clear that
schemes which are delayed and fail to attract PFI interest have to restart their
process. A six to 10-month judicial review process is likely to lead to a delay
of 12 or even 24 months." Ms Mills said delaying the scheme would drive up costs
by reducing competition among potential contractors as they became committed to
other schemes.

Mr Naysmith added: "As far as I know it has already been said that a judicial
review will not succeed, that the way the decision is made, it's very unlikely
that this will succeed.

"I think it's crazy that the cabinet is spending taxpayers' money on something
that will not succeed. I think it's time some of the local politicians in South
Gloucestershire stopped playing politics with something so important and decided
to have a great new hospital for South Gloucestershire and the whole of the
Bristol area." Pam Ward, Secretary of the Joint Union Committee representing
North Bristol NHS Trust staff, was also worried by the delay South
Gloucestershire Council's legal bid will cause.

She said: "We are concerned that, yet again, the process will stall. Any delay
now in the plans could jeopardise the cost of providing hospital services in the
future. The staff believe that if the plans are stalled now the true losers will
be the residents of Bristol and South Gloucestershire who will have to wait even
longer for a new hospital." At yesterday's meeting, the council's cabinet was
told it should know in about three weeks whether it had a strong enough legal
case to challenge the Bristol Health Services Plan, a £500 million shake-up of
hospital services in the region that also includes plans for new community
facilities in Thornbury, Yate and Kingswood.

The council's three-party ruling cabinet voted by seven votes to two in favour
of seeking legal advice over a judicial review, with Labour opposing the move.

Tory group leader John Calway (Longwell Green) said: "I don't think out
residents would ever believe it if we refused to invest in what might be our
only chance of saving Frenchay.

"It seems there has been a deliberate plan in place from day one to
systematically discredit Frenchay by the NHS, right up to the Secretary of
State." Maggie Tyrrell (Thornbury South), the Lib Dems' executive member for
community care, housing and health, said: "There is overwhelming public support
for acute services at Frenchay Hospital. We owe it to the people of South
Gloucestershire to make their opinion count." Labour group leader Roger
Hutchinson (Filton) made an impassioned plea for the cabinet to accept that
Southmead had been chosen as the site for the new acute hospital. He said: "This
is not a Frenchay versus Southmead argument any more.

"I'm aware some people in South Gloucestershire are disappointed it's not
Frenchay but that was bound to happen." The judicial review's brief would be to
decide whether the Health Secretary had been "irrational or unreasonable" in not
referring the decision to favour Southmead to an independent panel.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                     © Copyright 2005 Bristol United Press


