                              252 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                       Sydney Morning Herald (Australia)

                            August 29, 2006 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Laws may shield hospital from pathology claims

BYLINE: Ruth Pollard Health Reporter

SECTION: NEWS AND FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 365 words


PATIENTS harmed in the Hunter New England pathology bungle may be prevented from
suing the health service by state laws that limit the Government's liability in
negligence cases.

A review of thousands of pathology tests at Tamworth Base Hospital found that
217, some involving diagnoses for cancer, had significant variations that might
have adversely altered treatment.

Of those, 38 were seriously affected and six people might have died as a result
of the bungle, the Government admitted.

Lawyers have criticised the Premier, Morris Iemma, for noting that patients and
their families were "entitled to seek a legal claim against the Government",
saying instead that the new laws shut people out of the legal system.

"Premier Iemma's statement is a hollow gesture to the many people who may have
suffered grievously from state-sponsored negligence," said the president of the
NSW Bar Association, Michael Slattery, QC.

"This state has armour-plated its hospital system very effectively against
genuine claims for medical negligence from its own citizens."

Civil liability laws passed by the former premier Bob Carr in 2002 gave state
authorities such as public hospitals legal immunities, capping damages and
reducing the courts' ability to award large payouts, he said.

The Hunter claims, which relate to tests misdiagnosed by Farid Zaer, a
pathologist, between 1999 and 2001 at Tamworth Base Hospital, fell outside the
three-year statute of limitations.

It was possible to apply to the court to have that time extended, however it
came at a huge cost to individual patients, said Bill Madden, a partner at
Slater & Gordon, a law firm that specialists in medical negligence. The other
option was that the Government could step in, he said.

A spokeswoman for the state Minister for Health, John Hatzistergos, said last
night that NSW Health would not force patients to seek an extension of the
statute of limitation. Instead, claims would apply from when the patient was
informed of the misdiagnosis.

But she said "NSW Health cannot unilaterally exempt itself from legislation -
any special arrangement would be whole of government consideration".

The Government had yet to receive any claims, she said.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2006 John Fairfax Publications Pty Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


