                              259 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             August 28, 1998 Friday

Researchers at Sick Kids threaten to leave  Renowned Toronto hospital urged to
hold independent inquiry into dispute between doctor and drug firm

BYLINE: BY KRISTA FOSS and PAUL TAYLOR The Globe and Mail

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A3

LENGTH: 600 words

DATELINE: Toronto


The renowned Hospital for Sick Children could face an exodus of its top
researchers because it has failed to support one of them in a dispute with a
drug company.

"We could enter a dark age at Sick Kids," predicted Brenda Gallie, director of
the hospital's blood and cancer research program.

At a news conference yesterday, Dr. Gallie said she will take her research
elsewhere if the hospital does not call an independent inquiry into the dispute
involving Nancy Olivieri and Apotex Inc.

Last week, the hospital announced an external review of its policies and
procedures for clinical trials. But 140 doctors and researchers at the hospital
have signed a petition asking that the hospital instead review the specifics of
the dispute between Dr. Olivieri and the drug firm.

Dr. Olivieri was threatened with legal action by Apotex Inc., which had paid for
the research, if she went public with negative results in her study of a drug
for thalassemia. Researchers are upset that the hospital administration failed
to supply her with legal support.

The Hospital for Sick Children's "administration has made it very clear that
there would be absolutely no effort to investigate the many questions left
hanging by the Apotex drug trial issue," Dr. Gallie said. "We believe that this
is not adequate."

Another prominent researcher, Peter Durie, told the news conference that the
atmosphere of academic freedom had been "poisoned" at the hospital -- and that
future research was hanging in the balance.

In the next two months, for instance, Dr. Gallie and fellow researcher Helen
Chan will be conducting a clinical trial of a treatment for young children with
a rare eye cancer. The $1.5-million study will follow 350 patients with
retinoblastoma in 20 hospitals around the world, and has been funded by the U.S.
National Institutes of Health.

Both Dr. Gallie and Dr. Chan say they cannot conduct the trial under the current
circumstances until the issues with Dr. Olivieri have been aired -- and the
hospital's relationship to Apotex spelled out.

"If we are going to be leading the world in this trial, we want it to be in a
place where there is openness and trust," Dr. Chan said. "Other centres will
question if there was any complicity to hide the truth."

Dr. Olivieri has not been the only one to receive legal threats as the
controversy separates researchers who are speaking out from those who support
the administration.

This week, Dr. Gallie received a letter from another hospital doctor suggesting
legal action will be taken against her for remarks she made to the media
recently.

As Dr. Gallie plans for her new retinoblastoma study, her situation at the
hospital gets more uncomfortable. Dr. Gallie said that authority over the design
of clinical trials conducted within the Hospital for Sick Children lies with its
Division of Clinical Pharmacology. The director of that division is Gideon Koren
-- the doctor who claimed he was defamed by Dr. Gallie.

The researchers' concerns are reverberating beyond the hospital's walls. "This
is a big deal," said Arthur Schafer, director of the Centre for Professional and
Applied Ethics at the University of Manitoba.

"The Hospital for Sick Children is not just any hospital, it is our pre-eminent
children's hospital," Prof. Schafer said. "If this can happen to Nancy Olivieri,
it can happen to any physician or researcher in Canada."

But there are no indications the hospital will broaden the scope of its review.
"The hospital will continue to put together the external review to look at our
policies and procedures," said Cyndy DeGiusti, a spokeswoman for the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1998 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


