                              267 of 993 DOCUMENTS

             Copyright (c) 2014 Georgetown Journal of Legal Ethics
                       Georgetown Journal of Legal Ethics

                                  Summer, 2014

                       Georgetown Journal of Legal Ethics

                          27 Geo. J. Legal Ethics 473

LENGTH: 7811 words

CURRENT DEVELOPMENTS 2013-2014: The Un-privileged Industry: Assessing the
Detriments of an Independent Compliance Office in Health Care Fraud Litigation

NAME: KUSH DAS *

BIO:



   * J.D., Georgetown University Law Center (expected May 2015); B.A., George
Washington University (May 2012). (c) 2014, Kush Das.

 TEXT:
 [*473]  INTRODUCTION

   Health care is a heavily regulated industry.  n1 Whereas financial
institutions have recently encountered stringent compliance and regulatory
reforms,  n2 the health care industry has always faced dense and difficult
regulatory challenges. Moreover, as a growing sector of the economy, large
health care business entities are also increasingly subject to financial
regulation and scrutiny.  n3 The large for-profit publicly traded hospital
systems that dominate the health care industry are subject to the same stringent
disclosure and audit regulations enforced by the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) that affect non-health related publicly traded companies.  n4
However, hospital systems must not only consider the finance and audit
requirements of the SEC, but must also adhere to the regulations of the
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).  n5 Therefore, hospital systems
have to adhere to multiple complex regulatory bodies.

   Additionally, the health compliance space is rapidly changing. With a renewed
Department of Justice and HHS focus on prosecuting hospital systems for
violations of the Stark Law, Anti-Kickback Statute, and Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), as well as the ongoing
implementation of the Sunshine Act and the Affordable Care Act, a hospital
system's legal compliance function will have to focus on aligning internal
policies and practices in an increasingly dense and complex legal arena that
carries a considerable risk of civil and criminal litigation.  n6 Furthermore,
the fervent application of the False Claims Act is constantly forcing hospital
systems into civil litigation.  n7  [*474]  Overall, it is becoming increasingly
difficult for hospital systems to navigate the health care fraud and abuse
space.

   Thus, most hospital systems have developed an office of corporate compliance
with the primary goal of aligning internal policies with an increasingly dense
and complex legal arena.  n8 Regardless of the quasi-legal function, a corporate
compliance office adhering to HHS recommendations is independent of the system's
general counsel, preventing the corporate compliance officers from enjoying the
attorney-client privilege granted to the general counsel and to outside counsel
when in the litigation phase of a fraud and abuse matter.  n9 Corporate
compliance offices conforming to HHS guidance are deprived of the privilege
granted to attorneys and subordinates in litigation, even though the officers
are conducting the investigations and interviews that inevitably impact
litigation.  n10 Thus, hospital systems forsake an early litigation defense
mechanism while the protections of attorney-client privilege are being
increasingly diluted in the context of compliance functions.  n11 Instead of
having such a disconnected system between the compliance investigators and
litigators, hospital systems should conduct privileged investigations in
anticipation of litigation by an attorney or by an attorney's agent or
investigator.

   This paper will argue that the general counsel should conduct corporate
compliance. Part I will discuss the development of the independent compliance
officer, the increasing health care fraud and abuse litigation, and the issues
in government guidance regarding health care compliance. Part II will discuss
the attorney-client privilege, its applicability to the hospital system's
general counsel, and its applicability to agents or investigators working under
the general counsel. Part III will discuss the benefits of privileged
pre-litigation investigations. Part IV will recommend a protocol that allows the
general counsel to function as the corporate compliance officer to ensure
privileged pre-litigation investigations.

   I. BACKGROUND

   The following sections will discuss the development of the independent
compliance officer, the current trends in health care fraud and abuse
litigation,  [*475]  and the inherent incongruities between the government's
guidance and the government's enforcement.

   A. DEVELOPMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT COMPLIANCE OFFICER

   Developing hospital compliance programs have received guidance from the HHS
Office of Inspector General (OIG). OIG provides detailed structural and
procedural guidance to help hospital systems develop compliance programs with
independent compliance offices.  n12 The guidance focuses on preventing
compliance violations by developing strong training and audit systems with
independent compliance departments that have a strong preference towards
self-disclosure.  n13 The OIG also argues the merits of self-disclosure and
cooperation with government enforcement to avoid substantial penalties.  n14
While advocating for an independent compliance department, the guidance
nonetheless warns that certain measures suggested involve legal dilemmas that
require consultation with legal counsel.  n15 Hospital systems are aggressively
attempting to conform to compliance guidance to reduce the growing risk of
government enforcement litigation.  n16

   OIG guidance describes the compliance officer designation.  n17 OIG requires
that the compliance officer have multiple legal skills including the statutory
and contract interpretation skills necessary to (1) adequately develop and
communicate policy based on legal documents to non-legal entities, (2) review
documents to determine legal violations, and (3) supervise investigations to
determine legal violations.  n18 Thus, OIG asks the compliance officer to either
be a lawyer or function like one. However, while it requires mastery of legal
skills, OIG subsequently warns against the conflation of the roles of the
hospital system general counsel with the system's compliance officer. OIG
suggests that the compliance officer report directly to senior officers by
arguing that "there is some risk to establishing an independent compliance
function if that function is subordinance to the hospital's general counsel . .
. free standing compliance functions help to ensure independent and objective
legal reviews."  n19 OIG seeks to achieve a system of checks and balances on
corporate officers to adequately achieve the goals of the compliance program,
n20 which are meant to "establish a culture within a hospital that promotes
prevention, detection and resolution of  [*476]  instances of conduct that do
not conform to federal and state law."  n21 The agency distrusts the general
counsel as a legal compliance entity.  n22 While prevention, detection, and
resolution are undoubtedly important, health care is a cost-conscious industry
that needs protection from costly litigation, and it is typically the general
counsel's duty to protect a hospital system's liability profile.  n23 Thus,
OIG's focus on prevention and disclosure disregards a tremendously impactful
aspect of a liability profile: the ability to prepare a strong litigation
defense.

   B. INCREASING HEALTH FRAUD AND ABUSE LITIGATION

   The HHS OIG projected that fraud and abuse accounts for between three percent
and fifteen percent of health care expenditures in the United States.  n24 The
National Healthcare and Antifraud Association Report suggests that fraud and
abuse ranges between three percent to ten percent of total health care
expenditures, while the Congressional Budget Office places the cost at ten
percent and U.S. Chamber of Commerce places the cost at fifteen percent.  n25

   The federal government has reacted by creating the Health Care Fraud
Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT) in 2009 to prevent fraud, waste,
and abuse in the Medicare and Medicaid programs.  n26 The Department of Justice,
HHS, FBI, and U.S. Attorney's Office have together recovered a record $ 4.2
billion in the 2012 Fiscal Year.  n27 The Justice Department also opened 1131
new criminal health care fraud investigations involving 2,148 potential
defendants and convicted 826 defendants in 2012.  n28 The HEAT strike force also
conducted a takedown for participation in Medicare fraud schemes that involved
over 107 individuals in seven cities and involved about $ 452 million in false
billings.  n29

   The Justice Department's Civil Division Fraud Section also continued its
success in civil health care fraud enforcement in 2012 by obtaining settlements
and judgments of more than $ 3 billion under the False Claims Act (FCA).  n30

    [*477]  C. CONCEPTUAL INCONGRUITY IN GOVERNMENT ACTION

   Health care government enforcement litigation is rampant. While OIG
promulgates guidance suggesting compliance programs that focus on prevention and
disclosure, the investigation and litigation arm of the OIG and the Justice
Department files civil suits and criminal claims against hospitals. The suits
are heavily dependent on investigation gathering and discovery, and the
government has the benefit of conducting discovery from in-hospital auditors
that can claim no privilege.  n31 To investigate, prosecutors and plaintiffs use
subpoenas, civil investigative demands, search warrants, and grand jury
investigations.  n32 An investigation, interview, and document review conducted
by an auditor could be outside the scope of the attorney-client privilege,  n33
and the government's guidance of an ideal compliance program only furthers the
risk of hospitals forsaking attorney-client privilege before litigation ensues.

   Litigation is adversarial. Both civil litigation and criminal prosecution
requires zealous and competent advocacy.  n34 When the government litigates
health care fraud, it is within both the adversarial criminal and the civil
court systems. However, OIG expects hospital system compliance departments to
operate transparently without defensive considerations. The inherent conflict
between OIG's guidance regarding transparent prevention and OIG's
litigation-based enforcement mechanism is an irreconcilable incongruity.

   II. PRIVILEGE ENJOYED BY THE GENERAL COUNSEL

   Before analyzing the flaws of an independent corporate compliance office, the
true extent of the privilege enjoyed by the general counsel and outside counsel
must be understood. Generally, attorney-client privilege will turn on "who
receives the information, why the information is received, and how the
information is being used."  n35 The generally accepted standard, which invokes
attorney-client privilege, is based on United States v. Shoe Machinery Corp.,
where the judge granted a claim for attorney-client privilege when (1) the
asserted holder of the privilege is or sought to become a client; (2) the person
to whom the communication was made is a member of the bar of a court, or his
subordinate, and in connection with this communication is acting as a lawyer;
and (3) the communication relates to the fact of which the attorney was informed
by his client, without the presence of strangers, and for the purpose of
securing  [*478]  primarily either an opinion of law, legal services, of
assistance in some legal proceeding, not for the purpose of committing a crime
or tort.  n36 All three factors must be met in order to invoke privilege.

   Moreover, the Supreme Court in Upjohn v. United States has applied the
privilege to corporations if: (1) the communications were made by corporate
employees to corporate counsel in order for the corporate officers to secure
legal advice from counsel; (2) the information needed by corporate counsel to
formulate legal advice was not available to upper level management; (3) the
information communicated concerned matters within the scope of the employee's
corporate duties; (4) the employees were aware that the reason for the
communications with counsel was so that the corporation could obtain legal
advice; and (5) the communications were ordered to be kept confidential and they
remained confidential.  n37

   This section will discuss the application of the attorney-client privilege to
the general counsel and to investigators and agents of attorneys.

   A. APPLICATION OF THE ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE TO THE GENERAL COUNSEL

   The general counsel that is conducting internal investigations involving
employees in order to detect the existence or extent of the legal breach is
doing so with the protection of attorney-client privilege. The privilege, and
the general counsel's right to exercise it, is essential in helping corporations
interpret and adhere to the dense regulatory arena where legal counsel is often
required to ensure compliance with law that is "hardly an instinctive matter."
n38

   The general counsel is protected by the work product doctrine, which
potentially extends to all materials a lawyer prepared on behalf of a client in
preparation for litigation.  n39 Thus, the general counsel enjoys a substantial
privilege in restraining certain conversations and materials from discovery.
n40 In the context of a compliance investigation, the general counsel's ability
to employ the privilege is based on numerous factors. As a base threshold, the
privilege will not apply to unsolicited transmittal of allegations since the
privilege is only triggered by a client's request for legal advice and is
limited to "communications made to attorneys solely for the purpose of the
corporation seeking legal advice and its counsel rendering it."  n41 However, if
the general counsel (1) is an in-house lawyer acting in a legal capacity and (2)
is working for the purpose of providing  [*479]  legal advice, then a review of
the initial communications and subsequent communications may qualify for the
privilege.  n42

   In deciding whether the lawyer is acting in a legal capacity, it is important
to note that since an in house lawyer typically has multiple functions including
giving business advice, a court will examine the circumstances to determine
whether the lawyer is acting as a lawyer or as a business advisor or management
decision-maker.  n43 There is a presumption that a lawyer in the legal
department or working for the general counsel is giving legal advice, and a
corresponding presumption that a lawyer working for a financial department or
some other seemingly management or business side of the house is giving business
advice.  n44 Thus, a lawyer working within the general counsel's legal
department that has a compliance function likely satisfies the first prong of
the test.

   In deciding whether a general counsel is acting for the purpose of providing
legal advice, the court will analyze whether an internal review is being
conducted as an adjunct or precursor to giving legal advice.  n45 A simple
fact-finding investigation would not qualify, but a fact-finding investigation
that is being conducted to provide legal advice or a fact-finding investigation
in which legal analysis is valuable would qualify.  n46 Thus, a hospital system
could argue, "that a layman could not have capably performed the same act
because the skills, background, and legal training of the attorney were
necessary elements to make an independent legal analysis or legal
recommendation."  n47 Moreover, litigation does not necessarily need to be
imminent to protect work-product as long as the primary motivating purpose
behind the creation of the document was to aid in possible future litigation.
n48

   It is undoubtedly possible for the general counsel to prudently claim
attorney-client privilege in the realm of health fraud and abuse compliance by
simply being in charge of the health fraud and abuse compliance program and
investigational process. A general counsel that is in charge of the compliance
function could argue the difficulty of statutory interpretation, administrative
law, and agency guidance in articulating the necessities of legal analysis in
compliance investigations in preparation for litigation. By necessitating legal
advice and analysis, the attorney-client privilege can apply.

    [*480]  B. APPLICATION OF THE ATTORNEY-CLIENT PRIVILEGE TO INVESTIGATORS AND
AGENTS

   Agents of the general counsel acting with an investigatory purpose to
facilitate the promulgation of legal advice may also invoke the attorney-client
privilege. Federally, the "work product doctrine protects not only materials
that are prepared by attorneys themselves but also by their investigators or
other agents."  n49 In fact, handwritten notes taken by non-attorney members of
a litigation team could also be protected.  n50 Federal courts have found that a
distinction based on who had taken a witnesses' statements obtained in
preparation for litigation for use in representing a client at trial would
discriminate frivolously against lawyers who delegate investigations work.  n51
Thus, an auditor or investigator working in a pre-litigation compliance function
under the supervision of the general counsel in anticipation of litigation will
also be able to invoke attorney-client privilege.

   Similarly, state jurisdictions also employ a model for pre-litigation
investigations by non-lawyers in conjunction with legal counsel.  n52 In
California, pre-litigation investigation performed by a "nonlawyer in
consultation with counsel" is protected by the attorney-client privilege.  n53
However, the privileged communication must be specifically identified and
safeguarded in order to retain its protection.  n54

   A compliance investigation would be preemptively protected only if an
attorney that directly participates in the litigation and risk mitigation
process, like the general counsel in most corporations,  n55 is leading the
pre-litigation investigation.

   III. PRIVILEGE IS ESSENTIAL IN PRE-LITIGATION INVESTIGATION

   There are substantial risks to non-privileged pre-litigation internal
investigations. Hospital systems are subject to risks associated with "civil
monetary penalties, criminal monetary penalties, or even exclusion from the
Medicare and Medicaid programs."  n56 This section will discuss the risks
associated with non-privileged investigations, which include both discovering
information requiring affirmative action to avoid liability and also uncovering
evidence that is later obtainable by adverse parties legally. The risks can be
avoided if problems  [*481]  and materials discovered through internal
investigations are privileged.  n57 Privileged internal investigations would
allow the hospital to correct the compliance issues quietly and effectively
without further exposing the hospital system to liability.

   A. DISCOVERING INFORMATION REQUIRING AFFIRMATIVE ACTION TO AVOID LIABILITY

   First, the information generated by internal investigations may identify a
previously undiscovered problem that requires affirmative action in order to
mitigate criminal or civil liability. In fact, most health care fraud and abuse
law requires intent to prove culpability.  n58

   The Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits an individual from "knowingly and
willfully soliciting or receiving any remuneration . . . directly or indirectly,
overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind . . . in return for referring or
inducing to refer an individual for services payable under the Medicare or
Medicaid Programs."  n59 If violated, the statute includes penalties in the form
of a felony charge for individual actors punishable by up to five years in
prison, and a fine of $ 50,000 per act plus three times the remuneration
offered.  n60 At that point, the compliance department would be responsible for
correcting the problem by restructuring any referral system if the fraud is
systemic or disciplining employees if the fraud is discreet.

   Similarly, the False Claims Act imposes liability on hospital systems that
knowingly present a fraudulent claim or engage in a conspiracy to defraud.  n61
Since specific intent is not required, a knowing breach can occur if the
hospital system is "acting with deliberate ignorance . . . or reckless disregard
for the truth or falsity of the information."  n62 Therefore, a hospital system
that discovers a violation of the False Claims Act must immediately correct the
violation and affirmatively end any scheme in order to avoid being penalized for
conspiring to defraud. Violations of the False Claims Act include $ 5,000 to $
10,000 civil monetary penalties for each false claim filed.  n63 A corporate
compliance department would be tasked with investigating the false claim and
then taking the affirmative action to avoid being implicated for a conspiracy to
defraud.

   In contrast, the Stark Law does not require an intentional breach, but it
does  [*482]  require immediate mitigation once a breach is discovered to
prevent increased liability.  n64 The Stark Law prohibits referrals between
health care entities and physicians where there is a financial relationship
between the two.  n65 If a violation occurs, a payment for service may be
denied, repayment may be required, and civil money penalties up to $ 15,000 for
each service may be prescribed.  n66 Most significantly, however, the Stark Law
requires that any financial relationships are reported to HHS and prescribes a $
10,000 fine for each day the reporting was required and $ 100,000 fine for each
arrangement or scheme to circumvent the law.  n67 Thus, any internal
investigation that uncovered a violation of the Stark Law would require
immediately reporting the impermissible financial relationships to avoid
day-by-day penalties while simultaneously exposing the hospital system to
significant liability.

   The compliance program should be able to avoid the risk of further penalties
by discreetly correcting the statutory violation under the protection of
attorney-client privilege without the risk of being implicated because of a
failure to immediately and affirmatively take action against any possible
violation.

   B. UNCOVERING EVIDENCE LATER OBTAINABLE BYADVERSE PARTIES

   The most obvious threat to not invoking privilege is that non-privileged
information obtained through internal investigations will be subsequently
discoverable to the government as well as civil litigants.  n68 Since the 2010
amendments to the Anti-Kickback Statute, any violation of the criminal
Anti-Kickback Statute is also a violation of the civil False Claims Act.  n69
Thus, a criminal case and a civil case can be brought simultaneously. Hospitals
may be less inclined to conduct thorough internal investigations with
appropriate document collection to avoid being subject to increased liability as
a result of generating more documentation subject to discovery and subpoenas.
n70

   However, the attorney-client privilege and the work product doctrine may be
used to protect the communications from discovery if litigation arises,  n71
which would help ensure that thorough internal investigations are conducted
without fear of subsequent related litigation. In fact, courts have held that
that work product privilege found in Rule 26(b)(3) of the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure  n72 is  [*483]  applicable to work product produced in anticipation
of terminated litigation.  n73 Thus, invoking privilege in a current compliance
investigation can save a hospital system from future civil and criminal
liability.

   IV. RECOMMENDED HOSPITAL SYSTEM ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE

   Every investigation in anticipation of litigation should be privileged. Since
violating the health care fraud and abuse laws often lead to litigation,
hospital systems should develop a standardized investigatory protocol that
allows for close supervision by in-house and outside counsel. The investigatory
protocol should be comprehensive in achieving a system that is closely
supervised and monitored by lawyers preparing cases for litigation.

   The general counsel should conduct compliance functions. Any compliance
officer should be an attorney and should either be the general counsel or work
under the purview of the general counsel to ensure the protection of
attorney-client privilege.  n74 By assuring that compliance officers are
attorneys that are subject to supervision by the general counsel through the
development of a privileged investigational process, a hospital system will be
protected in subsequent litigation. The lawyers should have a strong knowledge
of both the law and litigation processes and should be working to discover facts
with client advocacy in mind. Thus, the investigational process should include
appointing a subject matter legal specialist that is trained to issue spot
health care fraud and abuse matters. Moreover, the protocol should articulate
the roles of every investigator, auditor, and attorney in specifically
conducting their functions in anticipation of litigation, prepare a strategy for
handing over the findings from the investigation to outside counsel, and include
a decision making process and organization structure that falls clearly under
the hospital system's general counsel.

   A. SUBJECT MATTER LEGAL SPECIALIST THAT IS TRAINED TO ISSUE SPOT HEALTH CARE
FRAUD AND ABUSE MATTERS

   A lawyer should be the point of contact for every employee and manager in the
hospital when a compliance issue arises. It should be made explicitly clear
through training and policy announcements that all potential compliance issues
and questions are to be handled only by approaching this person. The lawyer
should have a strong working knowledge of health care fraud and abuse law
including recently active cases and settlements. By having such a strong
knowledge of statutory and regulatory law, the issue spotter would be able to
[*484]  immediately spot the subject of future litigation and would know how to
initiate the investigation procedure. It is important that the lawyer also has a
clear understanding of attorney-client privilege and the best arguments to
invoke the privilege so that he or she can most strongly argue for the privilege
if necessary.

   Most importantly, the point of contact should be responsible for charting a
clear and fact-specific course of action with the procedural goal of handing
over all findings from the investigation to outside counsel for litigation. The
issue spotter should also carefully and comprehensively document everything in
order to ensure that the best possible record is made to argue attorney-client
privilege under the work product doctrine.

   B. ROLES AND FUNCTIONS OF INVESTIGATORS, AUDITORS, AND ATTORNEYS

   It is essential that the roles and functions of every member of the hospital
system who participates in the investigation process is clearly articulated and
communicated. Developing protocols to show habit and function in the common
course of preparing for litigation will allow stronger arguments when invoking
attorney-client privilege in the discovery process.

   First, it must be articulated that every investigator, auditor, and attorney
is following set protocols for the eventual purpose of an attorney giving legal
advice to the hospital system. Any information garnered or communication had
should be for the purpose of securing legal advice.  n75 The protocols must
clearly state that the auditors and investigators are functioning as agents of
their managing attorneys in order to ascertain facts and evidence that will
later be used by their managing attorney to provide legal advice.

   If investigatory protocols are established that require auditors and
investigators to function specifically under the purview of counsel for the
eventual delivery of legal advice, then even communications from investigations
conducted by non-lawyers could be protected from discovery by attorney-client
privilege.

   C. STRATEGY FOR HANDING THE CASE FROM INVESTIGATION TO LITIGATION

   A written protocol for transferring investigative materials to outside
counsel for litigation is essential. In order to invoke the work product
doctrine to further protect investigatory materials under a second layer of
attorney-client privilege, discovery documents and tangible things must be
gathered in anticipation of litigation.  n76 Moreover, using outside counsel
strongly indicates that legal advice is being sought and materials are being
gathered in preparation for litigation.  n77 Thus, a written strategy and
protocol for handing case files and discoverable  [*485]  documents over to
outside counsel must be in place whenever liability is found or litigation is
anticipated. The written procedure should be invoked whenever an internal
investigation even remotely suggests the presence of legal impropriety, and all
further findings from discovery and materials should be transferred from the
in-house counsel to the outside counsel for further investigations and
preparation for litigation.

   D. DEVELOPING AN ORGANIZATIONAL CHART THAT CENTERS AROUND THE HOSPITAL
GENERAL COUNSEL

   In order to have the aforementioned investigatory procedures in place, an
organizational chart around compliance issues should be built around the general
counsel. The general counsel is the chief legal officer of any corporation and
is often the bridge between the corporation and outside counsel. Most
importantly, the general counsel is a lawyer that provides legal advice and
enjoys that presumption when deciding the application of attorney-client
privilege, which is a compelling argument to ensure that compliance
investigations are privileged.

   CONCLUSION

   As long as health care fraud and abuse law remains enforceable by adversarial
litigation, hospital systems should take every necessary measure to protect
themselves from costly verdicts. Although an organizational initiative to
facilitate the invocation of privilege includes the formation of strict
protocols with a working relationship between the independent non-lawyer chief
compliance officer and general counsel, a clear organizational chart will be
more effective and comprehensive. A clear organizational chart will most
effectively allow the invocation of the attorney-client privilege discussed in
Part II and will enable a subordinate auditor to invoke the attorney-client
privilege like subordinate investigators in non-health litigation. By utilizing
an attorney and developing protocols that allow hospitals to invoke privilege,
many inherently litigationprone situations will be internally handled to prevent
further liability without the catastrophic penalties normally handed down;
hospital systems will be able to maintain the records of their own
investigations in anticipation of litigation and will be able to defend cases
adequately against the evidence presented by the government or plaintiffs. Thus,
the general counsel will be able to ensure that the hospital's liability is
mitigated through the development of a strong compliance program that alleviates
the risks of internal investigations and lessens the harsh penalties of health
care fraud and abuse law.

   Hospitals should be treated like all other litigants. They should be able to
defend themselves and prepare a strong defense when the opportunity for costly
litigation exists. Giving the general counsel the ability to defend the system
for compliance issues will allow the system to enjoy the same attorney-client
privilege given to all other defendants that are protecting themselves from
litigation.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Civil ProcedureDiscoveryPrivileged MattersWork ProductGeneral
OverviewEvidencePrivilegesAttorney-Client PrivilegeScopePublic Health & Welfare
LawSocial SecurityMedicareProvidersTypesGeneral Overview

FOOTNOTES:





n1  See Suzanne C. Robertson, The Picture of Health, 49 TENN. B.J. 18, 26 (Oct.
2013).





n2  John B. McNeece, The Ethical Conflicts of the Hybrid General Counsel and
Chief Compliance Officer, 25 GEO. J. LEGAL ETHICS 677, 678 (2012).





n3  See Robertson, supra note 1.





n4  See, e.g., Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 15 U.S.C.A. § 7241 (2002).





n5  See generally Glenn T. Troyer et al., Governance Issues for Nonprofit
Healthcare Organizations and the Implications of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, 1 IND.
HEALTH L. REV. 175 (2004).





n6  See generally Stephen M. Blank et al., Health Care Fraud, 46 AM. CRIM. L.
REV. 701 (2009).





n7  See Jim Moye, Are We Bulletproof?: A Defensive Business Strategy to Protect
Health Care Companies from False Claims Act Litigation and Corporate Integrity
Agreements, 41 U. BALT. L.F. 24, 28 (2010).





n8  See, e.g., Compliance Program: Job Description of the Chief Compliance
Office, UC DAVIS HEALTH SYSTEM (Jan. 26, 2014),
http://www.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu/compliance/program/job.html.





n9  OIG Model Compliance Program Guidance for Hospital Systems, HEALTH CARE
FRAUD AND ABUSE COMPLIANCE MANUAL, 2013 WL 6685089, § B(1) n.35 [hereinafter OIG
Guidance].





n10  Id. § A(8) n.34 (emphasizing that legal issues such as privilege and
confidentiality should be discussed with legal counsel).





n11  See, e.g., United States ex rel. Harry Barko v. Halliburton Co. et al., No.
1:05-CV-1276 (D.D.C. Mar. 6, 2014) (holding that a company subject to
regulations requiring internal control systems may not be able to invoke
attorney-client privilege if an internal investigation was conducted because of
a regulatory or corporate policy requirement instead of a discreet legal issue).





n12  See generally OIG Guidance, supra note 9.





n13  Id. §§ C, F.





n14  Id. § G(1) n.55.





n15  Id. § A(8) n.34.





n16  See Ken Blickenstaff, Strong Medicine: The Evolution of Healthcare Fraud
Enforcement, 42 ADVOC. 15, 16 (1999).





n17  OIG Guidance, supra note 9, § B(1).





n18  Id. § B(1).





n19  Id. § B(1) n.35.





n20  See id.





n21  Id. at Introduction.





n22  See id. § B(1) n.35.





n23  See Michael W. Peregrine & Gregory M. Duckett, Legal Ethics: In-House
Counsel as Chief Governance Officer, AHLA-PAPERS P06260502, §§ 1.2, 2.4 (June
26, 2005).





n24  A REVIEW OF HEALTHCARE FRAUD AND ABUSE IN AMERICA, AAOMS COMMITTEE ON
HEALTHCARE & ADVOCACY 2 (Mar. 1, 2011), available at
http://www.aaoms.org/docs/practice_mgmt/fraud_and_abuse.pdf.





n25  Id.





n26  . Press Release, U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, Departments of
Justice and Health and Human Services Announce Record-Breaking Recoveries
Resulting From Joint Efforts To Combat Health Care Fraud (Feb. 11, 2013),
available at http://www.hhs.gov/news/press/2013pres/02/20130211a.html.





n27  Id.





n28  Id.





n29  Id.





n30  Id.





n31  See MICHAEL K. LOUCKS & CAROL C. LAM, PROSECUTING AND DEFENDING HEALTH CARE
FRAUD CASES 17 (2d ed. 2011).





n32  Id.





n33  David Orbuch & Robert S. Salcido, Practical Aspects to Preserving and
Protecting Attorney-Client Information When Operating a Compliance Department,
Fraud and Compliance Forum, AHLA-Papers 009290211, § I(C)(1) (2002).





n34  MODEL RULES OF PROF'L CONDUCT pmbl. (2010).





n35  See Orbuch & Salcido, supra note 33, at § I(C)(1).





n36  See generally United States v. United Shoe Mach. Corp., 110 F. Supp. 295
(D. Mass. 1953).





n37  Upjohn Co. v. United States, 449 U.S. 383, 388 (1981); see also Orbuch &
Salcido, supra note 33, at n. 7.





n38  See Orbuch & Salcido, supra note 33, at § I(A)(5).





n39  Id. at § I(B).





n40  Id.





n41  Hardy v. N.Y. News, Inc., 114 F.R.D. 633, 643 (S.D.N.Y. 1987).





n42  See Orbuch & Salcido, supra note 33, at § I(C)(1).





n43  Id.





n44  See id.





n45  See id.





n46  See id.





n47  Id.





n48  See Frontier Ref., Inc. v. Gorman-Rupp Co., 136 F.3d 695, 703-04 (10th Cir.
1998).





n49  Bank of Am., N.A. v. Terra Nova Ins. Co., 212 F.R.D. 166, 169 (S.D.N.Y.
2002) (citing United States v. Nobles, 422 U.S. 225, 238-39 (1975)).





n50  Baker v. Gen. Motors Corp., 209 F.3d 1051, 1054 (8th Cir. 2000).





n51  See, e.g., Alltmont v. United States, 177 F.2d 971, 976 (1968).





n52  See, e.g., Cal. Prac. Guide Prof. Resp. Ch. 7-C.





n53  Id.





n54  Id. (citing Kaiser Found. Hosps. v. Sup. Ct., 66 Cal. App. 4th 1217, 1228
(1998)).





n55  See Blickenstaff, supra note 16, at 15.





n56  Katheryn Ehler-Lejcher, The Expansion of Corporate Compliance: Guidance for
Health Care Entities, 25 WM. MITCHELL L. REV. 1339, 1346 (1999).





n57  See Michael P. Kenny &William R. Mitchelson, Jr., Corporate Benefits of
Properly Conducted Internal Investigations, 11 GA. ST. U. L. REV. 657, 664
(1995).





n58  See, e.g., Anti-Kickback Statutes, 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7b (2010); Stark Law,
42 U.S.C. § 1395nn (2010); False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. § 3729 (2010).





n59  Ehler-Lejcher, supra note 56, at 1347 (citing 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320a-7b
(b)(1)(A), (2)(A)).





n60  Id. at 1349.





n61  Id. at 1372.





n62  Id.





n63  Id. at 1373.





n64  Id. at 1356.





n65  Ehler-Lejcher, supra note 55, at 1356.





n66  Id. at 1371.





n67  Id.





n68  See Gardner Davis & Jeff McFarland, Corporate Compliance Programs:
Protecting the Business from the Rogue Employee, FLA. B.J., January 1996, at 34,
35.





n69  42 U.S.C. 1320-7b(g) (providing that a claim that includes items or
services resulting from a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a
false or fraudulent claim for the purposes of the False Claims Act).





n70  See Ehler-Lejcher, supra note 56, at 1382.





n71  Id.





n72  . FED. R. CIV. P. 26(b).





n73  See generally e.g., SCM Corp. v. Xerox Corp., 70 F.R.D. 508 (D. Conn.
1976); Duplan Corp. v. Moulinage et Retorderie de Chavanoz, 487 F.2d 480 (4th
Cir. 1973).





n74  See Kenny & Mitchelson, supra note 57, at 664.





n75  United States v. Fisher, 692 F. Supp. 488, 491 (E.D. Pa. 1988).





n76  See generally Hickman v. Taylor, 329 U.S. 495 (1947) (discussing FED. R.
CIV. P. 26(b)).





n77  See Indep. Petrochem. Corp. v. Aetna Cas. & Sur. Co., 654 F. Supp. 1334,
1365 (D.D.C. 1986).


