                              265 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                             March 20, 1987 Friday

WOMAN'S WOMB PLEA SETS LEGAL TEST CASE

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: AAPGROUP

LENGTH: 299 words


CORRECTION Woman's womb plea sets legal test case SYDNEY._ A woman who wants to
keep her uterus after a hysterectomy is willing to go to court to enforce her
wish. The request is set to become a legal test case. Mrs Ana Presland's
operation at the Balmain Hospital was postponed on Wednesday an hour before it
was due to start. The hospital feared a legal wrangle which would have seen a
Supreme Court injunction placed on it to prevent the organ's disposal. The
unusual case questions the law that there can be no property interests in the
human body or any of its parts and, therefore, it cannot be owned, bought or
sold. Mrs Presland, 35, of Leichhardt, Sydney, said yesterday she was disgusted
that a person could donate organs for transplant in the event of death but could
not keep them. Mrs Presland said she honored the uterus because of its role in
the creation of human life. She believed she needed to see the uterus after the
operation as part of the acceptance that she could no longer have children. She
has three boys and, with her husband, Sean, was hoping to have a girl. Mrs
Presland's surgeon, Dr Louis Izzo, said if she wanted to keep the uterus, ""I'm
happy for her to have it". But Dr Robert Spark, the hospital medical
superintendent, said New South Wales Health Department regulations stated any
organ must be given to a hospital's pathology department after an operation.
Spokesmen for the Brisbane Mater Hospital, Royal Brisbane Women's Hospital and
the Australian Medical Association Brisbane branch said last night hospitals
would have to seek legal advice if such a situation arose. A Mater Hospital
spokesman said human organs, including the appendix, were not given to patients
for health and hygiene reasons. ANA Presland . . . honors the human uterus.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PIC OF ANA PRESLAND

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1987 Nationwide News Pty Limited


