                              262 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                            December 8, 2006 Friday

Legal challenge to private clinic

BYLINE:  John Le Couteur j.lecouteur

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 434 words


Plans to build a privately-run medical centre treating NHS patients in South
Gloucester- shire have been derailed by a legal challenge.

The Independent Sector Treatment Centre (ISTC) which was expected to be built in
Emerson's Green sparked  controversy as it was not included in the original
Bristol Health Services Plan, a blueprint for future hospital and healthcare
provision in the city, and had not been subject to public consultation.

But it now faces a judicial review brought by an unnamed member of the public
who has been granted legal aid for a ruling on whether the NHS should have
consulted about its plans for an ISTC.

The legal challenge has been made by a member of the Save Frenchay Hospital
group. Although the group has refused to reveal who the member is, it is
understood she is an unemployed woman from St George who has been granted legal
aid.

News of the legal challenge was only revealed when South Gloucestershire Council
called a meeting of its health scrutiny sub-committee to ask NHS South West
bosses questions on the same issue.

The NHS pulled out of the meeting, arranged for next Monday, and gave the
pending legal challenge as the reason why it could not answer questions.

The council's cabinet wanted to know why people were not told about the ISTC
during the consultation over the Bristol Hospital Services Plan to downgrade
Frenchay to a community hospital and promote Southmead as the new acute
hospital.

Labour councillor Andy Perkins (Woodstock), a member of the council's health
scrutiny sub-committee which would have questioned NHS bosses, said: "It is
disappointing that local NHS bosses have decided not to turn up to our meeting.

"There are some very important questions that we need answering and it's a shame
that they feel they ought to keep quiet, pending the legal challenge."

Monday's meeting will still go ahead, but only to be formally opened and
adjourned to a later date.

The council has also dropped its own plans to mount a legal challenge to the
ISTC but it will continue to demand answers from the Secretary of Health over
her decision not to allow public consultation over the decision to build the
ISTC.

Debbie Pugh-Jones, spokeswoman for the NHS South West ISTC, said: "The NHS has
been advised by its legal advisers that, as the ISTC programme in South
Gloucestershire is now subject to court proceedings, it is inappropriate for us
to take part in any discussions or make any comment which might have a bearing
on those proceedings.

"The NHS is vigorously defending this legal challenge and hopes that it will be
successfully resolved in the near future."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved


