                              261 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                             May 25, 2017 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

Medical negligence in Gauteng costs R1bn;
City hospitals had to fork out R38m in payouts to patients

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 504 words


THE Gauteng Health Department has had to pay out R38.1â[#x20ac]¯million in
medical negligence claims and settlements at Pretoria hospitals.

In total, R1 billion had to be paid out on claims in the province.

In the city, Steve Biko Academic Hospital leads the pack with just over
R15â[#x20ac]¯million in claims, the bulk of which stemmed from two amputation
cases.

Two patients were paid out a combined R11m and another R1.2m for what was
described as a complicated birth caused by nursing staff.

Another patient was paid out R853â[#x20ac]¯000 for an amputated finger, while a
family got R529â[#x20ac]¯000 for an unspecified incident that led to a death.
The hospital had a combined 14 cases that resulted in a cash settlements.

The Pretoria West Hospital had the second highest cash settlements in the city -
just under R10m.

The hospital had four cases, the largest being R7.6m for a baby whose brain was
damaged during birth.

A further R1.1m was paid out for negligence in failing to properly examine the
patient prior to her giving birth.

George Mukhari Hospital was held accountable for a R4m claim, paid out for a
cerebral palsy case and R1.5m for two cases involving the deaths of the
patients, one of which was a baby. The total payout the hospital made was R6.8m
in medical negligence claims.

Odi Hospital in Mabopane had to pay a R4.5m settlement for only two cases. A
pregnant woman was paid R3.8m after her arm was amputated.

In its only incident requiring a monetary settlement, the Mamelodi Hospital was
liable for a patient's mental retardation and cerebral palsy, for which
R841â[#x20ac]¯658 was paid out.

The department paid out R900â[#x20ac]¯000 for the death of a baby at the Stanza
Bopape Community Health Centre.

These medical negligence claims and settlements were from January 2015 to date.

The department paid out a whopping R1â[#x20ac]¯billion to settle 185 medical
negligence claims at all health facilities in the province since the beginning
of 2015.

"The MEC expressed concern about the rising medico legal claims. She believes
that the legal audit under way will come up with the best possible solution on
how to handle medico claims going forward," the department said.

Khutso Rabothata, spokesperson for the department, said they had saved about
R61m in medico legal claims through mediation.

This amount accounts for various cases which were taken through a mediation
process instead of following the legal route. "To reduce medico legal claims,
the department has conducted a legal audit to try to get to the bottom of the
escalation. The mediation process forms part of the department's alternative
dispute resolutions, which are yielding positive results," Rabothata said.

The department did not respond to allegations by DA shadow MEC for health Jack
Bloom that it had not disciplined any of the staff involved in these incidents.
"It is astounding that no staff at all have been disciplined for any of the
negligence cases. Errant doctors should always be referred to the Health
Professions Council and nurses to the SA Nursing Council," Bloom had said.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN


                Copyright 2017 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


