                              268 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                              June 15, 2007 Friday
                                  Main Edition

Ramsay Health lays;
plans for Benowa

BYLINE: by Tracey McBean business property editor

SECTION: PROPERTY; Pg. 81

LENGTH: 439  words


THE owner of Pindara Private Hospital has bought a nearby office building as
part of a plan to extend the Benowa medical precinct.

Ramsay Health Care outlaid $5 million to acq-uire JD Bell House, at 8 Carrara
Street, in an offmarket deal.

The property is opposite the Pindara hospital grounds.

RHC state operations manager Mark Dolan said the purchase ref-lected the
company's objective of 'consolidating the medical precinct around the hospital'.

He said JD Bell House would eventually house health-oriented activities.

Mr Dolan said RHC already held the head-lease on another Carrara Street office
building which it has sub-let to medical professionals.

RHC also holds most of the strata-title suites in the three-level specialist
centre Pindara Place, which sits on a separate title next to the hospital.

Pindara Place has three day theatres and houses specialists in fields including
gynaecology, fertility, orthopedics, plastic surgery and ophthalmology.

JD Bell House was sold by Hamish Nominees, linked to Geoffrey Smith, and
Peerless Enterprises, linked to John Fradgley.

Mr Smith and Mr Fradgley are partners of Bell Legal Group which, until recently,
was a long-term occupant of part of the building.

The three-level JD Bell House sits on 2235sqm and comprises professional office
suites with basement parking.

JD Bell House was built for Bell Legal Group in 1990 and has about 1250sqm of
net lettable space.

It was named for the firm's founder, John Douglas Bell, who started the practice
in 1955 at Surfers Paradise.

Tenants include About Hearing, Archers Body Corporate and Mortgage
Administration Services.

Bell Legal Group quit the building after 16 years for a suite in a five-level
office building at 91 Upton Street, Bundall.

The group occupies two floors of the building, now known as Bell Legal Group
House, and took over a lease that has four years to run.

Pindara hospital is at present undergoing a $4 million redevelopment involving
the maternity, women's health and orthopedic wards, which account for 80 of its
more-than-200 beds.

It is expected to be complete by August.

Mr Dolan said RHC was in discussions with the city council reg-arding an
expansion of Pindara involving more beds and services and an upgrade of the car
park.

Ramsay Health Care is the largest private-hospitals operator in the country and
its portfolio comprises 70 hospitals and day-care facilities in Australia and
Indonesia.

Its Gold Coast facilities also include Short Street Day Surgery, in Southport,
and John Flynn Private Hospital. Pindara and John Flynn hospitals joined the RHC
stable in 2005 after its $1.43 billion acquisition of Affinity Health.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GCB


                   Copyright 2007 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


