                              266 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                             July 21, 2011 Thursday

BMC turns to legal experts to solve row with Seven Hills

BYLINE: Express news service

LENGTH: 265  words

DATELINE: Mumbai


The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday said it will take a
month to find a solution to the row over signing an MoU with Seven Hills
Hospital. The civic body is consulting legal experts to serve a show-cause
notice to the hospital, said civic officials.

While the BMC and Seven Hills have managed to sort out five of the six
contentious issues under the agreement, the MoU has been pending over the latter
providing free medicines to municipal quota patients. The issue has remained
contentious as the draft lease agreement mentions that the hospital can charge
for medicines.

Standing Committee members had given the administration a week's deadline to
draw a proper plan for the MoU. "The signing of the MoU has been delayed and as
a result poor patients are suffering. The hospital is taking the BMC for a ride.
Some stern action needs to be taken against it," said Sameer Desai, Congress
Corporator and Standing Committee member.

Municipal Commissioner Subodh Kumar said a decision will be taken within a
month. "We are considering the legal possibilities of the case. We will first
try to resolve the matter and convince the hospital to sign the MoU. If that
does not happen, we will contemplate legal action."

This is in contrast to the tender condition as well as the Improvements
Committee resolution and the corporation resolution, which say the medicines
will be provided on the same lines as in civic hospitals. ""We have sought legal
advice and will proceed to take legal action once everything is put in place,"
said Additional Municipal Commissioner Manisha Mhaiskar.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2011 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


