                              273 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 22, 2009
                                   Edition 2

Lawyers get more than victims in NHS compensation scandal;
Taxpayers are shelling out tens of millions of pounds on 'no-win, no-fee'
claims, reports Jon Ungoed-Thomas

BYLINE: Jon Ungoed- Thomas

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 2040 words


SITTING in his office looking out on a bustling Surrey high street, Colum Smith
readily admitted last week that he is a drain on the public purse.

As a "no-win, no-fee" lawyer, he can charge the National Health Service up to
£750 an hour in successful claims for patient compensation over medical
negligence and errors.

While Smith's colleagues may toil away on family and criminal cases for legal
aid rates of about £65 an hour, a successful case for him can mean a fees
bonanza out of NHS funds.

He can bill the NHS for £375 an hour, with an "uplift" on a successful case of
up to 100%.

Last year he fought a case for a businessman wrongly diagnosed in an accident
and emergency department. Lawyers for the NHS Litigation Authority (NHSLA),
which handles compensation claims for the health service, offered £15,000. Smith
turned them down, demanding £45,000.

The authority refused his counter-offer, sparking a legal battle in which
experts were summoned, detailed statements were drawn up on the claimant's loss
of earnings and Smith pored over medical files.

The NHS lost the case - paying out £150,000 damages - and was then hit by the
bulging claims for legal costs. Smith's bill - with costs for legal experts and
an insurance premium against losing the case - came to £300,000. He says the NHS
also spent about £200,000 defending the case.

These bills, of course, ultimately fall on taxpayers, who last year spent £400m
on NHSrelated legal claims. The potential liability on outstanding negligence
claims could be as much as £12 billion of which, at prevailing rates, £6billion
could go on legal fees.

"The waste of money is absolutely phenomenal," Smith admitted last week. He says
that in about half of cases his legal costs are greater than the damages paid to
the patient: "If you were the NHS, wouldn't you make me an early offer?" He
admits that once a case is launched, the cost to the public purse rapidly starts
spiralling: "You can't control the system.

If the NHS says to me 'prove the case', I'm going to go away and do it if I can.
That's going to cost a lot of money if I succeed." Smith, a partner in McMillan
Williams Solicitors, which has eight branches in south London and Surrey, says
his fees reflect the risk of losing an important case and that his firm is well
known for its willingness to take risky claims.

The NHSLA says the fees for lawyers like Smith are out of hand. It complains
that compensation lawyers are raking in the kind of fees enjoyed by City
commercial lawyers at the height of the credit boom. It accuses the legal
profession of "cherry-picking" cases - and reaping huge rewards for relatively
little risk.

In a submission to Lord Justice Jackson, who is reviewing civil litigation
costs, it argues that no-win, no-fee contracts - known as conditional fee
arrangements (CFAs) - are "indefensibly" expensive.

"We make no suggestion that there is anything illegal or immoral in their
adoption," it said. "But they are effectively a means of claimant lawyers
virtually doubling their [rates], having cherry-picked their cases." It says the
top rate available to no-win, no-fee NHS lawyers is £804 an hour.

It is not surprising that the NHSLA is worried. Under its main scheme - the
clinical negligence scheme for trusts - about 50p in every £1 is already being
spent on legal costs. It paid damages of £264m in 2007-8 and legal costs for the
defence team and claimants of about £134m.

According to the authority's latest figures, the NHS's potential liabilities in
outstanding clinical negligence claims is nearly £12 billion. Even if only half
these claims are successful, it would mean potential legal fees of up to £3
billion.

NO-WIN, no-fee arrangements were introduced in 1995. They were designed to
improve access to the justice system for claimants who were not entitled to
legal aid - but who also could not afford the often prohibitive costs of a court
case.

The new arrangements were aggressively marketed by "ambulance-chasing" claims
firms with leaflets circulated in hospitals bearing unauthorised NHS logos. New
laws were implemented to regulate the claims companies, but there has been
mounting concern about the bonanza it has produced for lawyers.

Bertie Leigh, a senior partner at Hempsons, which defends the NHS in litigation
cases, describes many of the case files he sees as a "buccaneering attack on the
funds of the NHS". He said he advises the NHS that it should allow for the
claimants' costs under no-win, no-fee rules to be as much as four times higher
than those of the defence team.

"I don't think the principle of a CFA is wrong, but the rates are wrong and the
success fee is too high. The courts have failed to control the costs," he said.

He added that no-win, nofee lawyers were often on hourly base rates approved by
the Courts Service which could be double those of the defence lawyers. Those
fees could then be doubled again if the claim was successful. Under the scheme
the lawyers were paid no fees if they lost cases - the rationale for the
"uplift". But many lawyers have become experts at picking winners.

Phil Barnes, a clinical negligence lawyer at Anthony Collins Solicitors, based
in the West Midlands, readily admits he picks only the cases he expects to win.
"The trick is you try to get rid of the ones you know are not going to succeed,"
he said. "If I have got 10 cases, I want to make sure I have got 10 cases I am
going to win, rather than 20 and win only 10.

"Of course, you are cautious because if you fail, you fail big.

Solicitors are quite good at assessing the good cases and so the NHSLA are
paying out more in costs than they were before." In the past three years Barnes
says he has taken 11 nowin, no-fee cases against the NHSLA, winning each one:
"More firms are deciding to take these cases on conditional fee because there is
more reward.

It's a risk game. Some get pushed to the wire. Others get settled very quickly."
He said a proportion of the success fees went into a pot to fund cases that
might be lost in the future and added that lawyers also decline some claims:
"There's an awful lot I turn down because the value of the case isn't sufficient
for a claim to be brought. The costs of bringing the case are likely to be more
than the damages." Patients complain that turning away claims which may have
smaller damages or be difficult to prove is an injustice.

Tony Field, 68, who contracted MRSA, the "superbug", while being treated at
Selly Oak hospital in Birmingham for a broken leg, said he was not accepted by
no-win, no-fee lawyers because although he had a reasonable claim, it was felt
the chances of success were too slim.

Field, who now runs MRSA Support, a patients' group, said: "It should be been a
straightforward case because I got these raw, open bedsores and I believe that
was because of a lack of proper care. The problem with no-win, no-fee for a lot
of people like me is you don't get access to justice." Field says he was not
taken on because he had been cared for in two hospitals and the lawyers were
concerned about trying to prove which hospital was responsible.

For its part, the NHSLA has tried to curb the cost to the taxpayer.

In one case reported in its 2004-5 annual report, a Liverpool firm billed legal
costs of £4.4m for just one case. After negotiation, the costs were reduced to
£430,000.

Other cases have gone to the courts. The authority appealed successfully against
a claim for £78,000 costs from a legal firm that sued Barking, Havering and
Redbridge Hospitals NHS Trusts. The firm had won just £7,000 for its client.

The Medical Defence Union (MDU), which represents GPs in litigation, said it had
seen cases where the legal costs claimed were 10 times more than the damages.

Christine Tomkins, deputy chief executive of the MDU, said: "We don't want to be
defending the indefensible and there are some cases where we are keen to settle
without delay. But these firms come to us with costs incurred, a conditional fee
arrangement in place and insurance premium.

It all has to be paid by us to settle the case." In the event that the no-win,
no-fee lawyers lose, claimants can be left with a nasty sting in the tail. If
they have not taken out an insurance policy against meeting the costs of the NHS
- premiums start at £2,500 but can rise to £40,000 - they can face a bill
running into tens of thousands of pounds.

Josephine Ocloo, whose daughter Krista died of heart failure in December 1996,
pursued a claim against the Royal Brompton hospital in London.

The judge ruled there had been negligence but did not conclude it had caused the
death.

Even though Ocloo was on a no-win, no-fee arrangement with her legal team, she
was ordered to pay the defendants' costs of £120,000. These were cut to £10,000
after the case was highlighted in a newspaper.

DESPITE the criticisms of no-win, no-fee arrangements, lawyers such as Smith
insist they provide an effective means of funding cases. He said costs could be
cut if the NHSLA acted more quickly to settle cases. "A lot of these cases would
be stopped in their tracks if they put in reasonable offers earlier," he said.
He strongly denies that he "cherrypicks" cases, but concedes it is a practice
that might be deployed by other firms.

Peter Walsh, of Action against Victims of Medical Accidents, agreed that the
NHSLA could save money with earlier settlements: "Damages are being frittered
away on legal fees and we need a system where cases are settled much more
quickly and effectively." The NHSLA says it has to defend cases robustly which
it considers are without merit. It wants more control on the fees paid to
no-win, no-fee lawyers.

Personal injury lawyers deny they charge excessive fees.

Amanda Stevens, president of the Association of Personal Injury Lawyers, said
claimants' costs were scrutinised in detail by the courts. She said the high
rates reflected the risk involved in fighting cases under conditional fee
agreements.

Taking a knife to the NHS leeches, Editorial, page 20.

To see the NHSLA submission go to timesonline.co.uk/healthnews

Worst-hit trusts

Of 242 NHS trusts, 69 paid out more in legal costs than in damages to patients
in 2007-8. The top 15 with the highest legal fees were:

United Bristol Healthcare Legal fees: £1.65m Damages: £1.09m

Nottingham University Hospitals Legal fees: £1.52m Damages: £1.38m

University College London Hospitals Legal fees: £1.27m Damages: £610,000

Blackpool, Fylde and Wyre Hospitals Legal fees: £1.2m Damages: £657,000

Doncaster and Bassetlaw Hospitals Legal fees: £1.2m Damages: £1.16m

Whipps Cross University Hospital (east London) Legal fees: £1.1m Damages:
£880,000

Salford Royal Legal fees: £1.03m Damages: £521,000

Whittington Hospital (north London) Legal fees: £947,000 Damages: £717,000

Buckinghamshire Hospitals Legal fees: £946,000 Damages: £856,000

Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen University Hospitals Legal fees: £881,000
Damages: £583,000

Aintree Hospitals Legal fees: £626,000 Damages: £509,000

North Cheshire Hospitals Legal fees: £607,000 Damages: £488,000

west Middlesex University Hospital Legal fees: £590,000 Damages: £545,000

Swindon and Marlborough Legal fees: £581,000 Damages: £514,000

Walsall Hospitals Legal fees: £536,000 Damages: £454,000 Source: NHSLA

No-win, no-fee deals were introduced in 1995 to open up a justice system that
favoured the poor and the very rich.

When the scheme was expanded to most civil cases three years later, Geoff Hoon,
then a junior minister, said: "The question of whether one gets one's case to
court will no longer depend on whether one can afford it, but on whether one's
case is a strong one." The 1999 Access to Justice Act allowed judges to make the
losing side pay the extra costs associated with this type of case, triggering a
boom.

These so-called New kind of justice "uplift" fees meant solicitors could charge
extra to compensate for the possibility of defeat and therefore no fee.

But the reforms gave rise to claim "farmers", whose brash TV adverts suggested
any accident victim could successfully sue for compensation, regardless of the
strength of their case.

In 2006, Lord Falconer, then lord chancellor, brought in an act to halt what he
called "a culture of fear of being sued", blamed for stopping schools organising
trips and councils opening parks.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ocloo: large legal bill
Colum Smith, a Surrey lawyer, can bill the NHS for £375 an hour - and expect a
100% 'uplift' if he wins a case

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2009 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


