                              275 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Times

                           December 16, 1996, Monday

Caesarean mothers challenge legal might of judges

BYLINE: Frances Gibb

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 760 words


Women forced to undergo surgery, after secret hearings at which they have no
legal representative, want to overturn judges' traditional common law immunity
from legal action.

THE power of High Court judges to compel women to undergo surgery is to be
challenged in a ground-breaking action by two women forced to have Caesarean
sections.

The women have been granted legal aid to sue hospital authorities that were
granted emergency orders to carry out the operations. Judges from the High
Court's Family Division who have made the orders, at private hearings and
without the women being legally represented, may also face an unprecedented
legal action.

Lawyers for the mothers are preparing a challenge to the common law immunity
from legal action that judges enjoy, on the ground that they exceeded their
powers in ordering the women to be detained so that surgery could be carried
out.

There has been a series of cases in the past year in which hospitals have sought
emergency court orders, often outside normal court hours, to enable them to
conduct what they say are lifesaving Caesarean sections. The Official Solicitor
is usually involved in the hearings, but only to advise the court or to
represent the interests of the baby. He does not act for the woman.

In the latest case, Mr Justice Kirkwood granted an order for a woman to be given
a drip that enabled the hospital to carry out a Caesarean. Doctors said the
operation was needed to save the life of her unborn child. The mother, aged 20,
refused to have the drip because she had a phobia of needles, but she has since
thanked the hospital for its actions.

One of the women granted legal aid is Fahima Chowdhury, who was forced to give
birth by Caesarean to a boy, Mahbubur, at Birch Hill Hospital, Rochdale. She had
painful after-effects from a previous Caesarean and said that she would rather
die than have another.

Rochdale Healthcare NHS Trust applied for a court order three days into labour
in June, believing that her Caesarean scar was at risk of rupturing, putting her
and the baby's life at risk. The order was granted by Mr Justice Johnson, but
Mrs Chowdhury then consented to the Caesarean. She said in a newspaper: "There
were five doctors around my bed all telling me that I would die and so would my
baby if I didn't have a Caesarean." The hospital said that it had acted properly
and would do the same again if life were at risk.

The second mother in the legal action is a professional woman who does not want
to be named. She was detained in hospital in April under the Mental Health Act
1983 when eight months pregnant and suffering from pre-eclampsia. The hospital
authorities obtained a court order without her being legally represented and she
underwent a Caesarean against her wishes.

Beverley Beech, of the Association for Improvements in the Maternity Services,
said: "It is outrageous that doctors should be overruling the wishes of patients
in these cases. They say that lives are at risk but that is by no means certain.
There have been a number of cases in the United States where women have
contested these orders and gone on to give birth without the need for a
Caesarean."

It is not possible to say how many cases there have been because of the secrecy
of the orders. Among those that have come to light are a second order granted in
June by Mr Justice Johnson to Norfolk and Norwich Healthcare NHS Trust, where
the judge held that the woman was not able to weigh up information in order to
make an informed decision. Some lawyers said that the order had effectively
defined pregnant women as incompetent. Tameside and Glossop Acute Services NHS
Trust was granted an order by Mr Justice Wall, who held that a Caesarean was
treatment for a mental disorder under the Mental Health Act.

Richard Stein, of the London solicitors Leigh Day & Co, is collating cases of
women ordered to have Caesareans. With Barbara Hewson, a barrister, he is
considering challenging the judges through judicial review or, ultimately, in
the European Court of Human Rights. The action would be brought on the basis
that the judges had "falsely imprisoned" the women "without show of right", as
the law holds, or parliamentary authority. Alternatively, they could be sued for
trespass.

Mr Stein said: "It is worrying that such an important public policy development
is happening by stealth." Such orders should be publicly debated, not brought in
"late on Friday afternoons, in private, with the threat of a dead baby hanging
over the judge".


LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Newspapers Limited


