                              269 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Bangkok Post (Thailand)

                            January 5, 2016 Tuesday

State legal adviser takes UC battering

LENGTH: 343  words


The Council of State is being asked to revise its legal interpretation which
critics say may unfairly restrict the spending of hospitals under Universal
Healthcare Coverage (UC).

Board members of the National Health Security Office (NHSO) have asked the
state's advisory arm to revise its interpretation that funds coming from the UC
only be used by hospitals in covering patients' medical costs, and not other
expenses such as water and electricity bills associated with providing
treatment.

The council issued its interpretation of the law governing the UC, which was
slammed by doctors and healthcare activists as restrictive and unfair.

They argued that such a legal interpretation could undermine the functioning of
state hospitals that need to allocate UC funds to pay for necessary daily
expenses, including utility costs.

Nimit Tienudom, a former NHSO board member, said if the interpretation were to
have legal effect, it would put many state hospitals in a dire financial
situation and destroy the UC system.

He also feared private hospitals would be discouraged from taking part in the
healthcare coverage programme.

"Such an interpretation would have disastrous consequences on both providers and
receivers of medical care under the scheme," he said.

For now, hospitals are free to spend the UC fund for their daily expenses and
the purchase of medical equipment.

The Council of State took up the legal interpretation of the UC budget and its
spending power on Nov 30 last year amid concerns, backed by the government, that
the healthcare programme's finances may not be sustainable.

The Public Health Ministry yesterday ordered a committee -- which includes
representatives of the NHSO, the Council of State, the Office of the
Auditor-General, and civil society groups -- to review laws and regulations
pertaining to the use of the UC fund.

The committee has six weeks to examine any potential problems in the fund's
disbursements and draft a solution which suits all parties, Mr Nimit said.

The findings will then be presented to the NHSO for consideration.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2016 The Bangkok Post
                              All Rights Reserved


