                              271 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            The Daily Yomiuri(Tokyo)

                            August 2, 2006 Wednesday

Guidelines needed for life-death decisions

BYLINE: Masayuki Takata and Yoshihiko Tamura, Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writers,
Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1155 words


A recent survey by The Yomiuri Shimbun showing that 56 percent of hospitals had
withheld life-prolonging treatment has illustrated that without clear guidelines
on how to handle terminally-ill patients, the important decision is left to the
discretion of the doctors in attendance.

"We've removed artificial respirators from patients before," said the deputy
director of a public hospital in the Kanto region. "We believe doctors shouldn't
keep their patients in vegetative states by continuing life support."

The director of a public hospital in the Tohoku echoed the sentiment: "Medical
treatment is about alleviating our patients' pain. Being on life support can be
painful, so we have no qualms about withholding treatment [when necessary]."

Not all medical professionals agree. "We never remove a respirator from a
patient," the director of a public hospital in Hokkaido said, "because we would
either become the subject of litigation or face a dispute with the next of kin."

The Yomiuri Shimbun survey, in which 240 hospitals from around the country gave
valid answers, showed a discrepancy in doctors' opinions on the subject of
withholding or withdrawing life-prolonging treatment and the confusion over the
issue at medical institutions.

The biggest factor in this division stems from understanding the legality of
withholding treatment from a terminal patient or removing such a patient from
life support.

Hospitals differ on legal issues

When asked about the legality of the practice, 26 percent of the respondents
said there was a legal problem with doctor-assisted suicide, while an additional
26 percent said they felt there was a legal issue, but no problem medically
speaking.

Another 20 percent, meanwhile, said they felt there was neither a legal nor a
medical problem with the practice.

Of particular interest was the answer, "As it depends on the patient, it is
difficult to say whether it is legal or not."

The majority of hospitals, which said the practice involved legal issues, cited
the problem as being the lack of regulations, such as a law, that defines when
and how a patient should be placed on life support. Most of the hospitals that
responded like this said they themselves did not withhold life support. However,
there were some individuals who said they had issues with putting a
terminally-ill patient on life support.

Hospitals that said no medical issue was involved in the practice, meanwhile,
tended to be facilities that had experience removing patients from life support
or withholding treatment.

Lack of laws trouble doctors

Only 21 of the hospitals that responded had drawn up their own guidelines on
removing patients from life support, revealing that, without a clear policy in
place, many doctors were choosing to pull the plug or withhold treatment at
their own discretion.

One such high-profile case involved a surgeon at Imizu City Hospital in Toyama
Prefecture who decided on his own to remove his patient from an artificial
respirator. Even in the Yomiuri Shimbun survey, 46 percent of hospitals said
their doctors had made similar decisions on their own.

"There needs to be a system in place that guarantees transparency for the
procedures to decide whether to place a patient on life support," said Tsubasa
Nakagawa, director of Sapporo's Jozankei Hospital and member of a Health, Labor
and Welfare investigatory committee into terminal-period treatment in 2002-2004.

Thirty-six hospitals in the survey cited the Imizu case as an impetus to
establish hospital policies on the matter within the year, or in the near
future. However, many of the respondents said they would be unable to set up
their own guidelines as long as the country had none of its own.

In Britain, Germany and the Netherlands committees of ethicists and legal
experts have been established to ensure that the procedures and diagnoses
involved in removing somebody from life support are sufficient.

Waseda University Prof. Katsunori Kai, a specialist in criminal and medical law,
said: "An ethics committee should be set up to deal with the terminal-period
issue, and we should take full advantage of it. There is also the method in
which one hospital's ethics committee could be in charge of making the decision
for other hospitals in the area."

Understanding patients' will

An important concern surrounding the issue is how it reflects on the patients
and their families.

In 1991, a doctor at Tokai University Hospital in Kanagawa Prefecture injected a
last-stage cancer patient with potassium chloride, killing the patient. The
Yokohama District Court in 1995 convicted the doctor of murder. The court said
there were three conditions on which the removal of a patient from life support
would be permitted.

One of these conditions is based on the presumption that "it is the will of the
patient or the family."

However, the survey also shows the difficulty in understanding a patient's will
in the matter.

At convalescent hospitals, where many of the elderly patients suffer from
cognitive illnesses, it is difficult to confirm a patient's wishes. "We make a
decision based on the family's wishes, but there are times when we agonize over
the huge discrepancy between the family's desire to put the patient on life
support and the reality of the patient's incurable disease," said the director
of a private hospital in the Kinki area.

When a patient has escaped death by receiving emergency treatment, but is
unlikely to recover, the assistant director of a Kanto public hospital said,
"It's terrible to ask somebody to decide whether to pull the plug on a family
member. We decide based on the atmosphere the family projects."

About 40 percent of the hospitals that have their own guidelines in place have
adopted a system in which papers are drawn up when the patient's condition is
stable that state the wishes of both the patient and family.

Hospitals want 'definite' rules

In light of the Imizu City Hospital case, the health ministry has decided to
draw up guidelines on medical treatment for patients in the terminal phase of
their diseases.

The policy will include how to obtain consent from the family and patient, as
well as the proper procedures after a decision has been reached to remove the
patient from life support--a decision based on approval from an ethics
committee.

In the survey, 72 percent of the hospitals that responded said definite rules
needed to be instituted nationwide for the purpose of gaining public consent and
providing explanations to the families concerned.

However, many respondents also said that for the framework to be most effective
for each individual patient's situation, it should not be made law, but rather a
more flexible guideline.

Medical associations, such as the Japanese Association for Acute Medicine, the
Japanese Society of Intensive Care Medicine, and the All Japan Hospital
Association--which claims about 2,100 member hospitals nationwide--also are
working on similar guidelines.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2006 The Yomiuri Shimbun
                              All Rights Reserved


