                              270 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                   Copyright (c) 2013 Houston Bar Association
                               The Houston Lawyer

                             January/February, 2013

                               The Houston Lawyer

                              50 Houston Lawyer 10

LENGTH: 1265 words

FEATURE: THE HBA/TCH MEDICAL-LEGAL PARTNERSHIP: THE HBA'S HOUSTON VOLUNTEER
LAWYERS AND TEXAS CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL JOIN FORCES TO HELP LOW INCOME FAMILIES
OVERCOME LEGAL ISSUES THAT AFFECT PATIENT HEALTH

By Michelle G. Friedberg

Michelle G. Friedberg, MPH, JD is sthe staff attorney for the Texas Children's
Hospital Medical-Legal Partnership.

TEXT:

    [*11]

   Houston is home to a world-renowned medical center with the largest medical
complex in the world. Individuals travel from near and far to receive
first-class medical treatment in our city; even so, research shows that
Houstonians continue to suffer preventable health conditions and face barriers
to health care access.

   To meet this challenge, the Houston Bar Association's Houston Volunteer
Lawyers has partnered with Houston's premiere children's hospital, Texas
Children's, to create the first medical-legal partnership in Houston. This new
program brings together lawyers, doctors and social workers to improve health
outcomes for low-income families by addressing socioeconomic and environmental
factors that affect patient health. The Texas Children's Medical-Legal
Partnership (MLP) provides free legal advice and representation to Texas
Children's patients and their families with help from pro bono attorneys and
will train health care providers at the Hospital to identify and triage legal
issues affecting their patients' health.

   The MLP is the product of a recognized trend in the United States that
patient health is affected by far more than just traditional medicine. Poverty
is one of the most impactful. The percentage of children living below the
federal poverty level is higher in Houston than the national average.  n1
Poverty has devastating effects on all stages of development, and it can lead to
food insecurity, inadequate health care, inferior housing conditions and poor
school and employment outcomes, eventually leaving lasting consequences on
overall health. Research consistently shows that health is influenced by the
"conditions in which people are born, grow, live, work and age."  n2 These
conditions, referred to as "social determinants of health," are shaped by our
physical and social environments, and they are largely responsible for the
health inequities we see in vulnerable populations.

   Health costs and outcomes are deeply connected to the social determinants of
health. To improve them, then, the provision of quality health care means
addressing a patient's social needs. Many of these social needs  n3 are in fact,
legal needs -- "an adverse social condition with a legal remedy."  n4 While the
impact of social determinants is often recognized by health care providers,
addressing those needs remains a challenge, particularly for low-income patient
families. Lawyers can play a special role in supporting the health of our
communities, and they can help alleviate and remove the social determinants of
health that lead to and exacerbate poor health.

   The right to free counsel in the United States is, minus a few exceptions,
limited to criminal cases that make up a small percentage of the legal problems
individuals and families actually face. There are some free legal services
available for low-income people with civil legal problems, but the need far
outweighs the supply. In the general population, there is approximately one
private lawyer for every 429 people; there is one legal aid lawyer for every
6,415 people living in poverty.  n5 Pro bono and reduced-fee programs for
low-income individuals and families are, thus, a critical component of the civil
legal assistance system. The medical-legal partnership model contributes to this
network by uniting local legal service providers with local healthcare
institutions to coordinate care, detect legal problems early, and leverage
scarce resources on behalf of specific, underserved patient populations.

   Unfettered access to health care will not cure intractable health issues
arising from the social determinants of health, because not every illness has a
biological cure. Lawyers can become key partners of the health care team by
addressing these legal issues, and they can train health care providers to be
mindful of the social determinants of health and the legal issues preventing
them from achieving healthy outcomes.

   For example, while there are widespread government programs and policies
designed to meet social and material needs, complex application processes and
inconsistent implementation both pose a barrier to families' access to these
programs. Often, qualified and deserving patients are denied benefits to which
they are entitled, and they need legal assistance with the appeals process to
secure access to food, disability benefits, an appropriate special education
plan,  [*12]  or accommodations at school.

   Lawyers can also intervene to address other legal needs affecting overall
health and wellness, including improving housing/living conditions, obtaining
guardianships for unrelated caregivers without the right to consent to medical
care, and securing modifications to accommodate children with physical
disabilities.

   The Texas Children's MLP is the first program of its kind in Houston, thanks
to a generous donation from Walmart, which created a successful MLP with
Arkansas Children's Hospital last year and plans to expand the benefits of MLPs
to other major pediatric hospitals nationwide. The partnership at Texas
Children's Hospital is working with social workers in five clinics within the
Hospital: Special Needs Primary Care Clinic, In-Patient Rehabilitation, Retro
Virology, Fetal Center, and Texas Children's Pediatrics (Gulfgate). The vision
of the MLP is to eventually expand the program to cover all units of Texas
Children's Hospital. Houston Volunteer Lawyers delivers free legal services to
qualified applicants by linking them with attorneys who volunteer their time on
a pro bono basis. To date, Houston Volunteer Lawyers has six Houston law firms
that have committed to be "go to" pro bono firms in this endeavor: Akin Gump,
Baker Hostetler, Bracewell & Giuliani, Fulbright & Jaworski, King & Spalding,
and Vinson & Elkins.

   The Texas Children's MLP launched on November 1, 2012, and it already has
been handling consultations and referring cases to pro bono attorneys on a
variety of legal issues. These include guardianships as pediatric patients
transition into adulthood, adoption, questions related to custody and paternity,
issues regarding habitability and living conditions, and special education cases
ranging from initial evaluation and testing to adherence to an individualized
education plan to accommodations for children with functional limitations and
increased challenges in their educational settings.

   The Texas Children's MLP is an effective allocation of scarce resources and a
true opportunity to help improve a child's quality of life. To become involved,
contact Michelle Friedberg at mgfriedb@texaschildrens.org or 832-826-7202.

Legal Topics:

For related research and practice materials, see the following legal topics:
Criminal Law & ProcedureCounselRight to CounselGeneral OverviewEducation
LawDiscriminationDisability DiscriminationAccommodationFamily
LawAdoptionProceduresAdoption of Adults

GRAPHIC:
PHOTO 1, Brent Benoit, president of the Houston Bar Association; PHOTO 2, Randy
Wright, executive vice president, chief operating officer, Texas Children's
Hospital; PHOTO 3, Jeff Gearhart, executive vice president and general counsel,
Walmart, Photos by Paul Kuntz, Texas Children's Hospital; ILLUSTRATION, no
caption; PHOTO 4, Lance Lightfoot, general counsel, Texas Children's Hospital;
HBA president, Brent Benoit; Alissa Rubin Gomez, executive director of the HBA's
Houston Volunteer Lawyers; PHOTO 5, Members of the boards of directors of the
Houston Bar Foundation and Houston Volunteer Lawyers at the news conference.
From left: Michelle Friedberg, John Strasburger, Thomas M. Roche, Alissa Rubin
Gomez, Bill Buck, Susan Sanchez, Norma Trusch, Barrett Reasoner, Brent Benoit,
Stewart Gagnon, Bob McAughan, and Neil Kelly.

FOOTNOTE-1:





n1  Children at Risk, Growing Up In Houston: Assessing the Quality of Life of
our Children, 20 (Robert Sanborn, Mandi Sheridan Kimball, Dawn Lew, Jennifer
Michel Solak, Diana Zarzuelo, eds., 2010), available at
http://childrenatrisk.org/research/book/.





n2  World Health Organization, Closing the Gap in a Generation: Health Equity
through Action on the Social Determinants of Health (2008), available at
http://www.who.int/social_determinants/thecommission/finalreport/en/index.html.





n3  Poverty, Health and Law: Readings and Cases for Medical-Legal Partnership,
30. (Elizabeth Tobin Tyler, Ellen Lawton, Kathleen Conroy, Megan Sandel, Barry
Zuckerman, eds., 2011).





n4  Id. at 72.





n5  Id. at 57.


