                              29 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                            October 17, 2006 Tuesday

Lack of consultation may hit hospital bid

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 525 words


A Council could launch a legal bid to halt Government plans to build a
privately-run NHS hospital.

South Gloucestershire Council's ruling cabinet is to seek its lawyers' advice
over a legal challenge to the Department of Health's decision to allow an
Independent Sector Treatment Centre, which would use a contractor to treat NHS
patients, to be set up in the district without first consulting the authority.

The council said it would now seek legal advice about the potential for a
successful legal challenge to the Department of Health to require it to start a
full and meaningful public consultation.

Campaigners from the Save Frenchay Hospital group demanded intervention from the
council saying residents should have been told about plans for a privately-run
hospital before any decision was made on the Bristol Health Services Plan, which
resulted in a decision to downgrade Frenchay to a community hospital and build a
new acute hospital at Southmead.

The three-party cabinet said the proposed Independent Sector Treatment Centre,
which could be built at Emerson's Green, would "constitute a substantial
variation to local health provision in South Gloucestershire".

John Calway, the council's joint deputy leader and the leader of the
Conservative group, said: "Our residents have a right to know exactly what this
private hospital is, what services it will take from our existing hospital and
where it is going.

"There are real concerns about what the real reason for downgrading Frenchay is
and people are concerned that it has been deliberately downgraded to make way
for this private hospital.

"Unless we get full information we will never be convinced this private hospital
has not always been part of the plan to  systematically downgrade Frenchay."

Councillor Colin Hunt (Siston, Con) said: "I am delighted that the council has
accepted our arguments that it is a scandal that the Government can try and make
such a massive and radical change to our hospitals, without asking anyone.

"It beggars belief that the Department said it didn't need our beloved and
treasured Frenchay as an acute hospital and then this year announced it has
already developed plans for a large private hospital to be built in Frenchay's
catchment area."

Pat Hockey, executive councillor for planning and highways, said the authority
had promised Frenchay a community hospital but plans for a new private hospital
in the area could put it in jeopardy.

She said: "It is time for honesty and openness in the consultation process. This
is why the Liberal Democrats supported a cross party decision to seek further
legal advice."

The Save Frenchay Hospital group collected almost 50,000 names on a petition
objecting to the downgrading of Frenchay to a 50-bed community hospital.

Melanie Chiswell, for NHS South West, said the consultation process over the
Bristol Health Services plan took place between September and December of 2004
and predated the development of the private hospital.

She said the ISTC was part of Government policy to introduce choice into the
health economy to drive improvements in the quality of health care and
efficiency for the benefit of patients.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2006 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved


