                              278 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            August 20, 2009 Thursday
                                 First Edition

NHS 'fee' probe

BYLINE: Alison Dayani

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 267 words


THE NHS has paid out more than pounds 48 million on behalf of West Midlands
hospitals in one year, following clinical negligence cases brought by patients.

But only pounds 31 million went to patients with pounds 17 million on legal
fees.

Ministers said they were "concerned" about the amount of NHS money going to the
legal profession, and would publish proposals to change the law.

The trust with the highest payments was Dudley Group of Hospitals NHS Trust,
which runs Russells Hall Hospital in Dudley. Cases against the trust led to
pay-outs of more than pounds 9 million, of which pounds 7.5 million went to
patients.

Claims against Heart of England NHS Trust, which runs Good Hope and Heartlands
hospitals as well as Solihull Hospital, came to pounds 8.4 million, of which
pounds 5.6 million went to patients.

Payments are made by the NHS Litigation Authority, which provides insurance to
health trusts. The figures show pounds 48.4 million was paid out in 2008-9 for
hospitals and primary care trusts in the West Midlands pounds 5.3 million on
defence costs but pounds 11.6 million on legal fees claimed by patients bringing
cases.

Andrew Mitchell MP (Con, Sutton Coldfield) said: "We need a fair system for
patients who have received negligent treatment. But, instead, we have a deeply
regrettable system which incurs vast legal costs for NHS trusts involved in
legal battles."

A spokesman for the NHS Litigation Authority said: "The defence costs are
incurred by lawyers employed by us. They are doing pretty much the same thing as
the claimant's legal team but often charge much more."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2009 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


