                              277 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Pittsburgh Tribune Review

                            January 29, 2016 Friday

Lawyers point to hospital dissent

BYLINE: by BEN SCHMITT

LENGTH: 625 words


Allegheny Health Network and Highmark Health are gearing up for a legal fight to
halt a proposed UPMC hospital less than a mile from one of their prized Pleasant
Hills properties.

AHN's Jefferson Hospital retained attorneys from Pittsburgh's Marcus & Shapira
law firm to explore legal strategies to oppose construction of a
300,000-square-foot hospital on 80 acres off Route 51.

The attorneys are recruiting Pleasant Hills residents to join the opposition,
free of legal costs.

"Not surprisingly, UPMC now faces a groundswell of opposition from individuals
who reject the idea that it could simply bulldoze the valley behind their homes
and fundamentally destroy the fabric of a residential neighborhood," attorney
Jonathan Marcus said in a statement Thursday. "The development would include a
helipad and a massive parking lot."

Dan Laurent, an AHN spokesman, did not divulge a potential legal strategy.

UPMC officials maintain the proposed hospital, to be called UPMC South, would
improve access to care and decrease costs for patients who live in the area.

"Competition generates better care at better prices, and people in the Route 51
corridor want the ability to be able to choose UPMC's high-quality care," UPMC
spokesman Paul Wood said.

On Tuesday, lawyers from Marcus' firm distributed letters to residents at a
Pleasant Hills Zoning Board meeting. Officials postponed the hearing because of
an overflow crowd of about 150 residents. UPMC is challenging the zoning code,
which prohibits a medical facility at the site under current provisions.

"As soon as the meeting on Tuesday was adjourned, our attorneys were approached
by dozens of objectors seeking representation," Jefferson Hospital CEO Louise
Urban said in a statement. "We understand there are many more who tried to
attend the meeting but could not even access the building."

Marcus, the attorney, wrote in the letter to residents that the law firm "will
represent you to the best of our ability in the matter, which involves your
objection to a proposal to build a hospital near your house, but can guarantee
no result."

The letter says "all costs and fees associated with our representation will be
paid by others."

Urban said Jefferson and parent company Highmark Health have invested more than
$100 million in enhancements in the past three to four years. She said a large
hospital with a helipad would disrupt the neighborhood's tranquil atmosphere.

"Some objectors may choose to pay their own legal expenses or retain separate
counsel, but they should know Jefferson Hospital stands with the residents of
Pleasant Hills," Urban said. "We have a common interest in doing what is best
for the community and welcome those citizens who wish to be represented with us
in voicing opposition to UPMC's plans."

Marcus emailed the Tribune-Review statements from several residents opposing the
hospital.

"I'm just a mom that built my dream house," said Jamie Khalil, 34, of Robinson
Drive. "Now there's going to be a hospital in the backyard? I left the city to
escape that urbanization and come to the suburbs to raise my kids. And now this?
I am absolutely grateful that Jefferson Hospital is supporting my objection
because I feel like decisions were already made for us by this monopoly giant
UPMC."

Stephen Foreman, an associate professor of health care administration at Robert
Morris University, said Highmark may try to argue in legal terms that building a
hospital in Jefferson's vicinity diminishes competition.

"Proving that may be pretty difficult," he said. "On its surface, it looks like
competition, even though I personally believe it is designed to take Jefferson
out."

Ben Schmitt is a Tribune-Review staff writer. Reach him at 412-320-7991 or
bschmitt@tribweb.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                Copyright 2016 Tribune Review Publishing Company
                              All Rights Reserved


