                              281 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             June 25, 2011 Saturday
                               N-j Final Edition

Judge OKs deal to sever ties

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 677  words

DATELINE: DAYTONA BEACH


DAYTONA BEACH -- An agreement toBert Fish Medical Center's yearlong merger with
Adventist Health System received approval Friday from the circuit judge that
ordered the partnership to end.

Friday's approval clears the way for the New Smyrna Beach hospital to return to
public control, under the Southeast Volusia Hospital District board's oversight,
on July 1. That's exactly one year after the partnership between the public
hospital and the nonprofit health care giant became effective.

The court-ordered divorce inked Friday was the result of a lawsuit that was
brought against the partnership. The suit was filed because the merger was the
result of 21 meetings over 16 months that were closed to the public. Judge
Richard Graham found those meetings violated the state Sunshine Law in a way
that couldn't be cured.

The judge said he was satisfied after reading the 129-page agreement detailing
how the deal would be voided with the least possible disruption at the hospital,
which has 600 employees and 112 beds. "I'm not going to tell you I understand
all of it," Judge Graham said of the agreement. "But . . . the order has been
complied with fully."

Friday's 15-minute hearing at City Island courthouse cleared the final hurdle
and will return the hospital to the state it was in one year ago. But the next
chapter for the public hospital has pressing questions for the seven-member
hospital board, which includes five new members seated in the last month.

Among the questions are how millions of dollars in legal fees, related to the
failed merger, will affect the district's ability to pay for indigent care at
the hospital. And experts say they believe Bert Fish may need another partner to
survive the market forces buffeting independent hospitals.

Financial realities have pushed more and more standalone hospitals to become
part of a larger system. The situation is mirrored all over the country, as
hospitals try to gain efficiencies that are realized when they can make larger
orders for medicine and supplies, said Aaron Liberman, a professor of health
services administration at the University of Central Florida.

Both of Bert Fish's spurned suitors in the partnership -- public Halifax Health
and for-profit Health Management Associates -- have said they are still
interested in being Bert Fish's partner. A representative for Adventist Health
did not respond this week to a question of whether the Orlando-based nonprofit
would make another bid for Bert Fish.

Meanwhile, the district must cope with millions of dollars in legal fees that
weren't envisioned when it drew up the current year's $17.2 million budget. This
week, lawyers for the Bert Fish Foundation, which sued to stop the merger, filed
for reimbursement of its legal fees and costs, totaling nearly $1 million.
Halifax Health said it will not seek reimbursement for the $271,806 it spent for
the time of one lawyer who helped in the effort.

Judge Graham said he will have a hearing if mediation efforts fail to come to
agreement on those claims.

Already, $2.5 million worth of legal and administrative fees from the failed
merger have meant the district will be behind in its payments for indigent care
at the hospital, board members have been told. The board will begin figuring out
next month how that will affect the hospital tax rate, which already is the
highest in the state.

Indigent care at the hospital is supported by a tax on property owners in
Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak Hill and a portion of Port Orange.

The district has hired a lawyer to try to recover the legal fees and other
damages in a malpractice suit against its former, longtime attorney who advised
them to close the merger talks.

Walking out of the court hearing Friday, district Board Chairwoman Jackie
Herchek said she is working on getting up to speed on the hospital's finances.

I spoke with the (Bert Fish) chief financial officer and he assured me the
hospital is solvent," she said.

Asked about future finances and if the district needs to seek another merger,
she said, "I need to look at the budget figures."

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


