                              280 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 17, 1994

Legal advice taken in bid to head off hospital closure

BYLINE: Bill Caven

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 494 words


LEGAL action may be taken to prevent the closure of a hospital which provides
respite care facilities for mentally and physically handicapped children.

A group of parents whose youngsters attend Strathblane Children's Home Hospital
have sought legal advice, fearing that Greater Glasgow Health Board will press
ahead with its plan to close the unit this summer.

The health board is expected to announce the closure today despite widespread
opposition by parents, Greater Glasgow Health Council, and the former Scottish
Health Minister, Mr Michael Forsyth.

The board proposes that child respite care facilities be provided at Scotland's
Family Resource Centre in Pollokshields, Glasgow.

The final decision, however, will rest with the Scottish Secretary, Mr Ian Lang.

Parents claimed yesterday that closure of the hospital would be a "recipe for
disaster". They said there were not enough alternative beds or trained staff to
cope with the enormous demands.

The group confirmed that it was prepared to begin legal proceedings in an
attempt to keep open the 24-bedded unit at Strathblane.

A parent said: "The whole thing is complete madness and that is why several of
us have taken legal advice should the health board press ahead with its plan.

"The facilities and staff at Strathblane are trained to cope with the many
problems which arise when looking after children who are often severely mentally
and physically handicapped.

"Many of the parents have had a look at the alternative facilities being
suggested but they are poor in comparison. For a start, the children's beds are
upstairs which is crazy when you consider most of the youngsters are in
wheelchairs. What happens if there is a fire?"

He said many of the youngsters suffered from respiratory difficulties which
would be exacerbated by staying in a city environment rather than enjoying
country air.

The closure proposal has also attracted criticism from the local health council,
which accused the health board of deliberately running down the hospital.

The council said: "It is understood that during 1993 Strathblane Hospital
received a number of calls from individual parents and a number of social work
offices

requesting weekend, emergency, and holiday respite care services.

"The requests for assistance were refused in line with the instructions from the
Royal Hospital for Sick Children. This action has a number of serious
consequences."

It described the argument that the hospital was underused as a "sham".

Criticism was also expressed over claims that Strathblane required "significant
investment to bring it up to a more suitable standard". The council argued that
no financial breakdown was provided to indicate the amounts required.

Concern was also expressed about an alleged lack of emergency respite cover at
the resource centre in Pollokshields. It was claimed that only one bed out of
seven would be provided.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1994 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.


