                              285 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                 August 8, 1997

Mother urged to sue over birth damage; Staff 'ignored Caesarean plea'

BYLINE: RHONDA LAM WAN

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 387 words


The parents of a baby who suffered brain damage after complications during birth
have been advised to take legal action against Queen Elizabeth Hospital where he
was born.

The mother claims medical staff ignored her request for a Caesarean section
after she began suffering from severe pain - worse than she had encountered in
the delivery of her first child.

Two or three hours later, while she was still in labour, she was told the baby
had only a faint heartbeat and immediate surgery was necessary.

The 3.6 kilogram boy was finally born by Caesarean section but he suffered from
temporary asphyxia during the birth, leading to brain damage.

Doctors also removed the mother's uterus after it was ruptured during the
operation, making it impossible for her to have another child.

A Queen Elizabeth Hospital spokesman said staff were investigating the case.

But ousted legislator Leung Yiu-chung, who has been helping parents of five
other babies born with brain damage, said neither the hospital nor the Hospital
Authority would admit negligence.

"The patient's medical record is prepared by the doctor and he will not write
anything that is unfavourable to himself," he said.

Mr Leung said medical records from the five previous cases did not reveal any
faults on the part of medical staff. The Legal Aid Department approved all five
applications for assistance in legal action for compensation from the Princess
Margaret Hospital.

"The parents should take legal action immediately. It's useless to rely on the
hospital or the authority," he said.

A spokesman confirmed the authority had received a complaint last week from a
woman who had given birth on July 25.

Mr Leung said doctors were rejecting mothers' requests for Caesarean sections
too easily because they were over-confident.

"Of course, we cannot rule out sudden changes during labour but better medical
care should be given in cases where the mother suffers from unusual labour
pains. And doctors should respect a mother's own feelings," he said.

The authority spokesman said investigators would interview staff involved and
would be responsible to the doctor's superiors. The complainant could appeal to
the authority's independent Public Complaints Committee if she was unhappy with
the results, he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 1997 South China Morning Post Ltd.


