                              283 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                           October 28, 1987 Wednesday

Wider advocacy plan for mentally ill urged

BYLINE: DOROTHY LIPOVENKO; GAM

LENGTH: 539 words


BY  DOROTHY LIPOVENKO
 The Globe and Mail
  Ontario's advocacy program for psychiatric patients should be expanded
to include patients in private or teaching hospitals, a report to the
Ministry of Health recommends.

Advocates acting on behalf of psychiatric patients to enforce their
legal rights should be appointed to the Clarke Institute of Psychiatry in
Toronto and the three other private hospitals for the mentally ill, the
report recommends.

The 5,000 patients hospitalized annually at the Clarke, the Royal
Ottawa Hospital, the Homewood Sanatorium in Guelph and the Sudbury Algoma
Hospital are not covered under the advocacy program.

The report also urges the advocacy program be transferred out of the
health ministry, to remove a perception the Government is interfering with
the independence of the advocates.

The recommendations are made in a lengthy evaluation of the provincial
Government's psychiatric patient advocacy program, set up in 1982 to
protect the legal rights of the 12,000 patients hospitalized annually in
the province's 10 psychiatric hospitals, which include the Queen Street
Mental Health Centre in Toronto.

Each hospital has at least one full-time advocate - often with legal or
social work training - who is paid by the province to visit wards, field
patient complaints and run interference on their behalf with the medical
staff.

Advocates deal with complaints ranging from tampered mail to refusal of
medication. Although many psychiatrists at the hospitals are lukewarm to
the advocates - seeing the office as a challenge to their authority - many
patients credit the advocates with informing them of their rights under
mental health law.

The role of advocate is particularly important to protect the rights of
patients committed against their will, who want to appeal their committal
to a review board. According to the evaluation report, 19 per cent of
patients at the four private hospitals last year were involuntary
admissions.

Health ministry figures show that almost one-fifth of 1,167 admissions
last year to the Clarke Institute were involuntary.

David Baker, a lawyer with the Advocacy Resource Centre for the
Handicapped, which has represented psychiatric patients, agrees that
advocates are necessary in the private psychiatric hospitals.

"There are probably more legal issues that arise at the Clarke
Institute because of the esoteric and experimental treatments they do,
raising the issue of whether some patients are giving sufficient valid
consent," Mr. Baker said. "The Clarke is the leading edge of psychiatry in
this province and it seems appropriate that the psychiatrists trained
there should be working with advocates."

A spokesman for the Clarke said the institute is considering setting up
its own advocacy program. Currently, patients with complaints about
treatment procedures or admission are referred to the public relations
department.

Mary Beth Valentine, head of Ontario's patient advocate program, said
there has "always been a great deal of concern" about the potential for
conflict between the Government and the advocates. If the program is
transferred out of the health ministry, she said, it should be placed
under the jurisdiction of an expanded ombudsman's committee rather than
the Attorney-General's office.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1987 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


