                              286 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                January 7, 2000

Doctors to seek legal advice on work hours

BYLINE: ELLA LEE

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 312 words


Doctors in public hospitals are to seek legal advice on how to press the
Hospital Authority for a cut in working hours.

The move follows a survey by the Public Doctors' Association which revealed
junior medics had to work almost 100 hours a week, medical officers 70 hours and
senior doctors and consultants 60 hours.

Yesterday the South China Morning Post revealed some medics did not take off a
single day in a month. Doctors warned patient care was being compromised as they
became exhausted.

Association vice-president Dr Leung Ka-lau said yesterday it would soon seek
advice in preparation for a possible legal battle with the authority.

Hospital chiefs have countered the doctors' claims by saying on-call time should
not be regarded as normal working hours.

Dr Leung said some of his colleagues had been stocking up shift records for
years as evidence.

"It's a very old problem, so why doesn't the authority do something about it?
The authority should recognise our on-call time as normal work.

"Eventually, we hope a reasonable shift system can be stated clearly in law."

Some departments require doctors to stay in hospitals while on call.

Dr Leung said the association would cite the case of a senior correctional
services officer who claimed unfair treatment on overtime.

In October 1998, chief officer Shau Lin-chi won almost seven months' paid leave
after a court challenge to the Government's overtime policy. The Government has
appealed against the ruling.

A spokesman for the Patients' Rights Association, Lilian Lau Sau-han, urged the
authority to make doctors' working hours more reasonable.

"What kind of services can we expect if they are deprived of sleep? Sometimes we
want to blame doctors for their lack of response to patients, but actually it's
not their fault, they are just too tired," she said.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2000 South China Morning Post Ltd.


