                              288 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Pakistan Today

                            September 4, 2015 Friday

Three major hospitals in city run short of female MLOs

LENGTH: 398  words


Three major public hospitals of Karachi  Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre
(JPMC), Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH)  are
facing acute shortage of female medico legal officers (MLOs), so the women
patients and the injured have to wait several hours to get themselves examined
by the female attendants, it was learnt on Friday.

A senior MLO at JPMC said on anonymity that there was acute shortage of female
MLOs in Karachi's three major public sector hospitals which had put heavy burden
on male MLOs.

He said only two female MLOs were available in Jinnah Hospital and Civil
Hospital Karachi, out of four seats allocated for each major hospital in three
shifts, while only one lady MLO was available in Abbasi Shaheed Hospital.

He said: The MLOs's report provides the cause of death, time of death, nature of
death, and other details on an official form at the time of autopsy which
becomes the base to fight court's case". He said the MLOs could provide
direction in handling terrorism, rape and other cases.

It is unfortunate that these important vacancies could not be filled in these
major hospitals, while the departments in six hospitals were also non-functional
due to this lethargy. He said three major hospitals of city had the facility of
MLOs like ASH, JPMC and CHK, while medico-legal department in six other
hospitals  Lyari GeneralHospital, Sindh Government Hospital New Karachi, Sindh
Government Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh Government Hospital Saudabad,
SindhGovernmentHospitalQatarOrangiTown and Sindh Government Hospital Karachi
Korangi  are non-functional due to MLOs' shortage.

He said female MLOs' shortage had increased the burden of work on male MLOs in
major public hospitals, while in case of any emergency, existing male and female
MLOs had to work extra hours.

He said there was urgent need of female MLOs to handle the emergency cases and
to minimise the extra burden on male MLOs in those major hospitals.

According to a health department report, around 3,500 postmortems are carried
out in the city every year, while 30,000 affectees are issued medico-legal
certificates in different cases during this period. These certificates later
become beneficial for victims to seek justice through courts. Senior MLO at CHK
Dr Nisar Ali Shah, when contacted, said that few seats of female MLOs were lying
vacant in the city's major public hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2015 Nawa Media (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


