                              30 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      The Vancouver Sun (British Columbia)

                     November 7, 2003 Friday Final Edition

Bid to halt closure of Saint Mary's hospital dies: Nuns who own the facility
don't back legal fight

SOURCE: Vancouver Sun

BYLINE: Chad Skelton

SECTION: News; Pg. B1

LENGTH: 368 words

The legal fight to prevent the closure of Saint Mary's Hospital in New
Westminster is effectively dead after the nuns who own the hospital announced
they want nothing to do with the case.

On Tuesday, a legal petition was filed in B.C. Supreme Court in the name of
several parties, including the Sisters of Providence -- the Catholic religious
order that owns the hospital -- arguing that the Fraser Health Authority
violated its contract with the hospital when it decided to cut its funding.

But in a news release, the Sisters of Providence said they don't want to
participate in the legal action. "We are not involved in any lawsuit nor have we
endorsed the initiation of any legal action under our name," the statement read.
"We seek ways to address the situation with compassion, justice and concern for
all involved. The Sisters will work with the Ministry of Health in seeking
opportunities to serve the people of New Westminster in the future."

Saint Mary's spokesman Karl Crosby said the decision to proceed with the legal
action was made by the hospital's board of trustees, which acts on behalf of the
Sisters.

He said the idea of going to the courts to save the hospital had been discussed
with the Sisters in the past and -- after the health authority announced its
intention to close the hospital on Monday -- the board decided to proceed with
the petition.

"The board voted on Monday evening to undertake the action because they figured
it was time," Crosby said. But he said that shortly after the petition was
filed, the Sisters told the board they didn't want to take part.

"It's not their nature to be in the public eye or to create controversy and they
advised the board that they would not participate," he said.

Crosby said representatives of the Sisters met with the hospital board Thursday
morning and said there was some chance the action may still go forward.

But Sister Mary Lei Gordon, Western Canadian treasurer of the Sisters, said the
nuns have made their decision. "There is no legal action, period." And Gordon
added that, given that the Sisters own the hospital, there is little chance of
the legal action proceeding without them.

cskelton@png.canwest.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Business

               Copyright 2003 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


