                              279 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              The Guardian(London)

                        July 23, 2017 Sunday 7:01 PM GMT

Charlie Gard's parents condemn abuse levelled at hospital staff;
Couple say they have also faced backlash over legal case, after hospital reveals
staff and patients have been threatened

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: UK NEWS; Version:1

LENGTH: 514 words


The parents of critically ill baby Charlie Gard have condemned the abuse and
death threats levelled at doctors and hospital staff where he is being treated,
but said they have also faced an online backlash.

Connie Yates and Chris Gard, who have been involved in a lengthy legal battle
over their son's treatment, said they have faced online abuse after Great Ormond
Street hospital (Gosh) revealed the extent of the threats its staff and patients
had faced on Saturday.

Speaking on Sunday, Yates said she and Gard "do not and have not ever condoned
any threatening or abusive remarks" towards hospital staff. She added that the
couple had also faced a backlash.

Before a key week in the legal case regarding Charlie, Yates said she wished the
hospital had "asked the public not to say anything hurtful to us as well as
their doctors and other members of staff".

She told Sky: "Chris and I are just ordinary parents with a very sick baby and
we simply have his best interests at heart.

"Despite conflicting issues, we have always had the utmost respect for all the
staff who work tirelessly at Great Ormond Street hospital and the very difficult
jobs they do every day."

The case has attracted attention from around the world. On Sunday a small group
of about 20 activists supporting the couple held a press conference and a prayer
vigil outside the high court in London.

They condemned the abuse of doctors. Medical staff have been bombarded with
thousands of violent threats and abuse over the case.

Hospital employees have faced abuse in the street and families visiting their
sick children had also been "harassed and discomfited", said the chair of Gosh
staff.

On Friday Charlie's father shouted "evil" after a lawyer representing the
hospital told the high court that a new scan on Charlie made for "sad reading".

Yates and Gard were hoping the scan would support their case that, contrary to
what doctors at the hospital say, their son is not brain damaged and would be
receptive to experimental treatment in the US. The court heard that they had not
yet seen the report.

The the protracted legal battle between Charlie's parents and Gosh centres
around the hospital's role in the treatment of the infant. Doctors are seeking
permission to turn off his life-support machine.

Charlie's parents have asked judges to rule that the son, who suffers from a
rare genetic condition and has brain damage, should be allowed to undergo a
therapy trial in New York.

Doctors at Gosh say the therapy is experimental and will not help. They say life
support treatment should stop and Charlie should be allowed to die with dignity.

The child's parents have already lost battles in the high court, court of appeal
and supreme court. They have also failed to persuade the European court of human
rights to intervene.

But the couple say there is new evidence and have asked Mr Justice Francis, who
in April ruled in favour of Gosh, to change his mind.

Francis said he would not rerun the case but would consider any "new material".

The case continues at the high court on Monday and is due to last for two days.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGNS


  Copyright 2017 The Guardian, a division of Transcontinental Media Group Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


