                              292 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            April 13, 2016 Wednesday

Bill status of An Act establishing the caregiver advise, record and enable
(CARE) act

LENGTH: 1238  words

DATELINE: Lahore



 Boston: General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts has issue the
following bill status:



 Sponsors:



 Chris Walsh

 Status:

  SECTION 1. Definitions



 "Hospital" is defined for the purposes of this Act as a facility licensed under
Massachusetts General Law Chapter 111.



 "After-Care" is defined for the purposes of this Act as any assistance provided
by a caregiver to a patient under this Act after the patient's discharge from a
hospital. Such assistance may include, but is not limited to, assisting with
basic activities of daily living (ADLs), instrumental activities of daily living
(IADLs), or carrying out medical/nursing tasks, such as managing wound care,
assisting in administering medications, and operating medical equipment.





 "Caregiver" is defined for the purposes of this Act as any individual duly
designated as a caregiver by a patient under this Act who provides after-care
assistance to a patient living in his or her residence. A designated caregiver
may include, but is not limited to, a relative, partner, friend, or neighbor who
has a significant relationship with the patient.



 "Discharge" is defined for the purposes of this Act as a patient's exit or
release from a hospital to the patient's residence following an inpatient
admission.



 "Entry" is defined for the purposes of this Act as a patient's admission into a
hospital for the purposes of medical care.



 "Residence" is defined for the purposes of this Act as a dwelling that the
patient considers to be his or her home. A "residence" for the purposes of this
Act shall not include any rehabilitation facility, hospital, nursing home,
assisted living facility, or group home licensed by the Massachusetts Department
of Public Health.



 SECTION 2. Caregiver--Opportunity to Designate.



 A hospital shall provide each patient or, if applicable, the patient's legal
guardian with at least one opportunity to designate at least one caregiver under
this Act no later than twenty-four (24) hours following the patient's entry into
a hospital and prior to the patient's discharge or transfer to another facility.




 In the event that the patient is unconscious or otherwise incapacitated upon
his or her entry into a hospital, the hospital shall provide such patient or
his/her legal guardian with an opportunity to designate a caregiver within
twenty-four (24) hours following the patient's recovery of his or her
consciousness or capacity.



 In the event that the patient or the patient's legal guardian declines to
designate a caregiver under the Act, the hospital shall promptly document this
in the patient's medical record.



 In the event that the patient or the patient's legal guardian designates an
individual as a caregiver under this Act:



 The hospital shall promptly request the written consent of the patient or the
patient's legal guardian to release medical information to the patient's
designated caregiver following the hospital's established procedures for
releasing personal health information and in compliance with all federal and
state laws.



 If the patient or the patient's legal guardian declines to consent to release
medical information to the patient's designated caregiver, the hospital is not
required to provide notice to the caregiver under Section 3 of this Act or
provide information contained in the patient's discharge plan under Section 4 of
this Act.



 The hospital shall record the patient's designation of caregiver, the
relationship of the designated caregiver to the patient, and the name, telephone
number, and address of the patient's designated caregiver in the patient's
medical record.



 A patient may elect to change his or her designated caregiver at any time, and
the hospital must record this change in the patient's medical record within
twenty-four (24) hours.



 A designation of a caregiver by a patient or a patient's legal guardian under
this Section does not obligate any individual to perform any after-care tasks
for any patient.



 This section shall not be construed to require a patient or a patient's legal
guardian to designate any individual as a caregiver as defined by this Act.



 SECTION 3. Notice to Designated Caregiver.



 A hospital shall notify the patient's designated caregiver of the patient's
discharge or transfer to another hospital or facility licensed by the
Massachusetts Department of Public Health as soon as possible, which may be
after the patient's physician issues a discharge order, and not later than four
(4) hours prior to the patient's actual discharge or transfer to such facility.



 SECTION 4. Instruction to Designated Caregiver.



 As soon as possible and not later than twenty-four (24) hours prior to a
patient's discharge from a hospital, the hospital shall consult with the
designated caregiver along with the patient regarding the caregiver's
capabilities and limitations and issue a discharge plan that describes a
patient's after-care needs at his or her residence.



 At minimum, a discharge plan shall include:



 The name and contact information of the caregiver designated under this Act;



 A description of all after-care tasks necessary to maintain the patient's
ability to reside at home, taking into account the capabilities and limitations
of the caregiver; and



 Contact information for any health care, community resources, and long-term
services and supports necessary to successfully carry out the patient's
discharge plan.



 The hospital issuing the discharge plan must provide caregivers with
instruction in all after-care tasks described in the discharge plan.



 At minimum, such instruction shall include:



 A live demonstration of the tasks performed by a hospital employee or
individual with whom the hospital has a contractual relationship authorized to
perform the after-care task, provided in a culturally competent manner and in
accordance with the hospital's requirements to provide language access services
under state and federal law;



 An opportunity for the caregiver and patient to ask questions about the
after-care tasks; and



 Answers to the caregiver's and patient's questions provided in a culturally
competent manner and in accordance with the hospital's requirements to provide
language access services under state and federal law.



 Any instruction required under this Act shall be documented in the patient's
medical record, including, at minimum, the date, time, and contents of the
instruction.



 The Massachusetts Department of Public Health is authorized to promulgate
regulations to implement the provisions of this Act, including, but not limited
to, regulations to further define the content and scope of any instruction
provided to caregivers under this Act.



 Section 5. Non-Interference with Powers of Existing Health Care Directives.



 Nothing in this Act shall be construed to interfere with the rights of an agent
operating under a valid health care directive under Massachusetts General Laws
Chapter 201D.



 SECTION 6. Limitations



 Nothing in this act shall be construed to create a private right of action
against a hospital, a hospital employee, or an individual, with whom a hospital
has a contractual relationship, or to otherwise supersede or replace exiting
rights or remedies under any other provision of law.



 SECTION 7. Effective Date.



 This Act shall be effective immediately upon ratification.



  In case of any query regarding this article or other content please contact
editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


