                              291 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                  COURIER-MAIL

                           November 17, 1990 Saturday

INQUIRY BILLS HIT NURSES

SOURCE: QNP

BYLINE: HAMMOND P

LENGTH: 279 words


Inquiry bills hit nurses NURSES have paid $190,000 so far to defend themselves
in the Ward 10B inquiry and now some face legal fees when an inquiry into
Maryborough Hospital starts. The Queensland Nurses Union recently decided to add
a $5 legal defence fee to its membership charge. QNU administrator Ms Gay
Hawksworth said incidental costs so far totalled $37,493 for the 14-week
Townsville Ward 10B psychiatric unit inquiry. Legal costs have been put at more
than $150,000. ""A legal precedent was set by the State Government when it paid
the legal representation of police officers in the Fitzgerald inquiry," she
said. Yet two requests to the State Health Minister, Mr McElligott, for the
Government to pay nurses' legal costs had failed, she said. ""If that style of
psychiatry practised in Ward 10B was allowed to be practised for that period of
time, with the full knowledge of the authorities, why isn't the State Government
or the Hospital Board footing the bill for the nurses?" Ms June Anstee, a
solicitor from Roberts and Kane, representing the QNU, said Mr McElligott had
said there was no reason why the Townsville Hospitals Board's solicitors could
not represent 10B nurses. But the board's solicitors said they could not because
of conflicts in evidence with other board employees. A Health Department
spokesman last night repeated that Government policy was that the hospital board
should provide legal representation to past and current employees if called
before the commission, provided ""there were no allegations of substance against
them". Ms Hawksworth said to her knowledge no criminal charges had been laid. _
PHILIP HAMMOND

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: CML

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


