                              296 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                           November 27, 2008 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Members of dissolved foundation fear for future

BYLINE: By KELLI HART; Staff writer

SECTION: LAGUNABEACH; Pg. CoverStory

LENGTH: 563 words

ABSTRACT

Members of dissolved foundation fear at least some its $15 million in assets may
be used to pay debts rather than benefit health services.

FULL TEXT

Now that South Coast Medical Center's foundation has been dissolved by the
hospital's operator, foundation members and major donors fear the assets they
raised for the foundation will not be used to benefit the hospital in the way
they intended.

Community members are concerned that funds donated to the hospital and not
designated for a specific use will be used to pay SCMC's debts.

The same day Adventist Health announced St. Joseph Health System as its
preferred buyer for the hospital, Adventist and South Coast Chief Executive
Bruce Christian dissolved the foundation in a closed-door meeting, leaving board
members stunned and confused, said Susan Morrison, a hospital donor and
three-year foundation member.

"We left the room kind of shell-shocked," Morrison said of the Nov. 14 meeting.

At issue is what will become of the foundation's $15 million in assets,
including the hospital's $9.7 million Medical Office Building, which became
property of Adventist Health, a nonprofit organization stationed in Roseville
that helps operate health-care facilities.

Now that the foundation no longer exists, Adventist has the legal right to those
assets, according to Jerry Peters, Adventist Health's attorney.

The charitable foundation was established in 1976 to encourage donations to the
hospital and to fund special projects and upgrades.

An affiliation agreement signed 10 years ago by foundation members and Adventist
Health stated that the foundation and SCMC would stay separate entities but
would merge if the hospital could not stay open on its own, according to legal
documents.

The agreement also states the foundation's assets would be available to
Adventist Health for assuming the challenge of saving SCMC from closure, which
it has been doing the past 10 years, according to Peters and legal documents.

The affiliation agreement became "moot" in 2006 when the foundation transferred
its membership to SCMC, Peters said.

"Since that date, SCMC has had the legal right to merge the foundation into
SCMC, thereby assuming control over all of the foundation's assets," Peters
said. "This merger did not happen as a function of the affiliation agreement but
instead is a function of the articles and bylaws of the foundation" and
California nonprofit law.

Morrison said other foundation members and donors like herself feel slighted now
that their donated money could be used toward Adventist Health's other hospitals
or to pay SCMC's debts.

Morrison said Christian told foundation members a month ago that although the
legal language stated that SCMC and Adventist Health could take the foundation's
assets, SCMC would never try to do that.

Christian is out of state and was unavailable for comment.

After Adventist Health announced St. Joseph Health System as SCMC's top bidder,
the pending sale was sent to the state Attorney General's Office for approval.
Peters said the use of the foundation's assets will be decided by the attorney
general.

A legal memo states that SCMC sustained a net loss of $44.7 million from 1998 to
August 2008.

Rooms with ocean views are common at South Coast Medical Center.

Staff members review the patient board in the emergency room at South Coast
Medical Center. Sam Gangwer/Staff file photos

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

