                              294 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Daily Times (PK)

                             April 16, 2010 Friday

PIMS has just one medico-legal expert

LENGTH: 481  words

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD


ISLAMABAD, April 16 -- Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) is short of
medico-legal experts to deal with cases involving police.

It is learnt that the hospital, the largest government-run in the city, has only
one medico-legal expert for three shifts a day.

According to doctors, the hospital should have at least eight experts to ably
handle medico-legal cases.

The severe shortage of medico-legal experts has led to long delays in treatment
of the victims of accidents, torture, firing incidents etc, and issuance of
reports required for FIR registration in such cases.

Such delays torment families, which can't secure bodies of their members until
the issuance of post-mortem certificates.

Under the law, anyone, who gets injured in a car accident or receives a bullet
wound, is required to go to a government hospital for treatment and obtaining
medico-legal certificate for getting an FIR registered.

On the other hand, an aggrieved party cannot receive dead body of a victim until
and unless the medico legal expert issues a post-mortem certificate. Doctors
told Daily Times on Thursday that on average, the hospital received six to seven
medico-legal cases a day but handling them efficiently and without delay was
simply not possible for one person.

They said in absence of adequate number of medico-legal experts, untrained staff
attended to injured persons besides autopsying bodies. They also said as there
was no woman medico-legal expert, female paramedics and technicians with the
help of their male colleagues assessed and treated injuries of women, autopsied
bodies, and issued reports to police for FIR registration.

The doctors also revealed a law enacted in 1861 prohibited post mortems between
dusk and dawn. They demanded immediate repeal of that law for the relief of the
already distressed families. In the capital city, only PIMS and Polyclinic could
issue medico-legal certificates. A doctor said the city's all government
hospitals should be allowed to issue such certificates.

It is learnt that at Polyclinic, a medical officer dealing with emergency cases
prepares medico-legal report before sending it to medico-legal surgeon for
verification and seal.

In a doctor's opinion, "although it goes like this but the process is flawed
because sometimes, we receive cases of 'self-created' injuries, which cannot be
identified by medical officers. Only a medico-legal surgeon has the expertise to
expose such cases. In absence of such an expert, the medial officer prepares
reports without going into the details, which may put some behind bars."

A station house officer said police couldn't detect 'self-created' injuries. "We
only have to rely on the report issued by a medico-legal surgeon," he said.
Published by HT Syndication with permission from Daily Times. For more
information on news feed please contact Sarabjit Jagirdar at
htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                        Copyright 2010 Right Vision News
                              All Rights Reserved


