                              289 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           January 15, 2015 Thursday

Broward Hospitals Fight Planned Plantation General Move

LENGTH: 328  words


Broward County hospitals have launched two legal challenges to try to block a
project that involves Plantation General Hospital moving near the campus of Nova
Southeastern University.
The state Agency for Health Care Administration last month gave preliminary
approval to what is known as a certificate of need for the 200-bed hospital
project in Davie. But Memorial Healthcare System and Cleveland Clinic Hospital,
which operate hospitals in the area, filed challenges that were sent to an
administrative law judge last week.


The challenges, which were consolidated Monday by Judge W. David Watkins,
contend that state approval for the new Plantation General hospital would lead
to an unnecessary duplication of services, reduce the numbers of patients at the
existing hospitals and create difficulties in properly staffing the hospitals.
Memorial Healthcare System operates five hospitals in the area, while Cleveland
Clinic operates a hospital in Weston, according to the filings.
The (Plantation General) proposal not only contemplates a new hospital facility
that will provide the same services currently available, to a large extent, at
the current (Plantation General) hospital, but it also contemplates a new,
expanded patient population service area, along with an alleged emphasis on
medical research and medical education, Cleveland Clinic attorneys wrote in
their challenge.
Plantation General is part of the HCA health-care chain. In a statement posted
on the hospital's website, Michael Joseph, HCA East Florida Division president,
touted the project.
The new state-of-the-art facility will enhance the level of care we will be able
to provide, Joseph said. Our collaboration with Nova Southeastern University
will elevate the level of services we can offer by integrating a research and
academic component into our scope of care to patients. This relocation will
enhance geographic access to the facility from all of South Florida. 2014 Legal
Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2015 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


