                              31 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                             June 29, 2017 Thursday

An insufficient medico-legal system for the city with the highest crime rate

BYLINE: Mudaser Kazi

LENGTH: 1049  words


With only three medico-legal centres operational in a city that has a population
of more than 20 million and the highest crime rate in the country, there is a
dire need to strengthen the medico-legal system in Karachi.

The annual budget of the entire medico-legal section of the health department
stands at not more than Rs0.7 million, while no medical equipment is being
provided to officers to perform their daily services.

In Karachi alone, more than 25,000 cases are handled by medico-legal officers
(MLOs) in a year in the three major healthcare facilities of the city. The
health department is responsible for providing medico-legal facilities in nine
sub-stations established at all the general hospitals in Sindh. However, due to
a lack of infrastructure, trained doctors and staff, the patients seeking
medico-legal certificates only have the option to visit Civil Hospital, Karachi,
Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre (JPMC) or Abbasi Shaheed Hospital.

The overall shortage of doctors in the province has started reflecting on
medico-legal services of the health department, which will most likely collapse,
said a senior doctor serving at a medico-legal centre in Karachi.

Performance audit: Panel to pick flaws in public health facilities

'Medico-legal services are an integral part of prosecution,' said Additional
Police Surgeon Dr Rohina Hasan, while speaking to The Express Tribune about the
importance of MLOs. She added that they provide medical services for the
legality of the cases. 'Although the medico-legal section is a part of the Sindh
government's health department, its primary objective is to help the police
department in their investigations,' she said.

According to Dr Hasan, unnatural deaths or injuries are referred to the medico-
legal section, as the MLOs decide about the nature and cause of injuries in
assaults, road accidents and poison or bullet inflicted injuries or deaths. 'Had
there been no medico-legal services, no one would get justice and bodies would
not even be released, [as medico-legal formalities would not be completed],' Dr
Hasan added.

Medical examinations of patients are conducted at medico-legal centres, from
where medico-legal certificates are issued. Besides this, MLOs are also
responsible for conducting post-mortems and exhumations, issuing death
certificates and, at times, appearing before a court to give statements.

Regulatory body: Healthcare commission ready to take on quackery

According to Dr Hasan, the medico-legal section in all the three major hospitals
is so understaffed that they do not have replacements when one of the doctors
goes on leave. Currently, she said, no specialised qualification is required to
become an MLO. She said that training of six months under senior doctors after
the completion of MBBS is enough for them to start working as an MLO.

The medico-legal section works under medical jurisprudence law and relevant MLOs
conduct autopsies and exhumations under the Pakistan Penal Code (PPC). They
issue certificates based on different sections of the PPC, depending on the
nature of the injuries inflicted on the body, explained one of the senior
medical officers working at JPMC.

Apart from Karachi, casualty medical officers have the power to issue medical
certificates and provide medico-legal services, which do not fall under the
jurisdiction of the police surgeon of Sindh. Currently, there are no permanent
police surgeons in the province. However, an additional police surgeon is acting
as a police surgeon and has drawing and dispensing powers.

Only four female MLOs in the entire city

According to a female medico-legal officer (MLO), as per the Supreme Court's
ruling of 1996, all female victims will only be examined by female doctors and
staff. However, due to the non-availability of female staff in the medico-legal
section, the post-mortems of female victims are conducted by female MLOs in the
presence of male staff.

Healthcare facilities: State-of-the-art hospital expanded to 350 beds

There are only nine sanctioned posts of female MLOs in Karachi, whereas the
working force has decreased to five. Out of these sanctioned posts, four are for
senior MLOs of BPS-18 and five of BPS-17. The existing hierarchy and sanctioned
posts to provide medico-legal facilities at public hospitals were approved more
than 30 years ago when the crime rate and population were relatively very low.

Currently one of the doctors is on medical leave, leaving behind only four
female MLOs for the entire city. Other than this, there are no female MLOs
available to work in the night shift due to a shortage, due to which female
patients are left unattended.

Out of four female MLOs at government hospitals, one is serving at the JPMC
while three are serving at Civil Hospital, Karachi. Abbasi Shaheed Hospital,
which is one of the major public hospitals in the city, does not have any female
MLO and a grade-19 additional police surgeon has been performing duties instead
of a female MLO. In the absence of the additional police surgeon, the patients
and bodies are referred to Civil Hospital, Karachi or JPMC.

Islamabad general hospital: Health facility likely to open in 2019

Speaking to The Express Tribune, police surgeon Dr Aijaz Ahmed Khokhar said the
sanctioned strength should be doubled. According to Dr Khokhar, out of the total
cases that they receive at the medico-legal facility, 30% cases are of female
victims that are attended by only three female MLOs in Karachi.

Out of 71 sanctioned posts of male MLOs, 31 are vacant, which has resulted in
late and delayed provision of medico-legal facilities, Dr Khokhar said.

'The lack of doctors and provision of facilities has resulted in our suffering,'
said Muhammad Ibrahim, who was waiting to get his sister examined for more than
three hours outside the examination room of the medico-legal section in Civil
Hospital, Karachi. Ibrahim said he came all the way from Landhi, where there are
no nearby facilities providing such services.

An official health department told The Express Tribune that the shortage of
doctors in the province has resulted in a lack of applicants to fill the vacant
positions in the medico-legal section. However, he said, through appointment of
medical officers, this long-pending problem will be resolved in the upcoming few
months.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2017 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


