                              295 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             May 16, 2012 Wednesday
                                 Final Edition

Bert Fish, board accept $6 million settlement from former law firm

BYLINE: SKYLER SWISHERBUSINESS WRITER, SKYLER SWISHER - BUSINESS WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 318  words


Bert Fish Medical Center and the Southeast Volusia Hospital District have
reached a settlement in a lawsuit accusing their former legal counsel of giving
faulty advice that cost the hospital and taxing district millions.

The taxing district board for the New Smyrna Beach hospital agreed earlier this
month to accept a $6 million settlement from the Orlando-based law firm Lowndes,
Drosdick, Doster, Kantor & Reed.

The board discussed a whole range of settlement figures," said Joseph Benedict
III, chairman of the Southeast Volusia Hospital District's board. "This one was
probably the most acceptable to all members of the board."

Of the settlement funds, $900,000 will go to pay legal costs, Benedict said.

Board members are still determining how the remaining funds will be distributed.

The suit was filed in response to legal advice given by its former general
counsel Jim Heekin and other lawyers at his firm. It accused Heekin of
improperly advising the board members that they were exempt from the state's
Sunshine Law, a statute that requires the public's business be conducted in open
meetings.

The lawsuit follows a 2011 trial challenging a merger between Bert Fish and
Adventist Health Systems, which operates several Florida Hospitals in Volusia
and Flagler counties.

Judge Richard Graham ruled 21 closed-door meetings held over 16 months leading
up to the July 2010 merger violated the Sunshine Law.

Some called the botched merger the largest violation of the Sunshine Law in the
state's history.

Benedict said the defendants indicated they would accept the settlement during
mediation. The deal is contingent, though, on final approval from the
defendants, he said.

Messages left with Heekin and a representative of his attorney, Rumberger Kirk &
Caldwell, were not immediately returned Tuesday afternoon.

Bert Fish officials said the failure of the merger cost the hospital and
district about $22 million.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caption: Bert Fish Medical Center and the Southeast Volusia Hospital
District sued their former legal counsel after a deal to merge with Adventist
Health Systems fell through because of Sunshine Law violations. The hospital and
the board believed the advice they received was faulty. News-Journal file

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2012 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2012 News-Journal Corporation


