                              290 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Messenger

                             June 3, 2017 Saturday

Karachi's major hospitals face lady MLOs shortage

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 154

LENGTH: 290  words


Three major public hospitals of Karachi, including Jinnah Postgraduate Medical
Centre (JPMC), Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH),
are facing acute shortage of female medico-legal officers (MLOs); therefore, the
women victims have to wait several hours to get examined from female attendants.

A senior Medic-Legal Officer at Civil Hospital Karachi told that currently,
there were five working strengths of lady MLOs in three major hospitals out of
which only three were available for duties as one was on leave while another was
suffering from cancer. He said currently only three female MLOs were available
in Jinnah Hospital, Civil Hospital Karachi and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital.

He said MLO's report containing the cause of death, time of death, nature of
death, and other details compiled in an official form at the time of autopsy
provides the basis for a court's case, carrying an impact on the final decision.
But unfortunately these important vaccines are left vacant in major hospitals.

The official said the shortage of female MLOs had increased the burden of work
in male MLOs in major public hospitals, while in case of any emergency, the male
and female MLOs have to work extra hours against their duty hours. He said there
was urgent need of female MLOs to handle the emergency cases and also to
minimize the extra burden om male MLOs.

Police Surgeon Karachi, Dr Ejaz Ahmed Khokhar, said   there were nine sanctioned
posts of lady MLOs out of them only five were available. He said: One lady MLO
is on leave and another is suffering from cancer thus there is only three lady
MLOs in major hospitals.

He said number of lady medico-legal officers should be enhanced keeping the
current population and crime rate.

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                          Copyright 2017 The Messenger
                              All Rights Reserved


