                              297 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Blacktown Sun

                                 June 22, 2016

Legal advice for young mums

BYLINE: Harrison Vesey

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 305  words


Pregnant women and young mothers will be able to access free legal advice at
Blacktown Hospital in what is a first for western Sydney.

Western Sydney Local Health District and Legal Aid NSW yesterday launched the
first location of an integrated Health Justice Partnership.

'Legal Aid NSW gives free legal advice to patients on family law issues
including domestic violence, parenting, and care and protection issues,' senior
family lawyer Ruth Pilkinton said.

'The legal advice service is primarily available to women attending the
antenatal and maternity unit at Blacktown Hospital, but will also help other
in-patients, day patients, their family members and staff.'

Hospital staff had previously referred patients to Legal Aid but social worker
Anna Fainuu believes it will make a big difference having lawyers on site every
Tuesday.

Ms Fainuu said she expects the service will mainly be used by mothers seeking
advice for concerns including domestic violence, separation and conflict, as
well understanding the rights and responsibilities of both parents.

'[Mothers] can feel really quite helpless in terms of what they can do. Being
able to have access to a solicitor is really quite empowering to them, feeling
like they can speak to someone and get some advice about what their rights are,'
she said.

Ms Fainuu said it is often difficult for patients to follow up referrals once
they go home, leading to at-risk women getting lost in the system.

'Often people are dealing with so many things that seem really quite
overwhelming, then it snowballs,' she said.

'When you're seeing someone face-to-face we find that just makes it so much more
accessible. We know that they're getting advice.'

Legal Aid NSW has legal services in over 200 locations across NSW. The Legal Aid
lawyer at Blacktown Hospital can be contacted on 1800 551 589.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


             Copyright 2016 Fairfax Media Publications Pty. Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


