                              293 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

              November 18, 1995, Saturday, SATURDAY SECOND EDITION

Fired nurse gets $250,000 goodbye from hospital

BYLINE: By Desmond Bill TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A17

LENGTH: 685 words


   The Toronto Hospital is going to pay $250,000 to a Jamaican-born nurse, and
her legal agent says it is to compensate her for her racially motivated
dismissal.

But a hospital official said: "She was an incompetent nurse who was looking
after babies and we paid her off to guarantee she did not come back.

"It cost $250,000 of your money and my money but it was the only way to make
sure she would not come back to Toronto Hospital," David Allen told a Star
reporter yesterday.

He insisted the settlement "had nothing to do with discrimination" and said one
of the reasons for settling it was that the case had already cost the hospital
$180,000 in legal fees.

Claudine Charley worked at the hospital as a registered nurse from June, 1989,
until she was fired in August, 1992. The Ontario Nurses' Association protested
her dismissal and took the case to arbitration.

Charley engaged Harry Kopyto, a disbarred lawyer, to act as her legal agent at
the arbitration hearings. She was also represented by the association lawyer.

Early last month, after 37 days of hearings, both sides agreed to go before a
mediator to try and settle the case.

An agreement was finally reached at 3 a.m. on Oct. 20 after a 10-hour
negotiating session at the Sheraton Centre Hotel.

The settlement was announced yesterday by Kopyto, who called it "the largest
award for systemic discrimination in the history of Canada."

Kopyto said another 70 days of arbitration hearings had been scheduled and
conceded the legal expenses were likely a factor in persuading the hospital to
settle.

But he said a more important reason was that the hospital wanted to avoid "major
embarrassment at some of the things coming out."

He claimed Charley "was a victim of systemic discrimination. She was
overscrutinized, overmonitored and when she made mistakes there was
overreaction. They made a big deal of the smallest thing.

"She also was denied an opportunity to remove herself from people with whom she
was in conflict; she was trapped in a situation of continuous tension and
anxiety."

Kopyto said the hospital tried to show Charley was incompetent by citing
mistakes she made in keeping charts and in failing to give the proper quantities
of medicine.

"Someone went through everything she had done for three years and came up with
every single thing to justify her dismissal, like being five minutes late for
work," he said in a telephone interview.

Kopyto said Charley found a new job soon after being fired. She now works at a
hospital in North York but was forced into bankruptcy and lost her house.

He said the payment to Charley amounts to a "punitive award" since she had
"relatively little monetary loss" as a result of being fired.

He also claimed that as part of the "award," she had been given a "helpful
reference" by the hospital.

Allen pointed out, however, that the money is not an award but a settlement and
the letter of reference simply states she worked at the hospital and gives the
dates of her employment.

Allen said Charley was fired because "she was an incompetent nurse who was
looking after babies. We were worried about the welfare of the newborns."

He said the hospital had spent $180,000 in legal fees for 37 days of hearings
and Kopyto had booked an additional 70 days, which would have run up huge
additional expenses.

"We had no assurance that this woman would be gone from our institution at the
end of this arbitration," he said in a phone interview. "The arbitrator could
have said, 'Take her back.' "

"We decided the only way to guarantee she would not come back to Toronto
Hospital was to offer her a settlement she would accept.

"It was the price we had to pay. We paid her off to guarantee she did not come
back."

He said it was "outrageous" for Kopyto to claim Charley was the victim of racial
discrimination.

"She was fired for not providing safe care to infants," he said.

Charley could not be reached for comment. A friend of hers told The Star she was
angry at Kopyto for having issued a public statement on the settlement.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1995 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


