                              302 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           September 5, 2015 Saturday

City's three major hospitals run short of female MLOs

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 963

LENGTH: 400  words


Three major public hospitals of Karachi -- Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre
(JPMC), Civil Hospital Karachi (CHK) and Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH) -- are
facing acute shortage of female Medico Legal Officers (MLOs) as a result, women
patients and injured have to wait several hours to get examined from female
attendants, it was learned on Friday. A senior MLO at JPMC said on anonymity
that there is acute shortage of female MLOs in Karachi's three major public
sector hospitals, which had put heavy burden on male MLOs.

He said that only two female MLOs are available in Jinnah Hospital and Civil
Hospital Karachi, out of four seats allocated for each major hospital in three
shifts, while only one lady MLOs is available in Abbasi Shaheed Hospital. He
said: "MLOs's report provides the cause of death, time of death, nature of
death, and other details on an official form at the time of autopsy, which
becomes the base to fight court's case". He said MLOs could provide direction in
handling terrorism, rape and other cases. It is unfortunate that these important
vacancies could not be filled in these major hospitals, while the departments in
six hospitals are also non-functional dut to this lethargy.

He said three major hospitals of city had the facility of MLOs like ASH, JPMC
and CHK, while medico-legal department in six other hospitals -- Lyari General
Hospital, Sindh Government Hospital New Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital
Liaquatabad, Sindh Government Hospital Saudabad, Sindh Government Hospital Qatar
Orangi Town and Sindh Government Hospital Karachi Korangi -- are non-functional
due to MLOs' shortage. He said female MLOs' shortage had increased the burden of
work on male MLOs in major public hospitals, while in case of any emergency,
existing male and female MLOs had to work extra hours. He said there is urgent
need of female MLOs to handle the emergency cases and to minimize the extra
burden on male MLOs in those major hospitals. According to a Health Department
Sindh report, around 3500 postmortems are carried out in the city every year,
while 30,000 affectees are issued medico-legal certificates in different cases
during this period . These certificates later become beneficial for victims to
seek justice through courts. Senior MLO at CHK Dr Nisar Ali Shah, when
contacted, said that few seats of female MLOs are lying vacant in the city's
major public hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


