                              299 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 29, 1995, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Blocks Giuliani Plan To Sell Hospital in Queens

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section B;   Page 4;   Column 5;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 585 words


A State Supreme Court justice in Manhattan has issued a temporary restraining
order to prevent New York City from finalizing its plans to sell the Queens
Hospital Center, one of three public hospitals that were to be offered for sale
next month. The decision presents the first formal legal obstacle to Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani's goal of privatizing some or all of the city's public
hospital system.

The Mayor's advisers have said they plan to begin the privatization effort with
the release of a sales memorandum -- a first offering plan -- for three
hospitals in mid-October. That document is supposed to clarify potential sales
terms for Queens Hospital Center, Elmhurst Hospital Center and Coney Island
Hospital.

The restraining order comes in response to a lawsuit brought by the Queens
Hospital Community Advisory Board, contending that so far it has been denied its
legal right to meaningful consultation with the Mayor's office or the Health and
Hospitals Corporation regarding the sales plans. The lawsuit also contends that
the city lacks the authority to sell public hospitals without the approval of
the hospitals corporation's board of directors, a body the Mayor has frequently
sidestepped in developing his plans to revolutionize the system.

Each public hospital has an advisory board, whose purpose is to safeguard the
interests of the local community. The hospitals corporation must consult with
the boards, although they have no policy-making power.

The restraining order, issued by Justice Leland DeGrasse, temporarily prevents
the city or the hospitals corporation from moving forward on the sales while the
legal issues involved in the suit are being resolved. Also, it implicitly raises
questions about how the Mayor's advisers have developed his plans for
overhauling the public system, with many major decisions made behind closed
doors.

"Ever since the Mayor announced his plans last February," said Rory Lancman,
Chairman of the Queens Hospital Center Community Advisory Board, "we have
politely requested information and inclusion in the decision-making process and
we have been ignored. This is a big win even though it is a first little baby
step."

Mr. Lancman said his group wanted meaningful consultation with City Hall and
health corporation officials regarding the hospital's future, and wanted to see
the selling memorandum before it was made public, so that their comments and
concerns could be incorporated into policy.

Maria K. Mitchell, the Mayor's special adviser on health policy and the
chairwoman of the hospitals corporation's board, said the legal action would not
affect the city's plans.

"We had planned on meeting with them anyway," she said. She noted that Luis R.
Marcos, president of the hospitals corporation, attended the Queens community
advisory board meeting last night as had been previously scheduled. The lawsuit
was filed before the meeting.

"We have been moving down this road of talking with them and briefing them," Ms.
Mitchell said. She added that the advisory board's insistence on seeing the
memorandum before its public release was misplaced, since the October offering
plan would be a jumping-off point that would be revised many times before a
buyer was found.

But Mr. Lancman said he worried that the kind of consultation envisioned by the
Mayor's office would be only a formality, adding: "They have been working on the
document for nine months. We want some details and some time to look at them."


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company


