                              306 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              June 17, 2011 Friday

Bert Fish getting assets back Board hears how separation will affect finances

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

LENGTH: 569  words


EDGEWATER -- Bert Fish Medical Center will return to public ownership with about
$27 million in net assets, the same amount it had before becoming privately
controlled, the Southeast Volusia Hospital District board heard Thursday night.

On July 1, the district board is expected to once again control the New Smyrna
Beach hospital after a year under nonprofit Adventist Health System.

The partnership between the public board and the national nonprofit hospital
company that was finalized July 1, 2010, is undergoing a court-ordered unwinding
because it was the result of closed meetings that violated the state's Sunshine
Law.

Thursday, for the first time, the board heard about the money involved, and got
a better idea of the impact the unwinding will have on the hospital and,
ultimately, Southeast Volusia taxpayers.

The specifics of the separation are scheduled to go before Circuit Judge Richard
Graham on June 24. District representatives for the board said they didn't have
an agreement for the board to sign Thursday because negotiations have gone down
to the wire. But some of the points the board agreed to in principle Thursday
include:*Making Adventist Health responsible for $921,000 in severance payments
given to former Bert Fish CEO Bob Williams and Marketing Director Garry Mac when
the changeover occurred.*Having Adventist Health pay $1.35 million to the
medical center and $1.543 million to the hospital district, with the amounts due
30 days after the June 30 closing.*Splitting the $940,000 legal fees from one
firm between the hospital and Adventist Health that were spent for defending the
partnership. "This was a very complicated process with people trying to figure
out the best thing to do," said Mike Bowers, senior vice president of Community
Hospital Corp., which is negotiating with Adventist Health on behalf of the
hospital district.

Taxes the district levies on property owners in Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak
Hill and a portion of Port Orange support indigent care at the hospital. Board
members are appointed by the governor.

A suit brought against the merger entangled the partners -- Adventist Health and
the hospital district -- in a legal battle for which the total costs are not yet
known. Added to that, employee pensions and technology underwent a conversion
that now needs to be converted back.

This is a very, very fair settlement," Bowers said.

The Bert Fish Foundation, which brought the suit, was involved to a degree in
drawing up the separation agreement. But the idea that the hospital -- and
ultimately the public -- would be involved in paying for those legal fees, in
addition to another law firm the district hired, raises questions, according to
one of the foundation's lawyers.

Thursday was the first they'd heard of those fees, said Jon Kaney, a Daytona
Beach lawyer representing the foundation.

Why should the hospital be paying Adventist legal bills?" Kaney said. "They were
the subject of the deal, not the doer of the deal."

By June 30, Bert Fish Medical Center shouldup with total net assets worth about
$27.2 million, its chief financial officer said. An audit that will evaluate the
hospital's fiscal health should show those assets in place June 30, the same as
the audit the year before, said CFO Al Allred.

The final agreement will be before the board at its next meeting 5 p.m. Thursday
at the Edgewater City Council chambers, 104 N. Riverside Drive.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


