                              316 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Manchester Evening News

                           September 28, 2015 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Doctors launch legal bid over surgery move;
Review into planned changes at hospital may cost hundreds of thousands.

BYLINE: Jennifer Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 348 words


SENIOR doctors are to push ahead with a legal challenge over plans to move
surgery out of Wythenshawe hospital.

The judicial review - if it goes ahead - could cost hundreds of thousands of
pounds, with the NHS picking up the bill if it loses.

Doctors argue that decisions made about the hospital's future over the summer
were taken 'unlawfully' and have now issued a legal letter to the region's 12
clinical commissioning groups. They began the process after last-minute talks
with health chiefs broke down.

Their challenge concerns plans to move bluelight abdominal surgery out of the
hospital and into central Manchester - part of the Healthier Together hospital
shake-up.

Along with three local MPs, they claim the consultation process was flawed and
have warned that the move creates a slippery slope, arguing the loss of other
services and problems in recruitment then become inevitable.

A company has now been set up to pursue the action, called Keep Wythenshawe
Special, with solicitors Irwin Mitchell acting on its behalf.

So far none of the consultants behind the move have publicly spoken about the
action, although the director of the new firm is listed as consultant surgeon
Andrew Mac-Donald.

Dr Nigel Guest, chief clinical officer of Trafford CCG and member of the
Healthier Together Committees in Common, said: "We are extremely disappointed
about this legal challenge, which could cost the NHS hundreds of thousands of
pounds, as well as delay the urgentlyrequired changes needed to improve patient
care."

Healthier Together is aimed at saving lives by concentrating emergency surgery
at four 'specialist' hospitals.

But critics point out Wythenshawe is the region's best-performing hospital in
many regards, so should have been chosen as one of those four, instead of
Stockport's Stepping Hill.

A Wythenshawe spokesman said: "We recognise the clinical concerns raised by our
consultant colleagues and other clinicians. We are working closely with our
consultant colleagues and Healthier Together so that these concerns can be
addressed soon and outside of a lengthy legal process."

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wythenshawe hospital.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2015 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


