                              312 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            April 8, 2004, Thursday

170 SUPERBUG VICTIMS CONSIDER LEGAL ACTION

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 500 words


More than 170 people affected by hospital superbugs are considering taking legal
action against NHS trusts, it emerged yesterday.

Many victims of the MRSA infection, which is resistant to antibiotics, have
already progressed with their cases in the hope of getting an apology from the
hospital involved and compensation.

The bug is caused by bad hygiene such as medical staff not washing hands between
patients, and dirty wards.

There are more than 5,000 cases of MRSA a year in England and Wales, with an
estimated 800 deaths in 2002 - up from 51 in 1993.

If any of the legal cases prove successful it could open the floodgates for more
victims to come forward, at a huge cost to the NHS.

A great grandmother recently paid pounds 7,500 to have an operation abroad
because a Welsh hospital could not protect her against the killer superbug.

Blanche Beynon has twice caught MRSA after stays in hospital and her husband
died after contracting the antibiotic- resistant bug.

The retired legal secretary asked Llandough Hospital to promise it was free of
the potentially lethal bacteria when she was told she needed a knee replacement
operation.

When they could not guarantee the hospital was MRSA-free she travelled to
Belgium to have the operation there instead.

Tony Field, of MRSA Support, said all of their 173 members had asked about the
possibility of taking legal action.

Of these, around a dozen cases have led to solicitors being involved and the
negligence claims progressing further.

Mr Field, an MRSA victim from Birmingham, said in many cases the members just
wanted recognition from the hospital that they were at fault and to receive an
apology.

But he said there were also examples of financial loss suffered by the victims
and their families.

'For instance, we have got a lady who lost her husband when he was 56, that's
nine years to go to retirement.

'The pension she got was an absolute pittance from this and so at the age of 56
she had to go back to work to earn enough money to live,' Mr Field said.

He said this woman was taking legal action in a bid to get compensation.

Mr Field said his own attempts to take his case to court had hit difficulties
because he was treated at two hospitals and it was unclear where the infection
had been picked up.

Hospital-acquired infections like MRSA strike around 100,000 people each year in
England, costing pounds 1bn.

MRSA is one of the most serious because it is resistant to even the strongest
antibiotics, such as methicillin.

Last month health experts warned that cases of MRSA in children were increasing
and action needed to be tackle to stop them soaring further.

And last year the Department of Health published an action plan - Winning Ways -
setting out a range of measures to tackle the issue of hospital associated
infections.

This included introducing infection control officers in every hospital and
tightening up hand washing and cleaning regimes.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2004 Western Mail and Echo Ltd


