                              308 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 3, 2013 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Hospitals 'use legal loophole to block inquiries into blunders'

BYLINE: Laura Donnelly

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 495 words


HOSPITALS are routinely using the threat of legal action as an excuse to block
investigations into medical blunders, patient safety campaigners have claimed,
as they announced a possible legal challenge against the Health Secretary.

Lawyers for the charity Action against Medical Accidents (AvMA) have issued the
threat to Jeremy Hunt over NHS guidance which says hospitals can refuse to
investigate complaints if a patient or relative is considering future legal
action.

The rules were supposed to be changed in 2009 so that hospitals could not use
the possibility of a future claim as an "excuse" to deny victims of poor care a
thorough investigation.

But campaigners say that confusing NHS guidance, which their lawyers suggest is
unlawful, is allowing hospitals to close down complaints routinely if there is
any hint that those who have suffered may sue for negligence. They have issued a
legal letter warning of their intention to seek a judicial review in the High
Court if the advice is not changed.

Peter Walsh, the AvMA chief executive, said the step had been taken reluctantly,
after previous efforts to persuade ministers to tackle the issue fell on deaf
ears. He said: "It is outrageous that after all we have heard about the need for
more openness and honesty in the NHS that the Department of Health continues to
leave the door open for NHS bodies to use potential claims for clinical
negligence as an excuse not to provide a truthful investigation and response to
a complaint."

Following the scandal at Mid Staffordshire Foundation trust, where up to 1,200
patients died amid appalling failings in care, ministers have promised to
introduce a "duty of candour" for the NHS, which means hospitals are legally
obliged to admit to medical blunders.

But the charity said such pledges were "meaningless" if hospitals were able to
block questions from relatives because a case might end up in court.

A dossier compiled by the charity has uncovered a number of cases in which
hospital trusts and the NHS Ombudsman have refused to examine complaints simply
because patients have been considering taking legal action.

Mr Walsh said: "What is really sinister about this is that patients are being
denied access to justice. Patients and relatives who complain about care should
be given the facts about what went on, regardless of whether they intend to make
a claim for negligence."

New cover-up 'Systemic issues' reference deleted

Evidence of a further cover-up at the NHS watchdog has been uncovered in emails
which show senior figures knew of "systemic" failings at a hospital maternity
unit.

Regional officials at the Care Quality Commission, discussing a response to
media queries about Morecambe Bay NHS trust in January 2010, agreed to delete a
reference to "systemic issues" at the unit, where 14 babies were later found to
have died. The CQC said it had published an independent report into the
regulation of Morecambe Bay and did not wish to comment further.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2013 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


