                              313 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            Sunday Tribune (Ireland)

                                 June 24, 2007

Irish victims to testify at MRSA conference

BYLINE: Ali Bracken

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. N04

LENGTH: 437 words


An international conference on the MRSA superbug will this week hear harrowing
testimony from several Irish victims of the disease about how it has changed
their lives. The conference, which has been organised by the MRSA & Families
network, will take place in Trinity College, Dublin on Tuesday and as well as
personal stories from sufferers it will hear from a number of international
medical and legal experts on the social and financial cost of MRSA and other
hospital-acquired infections.

Among the speakers will be Tony Kavanagh, an MRSA survivor living in Galway, one
of hundreds of people who contracted the superbug in hospital and who is now
taking legal action, citing medical negligence. He went into a Dublin hospital a
relatively fit and healthy man for a routine operation in 2004 at age 54. It was
his first ever stay at hospital and he wasn't worried. But while there, he
contracted the superbug and almost died in the coming months.

Three years later, Kavanagh still hasn't been able to return to work, and
probably never will, because of ongoing health problems. "It was a routine
operation but it became a life-changing experience that will plague the rest of
my life. It affected my whole family. Our life, as we knew it, was over. But I
know I'm one of the lucky ones. I'm alive."

Kavanagh's operation to improve blood circulation in his legs was successful and
he was discharged a few days later only to be rushed back to hospital as an
emergency case as he had developed MRSA in some of his surgical wounds. "I was
only given a 30% chance of survival. Later, I flat-lined during a procedure and
nearly bled to death."

Kavanagh stressed taking legal action against the hospital was as much about
acknowledgment that he contracted the superbug in hospital because of
sub-standard hygiene as it was about compensation. "What we are all really
looking for is an apology."

The legal advisor to the MRSA & Families group will address the conference on
the progression of the various legal cases. Dr Betsy McCaughey, founder of the
US Committee to Reduce Infection Deaths, will address the conference on new
technologies to make eradication of infections possible. "We have compelling
evidence that 90% of hospital-acquired infections can be eradicated if simple
measures are introduced.

"It is shocking that for so long both governments and hospitals have denied that
there is no connection between cleanliness and safety from infection," she said.
The day-long conference will also hear from Dr Ian Hosein, of the NHS hospital
trust in Cardiff and Vale, who will speak about a holistic approach to MRSA
prevention.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2007 The Sunday Tribune plc
                              All Rights Reserved


