                              33 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                           The Daily Yomiuri (Tokyo)

                            July 12, 2000, Wednesday

Brain-death tests give doctors great leeway

BYLINE: Koichi Yasuda Yomiuri Shimbun Staff Writer ; Yomiuri

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 835 words


Tests to determine whether a patient at Fukuoka Tokushukai Hospital was legally
brain-dead were conducted twice this month. Experts worry that the case could
call into question the validity of standards used to determine legal brain
death.

On July 3, Fukuoka Tokushukai Hospital conducted the set of medical tests
stipulated by law to determine whether a teenage girl was legally brain-dead.

Among the required battery of tests conducted to determine whether the brain
stem--considered essential in maintaining life--had stopped functioning, one
revealed that certain functions were still intact. The doctors decided to
conduct another examination four days later, on the evening of July 7.

Another case in which doctors suspended tests for legal determination of brain
death occurred in June, at Fujita Gakuen Health University Hospital in Aichi
Prefecture.

The medical team at this hospital conducted the tests used to determine legal
brain death three times in three days. Only the last set of tests were
completed.

The first two rounds of tests were suspended, according to the hospital, because
a muscle relaxant that had been administered to the patient prior to the
diagnosis of brain-death was discovered to have remained in the patient's
system, resulting in possible inaccuracies in the test results.

According to the Organ Transplant Law, hospitals are required to examine
patients in five different areas--including whether the patient has been in a
deep coma--before the patient is pronounced brain-dead.

Clinical testing usually takes place prior to the legal examinations, and they
normally should use the same medical standards, excluding the test that checks
to see if the patient is able to breathe without the help of a respirator. For
example, both types of tests examine the reflexive function of the brain stem.

In the Fukuoka Tokushukai Hospital case, there was a discrepancy in the results
of the clinical testing and the legal tests, concerning the coughing reflex
related to the brain stem.

This discrepancy has led many experts to question whether the clinical testing
for determining brain death is adequate.

Hideharu Karasawa, head of the neurosurgery department at Funabashi Municipal
Medical Center in Chiba Prefecture said, "It is extremely rare for brain
functions that were not confirmed in the clinical diagnosis to be confirmed in
legal tests."

"It could point to a lax diagnosis in the initial determination of brain death.
A detailed study of what occurred during the procedures is necessary," he said.

Because of failure to conclusively determine brain death after successive tests,
experts have raised various concerns, including fears about the gap that exists
between clinical diagnosis of brain death--which occurs on a daily basis in
hospitals to decide whether to use treatment to prolong life--and the legal
determination of brain death, for the purpose of carrying out organ transplants.

Prior to the enactment of the Organ Transplant Law three years ago, many
expressed concern that hospitals "experienced" in clinical brain-death
procedures may not necessarily be aware of how to carry out the legally required
testing.

While the Health and Welfare Ministry as well as the Japan Organ Transplant
Network both ultimately supported the two hospitals' decisions, placing too much
emphasis on the random clinical judgments of the doctors could lead to serious
errors in determining legal brain death.

Since the enactment of the law, there were thought to be problems in the legal
tests of five of the nine cases in which patients were declared legally
brain-dead.

The hospitals involved had not even been aware of the problems until they were
pointed out by a group of experts. The recent cases of successive tests having
to be carried out show that, if something is not done, future mistakes could
occur.

Danger signs are already surfacing. In the cases of Tokushukai and Fujita Gakuen
hospitals, the hospitals tried to cover up their failed attempts to determine
brain deaths--claiming they were not legal examinations--which created confusion
when the Japan Organ Transplant Network revealed that there in fact had been
such attempts to carry out legally required testing.

The Health and Welfare Ministry is of the same opinion as the network officials
that legal testing took place. In both cases, the network played a role in
obtaining approvals for organ transplants by the families of dying patients.

The ministry is of the view that if tests are conducted after the approval of
the patient's family is obtained, then they are considered legal examinations.

However, neither the ministry nor the network has taken concrete steps to
alleviate the problem, and they should be criticized for leaving too much to the
discretion of doctors.

They should work to make the determination of brain-death more transparent as
well as mandate that no life-and-death decisions should be made in ignorance of
the law.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                       Copyright 2000 The Yomiuri Shimbun


