                              315 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          The Guardian - Final Edition

                            October 21, 2013 Monday

Stop rejecting complaints by patients, hospitals told

BYLINE: Denis Campbell, Health correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 696 words


Hospitals will be banned from refusing to investigate complaints from patients
harmed by poor care who may also sue for damages, after campaigners condemned
the practice as an illegal and unfair denial of patients' rights.

Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary, is moving to end the situation whereby some
hospitals decide not to look into a complaint or to halt an investigation simply
because the patient or relatives have also launched a lawsuit - or even just
sought legal advice about doing so.

The Department of Health (DH) has agreed to issue new guidance to all NHS
organisations in England telling them to look into all complaints, regardless of
the possibility of being sued. It was forced to act after the patient safety
charity Action against Medical Accidents threatened to seek a judicial review at
the high court.

The charity sought legal advice after patients harmed by medical errors said
they had been warned by hospitals that their complaint would be put on hold if
they went to court or even considered doing so, despite the practice being
outlawed by the DH in 2009. "They had insult added to injury by this denial of
their rights," said Peter Walsh, the group's chief executive. Some hospital
trust websites still state they will not investigate complaints in such
circumstances, even though the NHS constitution says every complaint has to be
looked into properly.

The charity's lawyers told Hunt it had identified "a significant and persistent
problem in that NHS trusts are halting or abandoning investigations into
complaints made under the complaints procedures once there has been any
indication that legal action is being contemplated or will be taken at some
future point". It blamed the DH's "muddled and counterproductive" advice to
trusts on how to implement the 2009 regulations that supposedly ended the
practice.

"Refusing to investigate complaints if people exercise their civil right to take
legal action is deeply unfair and a disgraceful abuse of patients' rights, which
is also totally at odds with government pronouncements about openness," said
Walsh. "The practice of some NHS trusts has been totally unacceptable, seemingly
designed to hide facts that may assist a claimant or deter claims, and totally
contrary to stated policy, which requires hospitals to be open when someone has
been harmed."

The fact that hospitals have been able to reject or ignore grievances has added
to concerns about the complaints system. Patients have described encountering a
wall of silence when they complain, along with staff closing ranks and a refusal
to be honest about what went wrong. The NHS ombudsman recently criticised the
"toxic cocktail of reluctance by patients to complain and defensiveness by
hospitals in handling complaints (which) means concerns and complaints are going
unheard or unaddressed". A review of the system, ordered by David Cameron after
the Mid Staffordshire scandal, is to report soon.

Jeremy Taylor, chief executive of National Voices, which represents health
charities, said: "Patients and families have a clear legal right to have all
complaints investigated as confirmed in the NHS constitution. It is not
acceptable for any organisation providing services to the NHS to breach this
duty. The possibility of legal action does not provide a legitimate reason for
trusts to fail to investigate."

A DH spokesman said: "We expect the NHS to respond to all complaints" in all but
"exceptional circumstances in which a complaint is put on hold because the trust
and complainant have been discussing its timing and handling", he said. This is
often linked to a legal claim.

Meanwhile, Hunt has been accused of backtracking on a key recommendation in the
report into Mid Staffs. Earl Howe, the health minister, confirmed last week that
the "duty of candour" on hospitals proposed by Robert Francis QC, obliging them
to tell patients about mistakes, would only apply to cases resulting in death or
serious injury. Francis had said it should cover those where death or serious
harm "may have" resulted from a blunder.

Captions:

Jeremy Hunt is to ban hospitals from refusing to look at a complaint because the
patient has launched a lawsuit

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2013 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


