                              309 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Business Day (South Africa)

                                 April 10, 2007
                              Business Day Edition

Case of detained TB patients on hold

BYLINE: Chantelle Benjamin

SECTION: HEALTH; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 393  words


Case of detained TB patients on hold

Johannesburg Metro Editor

A COURT case brought by 13 patients with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis
(MDR-TB), who want to be released from Sizwe Tuberculosis Hospital on the East
Rand and treated as outpatients, was postponed last week so that their newly
appointed legal counsel can familiarise themselves with the case.

The issue grabbed headlines recently when Gauteng's health department obtained a
court order compelling the patients to stay in hospital. The patients allegedly
tried to escape from Pretoria West Tuberculosis Hospital and return to their
families.

The case is considered an important legal test that could provide clarity for
other provinces with similar problems.

Legal counsel were appointed last Thursday after Johannesburg High Court judge
Kathleen Satchwell threatened to release the patients and jail two Gauteng
health department's representatives on Wednesday for not providing the patients
with proper legal representation as requested.

The department said yesterday the order compelling the patients to stay in
hospital was extended until the case was concluded. The 13 patients had
absconded from Pretoria West Tuberculosis Hospital last month, and turned up at
Sizwe, where they had been treated before.

Departmental spokesman Vusi Sibiya said at the time that the interim interdict
to prevent them from leaving the hospital until they were cured was to stop them
infecting other people. "As outpatients they pose a great risk to anyone who is
not infected."

Democratic Alliance Gauteng health spokesman Jack Bloom said yesterday it was
important the court did dismiss the case on a technicality. "I agree with the
department that MDR-TB patients are a danger to the community, and should be
kept until they are cured, but the department should have reacted more speedily
to the judge's order that it provide legal representation for the patients,"
said Bloom.

"This has been an avoidable embarrassment that I hope does not prejudice the
department in this important matter."

Gauteng, which has good resources, has a 64% cure rate for ordinary
tuberculosis.

Last week, the World Health Organisation said it planned to help SA improve
measures for controlling tuberculosis and gain a deeper understanding of the
deadly new drug-resistant strains of the disease that emerged in KwaZulu-Natal
last year.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2007 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


