                              314 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           September 19, 2016 Monday

Health dept fails to appoint 32 required MLO in Karachi

SECTION: Vol. 09 No. 259

LENGTH: 309  words


The Medico-Legal Department of Karachi is facing acute shortage of male and
female medico-legal officers (MLOs) since last several months. An official at
Sindh health department on condition of anonymity said as many as 32 post were
lying vacant in medico-legal department of Karachi since last several months
that had put extra-burden on existing MLOs. The official informed that there
were 71 sanctioned posts in the department, out of which 32 were lying vacant in
the city. He further informed that there were 18 sanctioned posts of senior MLOs
in Karachi, out of which eight were lying vacant, there were four posts of Sr.
woman MLOs, out of them one was lying vacant, 19 posts of MLOs were lying
vacant, out of total 35 were sanctioned, while three posts were lying vacant out
of total five posts.

The police surgeon post is being run on temporary basis since one year. He said
according to the provincial health department, there should be 10 MLOs in each
tertiary hospital but in reality, only four hospitals, including Jinnah
Postgraduate Medical Center, Civil Hospital Karachi, Abbasi Shaheed Hospital and
Sindh Government Qatar Hospital, had MLOs. Several posts are lying vacant in
medico-legal department while strength of MLOs is also not increased with surge
of cases. He informed that ideally there should be at least four women and six
male MLOs in every hospital, but doctors were not interested in this job due to
the poor security situation of the city. He said non-availability of women MLOs
was also becoming a big issue as most families do not allow a male officer to
perform the postmortem of their female relative. Police Surgeon Karachi, Dr Ejaz
Ahmed Khokhar, said a request had been sent to authorities concerned of health
department for appointment of male and female MLOs against vacant posts to
overcome the officers shortage.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


