                              310 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             Evening News (Norwich)

                            February 6, 2007 Tuesday

BYLINE: POWLESD

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 894 words


A woman has launched legal action against the Norfolk and Norwich University
Hospital after her husband contracted a killer bug while being treated on its
stroke unit.

Margaret Barkshire's husband Leonard caught MRSA after having a feeding tube -
known as a canula - fitted.

The 72-year-old was recovering from a stroke and his wife claims the disease has
slowed down his recovery.

His case has raised further questions about cleanliness and hygiene standards at
the hospital.

Mrs Barkshire, 60, claims the hospital was negligent towards her husband, who
was on Gunthorpe Ward for more than four months, and is taking legal advice
ahead of suing hospital bosses.

"My husband's stay in hospital was a total horror story," she said today.

"He caught MRSA and it nearly killed him. He had a stroke and because he
couldn't eat or take antibiotics normally so they fed him through a tube.

"Through this he caught MRSA and I feel it is only right to take legal action.
That hospital cost millions to build and yet an old man can be given a killer
bug just through a feeding tube."

The father-of-four from Harsnett Close, Bowthorpe, was admitted to the Colney
hospital in June last year after a stroke and spent nine days in a coma before
being cared for on the ward.

He was moved to Norwich Community Hospital just before Christmas.

Hospital bosses admitted Mr Barkshire did contract MRSA at the hospital after
being "a carrier" prior to his visit.

Canulas are used when a patient is unable to receive food, fluids or medication
in any other way and they are supposed to be sterilised pieces of equipment.

However if they are exposed to air where MRSA is present they can easily become
rife with the bug and through it can enter a person's bloodstream directly
through the canula, which in his case was inserted into his left arm.

Mrs Barkshire said: "When I lodged the complaint the doctor on Gunthorpe Ward
tried to tell me my husband brought MRSA with him on his skin but if even if
that was the case it still got into his bloodstream through the canula.

"The nurses responsible for the ward that day should have ensured my husband was
receiving the basic standard of care expected.

"The MRSA made him vulnerable, impaired and slowed down his recovery. Len was
starting to get better. He was looking more alert and he seemed to have been
making a good recovery.

"Now we will never know because his body was ravaged with the bug. My husband
has suffered a lot and so have the family because of a mistake by the hospital."

Mrs Barkshire claims even though her husband was in an isolated room after he
contracted MRSA staff were walking in and out of his room and attending to other
patients without changing their uniforms.

Although MRSA rates are not increasing, they are not falling and hospital bosses
failed to hit the government target to reduce infection rates by 20pc last year.

Norwich North MP Dr Ian Gibson warned that this could be the first of many legal
actions brought by patients and their families because of infections like MRSA.

He said: "With infections in hospitals unlikely to go away I'm afraid that this
might be the start of several such cases. I would urge hospital to be even more
vigilant about preventing the ways that various bacteria, like MRSA and
clostridium, may be brought into a hospital by anyone."

An exclusive Evening News report revealed nurses were flouting Royal College of
Nursing guidelines by wearing uniforms to and from work, increasing the risk of
spreading killer superbugs.

Keith Hall, 59, launched the Norwich MRSA Support Group after his wife Anne died
of the bug at the N&N. He has agreed to go take on Mr Barkshire's case and will
be attending a meeting with the family and hospital bosses in the next few
weeks.

"It is terrible that this has happened again at the hospital," he said. "The
fact the MRSA was even present before a canula was fitted points even more to
the fact that everyone should be tested for the disease before any treatment."

Health bosses have spent the past few years fighting MRSA as well as bugs such
as clostridium difficile. In December the hospital was also hit by an outbreak
of PVL (Panton Valentine Leukocidin) infection in it's 28-cot neo-natal ward.

Alfie Randall died at the age of 26 weeks from the bug. His parents Karlene, 20,
and Ian, 23, have sought legal advice before setting up a meeting with hospital
bosses.

A spokeswoman for the N&N said today: "We can confirm that Mrs Barkshire has
made a formal complaint to the N&N and we have written to her and met with her
in recent weeks.

"Mr Barkshire did suffer from MRSA while being treated for a stroke on Gunthorpe
Ward. We believe he was a carrier of the bug when he came into hospital and
developed an infection after having a canula inserted. Around a third of the
population carry this bacteria on their skin and an infection can be triggered
in vulnerable patients when it is exposed to an open wound.

"When Mr Barkshire was admitted to the N&N with a severe stroke his chances of
survival were slim. However, as a result of all the good care and treatment he
received from the medical and nursing staff whilst on the Stroke Unit, he
survived and is now being cared for on Goshawk ward at Norwich Community
Hospital."

t Do you have a health story for the Evening News? Call health reporter Sarah
Hall on 01603 772426 or email sarah.hall2@archant.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: EEN


                    Copyright 2007 Archant Regional Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


