                              311 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                            January 4, 2007 Thursday
                                   1 Edition

Kaiser sued by other hospitals over bills;
$16 million statewide lawsuit includes 9 local facilities that claim the health
care giant has not honored contracts.

BYLINE: By COURTNEY PERKES; The Orange County Register

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. Cover_D

LENGTH: 434 words


Nine local hospitals are part of a statewide lawsuit againstKaiser Permanente,
claiming the managed care giant owes $16 million in medical bills.

About 20 hospitals owned or formerly owned byTenet Healthcare Corp.of Dallas
filed the lawsuit Dec. 29 in Orange County Superior Court. The suit alleges that
Oakland-based Kaiser failed to pay rates set by contract from 2000 to 2004.

Kaiser is the county's largest insurer with about 371,000 members. Spokesman Jim
Anderson said Wednesday that it was premature to discuss the allegations because
attorneys had not yet been served with the suit.

"It's a complex legal dispute that will be resolved in the legal arena," he
said.

Kaiser provides all-in-one service, including doctor's visits, prescriptions and
hospital stays. But with only one Kaiser hospital currently open in the county,
in Anaheim, some local Kaiser patients have to go outside the system for
emergency room visits or baby deliveries.

"Financial stability for a hospital is part and parcel to the reimbursement that
it receives," said Tenet spokesman Steven Campanini. "That results in the
hospital providing high-quality care."

In its lawsuit, Tenet says Kaiser paid less than negotiated rates for hospital
care. In some cases, Tenet says Kaiser refused to pay bills altogether, saying
the patient's medical condition wasn't life-threatening.

The dispute stems from old contracts, which were replaced in 2004, Tenet
officials said.

Such legal disputes are uncommon, said Orange-based health care consultant Stan
Otake. Though recently, tensions between hospitals and managed care companies
have been growing over contract rates.

The county's newest hospital owner, Dr. Prem Reddy, canceled managed care
contracts at his three local hospitals last year, saying the HMOs didn't pay
enough to cover expenses at Huntington Beach Hospital, La Palma Intercommunity
and West Anaheim Medical Center. Instead, Reddy's hospitals bill insurers,
including Kaiser, higher rates when their patients end up in a Reddy-owned
emergency room.

"If I'm a hospital operator, why sign a Kaiser contract? Those patients land at
your door anyway," Otake said.

The local Tenet hospitals involved in the suit are: Fountain Valley Regional
Hospital, Garden Grove Hospital, Irvine Regional Hospital, Los Alamitos Medical
Center and Placentia Linda Hospital.

Four former Tenet hospitals in the county also sued: Western Medical Centers in
Santa Ana and Anaheim, Chapman Medical Center in Orange and Coastal Communities
Hospital in Santa Ana.

SUED:Kaiser Permanente has medical offices in Irvine.

714-796-3686 or  cperkes@ocregister.com

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

