                              324 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    November 21, 1995, Tuesday, City Edition

City seeks mediation on hospital

BYLINE: DEANNA BELLANDI

SECTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 714 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



(ran NS, S editions of TAMPA BAY AND STATE)

The City Commission and Health Facilities Authority want to hire a referee  to
settle their disputes with the private foundation that runs Helen Ellis
Memorial Hospital.

Monday they asked the foundation to drop a lawsuit it filed last month  against
the city and agree to let a mediator work out their differences,  avoiding a
costly legal battle.

Both sides already have spent more than $ 100,000 on legal bills in the
dispute. Last week voters overwhelmingly rejected a move by the City  Commission
to sell Helen Ellis, a non-profit, 150-bed hospital.

"This request evidences a good faith effort to resolve the dispute between  the
parties," wrote Barbara Pankau, an attorney for the city, in a letter to  James
Kennedy of Tampa, an attorney for Helen Ellis.

Monday was the deadline for the city to respond to the lawsuit, in which  the
foundation asked a judge to clear up disputes in the foundation's lease of  the
city-owned hospital land and buildings. The foundation's lease with the  city is
through the Health Facilities Authority.

The foundation's lawsuit was in response to an Oct. 5 letter from Pankau
telling the foundation that it risked defaulting on its lease if it didn't pay
more than $ 12,000 in legal fees rung up by the authority in the battle over
the future of the hospital.

The hospital has questioned those legal fees, although Pankau has contended
that it is required to pay them.

Hospital officials couldn't comment late Monday because they hadn't seen  the
city's mediation proposal. But when told about the city's offer, hospital
administrator Joe Kiefer proclaimed it "interesting."

Whether to drop the lawsuit and go to mediation will be a decision of the
hospital's 11-member governing board, Kiefer said.

John Tarapani, chairman of the city's Health Facilities Authority, said  Monday
he hopes the offer will be accepted.

"The city has other things to spend their money on . . . and the  foundation
ought to be spending their money on health-care needs, and neither  one of us
should be spending what we perceive to be public money on large  legal bills,"
he said.

Pankau's letter suggests that the parties share the cost of mediation, with  a
mediator chosen from some place other than Tarpon Springs, such as Orlando  or
Miami. She also suggested that there be two rounds of mediation - one  between
the City Commission and the foundation, the other between the Health  Facilities
Authority and the foundation.

Exactly what issues a professional mediator would try to resolve would be
defined at the start of mediation.

But City Manager Costa Vatikiotis and Pankau offered a few early  suggestions.

The City Commission and Health Facilities Authority need better definitions  of
the roles they will have in governing the hospital. And some changes the
authority wants to make to the hospital's lease have to be discussed.

Those proposed changes include spelling out the authority's right to  terminate
the hospital's lease on 30-days notice once Helen Ellis' debt is  paid off, as
well as making it clear that all assets of the hospital revert to  the city at
the end of the foundation's lease, which expires in 2021.

The changes also would make the hospital's license site-specific so Helen  Ellis
couldn't be moved.

"The clients really are very interested in putting an end to this,"  Pankau
said.

It's not clear yet who would take part in these mediation sessions if they
occur, but Vatikiotis suggested that he and Kiefer might take on that
responsibility.

Also included with Pankau's letter to hospital attorney Kennedy was a court
motion asking that the lawsuit be dismissed. Both were faxed to Kennedy late
Monday afternoon.

Pankau said the city's motion to dismiss was included for procedural  reasons in
case the offer for mediation was refused. Many of the city's  arguments for
dismissal are based on legal technical errors it says are in the  foundation's
lawsuit.

Commissioner Cindy Domino, who has supported the hospital and not her  fellow
commissioners in this debate over Helen Ellis, said she liked the  mediation
idea.

"I think it's a great idea and it's one I would encourage," she said.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CLEARWATER TIMES; NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; TAMPA BAY AND STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO, (2); CINDY DOMINO (ran CT, NT); COSTA VATIKIOTIS
(ran CT, NT)

                    Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company


