                              321 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                     Herald

                          September 14, 1988 Wednesday

Force feed our dying daughters, parents plead

LENGTH: 588 words


SYDNEY Two teenage Sydney girls, suffering from anorexia nervosa and dangerously
ill in hospital, are seeking a court ruling to stop them being force fed.

But the parents of the two girls are planning to fight the legal action, fearing
their daughters will die if they win the case and leave hospital.

The Legal Aid Commission is providing counsel for the girls in a bizarre case
which is looming as a legal landmark.

One girl who has been ill for about five years is just pathetically "skin and
bones", hospital orderlies said today.

The girls, 17 and 19, are apparently disillusioned and depressed about life and
have separately told friends "they don't want to live in this world any longer".

All pleas from parents, other relatives and friends have failed to revive their
motivation to live normally.

Both were admitted to the Macquarie Hospital, Sydney, several weeks ago
suffering from the dieter's illness, anorexia nervosa.

Doctors are adamant the disease is one of the mind. But a senior judge has ruled
it does not amount to mental illness.

This has thrown the magistrate, Mr Geoffrey Thomas, into a legal quandary in a
litigious battle over whether the girls should be released from hospital. Mr
Thomas has begun preliminary hearings of the application.

Any legal ruling in their favor may set a precedent for euthanasia, legal
authorities said today.

Macquarie Hospital today would not release details of the girls' treatment.

But other doctors say the normal treatment for dangerously ill victims of
anorexia nervosa was to firmly strap their arms by their side and force feed
them by tube through intravenous injection.

An alternate way was forced stomach feeding.

The parents of the 17-year-old girl, who for moral and legal reasons cannot be
identified, are distressed about the legal battle.

"I just don't know what went wrong, she was full of life, sang and entertained
at social functions.She was a delight to our heart," her mother said.

"She did well at school, played sport and appeared to have everything to live
for. Then suddenly, she developed a fear of putting on weight, refused to eat
and became very ill." The girl's mother said psychiatrists' sessions were no
help.

"We didn't want to bring her to this psychiatric centre, but we were
financially, mentally and emotionally at the end of our resources . . .and there
was just this last hope that here the answer might be found," she said.

"Now this body called legal aid wants to allow her to cast herself out into the
world again, a world we know holds no cure for her.

"There may be some hope here, at least they will keep her alive and functioning
as healthily as possible."

From the magistrate's hearing, expected to be held at the hospital this week,
the matter would go the District Court, then to the Supreme Court.

It would then be finally held at a higher federal jurisdiction in Canberra.

Facts on anorexia nervosa About one teenager in 200 has anorexia, a
psychological and glandular disorder characterised by a pathological fear of
gaining weight.

Some anorexic patients think they are fat even though dangerously thin. Some
will continue dieting even though close to death.

It occurs mostly in teenage girls, but doctors recently have noted it in some
elderly women.

About 50 per cent of patients recover with understanding and counselling. The
rest usually have continued ill-health.

Some doctors have estimated the mortality rate to be as high as 15 per cent.

END OF STORY

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: DHD

                   Copyright 1988 Nationwide News Pty Limited


