                              320 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Dawn (Pakistan)

                              April 6, 2015 Monday

Paucity of funds badly affects ASH functions

SECTION: Vol. LXIX No. 95

LENGTH: 454  words


Scores of medico-legal reports pertaining to the Abbasi Shaheed Hospital (ASH)
are pending as they could not be issued due to non-availability of X-ray films
thus affecting the cases in the relevant courts, it emerged here on Sunday.

Sources in the city health authorities said because of non-availability of X-ray
films the relevant radiologist was unable to give his/her opinion there, the
medico-legal reports could not be issued.

They said in a monthly meeting of criminal justice coordination committee held
in January, the matter relating to medico-legal reports was discussed with polio
surgeon Karachi who in his report informed the committee that 49 medico-legal
reports pertaining to the Abbasi Shaheed Hospital were pending for the
above-mentioned reason.

The number of the pending reports, since then, sources said, had almost doubled,
officials said, adding that due to lack of funds the hospitals medico-legal
section was not just the only underperforming area but the entire hospital was
suffering.

They said various sections of the hospital including MRI, radiology and other
allied facilities were not performing well because of want of funds.

Officials said the working capacity of the ASH had reduced to 25 per cent for
the want of funds, which were not being released by the Sindh government.

The ASH, the largest healthcare facility in control of the Karachi Metropolitan
Corporation (KMC), is beset with many problems. Many of its departments remain
underutilized as it faces a host of administrative and financial difficulties.

Over the years, the number of people visiting the hospitals outpatient
department has declined steadily. The number of people being admitted to its
wards has also shown a decline, with only about one-fourth of its beds being
occupied at any given time, said sources.

The patients and their attendants routinely have to buy medicines from the
market. Officials said the medical superintendent, had been given the power to
authorize expenditure of up to Rs20,000, payment which too is subject to
approval from senior officials. This causes unnecessary delay in payment of
money needed to run the hospital, the sources added.

Officials said the situation relating to the facility had been poor for the past
many years and no meaningful step was being taken to improve the situation.

They said hospital had a capacity of 815 beds. But generally only about 250 beds
were occupied at a given time.

They said the KMC resources were diminishing and the problems and
responsibilities were increasing, therefore, the administration must ensure
running those medical institutions even in worst financial conditions as they
were the only support and ray of hope for the poor and middle class people.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                              Copyright 2015 Dawn
                              All Rights Reserved


