                              326 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                          September 13, 2006 Wednesday

See you in court

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 636 words


Campaigners are taking the fight to preserve hospital services to London's High
Court.

Pressure was today mounting on Yorkshire Wolds and Coast Primary Care Trust
(PCT) to stop its planned closure of Hornsea Cottage Hospital's inpatient ward.

The PCT is to close the ward for six months from Sunday, October 1 because of
staff shortages.

But solicitors acting for two patients have told the PCT they will apply to the
High Court for a judicial review if the decision is not reversed by Friday.

London-based law firm Leigh Day and Co has outlined proposed legal action in a
letter to the PCT.

The patients' legal challenge to prevent the closure has been organised by
Beverley and Holderness MP Graham Stuart, who appealed for patients who would be
eligible for legal aid to come forward.

Now, Hornsea residents Jean Waters and Christine Monkman have answered the call
and the solicitors are acting on their behalf.

Mrs Waters, 59, of Pickering Avenue, suffers from a severe breathing complaint,
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD).

She said: "The hospital is a lifeline for me. I have been in and out of the
hospital since I was diagnosed with COPD 14 years ago, and it will only get
worse, so I'll need the hospital even more in the future.

"If the ward closed, I would face at least an hour's drive to Hull Royal
Infirmary or Castle Hill Hospital, Cottingham, if I had an attack and was
struggling for breath."

Christine Monkman is currently in the hospital being treated on the
closure-threatened ward.

If granted, the judicial review would look at the legality of the PCT's closure
plan, examining whether the correct procedures were followed.

The solicitors argue the PCT did not meet legal requirements, as the closure
decision was taken without consulting patients or East Riding Council's NHS
overview and scrutiny committee.

Their letter to the PCT states that unless it confirms it is reversing the
decision by Friday, the patients will apply for a judicial review and "interim
relief will be sought to reinstate admissions to the hospital".

MP Graham Stuart thanked everyone who got in touch with him about the legal
challenge and added: "It is reassuring to know people feel so strongly about
their community hospital and we hope to get the  decision overturned."

Ten of the ward's 22 beds were closed earlier this year. There were 92
admissions from January to June.

East Riding Council's overview and scrutiny committee met yesterday and decided
to ask the PCT to go out to public consultation on the closure.

Committee chairman Councillor Rowan Blake-James said: "We appreciate the PCT is
in a nightmare scenario trying to balance the books, but the proposal is a
substantial variation on the trust's turnaround plan, which did not mention bed
or hospital closures.

"We are entrusted with a role to represent the community and, on balance, we
will be requesting a public consultation."

PCT chairman Karen Knapton told the committee: "Hand on heart, it was not our
intention to temporarily close the ward.

"But we cannot look at beds in Hornsea Cottage Hospital in total isolation - we
have to look at the bigger picture across the area. This is about having things
clinically safe for all staff and patients, and managing the budget."

Unions acting for 60 staff at the hospital say they are angry they were not
consulted.

John Fleming, regional officer for public sector trade union Unison, said: "We
have advised staff not to co-operate with the PCT over any temporary positions
they may be offered until the ward is re-opened. The unions are also calling for
meaningful talks with the trust to get this devastating decision reversed."

Other unions involved in the action are Amicus and the Royal College of Nursing.

d.taylor@hdmp.co.uk

Links

Unison

www.unison.org.uk

Yorkshire Wolds and Coast PCT

www.eastridingpcts.nhs.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


