                              325 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 21, 2013 Monday

HOSPITALS TOLD: PROBE ALL COMPLAINTS

BYLINE: BY NICK MCDERMOTT SCIENCE REPORTER

LENGTH: 271 words


HOSPITALS must investigate allegations of medical blunders - even if it exposes
them to the threat of legal action.

Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt said the NHS was obliged to respond to all patient
complaints of poor care.

The guidance came as it emerged some hospitals have refused to investigate
concerns or halted inquiries, even if the aggrieved parties only sought legal
advice.

The practice should have been banned in 2009, so that hospitals could not use
concerns over a potential claim as a reason to deny an investigation.

But health campaigners say confusing NHS guidance has allowed some hospitals to
ignore patient grievances in the face of costly legal claims.

Now Mr Hunt has agreed to issue new regulations after lawyers for the charity
Action against Medical Accidents threatened to take the matter to judicial
review. Hospitals will have to look into all complaints, regardless of the
possibility of future legal action.

Peter Walsh, the charity's chief executive, said: It's a good step that Jeremy
Hunt has decided to issue fresh guidance. We have been promised we will be able
to help draft the new guidance to hospitals making it absolutely crystal clear
they cannot refuse to investigate a complaint in the face of litigation, or to
avoid a possible future case.'

A Department of Health spokesman said: We expect the NHS to respond to all
complaints raised.

Following the .?.?. terrible events at Mid Staffs we asked Ann Clwyd MP and
Professor Tricia Hart to undertake a review into how NHS organisations handle
complaints. They will report later this autumn and we look forward to seeing
their findings.'

© Daily Mail

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2013 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


