                              322 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             March 9, 2003, Sunday

NO LEGAL BAR TO PREVENT FOUNDATION HOSPITALS BECOMING COMPANIES

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH POLITICAL EDITOR Milburn: new hospitals will not be
shareholder-led

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 402 words


Health department officials have run legal checks to see whether EU law would
prevent them from converting the new NHS foundation hospitals into companies.

The fact that the inquiry was made will exacerbate concerns on the Labour left
that Tony Blair's zeal for reform could lead to the break up of the NHS.

Legal advisers at the Department of Trade and Industry, who received the
inquiry, said there is no EU law which would prevent St Thomas' Hospital, for
example, from being incorporated as the St Thomas' Hospital Foundation Company.

More than 100 Labour MPs have declared their opposition. They say it would
create a "two-tier"NHS, where the best treatment is reserved for patients at
foundation hospitals.

Their suspicions have been heightened by draft legislation circulating in
Whitehall with the ominous-sounding title of the Health and Social Care
(Foundation Companies) Bill.

The Health Secretary, Alan Milburn, has now ordered it to be changed to the more
innocent-sounding Community Health Care Bill.

A spokesman for Mr Milburn said: "We have talked about the idea of public
interest companies, because there will have to be some sort of legal basis for
these foundation hospitals.

"What they will not be is profit-making companies, or shareholder-led companies.
That was never the case."

Tony Blair and Mr Milburn see it as making the NHS more efficient. The hospitals
will have greater freedom to run their financial affairs - being allowed to
borrow money from private sources. But critics say they would cherry-pick
patients to generate extra cash. One way would be to take on extra private
patients, but Mr Milburn said legislation will set a legal limit.

Another way would be to concentrate on patients who can be treated and
discharged quickly, and refusing to accept chronically or terminally ill
patients, raising concerns that commercial pressures might motivate hospitals to
discharge patients too quickly.

The former health secretary, Frank Dobson, has warned that the Government is now
treading the same path as the Conservatives when they created an "internal
market" in the NHS 15 years ago, a reform which Labour reversed.

He said: "They really haven't listened to any of the objections, the fundamental
objection being that it introduces competition, and we know how harmful
competition was last time."

Blair's other war, pages 16-17

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2003 Independent Print Ltd


