                              332 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                  Long Island Business News (Long Island, NY)

                                  May 18, 2007

Proof burden, consent forms help contain lawsuit epidemic

BYLINE: Claude Solnik

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 367  words


In a litigation-mad nation, you'd think an estimated 100,000 annual deaths from
infections incurred in hospitals would prompt a lawsuit epidemic, but that's not
the case.

There are many reasons why families rarely sue in such instances - and why
lawyers rarely take such cases.

At the top of the list: Even if someone contracts an infection in a hospital,
it's extremely difficult to prove negligence. Jack Genser, a member of Melville
law firm Genser, Dubow, Genser & Cona, said that's just one of several
significant obstacles to winning such suits.

"Overcoming your burden of proof in finding the genesis of the infection is so
incredibly difficult," said Genser, whose grandmother died of pneumonia
contracted during a hospital stay.

Also on the list: People in hospitals often have compromised immune systems,
making them susceptible to infection even when proper procedures are followed.
And most hospitals have built-in legal protection in the form of consent forms
signed by patients and physicians, stating patients are apprised of risks
including infection.

Maureen Daly, who believes her mother died from a hospital-acquired infection,
didn't sue the hospital. "It feels like the hospitals are covered," she said.
"They're protected, and the patients are not. "

Kevin Dahill, chief executive of the Hauppauge-based Nassau Suffolk Hospital
Council, said patients don't sign away their right to sue simply because they
sign a consent form. If a doctor or other hospital staffer is negligent, Dahill
said, it's possible to win in court.

Daly said a hospital administrator told her the only way she would find out how
the hospital thinks her mother contracted the infection would be through a court
order. She said she contacted a hospital risk manager whom she believed could
help her, but "later found out her job was to prevent the hospital from being
sued. "

"She was not on our side at all," Daly said.

Dahill said that kind of hard-line approach is not the best practice. "It's a
very ill-informed way of handling it," he said. "I think it's a remnant of a
years-gone-by practice that hopefully will disappear. It makes the patient and
family more angry and leaves them with no choice but to sue. "

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

