                              328 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Exeter Express and Echo

                             May 25, 2017 Thursday

Legal fight in offing over hospital bed cuts

SECTION: NEWS:HEALTH; Pg. 14-15

LENGTH: 715  words


TWO legal challenges could be made in the fight to reverse a decision to close
inpatient beds at community hospitals in Devon.

Following the NHS Your Future Care consultation, health commissioners
controversially voted in March to halve the number of inpatient beds in mid and
east Devon, and instead improve care for people at home. Members of the
governing body of NHS Northern, Eastern and Western Devon Clinical Commissioning
Group  opted to reduce the number of beds from 143 to 72, equating to a loss of
71 beds at community hospital beds in Exeter, Seaton, Honiton and Okehampton.

Two separate applications could be made for judicial reviews, the first by the
Royal College of Nursing who have confirmed they are seeking legal advice.

The second is by members of the Save our Hospital Services Honiton Steering
Group, supported by Honiton Hospital League of Friends, who have set up a
JustGiving page to raise £20,500 to pay for a judicial review into the bed
closures.

The steering group has appointed an experienced judicial review barrister who
has said there are two counts on which one could be proposed - illegality of
process and human rights.

Heather Penwarden, chairman of Honiton Hospital League of Friends, said: "A
pre-action letter has been written to NEW Devon CCG which they responded to last
Friday.

"Our legal team has gone through the letter and issued another response asking
for further details of things we are unclear about. They had until May 19 to
respond to it.

"In their last letter, the CCG maintained their position that it is cheaper to
look after people out of hospital, and that they will have adequate services up
and running before closing beds.

"We will then be advised to see if we feel there is a case for a judicial
review. As of yet we don't know what the outcome will be. We are not setting
ourselves up against neighbouring hospitals. We are challenging the whole
process and the total reduction of beds."

To help with the early stages of looking whether to launch a judicial review,
Honiton campaigners have been given £100,000 by Otter Nurseries in Ottery St
Mary, a community which has already lost its hospital beds and was reassured by
the CCG patients could go to Honiton which is now also losing its beds. The
donation has been matched by the Honiton Hospital League of Friends.

On the JustGiving page, which has so far raised just over £1,150, it says: "This
decision followed from a flawed consultation process based on the document Your
Future Care in which Honiton Hospital was not one of the options.

"In addition CCG are unable to explain how they will implement their proposed
new model of care in the community, the costs that will accrue nor how they will
safeguard the sick and vulnerable."

Funding has also come in from further public donations.

Heather added: "Crowdfunding has given us a little bit more money, but a lot of
people have preferred dropping in cheques or money into the hospital which has
so far given us another £5,000 in donations."

It has been reported that Seaton Town Council has abandoned plans to seek a
judicial review over the closure of its local NHS hospital beds, saying it would
be too expensive.

At a recent meeting, members heard the potential cost of such a legal challenge
to the NEW CCG's decision would be at least £100,000.

Neither Seaton Town Council or Seaton Hospital League of Friends said it was in
a financial position to underwrite the cost pending public donations.

However, the council and the league of friends have said they will continue to
fight the decision.

A spokesman for NEW Devon CCG said: "The CCG can confirm that at this point in
time no judicial review proceedings have been received in relation to the Your
Future Care consultation and our decision to implement changes.

"We are currently responding to correspondence in the appropriate manner. We are
currently undertaking the planning work necessary for implementing the changes.

"We have always been clear that no beds will close until we are assured that it
is safe to do so. This assurance will be sought from a panel involving GPs,
consultant geriatricians and others who will review the readiness to implement
the changes."

To make a donation to the Honiton campaigners visit
www.justgiving.com/crowdfunding/honitonhospitalbeds.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


