                              35 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                           October 20, 2016 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

Gauteng's R881mâ[#x20ac]¨legal bill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1026 words


EARLIER this week, DA chief whip of the Gauteng Provincial Legislature Mike
Moriarty revealed that through consolidation of all government departments'
annual reports, the province has spent R881â[#x20ac][0/00]million in legal fees
- almost double that of the previous year, which totalled R469m.

"The biggest spender is the Department of Health, (DOH) whose legal costs
increased from R238mto R569m," said Moriarty, who placed the blame on Gauteng
Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu, labelling her as "callous".

DA Gauteng spokesman for Health Jack Bloom also attacked Mahlangu's conduct that
same day, particularly in dealing with negligence claims.

"Her department is expected to pay out about R1â[#x20ac][0/00]billion this year
in settlement of medical negligence cases," he said.

The Department of Education was next on the list in terms of legal fee spending.
A total of R42m went on legal fees and services - up from R27m.

Also coming up as a big spender on legal fees was the infrastructure development
department, which incurred R46m in legal fees.

"Excessive legal claims and legal fees are a natural consequence of an uncaring
and inefficient government that forces citizens and suppliers to take legal
action.

"As a result, Gauteng's most vulnerable, the poor and unemployed are being
penalised by delayed service delivery due to budgetary constraints," said
â[#x20ac]¨Moriarty.

He blamed Gauteng Premier David Makhura and the ANC government for spending
millions on billboards claiming clean audits in Gauteng, which he described as a
"smokescreen to cover up the reality that the provincial government is still not
delivering".

However, in a comprehensive response to questions by The Star, sister newspaper
of the Pretoria News, the Gauteng Provincial Government (GPG) has explained why,
in particular, the Department of Health has incurred such costs.

"It is clear from our own analysis the departments such as Education, Health,
the Police and others account for the bulk of legal claims against government as
they are at the coalface of government service delivery.

"It is important for us to pay particular attention to the Health Department as
it accounts for over 50% of the claims against government in Gauteng," the
statement began.

According to the GPG, this stems from the fact that Gauteng runs the biggest
public health care system in the entire SADC region. The province services
patients from Gauteng, as well as adjacent provinces (Free State, North West,
Limpopo, and Mpumalanga), at both a primary, tertiary and central level.

The province also hosts the highest number of central hospitals - four in the
entire country, including Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital, Charlotte Maxeke
Johannesburg Academic hospital, Steve Biko Academic Hospital and George Mukhari
Academic Hospital.

These are then supported by three tertiary hospitals, Helen Joseph, Kalafong and
Tembisa Hospitals.

According to GPG, these hospitals service 7.1 million patients annually, as
opposed to the 6 million in KwaZulu-Natal, 3 million in the Eastern Cape and 2
million in the Western Cape.

Because Gauteng remains the country's economic hub, it attracts people searching
for better lives, and according to Stats SA, an average of 200â[#x20ac][0/00]000
people migrate into Gauteng and 70% of these are serviced by the public
healthcare system.

The GPG said that the Department of Health had a total of 67â[#x20ac][0/00]000
employees, with a current budget of R37â[#x20ac][0/00]billion.

According to the GPG's analysis, the reason for such major spending on legal
fees within the DOH is because of litigation against the department, the
majority of which comes from tertiary and central hospitals.

"These hospitals deal mainly with complicated and severe â[#x20ac]¨ailments.

"For example, hospitals such as Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital, has to deal
with complicated pregnancies referred to them by surrounding clinics.

"Tembisa hospital and Charlotte Maxeke Hospital also deal with a lot of
referrals," the GPG statement read.

Globally, the three main sources of litigation in the health care sector are
negligence, malpractice, and adverse events.

According to provincial government, the main areas of litigation include
obstetrics and gynaecology; neuro-surgery; neonatology; and, orthopaedic
surgery.

"The sheer size and shape of our public health system partly explains the high
number of cases against Gauteng.

"In addition and like any other public health system in the world, we also have
incidents of malpractice, negligence and adverse events," the GPG said.

To combat this, the government has vowed in its statement to strengthen its
human resource capacity as it tries to fill all vacant posts and appoint
competent, qualified health professionals.

One particular way to improve these appointments is expected to emerge from a
local partnership with the University of Lancaster to train hospital chief
executives in management and leadership.

The DOH has claimed it is also dealing with incidents of crime, corruption and
collusion within its ranks that have led to legal fee cost increases.

"We have evidence of instances where files are stolen in order to expose the
department to litigation.

"Some of the incidents of stealing of files is done in collusion with our
officials. In cases we find this we do not hesitate to act," the GPG said.

Last month, two members of a syndicate involved in the theft of files at Chris
Hani Baragwanath hospital were arrested.

The GPG believes that this syndicate also has involved law firms and hospital
staff to commit its crimes.

"The modus operandi of some of the syndicates is to target areas such as
cerebral palsy, head injuries, and spine injuries.

"In these cases the lawyers will then calculate future medical care, housing,
special education and contingency fees.

"There is also the distortion of the market for legal services by inflating fees
when dealing with government," GPG said.

"The government is taking practical steps to reduce legal spending through
training and retaining skilled personnel, acting decisively where incidents of
negligence are found, mediation of cases wherever possible, and an establishment
of a Medico-Legal Centre that will systematically co-ordinate work related to
legal claims."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


