                              335 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Birmingham Post

                           September 11, 2006, Monday
                                 First Edition

Legal bill could ruin nurse in beds fight

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 419 words


A former nurse will go to the High Court today in a legal action to save
hospital beds - and faces financial ruin if she loses her case.

Pensioner Pat Morris could be landed with a legal bill of pounds 80,000 after
heading a campaign against cost-cutting hospital bosses.

Mrs Morris, aged 65, has mounted the legal challenge against the closure of two
rehabilitation wards, 26 beds, for older people at Altrincham General Hospital
near Manchester.

She hoped to be granted legal aid but has been told her application has been
turned down - so she must meet the legal bills herself.

She said that although she has a state pension of just pounds 34, because her
husband has a pension she does not qualify for legal aid.

Despite an appeal to the Legal Services Commission, which administers Legal Aid,
it rejected the request by Health in Trafford - a protest group headed by Mrs
Morris.

If the judge at the High Court in London rules in favour of the hospital bosses,
Mrs Morris will be landed with the pounds 80,000 bill to pay for the legal costs
of the health trust and the court for staging the judicial review.

Mrs Morris said: "I will worry about the bill later, I can only deal with one
thing at a time. Think of the financial costs against the physical costs - the
hardship of those beds being closed to the elderly within Altrincham, the
hardship they have to go through when they become ill.

"How can you put financial costs against human costs?"

Mrs Morris will be at the High Court to hear her barrister, acting for free,
argue that Trafford Healthcare Trust "unlawfully" closed the last in-patient
wards at Altrincham because they failed to carry out public consultation.

At a preliminary hearing in June, Mr Justice Collins ruled the trust had an
"arguable" case to answer.

Meanwhile, more than 400 nurses and supporters joined in a protest against the
loss of jobs in the NHS in Birmingham on Saturday.

Health workers met outside St Philip's Cathedral and marched to Carrs Lane
Church centre. Organisers said the march was to raise awareness of job cuts in
the health service.

Up to 1,000 hospital posts are to be lost in Staffordshire, and another 800
posts are to be cut at City Hospital in Birmingham and in Sandwell.

Ann Leedham-Smith, from the Royal College of Nursing, who helped organise the
rally, said: "We want to raise awareness about what is happening. There was huge
support through the centre of Birmingham. "The campaign is really touching a
chord with patients and people that the NHS is being sold off."

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2006 Midland Independent Newspapers plc
                              All Rights Reserved


