                              329 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 29, 2002, Tuesday

I ALMOST LOST MY LEG;
 SUPERBUG VICTIMS TO LAUNCH MULTI-MILLION POUND LAWSUIT

BYLINE: Krysia Diver

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1086 words


BIRMINGHAM victims of the MRSA hospital superbug are joining forces to launch
what may amount to a million pound legal suit against an NHS trust.

The nine-strong group, who have lost relatives to the bug or have been left
crippled or without limbs, wants to take legal action against the University
Hospital Birmingham NHS Trust, which has the highest rates of the deadly bug in
the UK.

It will be the first time a group legal action involving MRSA victims is fought
in this country.

The legal battle is looming after Dave Moran claimed this week that he had
almost lost a leg to the bug at Selly Oak Hospital, which is covered by the
Trust.

His story led to a series of calls from other MRSA victims, who until now felt
they werefighting a solitary battle against the Trust. Mr Moran, aged 27, of
Kings Heath, said today: 'I never anticipated that my story would provoke such a
reaction.

'It is regrettable that this is being brought to the attention of the media, but
when you put your trust in the system and it fails you, you have to resort to
other means.'

Jonathan Peacock, medical negligence specialist at Birmingham-based solicitors
Irwin Mitchell, said: 'Never before has it been logistically possible for a
group of people with MRSA to get in touch with each other like this.

'It has always been something we have been very keen to do, especially if it can
be proven that one particular Trust has put people at risk.' He added that the
group could be in with a chance of receiving in excess of pounds 1million.

Denise Burns, whose grandmother died in April after contracting MRSA at Selly
Oak Hospital, said: 'This is great news. We were thinking about taking out legal
action for some time, but didn't know how to go about it.

'At last, someone is willing to stand up for us.'

A spokesman for the Birmingham University Hospital Trust said today: 'If these
people are taking legal action, we will be seeking advice from our legal
department.

'If anyone has any concerns, we have a patient advice and liaison service in
place to answer queries, which is a quicker and cheaper way than taking out
legal action.'

She added that rates of MRSA at the Trust had dropped by 50 per cent and its
hospitals had infection control programmes in place to help combat the bug.

MRSA is a bacterium carried by 30 per cent of the population and which is
resistant to the antibiotic methicillin.

In healthy people, it is harmless, but it can cause fever or pneumonia in the
elderly, weak or those with a suppressed immune system.

1 CASE

Dave Moran, 27, a computer technician, of Kings Heath.

Admitted to Selly Oak Hospital after breaking his leg in 2000.

Contracted MRSA, lost four stone in weight and was told he might have to have
his leg amputated. He said: 'I hope ultimately that by bringing this into the
public eye, something will be done to improve conditions in hospitals.'

CASE 2

Alan Moles, 72, of Druids Heath Admitted to Selly Oak Hospital for a broken
ankle in October 1998.

Contracted MRSA and was detained for 15 weeks. He ended up having his leg
amputated.

His wife Sylvia claimed: 'The way MRSA was travelling was horrific. My husband
was perfectly fine, but he caught the bug and was bombarded with antibiotics.
'The bug ate away all the flesh from around his leg and he ended up having to
have it amputated.

'It was a huge shock and my poor husband has never really got over it.'

CASE 3

Tony Field, 62, financial advisor, of Northfield Admitted to Selly Oak Hospital
after breaking his leg in June 2000.

Contracted MRSA at the hospital. His leg still weeps and he walks with crutches.
Mr Field claimed: 'I was fine before I went to Selly Oak. 'Then I caught MRSA
and now the doctors say it's possible that I will never walk properly again,' he
added.

'I've had to give up my job and the surgeons won't operate on my leg until the
MRSA has been defeated.'

CASE 4

Catherine Cahill, 73, of Hall Green Admitted to Selly Oak Hospital for a simple
skin graft operation in September 2001 Contracted MRSA and was given 24 hours to
live.

Managed to fight off the bug after five weeks in hospital, but died in April
2002.

Her daughter Denise Burns claimed: 'She got a raging temperature and was
hospitalised for five weeks for what should have been a minor operation. 'I
wasn't surprised she caught MRSA, because she was sleeping in blood-stained
sheets at the hospital.'

CASE 5

Ron Jones 65, a teacher, of Northfield Admitted to Selly Oak Hospital for a
minor tumour operation in 1995. Contracted MRSA and died one week later.

Mrs Jones claimed: 'The operation was successful and my husband was shaving and
looking forward to coming home. 'But he developed MRSA and was kept in. 'The
hospital staff were very vague about the whole thing and only said he was not
getting enough oxygen.

'It was only later that it emerged that he had MRSA.'

CASE 6

Gerry Tyrell, 47, of Kings Heath Admitted to Selly Oak Hospital after falling
into a coma following a fall in May 2001.

Regained consciousness after three days, but contracted MRSA.

Died in May 2002 after being unable to fight off three bouts of the superbug.

His wife Pat claimed: 'He was doing so well, but then he caught MRSA and was
terribly poorly.

'The nurses wouldn't tell me what was wrong and it wasn't until I looked at
Gerry's medical notes that I realised it was MRSA.'

CASE 7

Terence Pell, 43, former scaffolder, of Kings Heath Admitted to Selly Oak
Hospital for leg and head injuries in November 1999. Contracted MRSA and was
detained in hospital for seven months.

Mr Pell is now housebound and will never work again.

He claimed: 'MRSA was all taboo and hush-hush. My medical records refer to MRSA,
but they don't reveal how I caught it.

I went in hospital with a simple leg fracture, but the bug really got to me and
I had to have a cage put on my leg and a muscle transplant operation.'

CASE 8

James Emmison, 69, a former brick layer, of Northfield.

Admitted to Selly Oak Hospital with a broken toe in February 1998.

Contracted MRSA and had both legs amputated before dying of cancer in July 2000.

A family member, who asked not to be named, claimed: 'He went in with a broken
toe, but it wouldn't heal, so they gave him a maggot treatment to eat away the
rotten flesh.

'Then the doctors told me it was MRSA. He had one leg amputated and then the
other. The whole thing was abominable.'

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2002 Midland Independent Newspapers plc


