                              334 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                           The Herald (South Africa)

                            November 1, 2013 Friday

Medical negligence claims skyrocket

BYLINE: Estelle Ellis

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 933 words


East Cape Health Department facing 311 lawsuits totalling a massive R876m this
year
 Medical negligence claims skyrocket

 LEGAL claims against the Eastern Cape Health Department have shot up from
R4.5-million in 2004 to a staggering R876-million this year.


 Most of the cases involve alleged medical negligence.
 Dodgy lawyers are also allegedly colluding with nurses and porters to copy or
steal patients' files.
 Lawyers and activists, however, say the disclosures are just an attempt by the
department to deflect attention from the rapidly deteriorating state of
healthcare in the province.
 According to the health department's statistics, legal claims - including
letters of demand from lawyers and summonses - this year totalled R876-million
in 311 cases.
 All of them are still in various stages of the legal process and have not been
settled yet.
 Of the total, claims in Port Elizabeth totalling R26-million were instituted
against Dora Nginza Hospital, R9.3-million against Livingstone Hospital and
R595000 against the Provincial Hospital. Claims to the value of R154000 were
lodged against the Uitenhage Provincial Hospital.

 Earlier this year, the department agreed to pay damages totalling R5.7-million
to a Gelvandale family after the negligence of doctors and nurses at Dora Nginza
left their five- year-old child severely brain damaged.
 In another case, the department also settled with Greenbushes resident Heidi
Vena, who lost her twins in 2006 after she was made to wait for hours because
nurses were "on a tea break".
 In a landmark case for patient rights in South Africa, the government has also
agreed to pay R50000 in damages to a Bethelsdorp woman after she was treated in
an "inhumane and contemptuous manner" by nursing staff at Dora Nginza in 2006.
 Due to the time it takes to bring civil matters against the health department
to court, cases from 2005 to 2007 are only now being finalised by the high
court.
 The highest lawsuit brought against the department since April is for
R30-million. In this case, a woman allegedly received poor postnatal care at the
Butterworth Hospital that permanently damaged her bladder.
 Health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said the avalanche of legal claims against the
department was so bad the government was considering establishing a compensation
body that would cut out lawyers from the compensation process for medical
negligence in public hospitals altogether.
 Fears were that since control over the Road Accident Fund had been tightened,
lawyers were targeting the health department.
 Kupelo said the escalating number of civil claims against hospitals had a
severe impact on hospital operations as the damages were paid from their
operating budgets.
 He said several Port Elizabeth lawyers were among those being investigated in a
three-year province- wide probe into the payment of nurses and porters to steal
medical records.
 In one case of collusion, a nurse at St Elizabeth Hospital in Lusikisiki was
dismissed earlier this year for stealing patient files for lawyers.
 Kupelo said hospitals could not defend themselves without the patient records.

 The problem was, however, much broader, with patients allegedly being duped
into being assessed by other doctors so the lawyers could use the information to
make claims against the hospitals.
 The department was worried that a situation could arise where nurses
deliberately left foreign objects inside patients to create grounds for
lawsuits.
 Kupelo said ongoing and sometimes frivolous lawsuits were a huge drain on
resources.
 Last month, Health Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi, in a written reply to
parliament, called the escalation in medical legal claims a crisis, saying it
posed a serious threat to the survival of private and public healthcare.
 In a recent edition of the South African Medical Journal, Graham Howarth, the
medico-legal adviser and head of Medical Services for Africa at the Medical
Protection Society in the United Kingdom, said the trend was also apparent in
the private sector, with obstetricians particularly hard hit.
 "By the end of the decade, [insurance for obstetricians] will probably be too
expensive for doctors in private practice," he said.
 "Non-indemnified doctors will be unable or unwilling to do private deliveries
... and women will inevitably be forced to deliver in provincial facilities,
shifting the workload and liability to the state.
 "The South African government, which has already started to investigate the
problem, will have to make some difficult decisions quickly."
 Medical legal expert lawyer Francois Swanepoel said the dropping standards of
care in state hospitals had definitely contributed to the increase in claims.
 He said he was more concerned by the department's wasteful and fruitless legal
expenses incurred by fighting cases where there was no real defence.
 Daygan Eager, from the Rural Advocacy Health Project, said it was easier now
for patients to sue the health department as lawyers were allowed to take cases
on a contingency basis, which they could not do before.
 He said the claims reflected the massive systemic problem in the Eastern Cape
Health Department.
 "I think the MEC [Sicelo Gqobana] should look at those figures and figure out
what can be done to support healthcare providers better as most of them work in
very difficult positions.
 "Before launching an investigation into the attorneys, he should deal with the
pressing public health issues in the province, which is something we haven't
seen him address. He is trying to shift the focus away from the department's
failure to fix the system," Eager said.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Herald


                    Copyright 2013 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


