                              338 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                            January 31, 2011 Monday
                                  2ND Edition

Legalaid blow for hospital opponent;
Campaigner no longer entitled to public funds

BYLINE: LIZA WILLIAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 543 words


A CAMPAIGNER trying to derail plans to rebuild the Royal Liverpool Hospital was
stripped of legal aid for his high court battle.

Sam Semoff, of the Keep Our NHS Public pressure group, is against the use of
Private Finance Initiative (PFI) cash to pay for the hospital claiming it would
leave the region with huge debts which would impact on future health services.

But now he has been told he will no longer be entitled to public funds to fight
his campaign.

It is understood the decision was made by the Legal Services Commission after
complaints fromprorebuild campaigners.

Last year USA-born Mr Semoff was invited to meet with residents in the
Kensington Fields area close to the hospital. r

When he refused and said another member of the pressure group would attend it
emerged his name was used to launch the bid because an individual qualifies for
legal aid but an organisation does not.

Keep Our NHS Public claims the Royal's rebuild will leave the taxpayer with
crippling debts which must be honoured before any spending on patient care.

But Mr Semoff 's campaign sparked anger among residents and politicians who said
the delay threatened chances of improving facilities at the hospital.

Mr Semoff can now appeal the withdrawal of legal aid. It is not known how much
the challenge is likely to set him back.

Today Mr Semoff insisted the hearing would go ahead next month adding: "We are
awaiting a decision from the Legal Services Commission. We are hopeful it will
continue to fund the case."

But a Legal Services Commission spokesman said: "Legal aid funding was withdrawn
and Mr Semoff is appealing that decision."

Central Cllr Nick Small welcomed the commission's move and said he would ask why
it agreed to fund the challenge in the first place.

He said: "I believe this should not have been funded through legal aid in the
first place. It was a slap in the face to ordinary taxpayers living in
Kensington Fields and across the city.

"I will now be writing to the LSC to ask it to investigate why legal aid was
granted."

Kensington Fields resident Tony Graham, 59, sat on the stakeholders' group which
looked into the plan for the Royal.

He said the rebuild was desperately needed.

He added: "The care is fine but the environment is not.

"The toilets are always damaged and not working, the floors are rising because
of what they call 'concrete cancer', and it seems virtually impossible to keep
it clean.

"When you look at the way the Edge Lane scheme was delayed it ended up costing a
lot of money and time."

Royal chief executive Tony Bell said: "We were made aware by our solicitors of
the withdrawal of legal aid for the judicial review claim against the new
hospital.

"But we are also aware an appeal was made against this decision.

"We are cautiously optimistic the previous ruling of Mr Justice Burnett will be
upheld in the forthcoming hearing still to take place on Friday February 11.

"The legal challenge so far has proved both costly and time-consuming. We are
hopeful we shall soon be able to move forward with our bidders on our plans to
build the new Royal. Any further comment by us at this stage would not be
helpful. But we recognise this has been amatter of serious concern to people
across the city."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  PROBE: Cllr Nick Small wants an inquiry BLOW: Sam Semoff had his legal
aid application turned down

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2011 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


