                              336 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            The Star (South Africa)

                           October 20, 2016 Thursday
                                   E1 Edition

Gauteng Health Department is coughing up in court: here's whyâ[#x20ac][#x2039];

It may have spent R881â[#x20ac]...million in legal fees this past financial
year, but the provincial government has defended the costs incurred, also saying
that a plan has been formulated to address the massive spending. Shain Germaner
takes a look

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 999 words


THE DA chief whip in the Gauteng legislature, Mike Moriarty, revealed this week
that the consolidation of all government departments' annual reports had
revealed that the province had spent R881m in legal fees, almost double that of
the previous year, when R469m was spent.

"The biggest spender is the Department of Health, whose legal costs increased
from R238m to R569m," said Moriarty, who placed the blame on Gauteng Health MEC
Qedani Mahlangu, labelling her "callous".

DA Gauteng spokesperson for health Jack Bloom also attacked Mahlangu's conduct,
particularly in dealing with negligence claims.

"Her department is expected to pay out about R1â[#x20ac]...billion this year in
settlement of medical negligence cases," he said.

The Department of Education was high on the list in terms of legal fee spending,
dishing out R42m on legal fees and services - up from R27m.

Also a big spender on legal fees was the Infrastructure Development Department,
which incurred R46m.

"Excessive legal claims and legal fees are a natural consequence of an uncaring
and inefficient government that forces citizens and suppliers to take legal
action. As a result, Gauteng's most vulnerable, the poor and unemployed, are
being penalised by delayed service delivery due to budgetary constraints," said
Moriarty.

He blamed Premier David Makhura and the ANC government for spending millions on
billboards claiming clean audits in Gauteng, which he described as a
"smokescreen to cover up the reality that the provincial government is still not
delivering".

However, in a comprehensive response to questions by The Star, the Gauteng
provincial government explained why, in particular, the Department of Health has
incurred such costs.

"It is clear from our own analysis that the departments such as Education,
Health, the police and others account for the bulk of legal claims against the
government as they are at the coalface of government service delivery. It is
important for us to pay particular attention to the Health Department as it
accounts for over half the claims against the government," the statement said.

According to the provincial government, this stems from the fact that Gauteng
runs the biggest public health-care system in the SADC region. The province
services patients from Gauteng as well as adjacent provinces (Free State, North
West, Limpopo and Mpumalanga) at a primary, tertiary and central level. The
province also hosts the highest number of central hospitals, including Chris
Hani Baragwanath, Charlotte Maxeke, Steve Biko and George Mukhari hospitals.

These are then supported by three tertiary hospitals: Helen Joseph, Kalafong and
Tembisa.

According to the provincial government, these hospitals service
7.1â[#x20ac]...million patients annually, as opposed to the 6â[#x20ac]...million
in KwaZulu-Natal, 3â[#x20ac]...million in the Eastern Cape and
2â[#x20ac]...million in the Western Cape.

Because Gauteng remains the country's economic hub, it attracts people searching
for better lives - according to Stats SA, an average of 200â[#x20ac]...000
people migrate to Gauteng every year and 70â[#x20ac]...percent of these are
serviced by the public healthcare system.

The government said the Department of Health has a total of 67â[#x20ac]...000
employees, with a current budget of R37bn.

According to the provincial government's analysis, the reason for such major
spending on legal fees within the Health Department is because of litigation
against the department, the majority of which comes from tertiary and central
hospitals.

"These hospitals deal mainly with complicated and severe ailments. For example,
hospitals such as Chris Hani Baragwanath, which has to deal with complicated
pregnancies referred to it by surrounding clinics. Tembisa and Charlotte Maxeke
hospitals also deal with a lot of referrals," the statement said.

Globally, the three main sources of litigation in the healthcare sector are
negligence, malpractice and adverse events.

According to the provincial government, the main areas of litigation include
obstetrics and gynaecology, neurosurgery, neonatology and orthopaedic surgery.

"The sheer size and shape of our public health system partly explains the high
number of cases against Gauteng. In addition, and like any other public health
system in the world, we also have incidents of malpractice, negligence and
adverse events," it added.

To combat this, the government vowed in its statement to strengthen its human
resource capacity as it tries to fill all vacant posts and appoint competent and
qualified health professionals.

One way to improve these appointments is expected to emerge from a local
partnership with the University of Lancaster in England to train hospital chief
executives in management and leadership.

The department has claimed it is also dealing with incidents of crime,
corruption and collusion within its ranks that have led to legal fee cost
increases.

"We have evidence of instances where files are stolen in order to expose the
department to litigation. Some of the incidents of the stealing of files are
done in collusion with our officials.

"In cases where we find this we do not hesitate to act," the government said.

Last month, two members of a syndicate involved in the theft of files at Chris
Hani Baragwanath Hospital were arrested. The provincial government believes this
syndicate has involved law firms and hospital staff to commit its crimes.

"The modus operandi of some of the syndicates is to target areas such as
cerebral palsy, and head and spine injuries. In these cases the lawyers will
calculate future medical care, housing, special education and contingency fees.

"There is also the distortion of the market by inflating fees when dealing with
government," the statement said.

"The government is taking practical steps to reduce legal spending through
training and retaining skilled personnel, acting decisively where incidents of
negligence are found, mediation of cases wherever possible, and an establishment
of a legal audit project that will systematically co-ordinate work related to
legal claims."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SW


                Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


