                              339 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                       Charleston Gazette (West Virginia)

                           September 9, 2014, Tuesday

Psych hospitals case `devolved,' lawyer says

BYLINE: Eric Eyre, Staff writer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. P5A

LENGTH: 610 words


A decades-old lawsuit that pits patients at West Virginia's two state-run
psychiatric hospitals against the Department of Health and Human Resources has
"gone backwards in recent months, a lawyer for the patients told state lawmakers
Monday.

About a year ago, lawyers on both sides were talking about "winding down the
case, but those discussions were derailed after DHHR abruptly barred patient
advocates at the state hospitals from pulling patient records, said Lydia
Milnes, a lawyer with Mountain State Justice.

"It seems as though things have devolved over this last year, Milnes told
members of a joint House-Senate health oversight committee. "There's been a loss
of trust among various entities that have to work together to make the system
work for the patient. Unfortunately, the result is we've gone backwards.

The case, E.H. v. Matin, also called the "Hartley case, has dragged on since
1981. The dispute centers on staffing shortages and patient care at William R.
Sharpe Hospital in Weston, and Mildred Mitchell Bateman Hospital in Huntington.

Kanawha Circuit Court Judge Duke Bloom has issued several recent orders stemming
from the case. DHHR has appealed those rulings to the state Supreme Court.

Milnes said DHHR no longer allows patient advocates - hired by Legal Aid - to
quickly review patient medical records during investigations of abuse and
neglect. The advocates have worked at the psychiatric hospitals for 20 years,
helping patients with questions and grievances.

"Legal aid advocates showed up one day [earlier this year], and their access had
been shut off, and they had no idea why, Milnes told state lawmakers.
"Investigations had to be put on hold.

Milnes said the advocates have "a history of being able to discover when there
are important violations occurring at the hospitals.

In 2008, the Legal Aid advocates discovered that doctors at the psychiatric
hospitals were "over-medicating patients intentionally because they had too many
patients and not enough staff and space, Milnes said.

"The fact that there's many people who can't self-advocate highlights the reason
why it's so important to have the Legal Aid advocates there, she said. "There
have been times when the advocates have brought very important things to light.

DHHR lawyer Karen Villanueva-Matkovich said federal health privacy laws restrict
the release of patient records. The advocates still can get copies, if the
psychiatric patients or their guardians sign releases. "We have to protect
individuals' rights to their information, Villanueva-Matkovich said.

Milnes said patient advocates sometimes have just hours to complete
investigations and report findings - and don't have time to wait for releases.
"They need to be able to act quickly, she said. "They need to access records to
know what's going on.

Milnes said the Sharpe and Bateman hospitals continue to struggle to hire
full-time staff, and use temporary and contract employees to fill vacancies.

"They're not able to provide all the services to patients that they're required
to do under state law as a result of these staffing vacancies, Milnes said.

Also Monday, health committee members directed DHHR to determine how much the
state has spent on legal fees over the years on the Hartley case. The committee
wants DHHR to report back on the lawsuit costs later this year.

"It would appear to me at the heart of this issue would be adequate staffing and
adequate care for patients, said Delegate Ricky Moye, D-Raleigh. "It also
appears that 30-some years to take care of adequate staffing and adequate care
is problematic.

Reach Eric Eyre

at ericeyre@wvgazette.com,

304-348-4869 or follow

@ericeyre on Twitter.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2014 Charleston Newspapers


