                              343 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Where a Doctor's Visit Can Lead to Help From Legal Aid

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 839 words


It was not the normal stuff of a pediatric exam. As a doctor checked the growth
of Davon Cade's 2-month-old son, he also probed about conditions at home, and
what he heard raised red flags.

Ms. Cade's apartment had leaky windows and plumbing and was infested with
roaches and mold, but the city, she said, had not responded to her complaints.
On top of that, the landlord was evicting her for falling behind on the rent.

Help came through an unexpected route. The doctor referred Ms. Cade to the legal
aid office right inside the pediatric clinic at Cincinnati Children's Hospital.

Within days, a paralegal had secured an inspection that finally forced the
landlord to make repairs, and also got the rent reduced temporarily while Ms.
Cade searched for less expensive housing.

''It got done when the lawyers got involved,'' Ms. Cade said.

Doctors and social workers have long said that medical care alone is not enough
to address the health woes of the poor, which are often related to diet, living
conditions and stress.

The pediatric clinic in Cincinnati is one of 180 medical sites around the
country that now seek to address at least some of these broader issues by
bringing lawyers and doctors -- so often foes in the courtroom -- together into
a close partnership.

In a process being duplicated nationally -- the latest partnership started in
West Virginia in the fall -- the doctors at Children's Hospital, using a
protocol that started 18 months ago, referred 500 patients for legal aid last
year. Some needed help getting food stamps, heating aid or cash welfare that had
been wrongfully denied; some received help with evictions or home repairs;
others got legally mandated help for children with learning disabilities.

The idea was developed in the 1990s by Dr. Barry Zuckerman, chief of pediatrics
at the Boston Medical Center. In recent years it has taken off, mainly in
pediatric centers, although the technique is being tried with cancer and
geriatric patients as well.

''This has transformed the way we think about giving care,'' said Dr. Robert S.
Kahn, a pediatrician at Children's Hospital who helped start the collaboration
with the Legal Aid Society of Greater Cincinnati.

A survey of patients in Dr. Kahn's  clinic, where nearly all are on Medicaid,
found that 28 percent of families had their gas or electricity cut off in the
previous year and that 23 percent had doubled up in housing or had to move to a
cheaper residence. One in seven mothers with infants said they had diluted their
formula to make it last, and one in three said they had sometimes run out of
formula without money to buy more.

The partnerships do more than provide quick access to legal aid, Dr. Zuckerman
said. They alter perspectives for both the medical and legal professions, as
physicians become better at spotting underlying threats to health, and lawyers
engage in what he called ''preventive law.'' The concept has been officially
endorsed by the American Bar Association and the American Academy of Pediatrics.

A recurring concern of hospital executives has been that patients might try to
draw the lawyers into malpractice suits. Dr. Zuckerman said that had not
happened, and the legal aid groups involved say that malpractice was not their
mandate and that they would tell complaining patients to seek advice elsewhere.

A vital first step is teaching doctors how to ask the right questions, said
Elaine Fink, a senior lawyer with the Legal Aid Society who founded the
partnership with Dr. Kahn of Children's Hospital.

''What can a doctor feel comfortable asking in a few seconds that will identify
a legal issue?'' Ms. Fink said. ''It's quite different from an attorney
questioning a client.''

The society helped develop a two-week course that teaches medical interns how to
ask about home life, school and finances during routine exams.

Diana A. of Cincinnati took her prematurely born daughter for her first checkup
in the fall. (She spoke on condition she not be identified because she did not
want her relatives to know of her hardships.) Diana said she had been working as
a home-health aide and had received no paid maternity leave. Her application for
food stamps had inexplicably languished. ''Pretty much all I was eating was
oatmeal,'' she said.

The baby was not gaining the expected weight. Doctors introduced her to Deanna
White,  a paralegal who got Diana baby formula and other aid on the spot, and
food stamps and temporary cash assistance within days. Her daughter is now doing
fine.

Felisa Tremble's 16-year-old son was flunking out of school and she had been
unable to get his learning disabilities properly diagnosed until she took him to
Children's Hospital. A psychiatric nurse called in legal aid and with that help,
Ms. Tremble said, Medicaid paid for a costly neuropsychological exam and the
school developed an individual learning program for her son.

''He likes school now,'' Ms. Tremble said. ''If we hadn't seen the lawyers,
maybe he wouldn't be in school at all.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ciera Jones and her son, Jamari, 4, met with a paralegal for
the Legal Aid Society of Greater Cincinnati at Children's Hospital.
 Dr. Robert S. Kahn and Elaine Fink, a legal aid lawyer, work together to help
poor patients at Children's Hospital. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRK IRWIN FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


