                              337 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Daily News (South Africa)

                            January 08, 2008 Tuesday
                                   e1 Edition

Raffle to help pay for HIV bills;
State hospital faces legal action

BYLINE: Karyn Maughan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 585 words


The mother of a 9-year-old twin girl allegedly infected with HIV in a state
hospital has as a last resort turned to selling raffle tickets to help pay her
daughter's medical bills.

Now they wait to take legal action over Anna's HIV infection.

Amid constant threats from debt collectors over Anna's* R30 000 medical bills,
her mother and relatives are battling to sell 600 tickets that will help to
cover the costs of her treatment, medication and blood tests.

"I've only managed to sell 15 tickets because a lot of people seem to think that
I'm running some kind of scam ... but I'll keep trying because I don't know what
else to do," Anna's mother said.

Anna is one of 42 babies and children suspected to have been accidentally
infected with HIV during their stay in hospitals, mostly state-owned, because of
allegedly inadequate infection controls.

Register

Although the Health Department has not established a register of hospital
-acquired HIV infections, spokesman Sibani Mngadi said the risk of such
infections was now significantly reduced because of improved infection
prevention at state hospitals.

After discovering their daughter was HIV-positive in May last year, Anna's
parents consulted forensic experts to establish when and how their child was
infected. They are now preparing to take legal action over Anna's infection.

According to records from Karl Bremer Hospital, where Anna was born in October
1999, she weighed only 200g less than her twin sister.

She also had an underdeveloped lung, forcing her to spend extra time at Karl
Bremer and Groote Schuur hospitals. Three months later, Anna was diagnosed with
pneumonia, and when she was three years old, doctors found a spot on a lung,
which collapsed in September 2005.

In January 2006 she was again battling pneumonia, and high-strength antibiotics
used to treat her were having little impact. Eventually, her doctors decided to
test for HIV and found she had a CD4 count of 100, classifying her as a patient
with Aids.

After being treated with antiretrovirals (ARVs), her condition improved.

The family's worries, however, were far from over.

Anna's parents have themselves been threatened with legal action from debt
collectors for the National Health Laboratory Service, to whom they owe R8 000
for her blood tests.

They also owe Red Cross Children's Hospital in Cape Town more than R20 000 for
their daughter's treatment for viral meningitis and pneumonia, among other
HIV-related illnesses.

"We don't have the money because neither of us is permanently employed, but even
if we did, I feel angry that we have to pay for what we strongly believe was
someone else's mistake," Anna's mother said. She said she had come to dread the
"never-ending" phone calls from debt collectors.

"I keep trying to explain the situation to them, but each time they tell me they
will take 'further steps' against us if we don't pay."

Anna's mother is worried about the monthly R735 ARV bills she is receiving from
Red Cross Children's Hospital. "They promised to reduce the bill but nothing has
happened."

Hospital spokesman Diana Ross said Anna's parents were welcome to consult the
hospital's financing department about their payment problems.

The pending legal action by Anna's parents comes after a R49 million
Johannesburg High Court claim brought against Health Minister Manto
Tshabalala-Msimang, Chris Hani-Baragwanath Hospital and blood transfusion
authorities by the parents of HIV-positive Baby M, who was allegedly infected
after an operation.

* Not her real name.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ND


                 Copyright 2008 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


