                              345 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            January 4, 2014 Saturday

Hospital, Family Lawyers In Conference For Jahi McMath Case

LENGTH: 327  words


A federal magistrate was expected to meet Friday with lawyers to try to resolve
a dispute over the care of a 13-year-old girl who was declared brain dead after
tonsil surgery.


U.S. Magistrate Donna Ryu will oversee the mandatory settlement conference
between attorneys for Children's Hospital Oakland and for the family of Jahi
McMath.
The girl went into cardiac arrest while recovering from the Dec. 9 surgery and
shows no signs of brain activity, court records show.
The hospital maintains that Jahi is legally dead and that a ventilator keeping
her heart pumping should be removed. However, a state judge has ordered doctors
to keep the breathing machine in place until 5 p.m. Tuesday.
The meeting takes on new urgency as the patient has not been receiving any kind
of nutrition for over 25 days. The gastric tube or feeding tube would supply
nutrients to keep her organs alive, or in the family's view, to keep her alive.
Nailah Winkfield, the girl's mother, wants to transfer her daughter to another
facility after forcing the Oakland hospital to fit Jahi with breathing and
feeding tubes needed for a move or to allow an outside doctor to perform the
surgical procedures.
Hospital lawyer Douglas Straus maintains that Children's Hospital staff has no
legal obligation to operate on the body of a dead person. Thus far, the family
has not found a doctor who is willing to insert the tubes, but relatives have
found a facility in New York that's willing to care for the girl.
The legal proceedings are likely to figure prominently in Friday's talks.
Ryu, the magistrate, told the two sides to be prepared to spend the entire day
working toward an agreement and to present her with confidential memos outlining
their demands.
The issue of the tracheostomy and gastric tubes was also set to be considered
Friday by Alameda County Superior Court Evelio Grillo, who so far has blocked
Children's Hospital from removing Jahi from the ventilator.© 2013 Legal Monitor
Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


