                              342 of 993 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday

Hoke hospital battle a familiar scenario

BYLINE: Jennifer Calhoun, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1342 words


June 30--For nearly two years, signs along U.S. 401 in Hoke County have heralded
the coming of not one, but two new hospitals.

The signs -- posted by competing health care systems Cape Fear Valley and
FirstHealth -- are hopeful and full of promises to residents tired of driving 30
to 40 minutes to be seen in an emergency room or to visit a sick relative.

But as time drags on and the health systems continue to block each other from
building through legal appeals, residents are becoming frustrated.

That frustration came to a head last week when Charles Frock, chief executive
officer of FirstHealth, told the Hoke County Board of Commissioners that legal
wrangling between the two companies could delay a hospital -- any hospital --
for up to 10 years.

Frock then offered to stop appeals and start building if Cape Fear Valley would
do the same.

Cape Fear Valley CEO Mike Nagowski declined, saying FirstHealth's proposed
eight-bed hospital wouldn't fit the needs of Hoke County.

Frock has since said the 10-year time frame could be a worst-case scenario -- a
projection Cape Fear Valley officials said is unrealistic.

"In fact, the Hoke County (Certificate of Need) will be addressed in court this
fall," Cape Fear Valley officials said in a statement Tuesday.

But recent legal battles in nearby Harnett County could mean Frock is not far
off the mark.

Last month, ground was finally broken in Harnett County for a hospital first
planned more than 10 years ago.

However, the $63 million, 50-bed facility wasn't the original hospital that was
planned.

The new hospital started as a replacement facility for the aging and
geographically inconvenient Good Hope Hospital in Erwin.

But Good Hope eventually became mired in a protracted legal battle with a
competing bid from Harnett Health System, a group that includes Betsy Johnson
Regional Hospital in Dunn, the Harnett County commissioners and WakeMed Health
and Hospitals in Raleigh.

Sides were taken, and the community became divided.

In 2008, the legal battle ended when Harnett Health System secured permission to
build the hospital from the state Supreme Court.

But projected groundbreaking dates in 2009 fell through when Harnett Health
couldn't get financing in a tightened economy. Since then, the facility found
financing from the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

"It was a long, arduous, divisive process in Harnett County," said Tim McNeill,
chairman of the county Board of Commissioners. "Some of those people will take
to their grave that they think they were right."

Battle for Hoke

Hoke County's scenario is different, but the legal battles and division in the
community are similar.

The situation started in 2009, when FirstHealth proposed an eight-bed hospital
in Raeford, along U.S. 401.

A few weeks later, Cape Fear Valley Health System proposed a 41-bed hospital in
Cumberland County, near the Hoke County line.

When the state gave permission to both health care systems to build, the two
companies filed appeals to block the other from building.

In 2010, the state rearranged its medical facilities plan, allowing Cape Fear
Valley to build in Hoke County. The health system then proposed a 41-bed
hospital in Hoke, just a few miles down U.S. 401 from FirstHealth's proposed
facility.

The battle intensified in January, when the state recognized the growing need
for additional hospital beds in Hoke and Cumberland counties and added 65 for
the two-county area.

FirstHealth jumped on the plan and proposed a 65-bed hospital in Hoke.

Throughout the ordeal, the two health systems have continued to block the other
from building through legal appeals sanctioned by the state's Certificate of
Need process.

Frock, with FirstHealth, has repeatedly offered to drop appeals so both health
systems can build.

Last week, Frock said FirstHealth would go back to building an eight-bed
facility, if Cape Fear Valley would stop appeals and build its 41-bed hospital.

Cape Fear Valley has continued to refuse.

"We do not oppose a two hospital solution for Hoke County, if it makes sense for
Hoke County," a statement from the health system said. "We certainly know how
our 41-bed, full-service community hospital fits the need of Hoke County, but we
need to better understand how an eight-bed hospital with a helipad is supposed
to serve such a growing community."

In a statement issued Tuesday, Frock said he believed Cape Fear Valley was
"delaying the process so they can figure out how to finance three proposed ...
projects costing more than $200million, as well as deal with competition by a
quality provider such as FirstHealth."

McNeill said he doesn't know how the process will play out in Hoke County, but
he does believe the state's Certificate of Need process could mean residents are
in for a long wait.

Certificate of Need

The Certificate of Need process, or CON, is how the state regulates health care
providers' more expensive acquisitions, such as hospitals and imaging equipment.
The process was set up to make sure the products and facilities are necessary
and that health care providers aren't duplicating services.

Health care providers are required to submit what are called Certificate of Need
proposals, stating in detail what they are building or buying and how much it
will cost. The state reviews the proposals and has 90 to 150 days to make a
decision.

Once a certificate is granted by the state, businesses that could be affected by
the plan can appeal and stop the project from going forward.

It's a process that has some good points, McNeill said, but also wreaked plenty
of havoc in Harnett and could do the same in Hoke.

"The CON process in North Carolina basically sets the stage for these issues to
occur," he said. "Because competing interests want to build, the CON process
forces them to go to court to see who wins."

And when the battle is over, it's usually the citizens who have lost, he said.

"It drives up the cost of new hospitals and also creates a delay in providing
quality health care services for the people," he said.

And while the CON process does have its good points, he said, it still allows "a
bureaucracy to control things, instead of a free market."

In the end, he said, the system isn't likely to change, because "you got a
hospital lobby in North Carolina that likes to keep it that way. It's more or
less like a franchise; it restricts who gets into the business."

"It comes down to who's got the most money, and who can hold out the longest in
court battles," he said.

Growing frustration

For Hoke residents, the wait is a frustrating proposition, especially because
the county is the largest in the state without a hospital, said Tony Hunt,
chairman of the county's Board of Commissioners.

Hunt organized a question-answer session with the competing health systems last
week, during one of the board's regularly scheduled meetings.

Hunt said he and other board members had been repeatedly bombarded with
questions from residents about the hospital problem. During the meeting, Hunt
told the two chief executive officers that he didn't want to drive down the road
in five years and still see no hospital.

"We're just sick and tired of all the legal maneuvering," he said.

The real frustration, however, is the wait for an emergency room and adequate
health care for the growing county, said county Commissioner Ellen McNeill.

"Legally, I really don't know (what could happen,)" she said.

But, she said, it terrifies her to think that lives could be lost in the time it
takes to drive 30 to 45 minutes to hospitals in Pinehurst or Fayetteville.

"How sad and tragic that would be," she said.

Staff writer Gregory Phillips contributed to this report.

Staff writer Jennifer Calhoun can be reached at calhounj@fayobserver.com or
486-3595.

To see more of The Fayetteville Observer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.fayettevillenc.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Fayetteville
Observer, N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110630-FY-Hoke-hospital-battle-a-familiar-scenario-0630-20110630

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2011 The Fayetteville Observer


