                              351 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 21, 2014 Friday
                                 First Edition

Hospital threatens to evict elderly patients

BYLINE: IAN JOHNSTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 359 words


A hospital is threatening to take legal action to evict mainly elderly patients
whose relatives refuse to take them home when they are well enough to leave. An
official at Royal Bournemouth Hospital said one family had asked staff to "keep
hold" of a relative so they could go on holiday to Turkey for two weeks.

However, a recent report by Healthwatch Dorset included comments from patients
treated by the same hospital trust who claimed they felt under pressure to leave
before they were ready.

Katie Whiteside, the clinical manager for discharge services at the hospital,
told BBC News: "At the moment, we have relatives coming back telling us they
don't like the decor of care homes, or they don't like the member of staff who
met them at the door. Sometimes they are decorating the house or having a
'granny annexe' built and they know that, while the patients are here, they are
being fed, watered and looked after."

On Wednesday, there were 70 people on the wards who did not need to be there and
about half had somewhere suitable to be, according to the hospital.

Patients who are well enough to leave are to be given a week's notice. Those who
did not go would then potentially face legal action.

"We would be in a position to commence legal proceedings and formally evict a
patient if that was necessary. It would be an absolute last resort but it's
something we are in a position to do with the solicitors here at the trust," Ms
Whiteside said.

She said seriously ill patients had sometimes had to wait on trolleys or in
corridors and operations had been cancelled because of a lack of beds.

Dr Louise Irvine, of the National Health Action Party, who is standing against
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt in his Surry constituency at the next general
election, said "the hospital resorting to legal action reflects its
desperation".

"Hospitals throughout the country are being very tightly squeezed financially
and suffering cuts in beds so there is very little slack in the system. To make
matters worse, hospitals are penalised if they keep on patients for any longer
than agreed time-frames," she said, stressing she could not comment on
individual cases.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2014 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


