                              348 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            January 15, 2013 Tuesday

Sutter Health ordered to pay Marin General Hospital $11 million in legal fees

BYLINE: By Richard Halstead Marin Independent Journal

SECTION: NEWS; Business

LENGTH: 483 words


A court-appointed arbitrator has ordered Sutter Health to pay $11 million to
Marin General Hospital Corp. for legal fees and interest stemming from a lawsuit
in which Marin General was deemed the prevailing party.

"We are hopeful that this decision marks the end of the long-running dispute
between Marin General Hospital and Sutter Health, and that both organizations
can once again focus 100 percent on meeting the health care needs of Marin and
the North Bay," said Lee Domanico, CEO for Marin General Hospital.

The order by Rebecca Westerfield, the arbitrator who heard the case, comes after
she ruled in June 2012 in Marin General's favor and ordered Sutter Health to pay
Marin General $21.5 million. The retired Circuit Court judge from Kentucky found
that Sutter inappropriately transferred $11.3 million of Marin General money
into a pension plan for Sutter employees, improperly charged the hospital for
the use of capital, failed to adequately cooperate with the information
technology transition at the hospital and underfunded physician recruitment.

Marin General had accused Sutter Health of illegally taking $120 million in
profits from the hospital before it returned control to the Marin Healthcare
District in June 2010. Because Marin General was awarded far less than it had
sought, Sutter Health asserted that Westerfield's decision had exonerated it.

In August, however, Westerfield officially designated Marin General as the
prevailing party, clearing the way for the hospital to seek reimbursement of
legal fees and other expenses.

Karen Garner, a Sutter Health spokeswoman, said Tuesday, "The awarding of
attorney fees was simply the final procedural step of this case, and it doesn't
change the fact that the arbitrator rejected the bulk of the district's nearly
$300 million claim. We are pleased to put this issue behind us and we remain
committed to continuing to provide quality health care in Marin County."

Westerfield, who announced her latest ruling on Friday, also ordered Marin
General to pay Robert Heller of Belvedere $848,202 to cover his legal fees and
other costs. Heller served as chairman of the board that oversaw Marin General
when it was under Sutter Health's control. Marin General named Heller as a
defendant in its suit, alleging that he should have acted to stop Sutter from
appropriating millions of dollars in profit from the hospital before returning
it to public control.

Westerfield dismissed Heller from the case in December 2011, saying that he was
innocent of any breach of fiduciary responsibility.

After learning that he had been awarded legal fees, Heller issued this
statement: "Not only did the judge's dismissal vindicate the actions of the
former Marin General board of directors, but the order to pay for my defense
proves that this suit never should have been filed in the first place."

Contact Richard Halstead via e-mail atrhalstead@marinij.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Former hospital board chairman H. Robert Heller, Ph.D.,

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2013 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


