                              352 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            November 7, 2014 Friday

Court sides with state and against Florida Hospital Orlando in Medicaid
overpayment case

LENGTH: 394  words


A Tallahassee appellate court on Thursday affirmed an order requiring Florida
Hospital Orlando to repay $22,138.34 to the state for unnecessary medical
services for 14 Medicaid patients.
In reaching its unanimous opinion a three-member panel of the First District
Court of Appeal rejected the hospital's argument that the state reviewed
Medicaid patient files to determine whether the admissions at the hospital were
medically necessary and did not rely upon the same information that was
available to the hospital and its doctors at the time of care.


"The hospital has not shown that AHCA and its auditors relied on hindsight
information in penalizing the hospital's admission decisions,"the court wrote in
its ruling.
Florida Hospital Orlando did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The decision lets stand  a final order from the Agency for Health Care
Administration demanding that the hospital pay $22,138.34 as well as pay a $500
administrative fine and $7635.27 in legal and research fees.
The discrepancy was discovered through a Medicaid Program Integrity Audit for
patients treated at the hospital between 2005 and 2006.
On appeal the hospital argued that the state improperly used information that
was in the patient's file  and did not limit the audit to information that was
available at the time to the hospital when the patient was admitted.
While the court acknowledged that the law gives the state no authority "for
evaluating medical necessity determinations post hoc,using later-available
information from a post-discharge standpoint," the justices said the hospital
did not show that AHCA and its auditors relied on hindsight.
Agency for Health Care Administration Secretary Liz Dudek signed a final order
last December adopting the recommendations and findings of an administrative law
judge, who heard two days of oral arguments on the billing discrepancies.
The administrative law judge lowered the amount the state initially sought to
recoup and also slashed the amount of sanctions it tried to impose against the
hospital from $2,000 to $500. The administrative law judge did allow the state
to recover $7635.27 in legal and research fees.
The First District Court of Appeal ruling came just weeks after the court heard
the case but years after initial findings contained in a Medicaid Program
Integrity audit. 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


