                              346 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             Missouri Lawyers Media

                             March 21, 2011 Monday

Doctor refiles malpractice suit against St. Louis firm

BYLINE: Donna Walter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 307  words


A legal malpractice lawsuit against Sandberg Phoenix & von Gontard has been
refiled in the St. Louis Circuit Court.

The refiling comes after a November appellate decision reviving the lawsuit.
Earlier this month, the Missouri Supreme Court denied the law firm's application
for transfer.

Last fall, the Missouri Court of Appeals Eastern District said St. Louis Circuit
Judge David Dowd should have granted the change-of-judge application Dr. Keshav
Joshi requested for the lawsuit he filed against Jonathan Ries and the law firm.

Instead, Dowd granted the defendants' motion for a change of venue to St. Louis
County, where Judge Richard C. Bresnahan found the suit was barred by the
five-year statute of limitations.

Ries had represented Joshi, an anesthesiologist, in suspension proceedings
brought by St. Luke's Hospital in 1996; Joshi resigned before a full hearing was
held. Joshi's suit, filed in 2005, alleged the lawyer and law firm failed to
disclose that it represented two other hospitals that were part of the Unity
Health System, as was St. Luke's Hospital, and that it was marketing its
services to St. Luke's Hospital.

Gerard T. Noce, who represents Ries and the law firm, said in November that the
appellate decision expands the rule concerning change-of-judge requests. Dowd
wasn't acting as the trial judge, nor was he the presiding judge at the time, he
said. That means the rule in question doesn't apply because it refers to trial
judges, and a 2000 Eastern District appellate decision also doesn't apply
because it dealt with presiding judges, Noce said.

Noce also said in November that, barring any further appellate review, he would
once again file a motion for a change of venue and seek summary judgment based
on statute-of-limitations grounds.

The case is Joshi v. Ries and Sandberg Phoenix & von Gontard, 0822-CC08363-01.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

