                              350 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            March 12, 1996, Tuesday
                              Correction Appended

City, agency to sue hospital operator

BYLINE: DEANNA BELLANDI

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 712 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



The debate about how to run Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital - arguably the most
divisive issue in this city's history - has taken a new twist.

Attorneys for the city and the Tarpon Springs Health Facilities Authority  have
announced their intentions to sue the private foundation that runs Helen  Ellis,
a 150-bed hospital owned by the city.

Although the city's and the authority's lawsuits aren't expected to be  filed in
Circuit Court until later this week, copies were hand-delivered March  4 to
hospital attorney Jim Kennedy at his Tampa law office. Other copies were  mailed
to attorneys for the hospital in Tallahassee, Orlando and Pittsburgh.

"We're evaluating all of our options," Kennedy said.

One of the lawsuits claims that unless the hospital foundation opens its
records to the authority and pays outstanding legal fees of the authority, the
foundation will be in default of its lease. A finding of default could force
the foundation to relinquish all property to the city.

These lawsuits are in response to a lawsuit filed last October by the  hospital
foundation against the city and its health facilities authority. That  lawsuit
asks a judge to clear up disputes in the foundation's lease with the  city, as
well as to tell the city to leave the foundation alone until 2021,  when its
lease expires.

Copies of the latest lawsuits will be mailed to the court today, now that 4
inches of accompanying exhibits have been compiled, said Harry Goplerud, an
attorney for the city.

Goplerud said the city's countersuits are a matter of procedure because a  judge
last month refused the city's request to dismiss the hospital's lawsuit.

In its counterclaims, the city aims to advance its version of how the
hospital's lease should be interpreted, he said. The hospital offered its
version when it filed its lawsuit.

"We think they're wrong in their interpretation," Goplerud said.

Kennedy said the city didn't have to sue.

"There are alternative means by which one could offer their interpretation  of
the contractual dispute," he said.

The city's lawsuits seek some control over Helen Ellis and input into  decisions
about how it's run.

Among the demands are:

If the hospital's outstanding debt is paid off before the lease expires in
2021, the city wants to regain possession of the hospital with 30 days'  written
notice to the foundation. The city contends that this is a provision   allowed
in the lease.

If the foundation's lease is terminated, then all the hospital's property,
including its license to operate, would revert to the city.

The city wants to require the foundation to get prior permission if  health-care
services at the hospital are changed, as well as to disclose  investments.

The health facilities authority wants to examine the hospital's books and
financial records. It also wants the hospital foundation to pay for some of  its
legal bills, a provision the authority says is in the foundation's lease.

Some of these demands were brought up last year when hospital and city
officials began squabbling over the future of Helen Ellis. It all began when
the hospital foundation agreed to form a partnership with Columbia/HCA
Healthcare Corp. without soliciting input from the city.

Although the City Commission ultimately harpooned that partnership deal, it
mushroomed into a debate between the hospital and the city over the future of
Helen Ellis. The city argued it was entitled to a greater decision-making role
than the hospital foundation would permit.

In November, voters defeated a referendum backed by four of the five city
commissioners to sell Helen Ellis.

Two of the commissioners who supported that referendum are up for  re-election
next Tuesday.

One of them, Karen Brayboy, said Monday the hospital debate is a non-issue  in
this campaign. Instead, she said, this latest legal wrangling is simply  part of
the city's defense to the initial lawsuit filed by the hospital.

"I guess this is part of the legal dance that goes on," Brayboy said.  "It's not
a brand-new issue."

Kennedy said he expects to file a response to these latest lawsuits in the  next
10 days.

One of the options, he said, is to ask a judge to dismiss them.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; CLEARWATER TIMES

CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 1996

CORRECTION:
 The city of Tarpon Springs has asked a judge to declare that the city may
terminate its lease with the Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital foundation on 30
days' written notice if the hospital's outstanding debt is paid off before 2021.
It's a provision the city has not said it would exercise. A story in Tuesday's
North Pinellas Times may not have been clear on that point.

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


