                              349 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             July 12, 2014 Saturday

EDITORIAL: Halifax Health must deliver full accounting

BYLINE: OUR VIEW

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 784  words


A second settlement between Halifax Health and a whistleblower, pending
government approval, has resolved the hospital's legal and financial issues
stemming from a 2009 lawsuit.

However, it should not close the book on how Halifax got into such a costly
predicament. Hospital officials need to explain to the public the policies and
decisions that resulted in the institution having to pay more than $100 million
in settlement costs and legal fees.

There must be a full accounting -- and accountability.

The settlement revealed Friday concluded the second and final phase of a lawsuit
brought against Halifax Health by Elin Baklid- Kunz, the hospital's director of
physician services. In the first phase, she alleged that the hospital's method
of compensating its cancer doctors violated the federal Stark Law. In March,
Halifax Health settled that portion of the case, which was joined by the U.S.
Department of Justice, by agreeing to pay $85 million ($20.8 million of which
when to Baklid-Kunz and her attorneys, the rest to the federal government) and
to submit the hospital to greater scrutiny by federal regulators for the next
five years.

In the second phase, Baklid-Kunz alleged that the hospital from 2002-2013
overbilled Medicare by $72.5 million by admitting patients for unneeded hospital
stays of two days or less, and that the facility failed to maintain a sufficient
compliance department to ensure it was abiding by federal rules and regulations.
Halifax has agreed to pay $1 million to settle those claims, although as of late
Friday other terms of that agreement had not been made public while both sides
await federal blessing.

In addition to the settlement costs, the hospital has incurred more than $23
million in legal fees. All told, that's a significant sum to pay and a blow to
the hospital's financial health. It has forced the facility to dip into an
account set aside to replace aging equipment and other assets, and it led to
Halifax Health's credit rating being downgraded from BBB+ to BBB.

How did Halifax Health wind up in this position? Was it merely a failure of
policy -- good intentions gone awry? Was it mismanagement of a problem -- a
failure to address issues prudently and allowing them to grow? Or was it a
combination of both?

For example, in the Medicare phase, hospital officials were made aware of Stark
Law violations by their own in-house counsel. Nevertheless, they sought an
outside legal opinion that concluded the arrangements could be defended in court
but gave no assurances that a judge or jury would agree that the physician
payments were legal -- not exactly a ringing endorsement to proceed with the
legally questionable policy. Yet, officials chose to go with the opinion that
perhaps told them what they wanted to hear.

The hospital did not self-report these violations to the federal government nor
did it seek guidance from the Department of Health and Human Services on how to
comply with a law that contains numerous shades of gray, moves that might have
resulted in a much less severe penalty for the hospital.

Why was that opportunity missed?

With regard to the second phase, a 2008 memo from George Rousis, Halifax
Health's compliance officer, on behalf of David Davidson, the hospital's general
counsel, raised yellow flags about "financial exposure to Halifax arising from
medically unnecessary admissions." Among Rousis' concerns was "anecdotal
evidence that inpatient admission decisions are based solely on reimbursement
concerns."

How did hospital administrators respond? What officials were in the decision
loop? Was the hospital's board of directors thoroughly informed at every step?
Did anyone object to the actions Halifax Health took?

The public deserves to know the answers because it has a stake in the hospital.

Halifax Health is partially funded by a local ad valorem taxing district (it
comprised 2.5 percent of the hospital's Fiscal Year 2014 operating revenues) and
is governed by a public board. Plus, the dispute involved public funds
(Medicare). The hospital also plays a vital role in the area's health care and
economy.

However, it's not just a matter of being responsible for public dollars.
Hospital officials also have an obligation to maintain the public's confidence
and trust in their management and leadership.

Seeking accountability is not an attack on the hospital or its staff, nor does
it discount the good work they perform for the community. On the contrary, a
transparent accounting will help ensure that Halifax Health remains a vibrant
asset by never going down this path again.

The hospital's leadership, from the CEO to board members, must provide an honest
public vetting, or the public will see right through it.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

